III ANNUAL REPORT 2017 III < > Introductrion Introduction governance Corporategovernance Corporate The The Agder Agder Energi Energi Group Group Agder Energi Agder ASAS Energi CSR CSR CONTENT Click on the text to go to the page of your choice Key figures 3 Group management 6 Group structure 7 Where we operate 8 Our business 9 Highlights 2017 11 Agder Energi and the energi industry 12 An exciting year for electric companies 13 Corporate governance 14 Enterprise risk management 18 Corporate social responsibility (CSR) 21 Board of directors’ report 22 THE AGDER ENERGI GROUP Income statement 38 Comprehensive income 39 Statement of financial position 40 Statement of cash flows 41 Statement of changes in equity 42 Accounting principles 43 Summary of the most important accounting principles 43 Notes 50 AGDER ENERGI AS Income statement 94 Statement of financial position 95 Statement of cash flows 96 Accounting principles 97 Notes 99 Auditor’s report 109 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AT AGDER ENERGI IN 2017 CSR at Agder Energi 2017 115 Agder Energi, society and the enviornment 117 Agder Energi’s values 118 Ethical Guidelines 119 Steering documents related to CSR 120 Group CSR Goals 122 Stakeholders and Agder Energi 123 Value added statement 124 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 2 2500 2000 III < > 1500 Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR 1000 500 KEY FIGURES 0 2016 2015 2014 EBITDA Driftsresultat Årsresultat RESULTS NOK mill. % 3000 30 esultat Årsresultat 2500 25 sresultat Driftsresultat TDA 2000 20 EBITDA 1500 15 1000 10 500 5 0 0 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 EBITDA Operating income Net income Return on equity after tax Return on capital employed (after tax) Def. 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 FROM INCOME STATEMENT Operating revenues NOK million 10 223 8 086 8 260 7 832 9 391 EBITDA 1 NOK million 1 770 1 573 2 886 2 327 2 856 Operating profit NOK million 1 062 972 2 309 1 738 2 354 Profit before tax NOK million 848 799 2 138 1 310 1 726 Net income for the year (controlling interest’s share) NOK million 487 251 1 314 616 846 FROM BALANCE SHEET Total assets NOK million 20 831 20 319 19 240 16 929 16 091 Equity NOK million 4 565 4 626 4 893 3 990 4 210 Interest-bearing liabilities NOK million 9 240 9 143 9 029 8 299 7 668 Capital employed 2 NOK million 13 805 13 769 13 921 12 288 11 878 Unrestricted liquidity 3 NOK million 2 372 2 023 1 969 1 416 1 412 Net interest-bearing liabilities 4 NOK million 9 188 8 620 8 560 8 257 7 647 Interest-bearing liabilities due over coming 12 months NOK million 1 740 2 243 1 745 1 184 1 773 Bank deposits excluding restricted assets NOK million 52 523 469 42 21 INCOME STATEMENT (NGAAP) Operating revenues NOK million 11 023 8 907 7 447 8 269 8 939 EBITDA 1 NOK million 2 585 2 401 2 072 2 368 2 403 Operating profit NOK million 1 936 1 812 1 495 1 772 1 891 Profit before tax NOK million 1 672 1 578 1 302 1 489 1 722 Net income for the year (controlling interest’s share) NOK million 1 237 744 746 834 846 CASH FLOW Net cash provided by operating activities NOK million 1 189 1 779 1 502 1 512 1 486 Dividends paid NOK million 610 660 706 713 626 Maintenance investments NOK million 470 522 571 331 509 Investments in expansion NOK million 878 733 625 705 790 Acquisition of shares/ownership interests and capital increases NOK million 69 155 81 42 56 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 3 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR KEY FIGURES FINANCIAL POSITION 2017 2016 2015 Equity 4 565 4 626 4 893 Interest-bearing liabilities 9 240 9 143 9 029 Capital employedl 13 805 13 769 13 921 Total assets 20 831 20 319 19 240 Def. 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 KEY FIGURES Return on capital employed before tax 5 % 8,0 7,8 18,6 13,3 17,6 Return on capital employed after tax 6 % 5,0 3,2 11,6 6,9 9,2 Return on equity after tax 7 % 10,7 5,3 29,6 15,0 20,8 Equity ratio 8 % 21,9 22,8 25,4 23,6 26,2 HYDROELECTRIC POWER EBITDA NOK million 2 034 1 749 1 606 1 920 1 675 Actual electricity generation 9 GWh 8 812 8 880 8 996 9 060 7 738 Expected electricity generation 9 GWh 8 100 8 100 7 900 7 900 7 700 Reservoir reserves at 31 Dec. GWh 4 429 3 766 5 185 3 900 4 250 Reservoir capacity GWh 5 250 5 250 5 250 5 250 5 250 Average spot price øre/kWh 26,9 23,3 17,7 22,8 29,1 Electricity price realised øre/kWh 30,5 27,8 25,8 28,2 29,0 Cost of generation/kWh øre/kWh 10,6 11,3 10,9 10,6 9,1 GRID OPERATION EBITDA NOK million 531 637 410 359 685 Number of transmission and distribution customers 1000 199 195 190 190 188 Energy supplied GWh 5 573 5 581 5 624 5 454 5 308 Power grid capital (NVE capital) 10 NOK million 4 646 4 101 3 833 3 691 3 523 KILE cost 11 NOK million 64 53 61 50 45 ELECTRICITY SALES EBITDA NOK million 120 97 104 114 101 EBITDA margin % 2,4 2,8 4,6 4,2 2,6 Electricity sales GWh 14 324 11 500 8 470 8 670 9 849 CONTRACTOR EBITDA mill. kr -59 -7 -8 22 16 EBITDA margin % -6,1 -0,7 -0,8 2,4 1,9 Share of internal sales % 15,7 13,2 17,5 20,1 25,1 Backlog mill. kr 887 634 791 625 810 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 4 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR KEY FIGURES Def. 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 CONTRACTING EBITDA NOK million 40 33 28 25 29 Energy supplied GWh 143 137 123 118 130 Price of heating sold øre/kWh 63 59 56 57 60 Gross margin, heating øre/kWh 38 32 24 25 39 Share of renewable generation % 99 99 98 98 97 EMPLOYEES, HEALTH AND SAFETY Number of permanent and temporary staff at 31 Dec. 1 210 1 432 1 294 1 245 1 551 Number of permanent and temporary full-time equivalents at 31 Dec. 1 163 1 401 1 270 1 220 1 526 Sickness absence % 3,5 3,5 3,5 3,6 3,6 Lost time injury frequency (H1) 2,1 3,5 3,0 3,5 3,9 Total injury frequency (H2) 3,7 5,4 6,4 8,4 11,2 DEFINITIONS: 1. Operating profit before depreciation and impairment 7. Profit for the year/Average equity losses 8. Equity/total assets 2. Equity + interest-bearing liabilities 9. All power generation figures are quoted less pumping. 3. Bank deposits and unused credit facilities. Excludes re10. Basis for calculating the income cap. Set by the Norwestricted ­assets. gian Water Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE). 4. Interest-bearing liabilities unrestricted liquidity 11. Adjustment to income cap for energy not supplied 5. (Operating profit + financial income) / Average capital employed 6. (Net income for the year + interest expense after tax) / Average capital employed AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 5 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GROUP MANAGEMENT Tom Nysted CEO Pernille Kring Gulowsen Unni Farestveit Jan T. Tønnessen Finance and risk management CSR and corporate development Hydroelectric power Steffen Syvertsen Anders Gaudestad Frank Håland Energy management Market Shared services AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 6 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GROUP STRUCTURE CEO Tom Nysted FINANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Pernille K. Gulowsen Board of directors network CSR AND CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT Unni Farestveit SHARED SERVICES HYDROELECTRIC POWER ENERGY MANAGEMENT MARKET NETWORK Frank Håland Jan T. Tønnessen Steffen Syvertsen Anders Gaudestad Svein Are Folgerø AE KRAFTFORVALTNING LOS PRIVAT LOS ENERGY OTERA ENTELIOS AE VARME Administrative and shared service AE VENTURE AE SOLUTIONS Business areas Subsidiaries NORDGRÖÖN AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 7 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR WHERE WE OPERATE Power station Premises/offices District heating/cooling Power stations under construction Oslo Skien Stockholm Södertälje Gøteborg Malmö Medelby Berlin Holen Skarg Brussel Valle München Finndøla Brokke Nomeland Rysstad Zürich Hekni Nisserdam Tjønnefoss Hovatn Dynjanfoss Høgefoss Berlifoss Jørundland Åseral Nord Kuli Logna Longerak Tonstad Osen Smeland Finså Evje Skjerka Uleberg Lislevatn Hanefoss Evenstad Håverstad Stoa ARENDAL Iveland 2 Rygene Kvinesdal Iveland Nomeland Trøngsla GRIMSTAD Steinsfoss FLEKKEFJORD Høylandsfoss Hunsfoss Færåsen Laudal LILLESAND Tryland LYNGDAL KRISTIANSAND FARSUND MANDAL Lindesnes AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 8 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR OUR BUSINESS Agder Energi is owned by the 30 municipaliservices for the commercial market in entity controlled by its own AGM and Board. ties in the region (54.5%) and Statkraft Scandinavia and Germany. ­Industrial Holding AS (45.5%). Agder Energi Marketing is a major centre of expertise and an impor• Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning AS is reThe Marketing business area comprises the tant employer. The Group has around 1,200 sponsible for maximising the return on contractors Otera Infra AS and Otera AB, employees, mainly based in the counties of the electricity generated by Agder the retail supplier LOS AS, the district Aust-Agder and Vest-Agder in southern Energi Vannkraft AS. It does this by try­heating supplier Agder Energi Varme AS, Norway, but also elsewhere in Norway, in ­ ing to optimise scheduling and by maAgder Energi Venture AS, as well as the Sweden, Germany, Belgium and Switzerland. naging market risks, taking into Group’s strategic and financial investments. ­ account hydrology, weather data and Agder Energi’s subsidiaries are organised information about markets. AE Kraft• Otera Infra AS and Otera AB are into four business areas, which reflect the forvaltning AS is also responsible for leading ­ electrical infrastructure Group’s core activities and how it generates the Group’s trading portfolios. contractors that operate in Norway ­ added value: Hydroelectric Power, Energy and Sweden. They generate profit by Management, Network and Market. • Nordic customer solutions consists of safely and efficiently implementing the companies Enfo AS, LOS Energy AS operation and maintenance projects The parent company Agder Energi AS and LOS Energy AB. In 2017 LOS Energy and contracts. ­consists of a single business area for s­ hared AS was demerged from LOS AS, and it services as well as strategic and adminisnow operates as a separate entity • LOS AS is responsible for supplying trative departments. alongside LOS Energy AB. The company electricity to the retail market. It is the is one of the leading electricity supplidominant player in the Agder region The Group’s business areas and administraers to the commercial m­ arket in Scanand also serves customers in the rest tive departments at the parent company dinavia. Its core business consists of of Norway. The company has around are led by directors. They and the CEO reducing the energy costs of customers 150,000 customers. LOS mainly gene­constitute the senior management team. by selling, managing and identifying rates profit from the margin it ­achieves energy solutions adapted to their on electricity sales, as well as by Hydroelectric power needs. ­having a cost-efficient business model The Hydroelectric Power business area is and good customer relationships. responsible for developing, operating and • The business area operates in the Germaintaining the Group’s 47 wholly-owned man markets through Agder E ­ nergi So• Agder Energi Varme AS supplies and part-owned hydroelectric power lutions GmbH, Entelios AG, and Norddistrict heating and cooling in the ­ ­stations. Each year, they generate around gröön Energie GmbH & Co KG. These Agder region. Agder Energi Varme ­ 8.1 TWh of renewable energy. businesses are involved in trading and adds value by building and operating managing renewable energy, flexibility infrastructure for the generation and The biggest driver of value creation for the and certificates of origin. distribution of water-based heating business is its power generating capacity. and cooling for buildings. It generates This is affected by the availability of plant at Network energy using waste heat and renew­ power stations, reservoir volumes permitThe Network business area, which operates a able energy sources. ted by its licence terms and addition of new monopoly, has a duty to society to provide capacity through reinvestment and by electrical energy to end users. The govern• Agder Energi Venture AS invests in ­obtaining new licences. It operates through ment caps its revenues, which means that energy-related businesses from startthe company Agder Energi Vannkraft AS. efficient operation and successful manageup through to maturity, and adds value ment of the power grid are the main drivers by proactively contributing to their Energy Management of value for the business area. development. One of its important The Energy Management business area is ­roles is developing industrial options responsible for the Group’s trading The business area, which operates through for the Group. ­contracts and for managing market risk. In Agder Energi Nett AS, is responsible for build2017 the business area was expanded to ing, operating and maintaining the transmisGoals and results include the Group’s strategic push into new sion and distribution grid in Aust-Agder and The goals and results of the business areas solutions for an international market in Vest-Agder. Agder Energi Nett owns a total of are discussed in the Directors’ Report and need of large quantities of renewable 21,800 kilometres of lines and cables, and in Note 1 Segment Information to the ­energy. Consequently, in addition to energy has 199,000 transmission and distribution ­ consolidated financial statements of the management, it now also incorporates our customers. The company is an independent Agder Energi Group. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 9 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR VISION AND VALUES Agder Energi’s vision is to be one of the leading companies in the Norwegian renewable energy sector. The Group has defined its values as closeness, credibility, dynamism and innovation. • Agder Energi shall be close to its customers and the region. • Agder Energi shall gain credibility by keeping promises, both to third parties and within the company. • Agder Energi shall be dynamic, with a conscious corporate strategy that helps it to implement projects and achieve its goals. • Agder Energi shall promote innovation and creativity, so that its employees become more skilled and efficient, enabling them to help to grow and develop the Group. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 10 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2017 In February, Agder Energi was licensed to upgrade and increase the capacity of its power stations in Åseral. The license ­covers the installation of a new generator at Skjerka power station, raising the dam at Lake Langevatn, a new transfer tunnel from Langevatn to Nåvatn, and two new power stations, Øygard and Kvernvatn. ­Together, these projects may increase the Group’s annual power generation by 145 GWh. In March, Otera XP was sold. The company, which supplies telecommunications engineering services, had turnover of NOK 133 million in 2016. The disposal had no impact on our income statement. Agder Energi is preparing itself for big changes in the electric power industry. precipitation. This proactive approach signifithe tunnel between Langevatn and Nåvatn Looking forward, we expect the two ­biggest cantly reduced the damage due to flooding. in Åseral, which has been a ­ ffected by landsdrivers to be the transition from a power lides. The project will ­increase our generasystem based on fossil fuels to one based In October, Agder Energi Nett started using tion of renewable energy by 42 GWh, on renewable energy, and the move from the payment application Vipps for custm­­­ers ­equivalent to the electricity consumption of analogue to digital systems. In view of our making customer contributions to invest2,100 households. The construction connew group strategy, in May we ­ therefore ment projects. With around 2,500 annual tract, which was awarded to the consortium made changes to our group structure and transactions, this significantly r­educes the Risa–Implenia, is worth approximately NOK management team. company’s costs, as well as making life 600 million. ­simpler for our customers. In June, Agder Energi agreed to sell its In December, as part of the process of ownership interest in its part-owned In November we completed the dam ­project ­ onsolidating all of our grid-related activic ­ subsidiary NetNordic Holding AS to at Skjerkevatn in Åseral. The ­project, which ties in a single business area, Agder Energi ­Norvestor. The transfer of the shares took was expected to cost just over NOK 600 Nett took over the grid infrastructure of place August. The gain on that transaction million, was completed on schedule and Arendals Fossekompani, Sira Kvina kraft­ and the company’s operating profit up u ­ ntil ­under budget. The project involved building selskap and Otteraaens Brugseierforening/ the completion of the sale contributed NOK two new rock-fill dams. The water level was Otra Kraft. These acquisitions leave Agder 244 million to net income, which is included raised by 23 metres, up to the same level as Energi Nett as the only grid operator in on the income statement u ­nder “Net Nåvatn, thereby combining the two reser­Agder covered by the income cap. income from discontinued operations”. voirs. This will ­allow us to ­increase annual generation by 43 GWh, or enough electriAt the end of December, Agder Energi Nett In August, Scope Ratings gave Agder Enercity for 2,200 homes. had replaced 150,000 old electricity meters gi an official credit rating of BBB+ with a with new digital ones. This means that the stable outlook. In the fourth quarter, the power exchange company is well on the way to completing NordPool and Agder Energi agreed to work the job of replacing the around 200,000 Agder Energi was quick to implement together to enhance the electricity market meters found in Agder. All of the meters measures in its drainage basins to limit the by developing an exchange for ­decentralised must be replaced by 1 January 2019. damage caused by the extreme weather flexibility in Norway, Scandinavia and over the turn of the month ­ September/ ­Europe. Using available flexibility can be an Netsecurity, in which Agder Energi Venture October. Many areas received record alternative to investing in grid upgrades, holds a 91,2% ownership interest, bought amounts of precipitation and river flow also and the aim is to create a marketplace that the company Systempartner in December. set new records in some places. Dams and is open to all potential market players. This acquisition will strengthen Net­ reservoirs were used pro­actively to control security’s position as a leading Norwegian the enormous amounts of water flowing In December Agder Energi decided to build supplier of solutions related to IT security, down the rivers as a result of the heavy a new dam at Langevatn and to ­refurbish networking and operations services. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 11 III < > Introductrion Introduction governance Corporategovernance Corporate The The Agder Agder Energi Energi Group Group Agder Energi Agder ASAS Energi CSR CSR AGDER ENERGI AND THE ENERGI INDUSTRY AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 12 III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AN EXCITING YEAR FOR ELECTRIC COMPANIES supply electricity. M­eanwhile, E ­uropean energy companies are increasingly p ­ ulling out of coal, oil and gas, to instead focus on renewable energy technologies and decentralised services for consumers. Through its ownership of G ­ erman comp­ anies that supply decentralised services, Agder Energi is a part of this process. The keys here are the so-called three Ds: Digitalisation. Decentralisation. Decarbonisation. In Europe, electricity and heat are generated from a growing number of sources and technologies – wind, solar, hydro, biomass, nuclear, oil and gas. Unfortunately, Agder Energi has put behind it a successAgder Energi and Skagerak Energi. This a very large share still comes from coal, ful, exciting year, which saw many of the merger would create Norway’s largest including brown coal, the most polluting same trends and issues as in 2016. Elecvertically-integrated electricity group; a fossil fuel of all. We must reduce that tricity prices remain low, with the average new industry powerhouse in a stronger amount, which both Norwegian hydro­ spot price being 26.9 øre/kWh in 2017, position to generate profit and add value power and Norwegian gas can help us compared with 23.3 øre/kWh in 2016. In in an electricity market that is undergoing to do. Oil and gas will remain important 2018, prices are expected to remain at a rapid changes, according to Statkraft. sources of energy. But as renewables start similar level to 2017. to compete with oil, particularly in the This process started to build up steam in transport sector, this will affect demand In spite of the low prices, the Agder Energi 2017, and at the request of their ­respective for oil and the profitability of oil prodution. Group achieved financial results that our boards, managers at the two companies In practice oil used to have a monopoly whole organisation can be proud of: net analysed the prospect of a merger in a there, so this is a big step forward. income rose to NOK 1,237 million in 2017, report published last autumn. Both comp­ from NOK 744 million the previous year. anies recommended taking discussions to This trend, which is most visible in central the next stage. This process has ­continued Europe, is the main topic for this year’s At the national level, the industry can into 2018 with dialogue between the Agder Energi conference. These annual take pleasure from the fact that the municipal shareholders of both comp­ conferences have become a key forum for new parliament chose to retain the 2016 anies. In March 2018, the owners decided discussing and sharing knowledge about law that a ­llows companies other than that there was no basis for moving on energy, energy policy and energy techno­Statnett to own and operate inter­national with the merger process. However, we are logy. Our conference in 2017 was the most ­ interconnectors. There were d ­emands confident that whatever happens Agder successful one to date, but our aim is to from some quarters that the two licenses Energi will remain at the forefront of the do even better in 2018. already granted to Statnett be reassessed, Norwegian electric power industry. but these were withdrawn ­ before b­eing Health and safety is one of Agder Energi’s debated in parliament. Good progress is At the European level, we are seeing top priorities. The Group’s sickness ­ab­sence being made on the new power cables to ­increasingly far-reaching changes to enerrate has been low in recent ­years, and in Germany and the UK, and NorthConnect, gy markets. These transformations are be2017 it was 3.5 percent. We aim to get it which is part-owned by Agder Energi, ing driven by climate change p ­ olicies, adbelow 3.0 percent in 2018. We will contifinished­preparing its applications to the vances in renewable energy technologies nue to take a proactive and systematic authorities. We are proud to have helped and digitalisation. As a result, new players ­approach to preventive health and safety. raise awareness of how much hydropower are entering the market: more and more contributes to the Norwegian economy oil companies are investing in ­renewable each year. energy sources like wind and solar, in the process converting themselves from oil In autumn 2016, Statkraft started looking companies into energy companies that Tom Nysted into the possibility of a merger between don’t just produce oil and gas, but also CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 13 III < > Introductrion Introduction governance Corporategovernance Corporate The The Agder Agder Energi Energi Group Group Agder Energi Agder ASAS Energi CSR CSR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AGDER AGDER ENERGI ENERGI ÅRSRAPPORT REPORT 2014 ANNUAL 2017 14 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Compliance e ­ thical standards, and it discusses e ­ thical t­ here are separate internal rules in place In accordance with Section 3-3b of the issues openly both within the company of the joint guidelines. Norwegian Accounting Act, Agder Energi and with third parties. Our business parthas a duty to report on its corporate goners/suppliers are also expected to have 2. Business activities vernance procedures. Agder Energi has high ethical standards consistent with Agder Energi’s purpose is defined in the chosen to follow the corporate goverthose of the Group. Our internal control company’s articles of association: “The nance recommendations set out in the system, including our whistleblowing company’s purpose is to: exploit, produce 8th edition of the Norwegian Code of procedures and ethics committee, is and sell energy; contribute to the safe Practice published by the Norwegian ­designed to ensure that our organisation and efficient supply of energy; and Corporate Governance Committee and employees are able to follow the ­exploit related, profitable business opp(NUES), published on 30 October 2014. ­guidelines. ortunities within the energy and infrastructure sectors.” Agder Energi AS has issued bonds that The ethical guidelines can be found on are listed on Oslo Børs. Consequently, we the Group’s website ae.no. Agder Energi is one of Norway’s biggest have chosen to implement the Code of energy companies, as well as being a Practice in so far as we consider it Corporate social responsibility (CSR) ­major employer, with over 1,200 employ­relevant and appropriate. Section 3-3c of the Norwegian Accounees. The Group’s core business consists ting Act, the Norwegian Corporate of hydropower generation, energy Below we have set out how Agder Energi ­Governance Committee’s Code of Pracmanage­ ment, electricity retailing and has chosen to follow the recommen­ tice and the Global Reporting Initiative grid operation. Its other activities include dations. Each heading represents one (GRI) all establish rules on how Agder contracting, district heating and venture topic covered by the recommendations. Energi must fulfil its corporate social capital investment. Agder Energi has chosen to adapt ­responsibility and communicate what it ­ Sections 4–8 to reflect its operations does. These Norwegian and international Agder Energi has goals and strategies and ownership structure. Apart from this, guidelines all emphasise the following covering the whole group, for each busiAgder Energi considers that it complies four areas: human rights, labour, the ness area and subsidiary, and for certain fully with the Code of Practice. ­environment and anti-corruption. Agder aspects of its operations. Energi’s corporate social responsibility 1. Corporate Governance Statement strategy sets out the Group’s definitions, There is a more detailed description of The adopted corporate governance pringoals, plan of action, areas of responsibithe Group’s business activities in a sepaciples regulate the relationship between lity and reporting structure in relation to rate section of this annual report. the shareholders, Board of Directors and CSR. executive management of a company, as 3. Equity and dividends well as describing the relevant roles and This annual report includes a separate At 31 December 2017, the Group had reporting structures. section with more information about CSR NOK 4,565 million of equity, giving it an at Agder Energi. equity ratio of 21.8%. The Board of DirecEthical guidelines tors considers it important for the Group Ethics constitutes an integral part of the Exemption from the Group’s joint to have sufficient equity to provide finanGroup’s operations and of its overall risk guidelines cial stability, bearing in mind its stated management process. Along with its The operations of some the subsidiaries credit rating goal, strategy and risk ­values, the ethical guidelines adopted by in the Group are very remote from, and ­profile. the Group provide the foundation and have little in common with, the core framework for its activities and set out ­activities of Agder Energi, and there are The Group’s dividend policy reflects the aspirational and mandatory conduct at few synergies to be realised by integrastated aim of giving shareholders a our organisation. The guidelines apply to ting them more closely with the Group’s ­ stable and predictable return on their all employees, Board members, contracother activities. This may apply to ­investment through cash dividends. The tors, consultants, intermediaries, lobby­ companies in the Group’s development Group’s future dividend policy will d­ epend ists and other people acting on behalf of portfolio, ­ subsidiary groups or joint on parameters such as the Group’s Agder Energi. ­ventures. ­These companies are exemp­strategic priorities, expected cash flow, ted from some of the Group’s joint guidinvestment plans, financing requireAgder Energi requires all people who act elines. Any exemptions are specified in ments, the need for adequate financial on behalf of the Group to meet high the relevant internal guidelines, and flexibility and debt-servicing ability. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 15 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Equity raising the Board, CEO and external auditor shall proposal of Statkraft and four at the Equity increases shall be proposed by the also attend. The election committee and ­proposal of the employees. The executive Board and discussed by the AGM. The Board members are also entitled to management is not represented on the Board is not currently authorised to carry ­attend. Board. Board members are elected for a out equity increases. two-year term. 7. Election committee 4. Equal treatment of shareholders The articles of association specify that The Board members are presented in a and transactions with related parties the company shall have an election separate section of this annual report. The Norwegian Corporate Governance ­committee. It consists of five members, Details of who has attended Board Committee’s Code of Practice recomwho are appointed for a two-year term. ­meetings during the year can be found in mends only having one class of shares. Under the current shareholders’ agreeNote 32 to the consolidated financial Under Norwegian law, private investors ment, the municipal shareholders can ­statements. can only own up to 1/3 of the shares in ­appoint three members, while Statkraft hydropower stations that need a licence. can appoint two. The election committee Entitlement of Board members to own Agder Energi therefore has two classes nominates candidates for the corporate shares of shares: A and B. Class A shares can assembly and for the Board of Directors. The Code of Practice recommends that only be owned by hydropower licensees. The shareholders’ agreement contains Board members be encouraged to own In all other respects, class A and class B certain rules on the work of the election shares in the company. This recommenshares have equal rights. committee, designed to ensure complidation has not been implemented at ance with the stipulations of the agree­ Agder Energi. Under the company’s For significant transactions between ­the ment. articles of association and the share­ ­ company and shareholders, Board holders’ agreement, neither Board mem­members, key employees or any of their 8. Composition and independence of bers nor other private individuals are related parties, the Board shall obtain a the corporate assembly and Board of ­entitled to own shares in Agder Energi. valuation from an independent third Directors ­party. There are 15 members of Agder Energi’s 9. The work of the Board corporate assembly. Five representatives The Board’s tasks are regulated by the 5. Free negotiability are elected by and from the employees, Limited Liability Companies Act and The Code of Practice recommends that five from the municipal shareholders and other relevant legislation, the company’s the articles of association should not five from Statkraft. The corporate articles of association and the Board place any restrictions on the transaction ­assembly is elected for a two-year term, ­guidelines. The Board works to an annual of shares. This recommendation has not and elects its own Chair and Deputy plan. been implemented at Agder Energi. The Chair. The corporate assembly is ­invested considerations relating to ownership on with the authority and entrusted with the The Board appoints the CEO. The Board which the shareholder agreement is tasks specified in current legislation has drawn up instructions for, and delebased mean that the shares are not ­ ­governing limited liability companies. gated authority to, the CEO. freely negotiable. Details of the current members of the Audit committee 6. Annual General Meeting corporate assembly can be found on the In accordance with the Stock Exchange The Code of Practice recommends enabGroup’s website ae.no. Regulations, the Board of Agder Energi ling as many shareholders as possible to has established an audit committee that exercise their rights by attending the The Code of Practice recommends that assists and advises the Board in relation company’s Annual General Meeting, and the Chair of the Board should be elected to its supervision of the Group’s financial enabling shareholders who cannot ­attend by the AGM. This recommendation has reporting and the effectiveness of its to vote. This recommendation has not not been implemented at Agder Energi. ­internal control systems. been implemented at Agder Energi. Under the shareholder agreement, ­ Under the agreements between share­t welve people sit on the Group’s Board of 10. Risk management and internal holders, the AGM is only attended by one Directors. Four members, including the controls representative of the shareholder muniChair and Deputy Chair, are elected at Agder Energi has designed its risk manacipalities and one representative of the proposal of the municipal share­ gement principles based on the guidance ­Statkraft Industrial Holding. The Chair of holders, four members are elected at the of the COSO framework for enterprise AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 16 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR risk management (2004/2005) and ISO related. No Board members are entitled as a result of the strategic decisions of 31000 Risk management (2009). The to a pension, options or termination companies in the Group or through the Group fully integrates risk management, ­compensation from the company, apart wholly-owned subsidiary Agder Energi internal controls and internal auditing from the entitlements of the employee Venture. into its corporate governance in a way representatives on the Board in their that complies with the updates to the ­capacity as employees of the company. 15. External auditor COSO framework issued in 2017, which Ernst & Young was the Group’s external emphasise the link between risk manage­ Details of the fees paid to individual auditor in 2017. ment and strategy. Board members are presented in Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements. The external auditor describes the key The Group is inevitably exposed to risks points of the audit of the previous finanin a variety of areas throughout the value 12. Management compensation cial year to the audit committee and chain. The most important risks relate to Management compensation reflects the points out any major weaknesses uncomarket price movements, strategic Group’s guidelines on compensation. vered in the internal controls related to ­investments, capital scarcity, operational financial reporting. issues, the regulatory environment and Details of the compensation of each adaptation. ­individual member of the senior manageThe external auditor must also: ment team are presented in Note 32 to confirm his independence each year In line with the Board’s guidelines, the the consolidated financial statements. state which services other than staGroup performs an annual review of tutory auditing that he has provided ­internal controls and risk management in 13. Information and communication to the Group during the finacial year collaboration with the external auditor. Agder Energi satisfies all statutory requidescribe any threats to his Risk assessments and changes to the rements relating to financial reporting independence and document any ­ ­ regulatory environment are reported and disclosure. The Group considers measures implemented to mitigate ­regularly to the Board, and all subsidiarimaintaining good, appropriate lines of them es produce an annual self-declaration on communication with its owners and their internal controls, which also covers ­external stakeholders to be a priority. The Group’s central finance function is the ethical guidelines and corporate kept informed of any consulting, tax ­social responsibility. The thirty municipal shareholders coordi­ advice and other services provided by nate their activities through two forums the external Group auditor that are not The company’s internal audit service established for this purpose: the owners’ related to the normal auditing process. helps the Board to exercise good corpomeeting and the work committee. The external Group auditor is responsible rate governance by providing an indepen­ for constantly assessing his own indedent, unbiased assessment of the most The municipal owners understand that pendence. important risks facing the company and the procedures for reporting financial has a mandate to communicate directly ­information to Statkraft mean that the The external auditor attends the audit with the Board and the Board’s audit latter owner is frequently updated before committee’s meetings, as well as the committee. the municipalities. Board meeting at which the financial statements are approved. The auditor ­ The company provides various channels The Group’s website ae.no provides also meets the Board at least once a year for whistleblowing, one of which is an access to financial reports and other ­ without Agder Energi’s executive ­external one approved by the Norwegian ­information for investors. manage­ ment being present. Norwegian Data Protection Authority. laws and regulations define which types 14. Acquisitions and disposals of non-audit services the external a­ uditor There is a more detailed description of The shareholders’ agreement defines the can provide to Agder Energi. The auditor’s Agder Energi’s internal control and risk pre-emptive rights of current share­ fee is set out in Note 10 to the consolidamanagement systems in a separate holders in the event of shares being sold. ted financial statements. ­section of this annual report. The disposal and acquisition of the Group’s ownership interests and subsi­ 11. Board fees diaries is handled in accordance with the Members of the Board are paid based on relevant authorisations at Agder Energi. their roles. Their fees are not profit-­ Disposals and acquisitions can take p ­ lace AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 17 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT At Agder Energi, risk management is an Group’s corporate and risk management management activities to the Group. integrated part of corporate governance, strategies, all of the Group’s business The general analysis of Agder Energi’s both at the strategic and operational leareas have drawn up business plans. Theoverall risk exposure takes place at the vels. se business plans include strategic and Group level, based on individual compaoperational goals, areas of priority and nies’ reports combined with the strategic Corporate governance risk assessments covering existing actiassessments of the senior management In order to ensure that the instructions of vities and new business models. Areas team, the technical assessments of shathe owners are followed, and that the that involve trading in financial markets red services and the Group auditor’s Group is managed appropriately, the have special risk management strategies comments. The analysis is summarised in Board has established guidelines for its and limits on risk exposure. terms of strategic and operational risks own activities, instructions at subsidiarito the Group’s goals and operations. Risk es and instructions and an authorisation Risk assessments and risk management assessments are included in reports to matrix for the Group CEO. These docuThe Group’s risk management systems the Board. ments underpin the Group’s strategy, deal with potential positive and negative which in turn sets out goals and priorities outcomes in relation to the company’s Tools and processes for the Group and its business areas. The goals. HSE has top priority and is always In order to promote integrated corporate Board has also approved a general dethe first item on the agenda at managegovernance processes, the Group has scription of its corporate governance ment meetings, both at a Group level and implemented a combined governance model, which together with the adopted within the individual companies. and information management solution, risk management strategy provides the Individual companies are responsible for which helps to further integrate financial basis for the executive management’s inidentifying and monitoring their own risk and risk management into management tegrated risk management activities. exposures, and risk management at the processes. We will continue to develop operational level takes place across the our corporate governance systems in paBusiness plans and risk management organisation as an integrated part of rallel with the development of the Group strategies normal business activities. Companies as a whole. As part of the implementation of the report their risk assessments and risk INTERNAL CONTROLS Internal control system Group’s governance documents – from platform with new, stricter security reInternal controls at the company are imsteering documents through manuals to quirements. In the face of growing numplemented through clear guidelines and descriptions of work processes – are easbers of climate-related events, checking established processes. This is documenily accessible on the Group’s intranet and monitoring weather data plays an ted by the fact that governance docu“Energisk”. Subsidiaries in the Group imimportant role in helping us to manage ments have been made available to all plement SLIK across the organisation and adapt the resources that we adminisemployees through our quality managethrough their own corporate governance ter. For our internal procedures, we have ment system “THIS is how we do things systems with company-specific goverestablished control mechanisms that at Agder Energi”, generally abbreviated nance documents. combine manual controls such as check to the first word of the Norwegian name lists, access controls such as electronic – SLIK. SLIK has been established in acControl mechanisms approval processes following the four cordance with the recommendations Agder Energi has established control eyes principle and automatic notification contained in the COSO framework and in mechanisms for safety, security, emersystems such as position monitoring for the Code of Practice drawn up by the gency preparedness and critical aspects trading portfolios. Norwegian Corporate Governance Comof its business processes in order to premittee (NUES). vent, or rapidly correct, any nonconforIn addition, all subsidiaries must submit mities. As digitalisation increases, Agder an annual self-declaration on their interThrough SLIK, the full range of the Energi has established an ICT model and nal controls. This is done through a comAGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 18 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR mon reporting format that makes it clear sessment of the Group’s risk manageis involved. Agder Energi has established what kinds of controls the Group expects ment procedures. The internal audit procedures that safeguard the rights of its subsidiaries to implement. service’s mandate and guidelines are apwhistleblowers. In view of the public proved by the Board, which also reviews spotlight that has been put on sexual haMonitoring the internal audit service’s annual report rassment, the Group has given greater In order to pick up on changes that are and its audit plans. priority to raising awareness within the relevant to the company’s business, AgGroup of its ethical guidelines, standards der Energi has introduced an Early WarThe external auditor is chosen by the and reporting systems/procedures. ning system. This system is used to careAGM, and is responsible for the financial fully monitor developments in the audit of the parent company, Group and Agder Energi’s system for reporting unregulatory environment and markets in subsidiaries. Agder Energi has a Groupwanted incidents and suggested improwhich the Group operates, as well as wide agreement with Ernst & Young, vements is available through several technological developments. The inforwhich must be used by all subsidiaries for platforms, including a mobile phone app mation thus obtained is used in strategic the statutory audit. Companies in the and a new online reporting tool. Here and commercial decision-making proceGroup’s international and venture capital people can report and record nonconfordures. The management and Board are portfolios may use a different auditor. mities, observations, suggested improvegiven regular updates, and are notified ments, accidents and near misses. The explicitly of any critical scenarios. Whistleblowing procedures reports are analysed with a view to limiThe Group has several channels for whisting potential consequences, ensuring Auditing tleblowing, one of which is independent that the causes are uncovered and impleAgder Energi has an internal audit serof the company. There are formal procementing measures for continuous improvice, which assists the Board, senior madures in place for dealing with whistleblovement. nagement team and business areas by wer reports. Such reports are treated in providing an independent, unbiased asstrict confidence unless criminal conduct RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is inevitably exposed to risks tracts is continuously adjusted, bearing ciated with high levels of uncertainty. The in a variety of areas throughout the value in mind the company’s price expectations risks involved are managed by using pilot chain. The most important risks relate to and generating capacity. The sale of curprojects and an incremental approach, market price movements, strategic inrency futures also takes into account combined with good portfolio managevestments, capital scarcity, operational electricity price hedging and the total ment. issues, the regulatory environment and risk associated with the generation portadaptation. folio. The Group’s hedging strategy both Capital allocation reduced risk and made a positive contriAgder Energi has a clearly stated goal for Market risk bution to profit in 2017. its credit rating, both to ensure that the Agder Energi is exposed to significant company is managed well and to provide market risk through the generation and Electricity retailing is considered a maraccess to credit markets. With the power trading of electricity, with its revenues gin business and financial instruments sector currently going through a period from electricity sales being exposed to are used to minimise the electricity price of heavy investment, both in power staelectricity price risk and currency risk. risk and currency risk. tions, grid upgrades and new business Hedging strategies for the power geneopportunities, Agder Energi has more inration portfolio are subject to limits on Strategic investments vestment opportunities than it is capable how much power can be sold through fuIn 2017 the Group drew up an ambitious of pursuing. Portfolio management and tures contracts and the results are clostrategy for meeting the changes facing long-term capital allocation are designed sely monitored. Agder Energi has built up the electric power industry, centred on to encourage optimal use of capital at a strong team specialising in energy magreater digitalisation and exploiting rethe Group. nagement, analysis and modelling. Subnewable energy sources. This involves ject to the above constraints, the amount designing, and positioning ourselves in, In accordance with good risk manageof electricity sold through futures connew markets and business models assoment practice, the Group’s profitability AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 19 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR and debt-servicing capacity are stress grid operator. This requires it to have approcesses, and provide a guide for any tested in the critical scenarios reported propriate contingency plans and preveninternal adjustments that need to be carby the Early Warning system. The Group tive measures in place. For the purpose ried out by the Group. The Group believes always has a financial contingency plan of risk management, Agder Energi has strongly in open dialogue with all relewith measures that can be taken should chosen to establish contingency plans, vant decision-makers and in maintaining the need arise. training exercises and preventive measugood relationships with all stakeholders. res even at companies not covered by the Operational risk KBO requirements. Adaptation There are operational risks associated Change is coming to the power sector, with all of the processes in the value Regulatory environment with a variety of energy solutions being chain. The most important ones are the Changes in the regulatory environment offered across markets and national borrisk of injuries to the Group’s employees and political decisions affect the ders, as well as new entrants taking the and third parties, damage to power company’s room for manoeuvre and confight to the traditional players. Agder plants, distribution networks and other stitute a significant element of the Energi will need to adapt if it wants to assets, negative impacts on the environGroup’s risk exposure. Agder Energi remain a key player in the electric power ment and climate, negative impacts on works systematically to understand how industry, although we do not yet know the Group’s reputation and the risk of faithe regulatory environment is changing the exact nature and extent of those lures in administrative and management and to exploit any available room for maadaptations. The Group is taking various processes, including ICT systems. Operanoeuvre. Reports from the Early Warning steps to prepare its organisation for the tional risk is managed through procedusystem describe external developments coming changes, including a manageres governing activities at operating and uncertainties, including their potenment development programme focusing units, and through contingency plans. tial impacts on the Group, and help to on continuous improvement, change maAgder Energi participates in the organidetermine the Group’s stance on issues nagement and teamwork. sation “Kraftforsyningens beredskapsorand processes relating to the regulatory ganisasjon” (KBO) as a power generating environment. These stances underpin company, district heating company and Agder Energi’s response to consultation AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 20 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Renewable energy is part of the solution Agder Energi has adopted a Group strategy comply with the eight fundamental to the global crisis arising from climate and methodology that establish guidelines ­conventions of the International Labour change, and electricity plays a key role in for the business areas’ activities Organisation (ILO) on the right to organise, society. Consequently, the Group’s core with respect to CSR. the right to collective bargaining and the business is inherently sustainable. elimination of forced labour, child labour Nevertheless,we realise the importance Agder Energi also has a separate CSR and discrimination at the workplace. of how we conduct our core business at strategy for the Group as a whole, with Agder Energi. associated goals. Agder Energi’s CSR goals The environment are related to the ten basic principles Each company within the Agder Energi Agder Energi’s CSR goals: of the UN Global Compact. Group draws up environmental goals for Agder Energi is one of Norway’s largest its operations, reflecting the nature of its producers of renewable energy, and its The joint goals for the Group are implebusiness. Subcontractors are required to CSR activities are designed to ensure mented by the individual companies, which have procedures in place for environmenthat its operations are run in a sustain also draw up company-specific goals. tal protection measures. ble and ethical way. Agder Energi requires subcontractors to take into account the Group’s CSR Anti-corruption The Norwegian Accounting Act, N ­ orwegian ­goals. Agder Energi’s goal is that no form of a­ ctive Corporate Governance Committee’s or passive corruption shall take ­place within Code of Practice and Global Reporting The joint Group CSR goals are: the Group’s business activities. Initiative (GRI) all establish rules on how Agder Energi must fulfil its corporate social Human rights More information about the Group’s CSR responsibility and communicate what Agder Energi and its subcontractors shall activities can be found in the section of it does. These Norwegian and international conduct themselves in accordance with the annual report on CSR and in the CSR guidelines all emphasise the following the UN’s internationally accepted human appendix for 2017 on www.ae.no. four areas: human rights, labour, the rights conventions. The Group and its ­evironment and anti-corruption. Agder subcontractors shall never be complicit Energi integrates social and environ­ in the breach of human rights. mental considerations into its operations, its d­ ecision-making processes and the Labour rights ­activities of its subcontractors. Agder Energi and its subcontractors shall AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 21 III < > Introductrion Introduction governance Corporategovernance Corporate The The Agder Agder Energi Energi Group Group Agder Energi Agder ASAS Energi CSR CSR BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 22 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR BOARD OF DIRECTOR’S REPORT Agder Energi supplies the clean energy needed to help society operate smoothly – now and into the future. The Group’s activities comprise the generation, distribution and sale of energy, as well as providing energy-related services. Our vision is to be one of the leading companies in the Norwegian renewable energy sector. Most of Agder Energi’s business is done in southern Norway, and the company has its head office in Kristiansand. The Group’s profit for the year under IFRS was NOK 487 million in 2017 (controlling interest’s share), compared with NOK 251 million in 2016. Agder Energi’s hydropower stations generated 8,812 GWh of clean energy in 2017 (2016: 8,880 GWh). HIGHLIGHTS In February, Agder Energi was licensed to million, was completed on schedule and ­ p ­ roject involves building a new dam at Lange­ ­upgrade and increase the capacity of its within budget. The project involved building vatn and refurbishing the tunnel ­between ­hydroelectric power stations in Åseral. The two new rock-fill dams and raising the water Langevatn and Nåvatn in Åseral, which license covers the installation of a new level by 23 metres, up to the same level as has been affected by landslides. As well as ­generator at Skjerka power station, raising Nåvatn, thereby combining the two reservoirs ­increasing annual renewable energy generathe dam at Lake Langevatn, a new transfer into a single larger one. This will allow us to tion by 42 GWh, the project is important as tunnel from Langevatn to Nåvatn, and two increase annual generation by 43 GWh. a risk mitigation measure. The construction new power stations. contract is worth approximately NOK 600 In the fourth quarter, the power exchange million. In June, Agder Energi agreed to sell its NordPool and Agder Energi agreed to ownership interest in its part-owned ­ work together to develop an exchange for In December, as part of the process of ­subsidiary NetNordic Holding AS to Nor­decentralised demand response in Norway, ­consolidating all of our grid-related activities vestor. The transfer of the shares took place Scandinavia and Europe. Using the flexibiin a single business area, Agder Energi Nett in August. The gain on that transaction and lity provided by demand response can be took over the grid infrastructure of Arendals the company’s operating profit up until the an alternative to investing in grid upgrades, Fossekompani, Sira Kvina kraftselskap and completion of the sale contributed NOK 244 and the aim is to create a marketplace that Otteraaens Brugseierforening/Otra Kraft. million to net income, which is included under is open to all potential market players. The These acquisitions leave Agder Energi Nett “Net income from discontinued operations”. partnership is being continued through the as the only grid operator in Agder covered newly established companies Nodes and by the income cap. In August, Scope Ratings gave Agder Energi ­Nodes Plattform. an official credit rating of BBB+ with a stable outlook. In November we completed the dam project In December, Agder Energi decided to go at Skjerkevatn in Åseral. The project, which ahead with parts of the Åseral project, for was expected to cost just over NOK 600 which it has a licence. The Åseral North FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Agder Energi’s operating revenues in 2017 Germany. These companies were acquired In 2017, the Group’s operating profit reached amounted to NOK 10,223 million, compared between November 2016 and January 2017. NOK 1,062 million, NOK 90 million higher with NOK 8,086 million in 2016. NOK 2,068 Their entire turnover for the year is therefore than the 2016 figure of NOK 972 million. The of the NOK 2,137 increase is due to the included in the Group’s turnover figure for Hydroelectric Power business area’s operaacquisition of LOS Energy in Sweden and ­ 2017, whereas they only had a limited impact ting profit rose by NOK 296 million, while ­ Nordgröön and Agder Energi Solutions in on our turnover in 2016. ­unrealised gains and losses on currency and AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 23 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR electricity contracts were NOK 208 million having much relation to the Group’s under­ c ­ontracts was NOK 2,597 (2,192) million. In lower than the previous year. lying performance. This is because the item 2016, Agder Energi converted a significant fluctuates in line with expectations regarding proportion of its electricity price hedges for The operating profit includes NOK 63 (2) our ability to make use of negative resource 2017 from forwards to futures. At the time, ­million of impairment losses. NOK 32 million rent carryforwards and certain derivatives. this had a positive impact on cash flow of of those losses related to Otera, reflecting its The introduction of new tax rates in 2018 ­almost NOK 400 million. The conversion was poor financial results over an extended ­resulted in a NOK 31 million gain for 2017. the biggest reason for the reduction in cash ­period. The remaining NOK 31 million compriflow from operating activities between the ses NOK 20 million of goodwill impairments The Group’s net income for the year was NOK years. at some of the companies in the venture 487 million (controlling interest’s share), capital portfolio and NOK 11 million for ­ ­compared with NOK 251 million in 2016. This In recent years, Agder Energi has invested ­intangible assets that were sold in 2017. includes NOK 719 (332) million of valuation heavily in hydroelectric power and grid infralosses on derivatives. Adjusted for this, net structure. This continued in 2017. Net investNet financial expenses rose from NOK 173 income was NOK 1,207 (583) million. In 2017, ments amounted to NOK 1,293 million in million to NOK 214 million. Interest on the Agder Energi sold its ownership interest in 2017, against NOK 1,277 million the previous Group’s debt portfolio was NOK 251 (252) NetNordic. The company formed part of the year. NOK 1,348 (1,255) million was invested million. Continued heavy investment in Group’s venture capital portfolio. The gain on in property, plant and equipment and in ­projects resulted in NOK 27 (28) million being the disposal and the company’s operating ­intangible assets. In addition, NOK 99 (142) capitalised as construction loans, leaving the profit up until the completion of the sale are million of investments in grid infrastructure net interest expense recognised at NOK 224 included under “Net income from discontiwere paid for by customers. On the statement (224) million. There was an unrealised NOK nued operations”. Most of the NOK 244 of cash flows investments are presented 30 million gain on our interest rate swaps, ­million recognised relates to the gain on the gross, with customer payments included ­albeit down from NOK 78 million in 2016. This disposal. ­under net cash provided by operating activiwas the main reason for the increase in net ties. 90% of the investments in property, financial expenses. Investments in associates Capital structure and cash flow plant and equipment related to the Network contributed a NOK 22 (7) million loss. Agder Energi’s assets had a book value of and Hydroelectric Power business areas. NOK 20,831 million at the close of 2017, Cash received from the sale of subsidiaries The Group’s pre-tax profit amounted to NOK ­compared with NOK 20,319 in 2016. Heavy and associates once again helped to reduce 848 (799) million, and its tax expense was investment in the Hydroelectric Power and net cash used in investing activities in 2017. In NOK 598 (539) million. The tax expense Network business areas was the main reason 2017 it was the disposal of NetNordic, Otera ­consists of NOK 208 (156) million of income for a NOK 782 million increase in the value of XP and the associate Steinsvik Kraft that had tax and NOK 390 (383) million of resource property, plant and equipment. Book equity a positive impact on cash flows. rent tax. Income tax rose, primarily reflecting fell slightly to NOK 4,565 (4,626) million. The higher pre-tax profit, but also due to goodwill Group’s equity ratio at the end of the year NOK 610 (660) million in dividends were paid impairments that are not tax-deductible. The was 22% (23%). At the end of the year, the out to controlling and non-controlling expensed resource rent tax rose marginally Group had NOK 9,240 (9,143) million of ­interests. Net cash flow less dividends therefrom NOK 383 million in 2016 to NOK 390 interest-bearing liabilities. The interest rate ­ fore came to NOK 579 (1,119) million. This million in 2017. The resource rent tax expense on the loan portfolio once again fell in 2017. means that 45% (88%) of the net investcomprises tax payable and the change in The average interest rate was 2.9%, down ment for the year was financed from cash ­deferred resource rent tax. Resource rent tax from 3.0% in 2016. The Group had NOK flow from operating activities, while the payable rose from NOK 307 million to NOK 2,372 (2,023) million of unrestricted liquid ­remaining 55% (12%) was debt-financed. 422 million due to higher spot prices. The ­assets and undrawn credit facilities. change in deferred resource rent tax contriProposed dividends buted a NOK 31 million gain, compared with a Cash flow from operating activities came to Agder Energi’s dividend policy states that the NOK 76 million expense in 2016. The change NOK 1,189 million, compared with NOK 1,779 proposed dividend for 2017 should be set in deferred resource rent tax recognised in million the previous year. Operating profit ­based on the Group’s net income for 2016 the income statement has tended to vary adjusted for depreciation and unrealised ­ under NGAAP (Norwegian generally accepted greatly from year to year, without necessarily gains and losses on energy and currency accounting principles). This is to ensure that AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 24 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR shareholders receive a predictable dividend The net income for the year of the parent Going concern assumption income. The minimum dividend payout is set company Agder Energi AS was NOK 935 In accordance with the Norwegian Accounat NOK 400 million. If NGAAP net income (785) million under NGAAP. The Board pro­ ting Act, the Board of Directors confirms that exceeds NOK 400 million, 60 percent of the poses that Agder Energi AS’s net income for the going concern assumption is justified, excess shall be distributed as dividends. In the year be appropriated as follows: and that the annual financial statements 2016, the controlling interest’s share of have been prepared on that basis. NGAAP net income was NOK 744 million. (Amounts in NOK million) Based on that, the Board of Directors ­ Allocated for dividends 606 proposes a dividend payout of NOK 606 ­ Transferred to other reserves 329 ­million for the 2017 financial year. Total allocations 935 BUSINESS AREAS The accounts for the business areas have NOK 2,086 million to NOK 2,452 million, been prepared under NGAAP. partially offset by factors including a fall The Network business area in realised gains on hedges from NOK The Network business area is responsible Hydroelectric Power business area 368 million to NOK 343 million. for developing, operating and main­ This business area is responsible for taining the transmission and distribution ­ developing, operating and maintaining As well as paying ordinary income tax, the grid in Aust-Agder and Vest-Agder. The the Group’s hydroelectric power stations. hydroelectric power business also pays business area’s operating revenues in The business area owns, either directly or resource rent tax. When calculating 2017 amounted to NOK 1,335 million, through joint arrangements, 47 hydro­ ­ resource rent tax, gains and losses on compared with NOK 1,424 million in 2016. electric power stations, making it one of cash-­settled contracts are excluded. The The reduction was due to a lower income Norway’s largest generators of hydro­ higher spot value of electricity generated, cap. The income cap is set by the electric power. 8,812 GWh (8,880 GWh) combined with a higher tax rate, ­meant ­Norwegian Water Resources and Energy of power was generated in 2017. Average that resource rent tax payable rose by Directorate, and it mainly fell due to annual power generation is 8,100 GWh. NOK 115 million to NOK 422 m ­ illion. Higher ­one-off factors that positively impacted futures prices, a higher euro exchange rate the calculation of the permitted revenues The average spot price in Agder Energi’s and a lower tax-free interest allowance of grid operating companies in 2016. pricing region (NO2) was 26.9 øre/kWh ­resulted in an ­increase in the capitalised Lower revenues were the main reason ­ (23.3 øre/kWh), up 15% over 2016. negative resource rent carryforwards, operating profit fell to NOK 271 million in ­ Concession power and electricity while the opposite occurred in 2016. The 2017, from NOK 417 million in 2016. supplied under various long-standing ­ change in deferred resource rent tax ­E xpenses r­elated to energy not supplied contracts with industrial customers are ­recognised in the ­income statement was (KILE) and fault resolution were NOK 10 sold at prices below current spot prices. NOK 137 million (NOK -155 million), million higher than in 2016. Nevertheless, gains on physical and ­ ­resulting in net i­ncome of NOK 996 (584) cash-settled hedges meant that the million. The business area invested NOK 773 ­average price achieved in 2017 was 30.6 (695) million in 2017, of which NOK 590 øre/kWh (27.8 øre/kWh) for the power NOK 469 (445) million was invested in (519) million related to investments in that was generated. 2017, of which NOK 157 (130) million new projects. NOK 311 (211) million was ­related to investments in new projects. The invested in the smart meter project. The The turnover of the business area was biggest individual investments ­ involved figure for investment also includes NOK NOK 2,893 (2,651) million in 2017. It made the new second generator at Skjerka, two 68 (109) million for Honna substation in an operating profit of NOK 1,752 million, new rock-fill dams on Lake Skjerkevatn Åseral. up from NOK 1,455 million in 2016, thanks and the refurbishment of Evenstad power to net energy sales rising from NOK 2,471 station. Beyond this, i­nvestments mainly Including NOK 99 (142) million of million to NOK 2,692 million. Net energy comprised reinvestments in the power customer contributions, gross invest­ sales benefited from an increase in the ­stations and dams at wholly-owned and ment in the business area was NOK 875 spot value of electricity generated from part-owned installations. (818) million. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 25 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The Energy Management business while it made an operating loss of NOK 4 Agder Energi Varme’s turnover in 2017 area million (profit of NOK 49 million). The was NOK 108 (101) million, while its The Energy Management business area main companies in this business area are ­operating profit was NOK 20 (21) million. includes Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning, LOS, Otera and Agder Energi Varme. The Its profit for 2016 included NOK 6 million LOS Energy and Agder Energi’s e ­ lectricity Group’s venture capital portfolio also from the reversal of previous years’ market operations in Germany. Agder forms part of the business area. ­ impairments against Sørlandsparken. Energi Kraftforvaltning is responsible for The company supplied 143 GWh (137 scheduling and hedging the hydropower In 2017, the electricity retailer LOS’s GWh) of heating energy. Like the previportfolio on behalf of the Hydroelectric turnover was NOK 670 million, compared ous year, above average temperatures Power business area. LOS Energy is one with NOK 671 million in the year-earlier led to less energy than expected being of Scandinavia’s leading energy retailers. period. LOS enjoys a strong position in supplied. However, customer growth and In Norway, LOS Energy is the leading the Agder region, but also has a signifirising sales of construction site heating ­supplier of electricity to the commercial cant number of customers elsewhere. It and cooling helped to push up volumes. market. LOS Energy also has a securities has maintained a stable market position Our hedging of energy contracts made a trading licence for the Nordic countries, in Agder in spite of growing competition. significant contribution in the period. The and significant turnover in the Swedish The company’s operating profit was NOK company invested NOK 37 (21) million. Its market, as well as customers in Denmark 56 (68) million. focus is on densification using the and Finland. Electricity market opera­existing infrastructure, so once again no tions involve managing renewable Otera supplies contracting services for major development projects were ­energy, optimising distributed generation the installation, operation, maintenance ­implemented in 2017. and selling demand response services. and servicing of electricity and transport infrastructure. In 2017, Otera’s turnover The Group’s venture capital investments The business area’s operating revenues was NOK 954 (1,145) million. It made an are managed through the company were NOK 5,210 (3,015) million in 2017. operating loss of NOK 65 (19) million, ­Agder Energi Venture. Its biggest investThe increase in turnover was due to the reflecting weak results at both the ­ ment, NetNordic, was sold at a significant acquisition of LOS Energy in Sweden in Norwegian and Swedish businesses. ­ profit in 2017. One of the important goals the fourth quarter of 2016 and of the Otera’s operating profit for 2017 was of the venture capital business is c­ reating German operations at the turn of the ­ impacted by impairment charges and industrial options for the Group. In 2017, year. The business area’s operating profit losses realised on major fixed-price ­ Enfo and the two German companies was NOK 27 (19) million. This includes a ­projects. The operation and maintenance ­Entelios and Nordgröön were transferred NOK 33 (2) million depreciation expense business achieved acceptable margins from the venture capital portfolio to the arising from the acquisition of LOS Enerand made a positive contribution to Energy Management business area. Enfo gy in Sweden. ­operating profit. In March, Agder Energi and Entelios supply demand response sold Otera XP. The figures for 2016 services, while Nordgröön offers market The Marketing business area ­include NOK 133 million of turnover and access for small electricity generators. The Marketing business area’s turnover NOK 9 million of operating profit attribuwas NOK 2,071 (2,363) million in 2017, table to the business that was sold. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Agder Energi is one of Norway’s largest of the International Labour Organisation absence has been rising. The Group aims producers of renewable energy, and the (ILO). to have a sickness absence rate below 3%, Group’s CSR activities aim to ensure that and for some time we have been working all of its operations are run in a sustain­ Health and safety hard to improve the way in which we deal able, ethical and socially responsible way. In 2017, the Group’s sickness absence rate with absences. The companies in the was 3.5%, unchanged from 2016. Of that, Group have signed up to the Norwegian In its efforts to meet its responsibilities to 1% (1%) was short-term absence and government’s inclusive working life society, Agder Energi bases its work on 2.4% (2.4%) was long-term absence ­scheme for the period 2014-2018. globally recognised initiatives and stan(more than 16 days). While total sickness dards, including the UN Global Compact, absence has remained relatively stable 7 (11) occupational accidents resulting in which promotes sustainable and socially over the past five years, short-term abinjury were recorded in 2017. Of these, 4 responsible policies, and the conventions sence has been declining, while long-term (7) resulted in total lost time of 146 (374) AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 26 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR days. The accident figures are equivalent Agder Energi shall show respect for indivimonitors how whistleblowing is dealt with. to a lost time injury frequency (number of duals, and shall strive proactively for a LTIs per million work hours) of 2.1 (3.5), a good and diverse working environment Clear rules have been established requitotal injury frequency (number of injuries, where there is equal opportunity for all. ring the Group’s subcontractors to also whether or not they resulted in lost time, Our activities in this area are carried out conduct their business affairs in a way that per million work hours) of 3.7 (5.4) and an within the framework of the ten corporate complies with accepted Norwegian and injury severity rate (number of days lost social responsibility principles defined by international principles and guidelines ­ per million work hours) of 71 (186). None of the UN Global Compact. We do not accept ­relating to human rights, labour, the envithe incidents can be classified as serious. any form of discrimination. Discrimination ronment and anti-corruption work. refers to any kind of differential treatment, A lot of effort has been put into making exclusion or preference based on gender, Agder Energi’s goal is that no form of Agder Energi a safe place to work where age, any disability, sexual orientation, relicorruption shall take place anywhere ­ injuries don’t occur, and into creating a gion, p ­olitical opinions or national or within the Group’s operations. Its anti-­ ­ good working environment. We have been ethnic ­origin, or any other similar matter corruption activities comply with national working continuously to improve both that has the effect of preventing or limiand international laws, regulations and ­systems and conduct in order to reach our ting equal treatment. Nevertheless, in cerconventions. In order to prevent corruption health and safety goals. In recent years, tain ­circumstances it may be both legal and misconduct, the Group has developed we have put a particular focus on creating and justified to treat people differently in and implemented a range of measures a safety culture, through awareness-­ order to ensure equal opportunity and di­including ethical guidelines, procedures for raising and encouraging staff to think versity. reporting and investigating misconduct, ­ about risks in their own work, report if whistleblowing channels, integrity due dili­something is dangerous or can be improThe project “Equality at the workplace in gence for acquisitions and supplier ved, etc. These efforts are one of the main 2016-2018” commits Agder Energi to a require­ments. In 2017, all of our employees reasons for the improvements that we strong equal opportunity agenda. The completed an anti-corruption course and a have seen in health and safety. project aims to help change Southern ­ risk analysis was also carried out at each Norway’s reputation by turning the region of our companies. Staff and organisational structure into a model for how a proactive and At the close of 2017, the Group had 1,210 ­ systematic approach can ensure equal The environment (1,432) full-time and temporary employeopportunity and diversity in the workplace. Each company within the Agder Energi es, representing 1,163 (1,401) full-time The project is a collaboration between the Group draws up environmental goals for its equivalents. The reduction since 2016 is county governments of Aust-Agder and operations, reflecting the nature of its mainly due to the sale of NetNordic. The Vest-Agder and the chamber of commerce ­ business. The Group’s businesses in the parent company had 162 (158) permanent in the Kristiansand region. hydropower and grid operation sectors are employees at the end of the year. run through wholly-owned and part-owned Ethics and anti-corruption activities subsidiaries. These companies operate in Women make up 17% (17%) of the Group’s The Group’s strategy establishes Agder accordance with their licences and with a employees, and 41% (42%) of the parent Energi’s values and has a strong focus on large number of laws and regulations. Subcompany’s. The senior management team ethical conduct. All conduct at the Group contractors must have procedures in place has two women and five men. Women should adhere to its ethical guidelines. We for environmental protection measures. ­occupy 42% (42%) of the seats on the carry out regular activities to ensure that Board. knowledge and awareness of the Ethical Hydroelectric Power Guidelines remains high. Ethics, values and Dams and power stations change the We recruit, develop and deploy human management requirements are some of ­ natural environment, but the Group’s resources in the way that is best for achiethe topics covered by the Group’s manage­ ­activities do not have a bigger impact on ving the Group’s goals. This involves ment development programme, and mananature or society than is usual for this kind ­ offering competitive salaries, ongoing gers and employees’ awareness of the of business. Furthermore, we make a signitraining, continuous improvement and a ­ ­ Ethical Guidelines is measured in our ficant positive contribution to the climate good and safe working environment, as ­ employee satisfaction surveys. Ethics, and environment by generating on averawell as providing strong leadership. ­ values and management requirements ge 8.1 TWh of clean, renewable energy also played a pivotal role in our response each year. Diversity and equal opportunity to the #metoo movement in 2017, and Our ethical guidelines set out how the that will remain the case in 2018. Agder Damming river systems can affect the abiGroup shall be governed and managed. Energi has set up an ethics committee that lity of fish to live and reproduce. In order to The guidelines also incorporate principles helps managers and employees to deal mitigate this, we have implemented both relating to equality and diversity. with ethical dilemmas. The committee also statutory and voluntary measures in seveAGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 27 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ral river systems. For example, we have 2016 it was approved by the Ministry of mental incident in which around 100 litres worked with NIVA to study the migration Climate and the Environment after some of transformer oil was burned up during a of smolts past Rygene power station in the amendments. Each of the relevant authorifire at Øye substation. Arendal river system. The aim of the study ties must decide which measures are is to reduce harm to smolts migrating needed to achieve the environmental District heating downriver past Rygene power station and ­goals that have been set. We expect the Agder Energi Varme makes an important to come up with targeted actions that Norwegian Water Resources and Energy contribution to promoting the use of ­minimise the need to release more water Directorate to revise various licence terms green, renewable energy sources. For than required by the rules on the operation in view of the plan, but it is hard to say example, in Kristiansand it reuses the of our dams. specifically what the changes may be. ­surplus heat from waste incineration and Finndøla is one example of a river system from a nickel refinery, while in Arendal and There is a lot of bulbous rush in the rivers where the licence terms are being revised, Grimstad it generates heat from biomass. in the Agder area. The reasons for this are and where considerable work was done in complex and not fully understood. Agder 2017. Of the total heat supplied by the company Energi is participating in a joint regional in 2017, 98.7% came from renewable project to remedy the situation. This No serious environmental incidents were sources that help to reduce emissions of ­project, which has received funding from recorded in 2017. The control centre pollutants like CO2 and NOx. various sources, is trying to control ­recorded four breaches of the rules gover­bulbous rush growth in the region’s river ning the operation of dams in 2017, all of Agder Energi Varme aims to phase out the systems, as well as understand the causes which were considered minor. No environuse of fossil fuels for its district heating of the problem. At the start of 2017 the mental impacts were recorded as a result production in normal years, including peak project was led by the county governor of of these breaches, which were handled in loads. However, in unusual circumstances, Aust-Agder and Vest-Agder, while Vestaccordance with the current guidelines. emergencies and long cold snaps it may Agder County Council took over its leader­ be necessary to use fossil fuels for short ship in the autumn of 2017. Network periods of time. Agder Energi Nett always aims to minimise The licensing authorities are legally entitunwanted impacts on the environment. Further information about the Group’s led to modify the licence terms relating to Significant resources go to ensuring that corporate social responsibility activities ­ minimum flow and reservoir restrictions. current regulations issued by the authorican be found in a separate section of this Based on the Norwegian water regulaties are properly implemented. This applies annual report. tions, Vest-Agder County Council has equally to operations, maintenance and established a regional water management development projects. The company’s plan for Agder. One of the important aims procedures, which are subject to continuof the plan is to describe all water resourous improvement, aim to avert, prevent ces and establish specific environmental and reduce the scope of any environ­ goals for each one. The plan was adopted mental incidents. by the county councils in 2015, and in In 2017 there was one minor environ­ RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Risk management and internal controls management strategies, all of the Group’s ­ oals. Individual companies are respons­ g The Board has established general guide­ business areas have drawn up business ible for identifying and monitoring their lines for the Group’s corporate gover­nance plans. These business plans include strateown risk exposures, and risk management model. The Group’s corporate strategy gic and operational goals, areas of priority at the operational level takes place across sets out goals and priorities for the Group and risk assessments. Areas that involve the organisation as an integrated part of and its business areas, which provide the trading in financial markets have their own normal business activities. General analybasis for the executive management’s risk management strategies and limits on sis of Agder Energi’s overall risk exposure integrated risk management activities, ­ risk exposure. takes place at the Group level and is repor­together with the adopted authorisations ted to the Board. and risk management strategy. The Group’s risk management systems deal with potential positive and negative In order to promote integrated corporate Based on the Group’s corporate and risk outcomes in relation to the company’s governance processes, the Group has AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 28 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR implemented a combined governance and Market risk preventive measures even at companies information management solution, which Agder Energi is exposed to significant not covered by “Kraftforsyningens beredhelps to further integrate financial and risk market risk through the generation and skapsorganisasjon” (KBO). management into management processes. trading of electricity, with its revenues from electricity sales being exposed to Regulatory environment Internal controls at the company are electricity price risk and currency risk. Changes in the regulatory environment ­implemented through clear guidelines and Hedging strategies for the power generaand political decisions affect the established processes that are made tion portfolio are subject to limits on how company’s room for manoeuvre and available to all employees through our ­ much power can be sold through futures ­ constitute a significant element of the quality management system SLIK. Through contracts and close monitoring of down­ Group’s risk exposure. Reports from the SLIK, all of the Group’s governance docuside risks. Electricity retailing is consideEarly Warning system describe external ments – from steering documents through red a margin business and financial instrudevelopments and uncertainties, including manuals to descriptions of work processes ments are used to minimise the electricity their potential impacts on the Group, and – are available on the Group’s intranet. price risk and currency risk. help to determine the Group’s stance on Subsidiaries in the Group implement SLIK issues and processes relating to the reguacross the organisation through their own Strategic investments latory environment. These stances corporate governance systems with In 2017 the Group drew up an ambitious underpin Agder Energi’s response to ­ ­company-specific governance documents. strategy for meeting the changes facing ­consultation processes, and provide a guithe electric power industry, centred on de for any internal adjustments that need Agder Energi has established control greater digitalisation and exploiting re­ to be carried out by the Group. mechanisms for safety, security, emer­ newable energy sources. This involves degency preparedness and critical aspects of signing, and positioning ourselves in, new Adaptation its processes in order to prevent, or rapidly markets and business models associated Change is coming to the power sector, correct, any nonconformities. Due to with high levels of uncertainty. The risks with a variety of energy solutions being ­increasing digitalisation, Agder Energi has involved are managed by using pilot prooffered across markets and national ­ established an ICT model and platform jects and an incremental approach, combi­borders, as well as new entrants taking the with new, stricter security requirements. In ned with good portfolio management. fight to the traditional players. The Group the face of growing numbers of climateis taking various steps to prepare its related events, checking and monitoring Capital allocation ­organisation for the coming changes, inweather data plays an important role in Agder Energi has a clearly stated goal of cluding a management development prohelping us to manage and adapt the having a rating of BBB+. Portfolio manage­ gramme focusing on continuous improveresources that we administer. For our ment and long-term capital allocation are ment, change management and teamwork. ­internal procedures, we have established designed to encourage optimal use of control mechanisms that combine manual ­capital at the Group. The Group always has controls, access controls and automatic a financial contingency plan with measures Compliance notification systems. In addition, all subsithat can be taken should the need arise. In 2017 the Group established a Group diaries must submit an annual self-­ compliance function to assist the senior declaration on their internal controls. Risk Operational risk management team and ensure that the management and internal controls at The most important operational risks are companies in the Group comply with ­ Agder Energi are described in greater the risk of injuries to the Group’s employ­internal guidelines and external regulatory ­detail in this report’s section on “Integraees and third parties, damage to power ­requirements. The Group compliance functed risk management”. plants, distribution networks and other tion shall establish work processes to ­assets, negative impacts on the environ­ensure that the Group’s compliance risk is Risks ment and climate, negative impacts on the adequately identified, managed and The most important risks relate to market Group’s reputation and the risk of failures ­controlled. The big companies in the Agder price movements, strategic investments, in administrative and management procesEnergi Group will have their own complicapital scarcity, operational issues, the ses. Operational risk is managed through ance officers. regulatory environment and adaptation. ­ procedures governing activities at operaThere follows a brief description of these ting units, and through contingency plans. risks. Risks and risk management are For the purpose of risk management, ­described in greater detail in this report’s ­ Agder Energi has chosen to establish section on “Integrated risk management”. ­contingency plans, training exercises and AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 29 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The company’s share capital consists of indefinite waterfall licences under the exist­ing shareholders in the event of ­shares 2,700,000 shares with a face value of NOK ­relevant current legislation. Class B shares in the company being sold. In a ­ ddition, the 670. Of these, 1,800,000 are class A shares are freely negotiable. municipal shareholders have agreed to and 900,000 are class B shares. Class A ­coordinate their votes at the AGM. shares can only be owned by ­shareholders A shareholders’ agreement regulates who meet the conditions for being ­allocated matters such as pre-emptive rights for ­ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matters relating to corporate governance are described in a separate section of this annual report. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group’s investment in R&D shall lay i­ ndustrial companies, as well as the this, we have initiated a project on the foundations for long-term, profitable Norwegian University of Science and ­ ­machine learning and a demand respongrowth and promote development activiTechnology, NINA, SINTEF and other se project. In the latter project, the grid ties to increase the potential of the core ­research institutes, Agder Energi particioperating company is making use of its business. pates in HydroCen. HydroCen is a new customers’ willingness to change their research centre for green energy backed consumption patterns. Through our ownership interest in by the Research Council of Norway. ­Teknova, an institute for applied R&D, we The Group has also started a programme support the research community in the In 2016 Agder Energi established a reseto make better use of the tools already at region studying renewable energy. arch programme to increase our underits disposal. Together with the trade organisation ­ standing of the challenges that grid Energi Norge and other energy and ­operators will face in the future. Within EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD At the start of 2018, Southern Norway million of expenses related to fault resoexperienced heavy snowfall. In some lution and compensating customers, as ­places, the amount of snow has been four well as a NOK 90 million reduction in the times the average. This created major income cap due to energy not supplied challenges for Agder Energi Nett. (KILE). ­ Preliminary estimates suggest NOK 70 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 30 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR OUTLOOK Power generation regional electrical grids will increase the Nodes to work more closely with the At the start of 2018, Agder Energi’s need for flexible resources in the Euro­operations in Germany in the future. ­hydrological resources of water and snow pean power system. This should increase were significantly above normal. Assuthe value of flexible resources, on both Various investments have also been ming normal precipitation levels, we the supply and demand sides. In the made in technology through the wholly ­expect hydroelectric power generation to course of 2018, the EU is expected to ­ and part-owned companies Enfo, Nodes remain relatively high in 2018. In 2017, establish the framework for a new ­market and Nodes Plattform. Building up technothe average spot price (in the NO2 design adapted to the new power system, logical expertise, as well as managing a region) was 26.9 øre/kWh. Futures ­ with its higher proportion of renewable, substantial renewable generation portfo­ markets suggest that electricity prices non-dispatchable generation. lio, has put Agder Energi in a good will be higher in 2018 than in 2017, before position to meet the changes to the ­ retreating somewhat in the years 2019– Technological developments are driving ­market that we see coming. 2021. The Group’s hedging activities conthe transition from an analogue system tinued to make a significant contribution with limited ability to adapt to new In total we manage up to 35 TWh of in 2017, but going forwards we expect techno­logy to a digital system that can electri­city, including through physical this to decline. We expect resource rent rapidly adopt new technology. New d ­ igital and cash-settled contracts for the hydrotax to rise in 2018, as a result of a higher technology is enabling new forms of electric power generated by Agder E­ nergi estimate for deferred resource rent tax. communication, new business models itself. We also manage the power generaand more efficient processes. ted by other companies in Scandinavia As we move forward, the three most and Germany as well as consumption in ­important drivers of the electric power In many ways, Germany is leading the Scandinavia and Germany. Agder Energi industry will be the transition from a way when it comes to converting a sees opportunities to add value at the power system based on fossil fuels to ­ ­centralised system based on fossil fuels/ interfaces between its various busi­ ­ one based on renewable energy in both nuclear power to a distributed one based nesses, and several projects have been Europe and the rest of the world, the on renewable energy. This is creating started to investigate new business move from analogue to digital systems many new challenges and opportunities ­models adapted to the changing reality and the transition from large-scale to for digitalisation, new customer inter­ of the European energy market. Investing distributed generation. faces and adding value by offering in Germany is also a strategic decision to alternatives to expensive, time-consu­ enter a market that in the coming years The transition from a grid based on fossil ming grid upgrades. Agder Energi will will become increasingly important to the fuels to one based on renewable energy benefit greatly from developing the ­ value of our own hydroelectric power. will see a growing proportion of Euro­ ­necessary expertise to implement these pean electricity generated by wind and business models both in Scandinavia and Network solar power. These renewable energy other neighbouring countries covered by Due to heavy snow and bad weather at sources have low short-term marginal our strategy. the start of 2018, Agder Energi Nett has costs, which may result in more and more experienced a large number of power hours during which electricity prices are In just over a year, Agder Energi has outages caused by trees breaking and ­ low. However, it appears that the prices ­ositioned itself to take advantage of p falling on power lines. The Board of the of coal, gas and CO2, together with this by establishing a significant presengrid operating business has allocated hydrological and meteorological condi­ ce in continental Europe. During the year, ­extra funding to improve grid reliability in tions, will continue to have the biggest it bought the companies Markedskraft vulnerable areas. In 2018 a variety of impact on electricity prices until 2020, Deutschland GmbH, Entelios GmbH and ­actions will be taken, including clearing and probably until 2030. Future climate Nordgröön (61% ownership interest). more trees and investing in the grid. change and energy policies, both in These acquisitions, which have allowed ­Europe and Norway, will also have a big Agder Energi to enter the German New digital systems are creating opporimpact on electricity prices, as they will ­ markets for demand response, shorttunities to improve the ways in which influence what happens to several of the term trading and managing renewable ­businesses operate and invest, and our factors that currently determine electrienergy generation, provide a platform for grid operating company is focusing hard city prices. future geographic expansion. The busion implementing the changes needed to nesses have been combined with Agder become a modern, forward-looking busiWind and solar power are non-dispatchaEnergy’s traditional energy management ness. ble, and an increasing proportion of nonactivities and the part of LOS that serves dispatchable generation combined with the commercial market. The plan is also In 2018 and beyond, one of our key significant bottlenecks in national and for the team that will implement and run ­focuses will be on building a culture of AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 31 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR continuous improvement throughout the organisation. The company is also working on a number of strategic projects to prepare for potential changes in technology and markets over the coming years. The following strategic projects will be particularly ­important to the company going forwards: “Positioning oneself for the future power grid – DSO”, “Power-based distribution ­tariffs”, “R&D Future grid operating companies” and “Geographic expansion of power grids”. Marketing The prospects of the companies in our Marketing area will depend on changes to the regulatory framework, greater customerorientation and technological developments. LOS performed strongly in 2017, further developing its loyalty programme and increasing its range of products and services by offering solar power solutions and charging points for electric vehicles. We expect our contracting business Otera to achieve growth in its main markets – electrical infrastructure and transportation – in both Norway and Sweden. This is creating opportunities, but new players are entering the market and competition is increasing in some areas. The company will therefore have to focus on operational efficiency, adapting to the market and profitable growth in new areas. Our district heating business Agder Energi Varme has developed a simpler system that uses warm tap water as an energy carrier, which makes water-based energy more competitive for blocks of flats. Along with densification in areas with established infrastructure, expanding the supply of cooling energy in Kristiansand will also play a key role in enabling continued growth in the sale of heating energy to commercial buildings. Kristiansand, 5th April 2018 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Chair Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Deputy chair Steinar Bysveen Marit Grimsbo Steinar Asbjørnsen Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Øyvind Østensen Tore Kvarsnes Gro Granås Tom Nysted CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 32 III III < > Introductrion Introduction governance Corporategovernance Corporate The TheAgder AgderEnergi Energi Group Group Agder Energi Agder ASAS Energi CSR CSR AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 33 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Lars Erik Torjussen Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Steinar Bysveen Marit Grimsbo Steinar Asbjørnsen Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Øyvind Østensen Tore Kvarsnes Gro Granås AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 34 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Declaration pursuant to Section 5-5 of the Securities Trading Act We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge, the annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with current accounting standards, and that the information contained therein provides a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and overall results of the parent company and of the Group. We also confirm that the annual report gives a true and fair view of the performance, results and financial position of the parent company and the Group, as well as describing the most important areas of risk and uncertainty facing the Group’s businesses. Kristiansand, 5th April 2018 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Chair Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Deputy chair Steinar Bysveen Marit Grimsbo Steinar Asbjørnsen Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Øyvind Østensen Tore Kvarsnes Gro Granås Tom Nysted CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 35 III III < > Introductrion Introduction governance Corporategovernance Corporate The TheAgder AgderEnergi Energi Group Group Agder Energi Agder ASAS Energi CSR CSR THE AGDER ENERGI GROUP AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 36 III < > Introductrion Introduction governance Corporategovernance Corporate The The Agder Agder Energi Energi Group Group Agder Energi Agder ASAS Energi CSR CSR THE AGDER ENERGI GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Click on the text to go to the page of your choice Income statement 38 Comprehensive income 39 Statement of financial position 40 Statement of cash flows 41 Statement of changes in equity 42 Accounting principles 43 Summary of the most important accounting principles 43 NOTES Note 1 Segment information 50 Note 2 Energy sales 54 Note 3 Transmission revenues 56 Note 4 Other operating revenues and other raw materials and consumables used 56 Note 5 Long-term manufacturing contracts 57 Note 6 Unrealised gains and losses on energy contracts 57 Note 7 Employee benefits 58 Note 8 Property taxes and licence fees 58 Note 9 Other operating expenses 59 Note 10 Auditor’s fee 59 Note 11 Financial income and expenses 60 Note 12 Tax 61 Note 13 Depreciation and impairment losses 62 Note 14 Intangible assets 63 Note 15 Property, plant and equipment 64 Note 16 Associates and joint arrangements 66 Note 17 Non-current financial assets 68 Note 18 Receivables 68 Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents 68 Note 20 Share capital and shareholder information 69 Note 21 Provisions 70 Note 22 Pensions 71 Note 23 Interest-bearing liabilities 74 Note 24 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 74 Note 25 Financial instruments 75 Note 26 Derivatives 76 Note 27 Fair value of financial instruments 77 Note 28 Financial risk management 79 Note 29 Accounting hedges 83 Note 30 Mortgaged assets, liabilities and guarantees issued 84 Note 31 Contingent liabilities and events after the end of the reporting period 85 Note 32 Management compensation, etc. 85 Note 33 Related parties 87 Note 34 Acquisitions, disposals and buy-out of non-controlling interests 87 Note 35 Group structure 90 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 37 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR INCOME STATEMENT (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 (restated) Energy sales 2 8 579 6 044 Transmission revenues 3 1 207 1 143 Other operating revenues 4 1 264 1 518 Unrealised gains and losses on energy and currency contracts 6 -827 -619 Total operating revenues 10 223 8 086 Energy purchases 2 -5 477 -3 429 Transmission expenses -270 -258 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 -793 -981 Employee benefits 7 -900 -837 Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -708 -601 Property taxes and licence fees 8 -196 -211 Other operating expenses 9 -817 -797 Total operating expenses -9 161 -7 114 Operating profit 1 062 972 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 -22 -7 Financial income 11 25 13 Unrealised gains and losses on interest rate contracts 11 30 78 Financial expenses 11 -247 -257 Net financial income/expenses -214 -173 Profit before tax 848 799 Income tax 12 -208 -156 Resource rent tax 12 -390 -383 Tax expense -598 -539 Net income from continuing operations 250 260 Net income from discontinued operations 34 244 2 Net income 494 262 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 35 7 11 Of which attributable to controlling interest 487 251 Earnings per share/Earnings per share, diluted (NOK) 180 93 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 38 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Net income 494 262 Other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges 29 23 21 Translation differences 1 -10 Tax impact 12 -6 -5 Total items that may be reclassified to income statement 18 6 Remeasurements of pensions 22 87 191 Tax impact 12 -30 -55 Total items that will not be reclassified to income statement 57 136 Total other comprehensive income 75 142 Comprehensive income 569 404 Of which attributable to non-controlling interests 35 4 13 Of which attributable to controlling interest 565 391 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 39 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Amounts in NOK million) Note 31.12.17 31.12.16 Deferred tax assets 12 425 300 Intangible assets 14 368 476 Property, plant and equipment 15 14 599 13 817 Investments in associates and joint ventures 16 31 37 Derivatives 26 764 884 Other non-current financial assets 17 1 244 1 081 Total non-current assets 17 431 16 595 Inventories 72 142 Receivables 18 2 830 2 573 Derivatives 26 437 466 Cash and cash equivalents 19 61 543 Total current assets 3 400 3 724 TOTAL ASSETS 20 831 20 319 Paid-in capital 20 1 907 1 907 Retained earnings 2 624 2 668 Non-controlling interests 34 51 Total equity 4 565 4 626 Deferred tax 12 1 254 1 109 Provisions 21 1 817 1 776 Derivatives 26 822 465 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 23 7 504 7 192 Total non-current liabilities 11 397 10 542 Interest-bearing current liabilities 23 1 736 1 951 Tax payable 607 630 Derivatives 26 149 206 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 24 2 377 2 364 Total current liabilities 4 869 5 151 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 20 831 20 319 Kristiansand, 5th April 2018 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Steinar Bysveen Chair Deputy chair Marit Grimsbo Steinar Asbjørnsen Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Øyvind Østensen Tore Kvarsnes Gro Granås Tom Nysted CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 40 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities Profit before tax 848 799 Profit before tax from discontinued operations 249 0 Depreciation and impairment losses 13 717 601 Unrealised gains/losses on energy, currency and interest rate contracts 6, 11 797 540 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 16 24 7 Gain/loss on disposals -235 0 Tax paid -617 -440 Change in trade receivables 18 -276 -431 Change in trade payables 24 7 166 Change in net working capital, etc. -325 537 Net cash provided by operating activities 1 189 1 779 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 14, 15 -1 348 -1 255 Purchase of property, plant and equipment paid for by customers 14, 15 -99 -142 Purchase of businesses/financial assets -69 -155 Net change in loans -14 11 Sale of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 6 17 Sale of businesses/financial assets 231 247 Net cash used in investing activities -1 293 -1 277 Financing activities New long-term borrowings 1 410 1 113 Repayment of long-term borrowings -1 095 -1 199 Net change in current liabilities -83 314 Dividends paid -610 -660 Net cash used in financing activities -378 -432 Net change in cash and cash equivalents -482 70 Cash and cash equivalents at start of period 543 473 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 19 61 543 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 41 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (Amounts in NOK million) Paid-in Cash flow Translation Retained Total for NonTotal capital hedges differences earnings controlling controlling equity interest interests Equity at 01/01/2016 1 907 -133 16 3 045 4 835 58 4 893 Net income for the year 0 0 0 251 251 11 262 Other comprehensive income 0 16 -12 136 140 2 142 Dividends paid 0 0 0 -660 -660 0 -660 Other changes in equity 0 0 0 9 9 -20 -11 Equity at 31/12/2016 1 907 -117 4 2 781 4 575 51 4 626 Equity at 01/01/2017 1 907 -117 4 2 781 4 575 51 4 626 Net income for the year 0 0 0 487 487 7 494 Other comprehensive income 0 17 4 57 78 -3 75 Dividends paid 0 0 0 -607 -607 -3 -610 Other changes in equity 0 0 0 -2 -2 -18 -20 Equity at 31/12/2017 1 907 -100 8 2 716 4 531 34 4 565 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 42 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES General information Basis of preparation Changes to accounting principles Agder Energi’s activities comprise the geneAgder Energi’s consolidated financial stateAgder Energi made no changes to its ration, distribution and sale of energy, as ments have been prepared in accordance accounting principles between 2016 and ­ well as providing energy-related services. with International Financial Reporting 2017. Nevertheless, the comparative figures Most of the Group’s operations are in south­Standards (IFRS) as approved by the EU. The in the income statement have been restated ern Norway. The parent company Agder consolidated financial statements apply the due to the reclassification of discontinued Energi AS is a Norwegian limited liability historical cost principle, except in the cases operations, in line with IFRS 5. See Note 34. company, founded and domiciled in Norway. of certain financial assets and liabilities The address of the company’s head office is ­(including cash-settled derivatives) that are Kjøita 18, 4630 Kristiansand. measured at fair value through profit or loss. SUMMARY OF THE MOST IMPORTANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Consolidation principles is eliminated against equity on the acquiJoint operations The consolidated financial statements presition date. Bargain purchase gains are Ownership interests in part-owned power sent the overall financial performance and based on fair values. These gains are atstations and water management associaposition of the parent company and its tributed to any of the company’s assets tions are classified as joint operations and subsidiaries when considered as a single and liabilities with fair values that differ are accounted for by including the Group’s entity. Companies in which the Group from their carrying amounts. A provision is share of assets, liabilities, revenues and holds a controlling interest are consolidamade for deferred tax relating to any such expenses on the relevant lines in the conted. A controlling interest normally exists if asset write-ups or write-downs. Any part solidated financial statements (proportioAgder Energi holds more than 50% of of the bargain purchase gain that cannot nate consolidation). ­voting rights, either through an ownership be attributed to identifiable assets and liainterest or through agreements. Subsi­ bilities is treated as goodwill. No provision Joint arrangements and associates diaries acquired or established during the is made for deferred tax on goodwill. If the A joint arrangement is a company that is year are consolidated from the date of value of the assets and liabilities trans­ subject to a contractual arrangement ­ acquisition or establishment. The non-­ ferred in conjunction with an acquisition where­by two or more parties have joint controlling interests’ share of profit or loss exceeds the purchase price, the difference control. Special rules on voting rights may after tax is specified on a separate line. is recognised through profit and loss under give owners more or less control than their other operating revenues. ownership interests would imply. All of the financial statements of individual companies included in the consolidated Non-controlling interests in the acquiree Associates are companies over which the financial statements have been restated to are measured either at fair value, or as the Group wields significant influence. Normalensure that equivalent statement of finannon-controlling interest’s share of the ly this applies to companies in which it has cial position items and transactions are acquiree’s net identifiable assets. The a 20-50% ownership interest. treated consistently throughout the Group. measurement method should be chosen All intra-group transactions, receivables, individually for each business combi­nation. Joint arrangements and associates are liabilities and unrealised gains and losses accounted for using the equity method. ­ have been eliminated in the consolidated For step acquisitions, previously held The Group’s proportionate share of the financial statements. ­assets are measured at fair value at the profit or loss for the year of these entities date control is obtained. Any gains or losis recognised under financial income/­ Acquisitions ses are recognised through profit or loss. expenses. On the statement of financial Purchase price allocation is performed for position, these investments are classified the date when control was obtained. This Changes in ownership interests in as non-current financial assets, and are is when the risks and rewards of ownership subsidiaries carried at cost adjusted for the Group’s have been transferred, and normally co­ Changes in the parent’s ownership i­nterest share of retained earnings since acqui­ incides with the acquisition date. Trans­ in a subsidiary that do not result in loss of sition, impairment losses and equity transaction costs are not included in the purcontrol are accounted for as equity transactions at the companies. chase price, and are instead expensed as actions. incurred. The cost of shares in subsidiaries AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 43 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Revenues while advance payments received are inWhen preparing the accounts of the indiviRecognition of revenues – general cluded under current liabilities. dual companies, transactions in currencies Proceeds from the sale of goods and other than the functional currency of the ­services are recognised as revenues when Disposal of property, plant and equipment company are translated into the functional the goods or service are delivered. When disposing of property, plant and currency using the exchange rate on the equipment, any gain or loss is calculated date of transaction. Foreign currency-­ Energy sales by comparing the sales price with the denominated statement of financial posiRevenues from the sale of electricity are ­ remaining carrying amount of the asset tion items are measured using the exchanrecognised when the electricity is s­ upplied. sold. Any gain or loss is presented under ge rate on the statement of financial Realised gains or losses on physical and other operating revenues or other operaposition date. Translation differences are cash-settled energy and currency ting expenses respectively. recognised under financial income/expen­contracts are presented as energy sales ses. This does not apply to euro-denomiunder operating revenues. Changes in the Green electricity certificates nated loans used to secure future revefair value of currency contracts, cash-­ Green electricity certificates received as a nues from electricity sales in that currency. settled energy contracts and physical result of qualifying electricity generation Translation differences relating to these energy contracts, which under IAS 39 are are recognised at fair value under energy loans are classified as operating gains or considered financial instruments, are presales when the electricity is generated. losses. sented as unrealised gains and losses on Green electricity certificates held by the energy and currency contracts under electricity generation business are presenFinancial instruments ­ operating revenues. When a contract is ted as inventories on the statement of The Group designates financial ­instruments closed out, the associated unrealised gain ­financial position, and are measured at the in the following categories: a) Financial or loss is reversed, and the realised gain or lower of their value when acquired and ­assets and liabilities at fair value through loss is presented under energy sales. Reacurrent fair value less costs to sell. profit or loss; b) Loans and receivables; c) lised gains or losses on trading portfolios Financial liabilities at amortised cost. are presented net as energy sales. When the retail business sells electricity, ­Designation is based on the type of instruthe estimated cost of purchasing electriment and its purpose. Instruments are Transmission revenues city certificates to cover the volume sold is classified when they are acquired. Grid operation is subject to the regulations expensed. A provision for volumes not of the Norwegian Water Resources and covered by purchased electricity certifi­ ­ a) Financial assets and liabilities at fair Energy Directorate (NVE) on income caps. cates is included on the statement of value through profit or loss Each year, NVE specifies an income cap ­financial position under current liabilities Financial assets and liabilities at fair value for each individual grid operator. The revemeasured at fair value. Green electricity through profit or loss are financial nues recognised in the income statement certificates purchased are measured at ­instruments held for trading purposes. All represent the volumes delivered during the cost. If the company has more electricity derivatives must be designated as held for financial period multiplied by the appli­ certificates than it needs to cover the trading, unless they are part of an accouncable tariff. The difference between the volume of electricity sold, the excess is ­ ting hedge. For derivatives other than cash income cap and the actual tariff revenues presented under inventories. Any such flow hedges, unrealised gains and losses creates a surplus or shortfall. This surplus excess is measured at the lower of cost are recognised through profit or loss. or shortfall is recognised through profit or and fair value less costs to sell. loss as it arises. Details of the surplus or Physical contracts for the purchase and shortfall are given in Note 3. Foreign currency sale of energy, CO2 quotas and electricity The consolidated financial statements are certificates that form part of the trading Long-term contracts presented in Norwegian kroner (NOK). Subportfolio are accounted for as financial Revenues associated with long-term sidiaries with functional currencies other ­instruments. Like their cash-settled equi­manufacturing contracts are recognised in than NOK were responsible for around valents, they are measured at fair value. accordance with the percentage of 30% of the Group’s turnover in 2017. These completion method. Under this method, ­ are translated into NOK using the currentPhysical contracts for the purchase and revenues and profit are recognised gradurate method. That involves the statement of sale of energy, CO2 quotas and electricity ally as the work related to the contract is financial position being translated at the certificates that have been entered into for completed. The percentage of completion exchange rate on 31 ­December and the inthe purpose of obtaining electricity is normally estimated by looking at come statement b ­eing translated at the needed by the Group, or as a means of ­incurred expenses as a percentage of total average exchange rate. Translation diffeselling the electricity it generates, and ­ ­expected project expenses. Accrued reverences are included under other comprewhich do not contain embedded derivatinues are included on the statement of fin­ hensive income and expenses in the stateves, are normally recognised on delivery. ancial position under current r­eceivables, ment of compre­hensive income. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 44 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Contracts entered into for different purpo­effective interest rate method. to a small proportion of the Group’s variases are recorded in separate books. ble-rate loans, which are swapped to a Trade and other receivables with an fi ­ xed rate. Agder Energi has some contracts for insigni­ficant interest component are ­physical energy sales that are settled in ­recognised at their nominal value less any The effective part of gains or losses on euros. The contractual obligation to supply impairment losses. An impairment loss is hedging instruments is recognised under electricity is met using electricity generarecognised if there is objective evidence other comprehensive income and expented by the Group, so the contracts do not that the Group will not receive payment in ses in the statement of comprehensive fall within the scope of IAS 39. However, accordance with the original conditions. income, whereas the ineffective part is ­ the fact that the contracts are settled in ­recognised under financial income/expeneuros means that they contain an embedc) Financial liabilities at amortised cost ses in the income statement. Any effective ded foreign currency derivative. Under the On initial recognition, financial liabilities gain or loss on a hedging instrument is recriteria set out in IAS 39, the foreign curr­ are measured at fair value plus directly cycled to profit or loss if the hedged item ency derivatives are not closely related to attributable transaction costs. Subse­ ­ is recognised in the income statement. the electricity contract. They are therefore quently financial liabilities are carried at separated from the contracts for physical amortised cost using the effective interest Fair value hedges delivery and measured at fair value. rate method. Agder Energi uses fair value hedges to hedge the currency risk associated with Presentation of derivatives in the income staHedging its USD-denominated interest-bearing tement and statement of financial position In order to manage its risk exposures liabilities and the interest rate risk on ­ Derivatives are presented on separate liarising from fluctuations in electricity ­ fi ­ xed-rate loans. nes in the statement of financial position ­prices, exchange rates and interest rates, under assets and liabilities respectively. the Group uses euro-denominated loans The Group’s fair value hedges are derivatiDerivatives are presented gross on the and derivatives, such as futures contracts ves, which are measured at fair value statement of financial position, unless thefor electricity and currency, as well as intethrough profit or loss. The hedged items re exists a legal right to offset, and that rest rate swaps and basis swaps (combiare loans whose carrying amounts fluctu­ right will actually be used when the conned interest rate and currency swaps). The ate in parallel with the hedged risks. These tracts are settled. Electricity contracts trapurpose of these instruments is to secure changes in value are also recognised in ded in markets satisfy the offsetting requicash flows from future electricity generaprofit or loss. Changes in the value of rements. Contracts with the same tion, as well as to avoid large variations in ­hedged items and hedges are recognised counter­party expiring in the same calenthe interest expense payable on the under financial income/expenses. dar year are therefore presented net in the Group’s debt portfolio. statement of financial position. Compensation Most of the Group’s hedging instruments The Group pays compensation to land­ In the income statement, gains and losses do not meet the documentation requireowners for the right to use waterfalls and on the fair value of derivatives are shown ments established by the accounting land. Compensation is also paid for any on separate lines. Gains and losses on standards for hedge accounting. These ­ damage to forests, land, etc. The compenenergy and foreign currency derivatives contracts are therefore not accounted for sation is a combination of one-off payused as economic hedges of operating as hedges, even if they have been entered ments and perpetual charges or obligaexposure are presented under operating ­ into as hedges. These kinds of hedges are tions to supply electricity free of charge. revenues, while gains and losses on intertreated as financial assets or financial The present value of annual charges and est rate derivatives are presented under ­liabilities measured at fair value through the cost of supplying free electricity are financial income/expenses. When they are profit or loss. presented under provisions. If a contract to realised, the proceeds from the sale of supply free electricity includes the option electricity and foreign currency derivatives Certain interest rate swaps, including basis of settlement in cash, it is considered a are included under energy sales. Regular swaps, do meet the conditions for hedge ­derivative and is measured at fair value payments relating to interest rate swaps accounting under IAS 39, and they are through profit or loss. On initial recogn­ are presented as a financial expense. ­accounted for accordingly. These hedging ition, the cross entry of the provision is a relationships are presented in the consolihydropower licence, which is presented b) Loans and receivables dated financial statements as follows: under property, plant and equipment. In On initial recognition, loans and receiv­ subsequent periods, annual compensation ables are measured at fair value plus Cash flow hedges payments, as well as changes to ­provisions, directly attributable transaction costs. ­ In so far as possible, Agder Energi uses are considered other operating expenses, Subsequently loans and receivables are cash flow hedges to eliminate its exposure whereas one-off payments are deducted carried at amortised cost using the to fluctuations in cash flows. This applies from the provision. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 45 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Concession power and licence fees can probably be utilised is included on the Deferred resource rent tax assets and Each year, the Group supplies electricity to statement of financial position. l­ iabilities local municipalities at a price set by the When calculating the deferred tax liabili­ Norwegian parliament. Revenues from this Natural resource tax ties and assets to be included on the “concession power” are recognised as The natural resource tax payable is not ­statement of financial position, temporary they are earned, based on the regulated ­affected by profit, and is calculated on the differences and part of the accumulated price. The present value of the future loss basis of the individual power station’s negative resource rent are taken into of revenue due to the difference between ­ average generation over the past seven ­account. The part of the negative resource the regulated price and spot price is not years. The tax is charged at 1.3 øre/kWh. rent tax that can be offset against included on the statement of financial Natural resource tax can be deducted from ­temporary differences is capitalised on the ­position, but it is presented in Note 2. income tax. As a result, natural resource statement of financial position, as is the tax normally neither affects Agder Energi’s part that is likely to be used within a Each year, the Group pays licence fees to tax expense nor its tax payable. ­ 10-year time frame. Tax-free allowances the central government and municipalities are treated as a permanent difference in for the increase in generating capacity Resource rent tax the year for which they are calculated. achieved by damming and piping water. Resource rent tax is calculated by applying Licence fees are expensed as they are the Norwegian Taxation Act’s special rules Deferred resource rent tax liabilities and ­ incurred. The capitalised value of future on the taxation of companies that geneassets are presented gross. fees is not included on the statement of rate electricity. The expense in the income financial position, but is calculated and statement consists of resource rent tax Classification of current and non-­ presented in Note 8. payable and changes in deferred resource current assets and liabilities rent tax liabilities/assets. An asset is classified as a current asset if Tax it fulfils one of the following criteria: All of the companies in the Group have to Resource rent tax is profit-related, and is a) it is expected to be realised in, or is pay ordinary income tax. In addition, Agder payable at a rate of 34.3% of the net held for sale or consumption in, the orEnergi Vannkraft is covered by the special resource rent estimated for each ­indi­vidual dinary business cycle; rules on the taxation of companies that power station (35.7% in 2018). The resourb) it is primarily held for trading; generate electricity. The Group therefore ce rent is estimated from the hourly outc) it is expected to be realised within pays income tax, natural resource tax and put of the individual power station, twelve months of the end of the reporresource rent tax. multplied by the spot price for the corre­­­ ting period, or: sponding hour. In the case of concession d) it is a form of cash or cash equivalent, Income tax power and power supplied under longunless it is subject to restrictions Income tax is calculated in accordance term contracts with a duration of more which mean that it cannot be realised with standard tax rules. The tax expense in than seven years, the actual contract price or used to settle a liability within twelthe income statement consists of tax is applied. Actual operating expenses, taxve months of the end of the reporting payable and changes in deferred tax liabideductible depreciation and a tax-free period. lities/assets. This does not apply to defer­allowance are deducted from the e ­ stimated red tax liabilities/assets relating to items gross rent in order to reach the net taxable A liability is classified as a current liability recognised as other comprehensive resource rent. The tax-free a ­llowance is if it fulfils one of the following criteria: ­income and expenses in the statement of determined each year by m ­ ultiplying the a) it is expected to be settled as part of comprehensive income or directly in ­ tax value of the power station’s property, the ordinary business cycle; ­equity, or to deferred tax liabilities/assets plant and equipment by a standard interb) it is primarily held for trading; arising in conjunction with business comb­ est rate set by the Ministry of Finance. In c) it is due for payment within twelve inations. Tax payable is calculated on the 2017 the standard interest rate was 0.4%. months of the end of the reporting taxable profit for the year. Deferred tax Positive and negative resource rent can be ­period; or: ­ liabilities/assets are calculated on the offset between power stations. This does d) the company has no unconditional basis of the temporary differences that ­ not apply to negative resource rent that right to delay settlement of the liability exist between accounting and tax values, arose before 2007, which can only be offbeyond twelve months after the stateas well as the tax effect of any loss carryset at the power s­tation where it arose. ment of financial position date. forwards. Deferred income tax liabilities Any negative resource rent can be carried and assets that are expected to be reverforward with interest to be offset against All other assets are classified as non-­ sed in the same period are offset against future positive resource rent. The interest current assets and all other liabilities are each other. As assessment is made of the rate applied to carryforwards was 1.8% for classified as non-current liabilities. extent to which it will be possible to utilise 2017. deferred tax assets, and any amount that AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 46 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR For non-current liabilities, any principal carrying amount is deducted, and any loss current assets are held by the hydro­ repayments due over the first year are ­ or gain is recognised in the income stateelectric power and network business ­presented as current liabilities. ment under other operating expenses and areas. Within hydroelectric power, any revenues. Repairs and regular mainte­ ­power stations on the same river system Intangible assets nance are expensed as incurred. Additions that are managed collectively are consideIntangible assets, including goodwill, are or improvements are added to the asset’s red to be a single cash flow generating carried at cost less accumulated depreci­ cost and are depreciated at the same rate unit. ation and impairment losses, provided that as the asset. The distinction between they meet the criteria for capitalisation. maintenance and upgrades/improvements In conjunction with each financial report, Intangible assets with an uncertain useful is judged on the basis of the condition of the Group assesses whether any past life, including goodwill, are not depreci­ the asset when it was acquired by the ­impairment of non-financial assets, except ated, and are instead tested annually for company. Expenses that lead to signifigoodwill, should be reversed. impairment. cantly higher cash flows by increasing the useful life of property, plant and equipment Inventories Property, plant and equipment and/or reducing maintenance costs, and Inventories are carried at the lower of cost Investments in production facilities and that also improve functionality, are consiand fair value less costs to sell. The acquiother property, plant and equipment are dered reinvestments. sition cost is calculated using the FIFO carried at cost, less accumulated depreciprinciple. ation and impairment losses. Hydropower If new parts are capitalised on the statelicences are classified as property, plant ment of financial position, the carrying Reservoir reserves and equipment. Depreciation starts when amount of the parts that were replaced is The Group’s most valuable raw material is the assets are available for use. The acquideducted, and any gain or loss is recognithe water stored in its reservoirs. The value sition cost of property, plant and equipsed in profit or loss. of this water is not capitalised on the ment includes the expenses involved in ­statement of financial position. acquiring and preparing the asset for use. Each year, Agder Energi Nett receives For large investments, interest payable is customer contributions that fully or Cash pooling arrangement calculated using the average interest rate ­partially pay for new connections or grid Agder Energi AS has a cash pooling arranon the Group’s borrowings during the upgrades. These contributions are presengement with its subsidiaries, and the ­investment period, and the interest is capited on the statement of financial position Group has a joint bank account for shorttalised as part of the acquisition cost. as unearned revenue under provisions, term deposits and short-term loans. Costs incurred after the item entered and are taken to income over the useful ­External interest income and interest ex­service, such as regular maintenance, are life of the relevant investments. penses arising from the cash pooling expensed. ­arrangement are presented as interest inLeases come and interest expenses on the consoCosts accrued in relation to internal Almost all of Agder Energi’s leases are lidated income statement. On the consoli­investments within the Group are capitalioperational leases. Rent payable under dated statement of financial position, net sed. The acquisition cost only includes these leases is expensed as it arises. deposits and overdrafts are presented as ­directly attributable costs. cash and cash equivalents and current liaImpairment losses bilities respectively. Depreciation is calculated using the Property, plant, equipment and intangible straight-line method over the expected assets that are depreciated are also tested Liquid assets useful life. The residual value is taken into for impairment if there is any indication to Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, account when calculating annual depreci­ suggest that future cash flows cannot bank deposits and commercial paper with ation. Sites are not depreciated. Hydro­ ­justify the carrying amount. Any difference a remaining term to maturity of less than power licences are not depreciated either, between the carrying amount and the three months when it was acquired. as they do not revert to public ownership. recoverable amount is expensed in the ­ Major maintenance activities that do not income statement. The recoverable ­ Dividends add anything to property, plant and equipamount is the higher of fair value less Proposed dividends are classified as equiment (periodic maintenance) are capitalicosts to sell and the utility value. ty. Dividends are reclassified as current liased and depreciated over the maintenance bilities when they are adopted by the AGM. interval. The estimated useful life, depreWhen testing for impairment, non-current ciation method and residual value are assets are grouped at the lowest possible Provisions, contingent assets and ­reassessed each year. level at which it is possible to identify contingent liabilities ­independent cash flows (cash flow gene­ A provision is recognised if the Group has When assets are sold or disposed of, their rating units). Most of the Group’s non-­ a present obligation arising from a past AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 47 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR event, and if it is probable that it will have cost, interest on net pension liabilities and The IASB and FASB have issued a new, to settle the obligation. Provisions are employers’ NICs. joint standard on revenue recognition, measured using the management’s best Defined contribution pension plans IFRS 15. The standard replaces all existing estimate of the cost of settling the obligaIn the case of a defined contribution plan, standards and interpretations relating to tions on the statement of financial positithe Group makes regular contributions revenue recognition. The core principle of on date, and are discounted to their into a separate legal entity, but has no IFRS 15 is that revenue recognition will ­present value if this makes a significant further liabilities once the contributions ­reflect the transfer of promised goods or difference. have been made. services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Pensions The contributions are expensed as ­entity expects to be entitled in exchange Defined benefit plans ­ mployee benefits when they are made. e for those goods or services. The standard A defined benefit plan is a pension plan applies to all revenue contracts. The which defines the pension benefit an emStatement of cash flows ­Hydroelectric Power and Energy Manageployee will receive on retirement. The penThe statement of cash flows has been ment business areas have the biggest sion liability recognised for defined benefit ­prepared using the indirect method. ­impact on Agder Energi’s financial perforplans is the present value of the pension mance. Agder Energi has not identified any benefits earned as of the statement of New accounting standards and interreasons why the new standard will have a ­financial position date, less the fair value pretations significant impact on revenue recognition of the pension plan assets. The pension Agder Energi did not implement any new in these business areas. Each year, Agder obligation is calculated annually by an accounting standards or interpretations Energi receives customer contributions ­independent actuary using the projected that had a significant impact on its finanfrom its transmission and distribution credit unit method. cial statements in 2017. customers to cover the cost of upgrades or new connections to the power grid. The Remeasurements as a result of changes to The IASB has published a number of new industry is currently discussing the right the actuarial and economic assumptions accounting standards, as well as amendway to account for customer contributions are recognised in the statement of ments to existing accounting standards after IFRS 15 comes into force. The most ­comprehensive income under other comand interpretations, that had not yet enteobvious options are either to recognise prehensive income or expenses. This also red into force when the financial statethe customer contribution gradually in applies to the positive or negative diffements were presented. There are three parallel with revenues from grid access ­ rence between the return on pension plan new standards covering areas that are charges, or to recognise the customer assets and the discount rate. very important to Agder Energi’s financial contribution as a reduction in the carrying statements: amount of the asset to which the custoChanges to defined benefit pension mer contribution relates. The first of these ­obligations arising from plan amendments IFRS 9 – Financial instruments: options is closest to Agder Energi’s c ­ urrent that are applied retrospectively, i.e. where The new standard introduces changes to practice. Neither of these two options the change in entitlement also applies to classification and measurement, hedge would significantly affect profit for the past years of service, are recognised accounting and impairment. IFRS 9 will ­ ­period in comparison with current p ­ ractice. ­directly in profit or loss. Changes that are replace IAS 39 Financial instruments – ­ The standard came into force on 1 January not applied retrospectively are recognised ­recognition and measurement. The parts 2018. through profit or loss over the remaining of IAS 39 that have not been changed as years of service. part of this project have been transferred IFRS 16 – Leases: and included in IFRS 9. For Agder Energi, This standard replaces the existing IFRS The net pension liabilities associated with the most important change is that the new standard governing leases, IAS 17 – ­Leases. underfunded pension plans, and unfunded standard simplifies the rules on the use of IFRS 16 sets out principles for recognition, pension plans that are treated as operaaccounting hedges. In spite of this, Agder measurement, presentation and disclosuting expenses, are classified as provisions Energi will not start to apply hedge accores in relation to leases. The new standard for non-current liabilities. For pension unting in its financial statements any more requires the lessee to recognise assets plans with a surplus, the surplus is presenthan it has in the past. The standard will and liabilities for most leasing trans­ ted as a net pension asset under other therefore not have any significant impact actions, which represents a significant non-current financial assets. on Agder Energi. The standard came into change from the current principles. Agder force on 1 January 2018. Energi has not analysed what impact the The pension expense for the period is new standard will have. The standard ­included under employee benefits. It conIFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with ­comes into force on 1 January 2019. sists of the sum of the current service customers: AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 48 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS Below we have set out the areas where use” exemption). In some cases deter­ Concession power and licence fees the judgements made by management in mining whether a contract of this kind The concession power provided and the applying the Group’s accounting principles should be classified as cash-settled is licence fees paid to the central governpotentially have a material impact on the ­based on best judgement. ment and municipalities are supposed to consolidated financial statements. compensate for the damage or inconveniBased on the criteria set out in IAS 39, the ence caused by hydropower projects. Non-financial energy contracts senior management team has used its ­Liabilities arising from the fact that future Non-financial energy contracts, which in best judgement to assess which contracts concession power may be supplied at a accordance with IAS 39 are considered to should be defined as financial instruments discount to the market price, as well as be contracts that can be “settled net in and which contracts should not. the cost of future licence fees, are regulacash”, are treated as though they were tory requirements and are therefore ­financial instruments. This applies unless Contracts classified as financial instru­ non-contractual liabilities. Consequently the contracts have been entered into and ments are carried at fair value, with gains they are not included in the financial continue to be held for the purpose of the and losses recognised in profit or loss, ­ statements, but their present value has receipt or delivery of the energy in accorwhile other contracts are recognised on been calculated, and is presented in Note dance with the Group’s expected purchadelivery. 2 and Note 8. se, sale or usage requirements (the “own UNCERTAINTIES – CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In conjunction with the preparation of the to depreciation in the income statement. events or other operating conditions. financial statements, the management Estimates of the useful life of assets are When calculating the recoverable amount, has to make certain estimates and based on experience and past perform­ a number of estimates must be made ­ assumptions. These affect the reported ance, but they also rely significantly of ­regarding future cash flows, with required assets and liabilities, including contingent best judgement. The estimated useful life rates of return, prices, operating margins assets and liabilities at the end of the is adjusted if new information implies that and sales volumes being the most ­reporting period, and the reported revethe current useful life is no longer the best ­important factors. nues and expenses for the period. Actual estimate. The residual value, which is results may deviate from these estimates. taken into account when calculating ­ Deferred tax assets ­depreciation, is also estimated. The Group has capitalised deferred tax asThe most important assumptions concersets arising from negative resource rent ning the future and other key sources of The Group spends significant amounts on that has been carried forward. Deferred estimation uncertainty are set out below. maintenance and upgrades to its property, tax assets are capitalised when it is expecplant and equipment. Best judgement is ted that it will be possible to make use of Fair value of financial instruments used to determine whether any given the negative resource rent within a tenThe fair value of long-term cash-settled ­expenditure is an upgrade (capitalised) or year time frame. The timing of when it electricity contracts and electricity maintenance (expenses). Expenditures may be possible to make use of negative ­ contracts not covered by the own use that lead to significantly higher cash flows resource rent is particularly dependent on exemption is partly calculated using ­ by increasing the useful life of property, assumptions regarding future electricity ­ assumptions that are not observable in plant and equipment and/or reducing prices. The management has used its best the market. Where that is the case, the maintenance costs, and that also improve judgement when making assumptions management has based its estimates on functionality, are capitalised. Regular about future electricity prices and other the information available in the market in maintenance is expensed. See Note 15 for assumptions that affect future resource combination with its best judgement. a breakdown of expensed maintenance rent. See Note 12 for a more detailed ­There is a more detailed description of the activities. ­description. assumptions used to value those ­contracts in Note 27. The fair value of interest rate, Impairment losses Pensions foreign currency and electricity derivatiThe Group invests significant amounts in Calculating pension liabilities involves ves is calculated based on market practice intangible assets and property, plant and using best judgement and estimates for a and confirmed by external market players. equipment. These non-current assets are number of parameters. See Note 22 for a tested for impairment if there is an indicamore detailed description of the assumpProperty, plant and equipment tion that they have fallen in value. This tions that have been applied. Property, plant and equipment is depreciamight be indicated by changes in market ted over its expected useful life, giving rise prices or contract structures, negative AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 49 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTES NOTE 1 SEGMENT INFORMATION (Amounts in NOK million) HydroelecEnergy MaNetwork LOS Otera tric Power nagement 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 INCOME STATEMENT Note Operating revenues 2 893 5 210 1 335 670 954 of which external operating revenues 2 781 5 070 1 271 641 809 of which internal operating revenues 112 140 64 29 145 Energy and transmission expenses -232 -4 786 -353 -522 0 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 0 -5 0 -1 -639 Employee benefits 7 -113 -207 -112 -35 -271 Other operating expenses 8, 9 -514 -157 -338 -54 -103 Operating profit before depreciation and impair2 034 56 531 57 -59 ment losses Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -283 -29 -259 -2 -6 Operating profit 1 752 27 271 56 -65 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 0 0 0 0 0 Financial income 11 15 3 2 1 0 Financial expenses 11 -79 -11 -75 -1 -6 Net financial income/expenses -64 -9 -74 0 -5 Profit before tax 1 688 19 198 55 -70 Tax expense 12 -692 -17 -31 -13 17 Net income from continuing operations 996 2 167 43 -53 Net income from discontinued operations 0 0 0 0 0 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 8 657 2 076 6 083 466 685 Equity 2 386 429 1 003 102 69 Total segment liabilities 6 270 1 647 5 080 363 616 Capital employed 1) 6 066 794 4 658 102 364 Interest-bearing liabilities 23 3 680 366 3 655 0 295 Funds from operation (FFO) 2) 1 465 53 526 57 -50 Carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 16 0 0 0 0 0 Investments in intangible assets 3) 0 22 27 1 0 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3) 469 4 748 1 7 Number of full-time equivalents 152 180 169 46 326 1) Equity + interest-bearing liabilities. 2) Underlying EBITDA + dividends from associates and joint ventures + financial income tax payable. 3) Includes additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through business combinations. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 50 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) Parent/ Eliminations Total IFRS Total IFRS Other NGAAP adjustments 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 INCOME STATEMENT Note Operating revenues 722 -760 11 023 -800 10 223 of which external operating revenues 460 -9 11 023 -800 10 223 of which internal operating revenues 262 -752 0 0 0 Energy and transmission expenses -42 187 -5 748 0 -5 747 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 -144 -4 -793 0 -793 Employee benefits 7 -291 130 -899 0 -900 Other operating expenses 8, 9 -284 452 -999 -14 -1 013 Operating profit before depreciation and impairment -40 4 2 585 -814 1 770 losses Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -72 2 -648 -60 -708 Operating profit -111 7 1 936 -874 1 062 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 1 -23 -22 0 -22 Financial income 11 2 193 -2 189 25 30 55 Financial expenses 11 -1 092 998 -268 21 -247 Net financial income/expenses 1 102 -1 214 -264 51 -214 Profit before tax 990 -1 208 1 672 -823 848 Tax expense 12 -78 136 -677 79 -598 Net income from continuing operations 912 -1 072 994 -745 250 Net income from discontinued operations 248 0 248 -4 244 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 14 764 -14 464 18 266 2 565 20 831 Equity 3 639 -3 828 3 800 764 4 565 Total segment liabilities 11 124 -10 637 14 465 1 801 16 266 Capital employed 1) 12 718 -11 661 13 040 765 13 805 Interest-bearing liabilities 23 9 078 -7 834 9 240 1 9 240 Funds from operation (FFO) 2) 1 196 Carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 16 73 -42 31 0 31 Investments in intangible assets 3) 58 16 125 0 125 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3) 96 -16 1 309 99 1 408 Number of full-time equivalents 292 1 163 1 163 1) Equity + interest-bearing liabilities. 2) Underlying EBITDA + dividends from associates and joint ventures + financial income tax payable. 3) Includes additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through business combinations. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 51 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) HydroelecEnergy MaNetwork LOS Otera tric Power nagement 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 INCOME STATEMENT Note Operating revenues 2 651 3 015 1 424 671 1 145 of which external operating revenues 2 529 2 708 1 344 671 994 of which internal operating revenues 122 307 81 0 151 Energy and transmission expenses -243 -2 734 -337 -531 0 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 0 -10 0 -1 -714 Employee benefits 7 -110 -139 -104 -29 -308 Other operating expenses 8, 9 -549 -109 -346 -41 -130 Operating profit before depreciation and impair1 749 23 637 69 -7 ment losses Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -294 -5 -220 0 -12 Operating profit 1 455 19 417 68 -19 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 0 0 0 0 0 Financial income 11 14 4 1 1 1 Financial expenses 11 -95 -5 -64 -1 -10 Net financial income/expenses -80 -2 -63 0 -9 Profit before tax 1 375 17 353 68 -28 Tax expense 12 -790 -3 -76 -17 7 Net income from continuing operations 584 13 278 51 -21 Net income from discontinued operations 0 0 0 0 0 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 8 455 1 577 5 232 647 613 Equity 2 260 282 824 101 59 Total segment liabilities 6 194 1 295 4 408 546 554 Capital employed 1) 5 909 386 3 821 377 328 Interest-bearing liabilities 23 3 649 104 2 997 275 268 Funds from operation (FFO) 2) 1 286 27 637 8 -11 Carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 16 0 0 0 0 0 Investments in intangible assets 3) 0 84 75 15 0 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3) 445 1 620 -9 17 Number of full-time equivalents in continuing operations 159 142 166 47 391 Number of full-time equivalents in discontinued operations 1) Equity + interest-bearing liabilities. 2) Underlying EBITDA + dividends from associates and joint ventures + financial income tax payable. 3) Includes additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through business combinations. The negative value for LOS is due to its reclassification. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 52 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) Parent/ Eliminations Total IFRS Total IFRS Other NGAAP adjusments 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 INCOME STATEMENT Note Operating revenues 828 -827 8 907 -820 8 086 of which external operating revenues 555 106 8 907 -820 8 086 of which internal operating revenues 272 -933 0 0 0 Energy and transmission expenses -39 197 -3 687 0 -3 687 Other raw materials and consumables used 4 -258 1 -981 0 -981 Employee benefits 7 -273 127 -837 0 -837 Other operating expenses 8, 9 -299 473 -1 002 -7 -1 008 Operating profit before depreciation and impair-41 -29 2 401 -827 1 573 ment losses Depreciation and impairment losses 13 -63 5 -589 -13 -601 Operating profit -105 -23 1 812 -840 972 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 11 5 -13 -8 0 -7 Financial income 11 1 641 -1 649 13 78 91 Financial expenses 11 -606 542 -240 -17 -257 Net financial income/expenses 1 039 -1 119 -235 61 -173 Profit before tax 935 -1 142 1 578 -779 799 Tax expense 12 -158 216 -821 282 -539 Net income from continuing operations 777 -926 757 -497 260 Net income from discontinued operations -5 0 -5 7 2 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Total assets 14 100 -12 708 17 917 2 402 20 319 Equity 3 303 -3 566 3 264 1 362 4 626 Total segment liabilities 10 797 -9 142 14 653 1 040 15 693 Capital employed 1) 13 034 -11 732 12 123 1 646 13 769 Interest-bearing liabilities 23 9 731 -8 166 8 858 285 9 143 Funds from operation (FFO) 2) 1 556 Carrying amount of associates and joint ventures 16 57 -19 37 0 37 Investments in intangible assets 3) 47 0 222 2 223 Investments in property, plant and equipment 3) 117 -18 1 173 142 1 315 Number of full-time equivalents in continuing operations 276 1 181 1 181 Number of full-time equivalents in discontinued operations 220 220 220 1) Equity + interest-bearing liabilities. 2) Underlying EBITDA + dividends from associates and joint ventures + financial income tax payable. 3) Includes additions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment through business combinations. Segment information is reported using the same segments as used in financial reports to the senior management team. Segment reporting is used by Agder Energi’s management to assess the performance of the various business areas, and to allocate resources to them. Operating segments are presented in accordance with the organisational structure, and are based on the internal business areas. The Network business area is presented as a separate segment. The business area is responsible for power distribution in Agder. The Hydroelectric Power business area, which is responsible for operating the Group’s hydropower plants, is also reported as a separate segment. The Energy Management business area manages the Group’s generation portfolio, its retail portfolios in Scandinavia and its operations in the German demand response market. The business area, which includes the companies Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning, LOS Energy, Entelios, Agder Energi Solutions and Nordgröön, operates AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 53 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR in Norway, Sweden and Germany. Within the Marketing business area, LOS and Otera are presented as separate segments, due to their size and the differences between their areas of activity, while the rest of the business area is presented under parent company/other. LOS is an energy retailer that serves domestic customers, while Otera provides electrical contracting services. The financial statements follow Norwegian generally accepted accounting principles (NGAAP), as they are also used for internal corporate governance purposes. The Eliminations segment relates to the elimination of intra-group transactions and balances. Transactions between segments are on an arm’s-length basis. The IFRS adjustments segment covers items arising from the fact that the accounts of segments are presented in accordance with NGAAP, while the consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with IFRS. The main reason for the differences between the segment reporting and the consolidated financial statements is that changes in unrealised gains/losses on derivatives are not included in the segment reporting. In addition, the segment reporting for the Network business area uses the approved income cap, whereas the consolidated statements are based on invoiced revenues; see Note 3. The majority of Agder Energi’s turnover comes from customers in Norway or from Nord Pool Spot (the marketplace for trading physical power contracts). The turnover of the subsidiary groups Otera AB and LOS Energy AB comes from the Swedish market. The subsidiary group Agder Energi Solutions GmbH generates its turnover in the German market. Geographic distribution of operating revenues by location of business (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Norway 7 942 7 518 Sweden 2 362 1 117 Germany 731 30 Other countries 15 41 Total energy sales, transmission revenues and other operating revenues 11 050 8 705 Unrealised gains and losses on energy and currency contracts -827 -619 Total operating revenues 10 223 8 086 Geographic distribution of assets based on location of business (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Norway 19 535 19 031 Sweden 1 086 1 154 Germany 136 45 Other countries 74 89 Total assets 20 831 20 319 NOTE 2 ENERGY SALES Agder Energi optimises its generation of hydroelectric power based on an assessment of the value of available water in relation to current and expected future spot prices. Contracts for physical delivery and cash-settled contracts are used to secure cash flows from power generation. Cash-settled contracts, which include both electricity and foreign currency contracts, are described in greater detail in Note 28. In addition, Agder Energi has long-term physical delivery contracts with industrial customers. Those contracts cover around 20 TWh of energy to be delivered between now and 2030. The Group’s energy sales and purchases are specified in the table below. Electricity generated by the hydropower business and sold through Nord Pool Spot and electricity bought through Nord Pool Spot for the retail business are presented gross. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 54 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Energy sales (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Spot and balancing markets 2 060 1 728 Concession power and contracts for physical delivery signed before 1991 1) 81 89 Contracts for physical delivery signed after 1991 1) 394 392 Financial contracts used for hedging purposes 2) 246 225 Electricity certificates (own generation) 5 24 Other 48 80 Total for power generation 2 835 2 538 Retail market 5 022 3 473 Network 32 32 District heating 108 100 Market operations 3) 704 30 Eliminations -123 -129 Total 8 579 6 044 1) The Energy Act came into force in 1991. 2) Figures refer to realised gains and losses; unrealised gains and losses are specified in Note 6. Although these contracts are used for hedging purposes, hedge accounting is not applied. 3) Refers to managing and providing market access for renewable energy on behalf of external generating companies, as well as selling demand response services Energy purchases (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Spot and balancing markets 90 62 Other 44 51 Total for power generation 133 114 Retail market 4 653 3 235 Network 120 129 District heating 41 39 Market operations 663 30 Eliminations -133 -118 Total 5 477 3 429 The table below shows key figures for our power generating activities, as well as gains/losses in relation to spot prices. The spot value is calculated as the electricity actually generated each hour, multiplied by the spot price for the hour in question. Gains/ losses shows the impact of the fact that some of the volume generated is not sold at spot prices, as it is sold as concession power, sold at prices agreed with customers or hedged through financial contracts. 2017 2016 Net electricity generation (less pumping) (GWh) 8 812 8 880 Reservoir reserves at 31 Dec. (GWh) 4 429 3 766 Reservoir reserves as% of capacity 84% 72% (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Spot value of net generation 2 467 2 097 Gains/losses on concession power and contracts for physical delivery signed before 1991 -111 -86 Gains/losses on hedges 343 368 Electricity certificates (own generation) 5 24 Gains/losses on other items -2 22 Net energy sales from power generation 2 702 2 425 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 55 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Hedges include both cash-settled contracts and long-term physical contracts with industrial clients that are used as part of a hedging strategy. The resources Agder Energi needs to generate power are available to it through licences. Agder Energi controls – either directly or indirectly through water management associations and joint arrangements – licences to regulate watercourses and to acquire ownership rights to waterfalls. These licences do not revert to public ownership, with the exception of a few minor regulations of the Arendal river system, which constitute less than 1% of the total river regulation capacity. Agder Energi has a perpetual obligation to supply 545 GWh each year to local municipalities, who are entitled to buy electricity at a regulated price. In most cases this price is set by the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy, but Agder Energi has some licences where the price is established individually based on government guidelines. Revenues from concession power are recognised as income when the electricity is supplied. The future loss of revenue arising from the obligation to supply concession power at below market prices is estimated at NOK 2.2 billion. No provisions have been made for this in the financial statements, as it is estimated that the agreed price covers electricity generation costs. The calculation of the loss of revenue is based on a nominal pre-tax interest rate of 5.0%, a price differential of 10 øre/kWh and an expected inflation rate of 2.5%. (Volume in GWh) 2017 2016 Volume of concession power (GWh) 545 544 Regulated price (øre/kWh) 11,5 11,4 NOTE 3 TRANSMISSION REVENUES The Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate regulates the revenues of power grid operators by setting an annual income cap. Based on the income caps they have been allocated and the volumes of electricity they expect to distribute, power grid operators set the transmission tariffs payable by customers. In the event of any difference between actual and expected volumes, revenues from transmission tariffs will show a surplus or shortfall relative to the permitted revenues (income cap). In the accounts of Agder Energi Nett AS, this difference is treated as either a liability or an asset. However, in the consolidated financial statements, which are presented in accordance with IFRS, this surplus or shortfall does not qualify for inclusion on the statement of financial position, and only the actual transmission tariff revenues are recognised in the income statement. (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Revenues under next year’s income cap recognised in the consolidated income statement -21 -151 Accumulated surplus transmission revenues not included on the SoFP 232 253 NOTE 4 OTHER OPERATING REVENUES AND OTHER RAW MATERIALS AND CONSUMABLES USED Other operating revenues (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Contracting 5 963 1 145 Services 178 139 Other revenues 123 234 Total 1 264 1 518 Electrical contracting services are provided through Otera, and cover areas such as electrical power systems and transportation. Other raw materials and consumables used (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Contracting 5 648 714 Other purchases 145 267 Total 793 981 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 56 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 5 LONG-TERM MANUFACTURING CONTRACTS The projects included under this item relate to the electrical contracting business. They are carried out for customers and are accounted for using the percentage of completion method. Profit is recognised in proportion to the percentage of completion of the project. The percentage of completion is estimated to be the ratio between project costs incurred to date and total estimated project costs. Estimated losses on projects are also recognised in profit or loss. (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Revenues, work in progress 642 534 Accrued revenues included under other receivables 91 69 Deferred revenues included under other liabilities 32 22 Costs incurred to date, work in progress 609 481 Share of outstanding receivables not yet due under contract terms 0 0 Remaining turnover from loss-making projects 0 1 NOTE 6 UNREALISED GAINS AND LOSSES ON ENERGY CONTRACTS Breakdown of profit and loss effects of financial instruments by class of instrument: (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Portfolio of production hedges, excluding power for industrial users 26 -567 -755 Cash-settled electricity contracts 21 -8 -100 Long-term electricity contracts measured at fair value 26 -108 -70 Currency contracts, basis swaps and currency loans 26 -360 586 Embedded derivatives 26 287 -275 Retail customer portfolio 26 -71 -5 Total -827 -619 Reversal of unrealised gains and losses at 1 January on contracts closed out during the year 1) -377 -397 Gains and losses on contracts that had not been closed out as of 31 December -450 -222 Total -827 -619 1) Value at start of 2017 (2016) of contracts that were closed out during 2017 (2016). The above table refers to financial instruments that are used in relation to electricity generation or the retail business and that must be measured at fair value through profit or loss. These are mainly designed to hedge future revenues from electricity sales. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 57 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 7 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Wages and salaries 851 839 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 144 126 Pension expense (incl. employers’ NICs) 22 84 77 Other benefits and reimbursements 43 15 Capitalised wage costs arising from own investments -222 -220 Total 900 837 Number of full-time equivalents in continuing operations at 31 Dec. 1 163 1 181 Number of full-time equivalents in discontinued operations at 31 Dec. 220 For details of senior management compensation, please see Note 32. NOTE 8 PROPERTY TAXES AND LICENCE FEES (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Licence fees 50 51 Property taxes 146 161 Total 196 211 Licence fees are perpetual payments designed to compensate for the damage or inconvenience caused by hydropower projects. The fees are paid annually and are adjusted in line with the consumer price index, initially at the first turn of the year five years after the licence was granted and subsequently every five years. Annual and perpetual payments to compensate for the damage or inconvenience caused by the development of hydropower stations are indexed in the same way as licence fees. The present value of the Group’s future licence fees, for which no provision has been made in the financial statements, has been calculated to be NOK 1.9 billion using a discount rate of 2.5%. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 58 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 9 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Property-related expenses 85 92 Lease of machinery and office equipment 27 25 Purchase of plant and equipment 47 57 Repairs to and maintenance of equipment 20 16 Contractors 72 66 Operation/maintenance of IT systems 38 34 Technical consultants 47 54 Administrative consultants 138 112 Other external services 40 39 Office supplies, telecommunications, postage, etc. 36 37 Cost of vehicles 30 32 Leases for cars, machinery, etc. 32 34 Travel expenses, subsistence allowances, mileage expenses, etc. 38 47 Sales, advertising, representation, membership fees and gifts 33 33 Insurance premiums 19 16 Share of other operating expenses at joint arrangements 87 80 Supply of free electricity and compensation 5 7 Other operating expenses 23 16 Total 817 797 NOTE 10 AUDITOR’S FEE The Group’s auditor Ernst & Young audits the parent company and the most important subsidiaries. The total auditing fees paid to Ernst & Young for consolidated companies comprise: (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Statutory audit 2,9 3,1 Other certification services 0,1 0,0 Tax advice 0,1 0,2 Other services not related to auditing 0,1 1,5 Total 3,2 4,8 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 59 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 11 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures 16 -22 -7 Net realised exchange rate gains 15 0 Other interest income 9 4 Realised gains on shares 0 1 Other financial income 1 8 Financial income 25 13 Unrealised gains and losses on interest rate contracts 26 30 78 Unrealised gains and losses on interest rate contracts 30 78 Interest expense on loans 1) 171 178 Interest expense on interest rate swaps 83 76 Other interest expenses 4 3 Interest on capitalised construction loans -27 -28 Net realised exchange rate losses 0 19 Impairment of non-current financial assets 9 0 Other financial expenses 7 9 Financial expenses 247 257 Net financial income/expenses -214 -173 1) Relates to interest expenses on loans carried at amortised cost. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 60 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 12 TAX (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Tax expense in income statement Income tax payable 203 350 Resource rent tax payable 432 292 Changes in deferred income tax -6 -179 Changes in deferred resource rent tax -31 76 Total tax expense recognised in income statement 598 539 Reconciliation of nominal and effective tax rates Profit before tax 848 799 Expected tax 204 200 Tax effect of Permanent differences 24 -13 Impact of loss carryforwards not included on the SoFP 8 0 Resource rent tax incl. deferred tax 390 383 Net impact of changes in tax rates -28 -31 Total tax expense 598 539 Effective tax rate 70% 67% Breakdown of temporary differences and negative resource rent carried forward Taxable income Property, plant and equipment 3 819 3 253 Current assets/liabilities -75 -87 Pension liabilities 659 611 Other non-current provisions -1 444 -1 056 Derivatives 127 -12 Other -121 -39 Gross differences 2 965 2 670 Tax rate 23% 24% Net deferred income tax assets (-)/liabilities (+) 682 639 Resource rent Temporary differences 1 457 904 Negative resource rent carryforwards expected to be offset against profit over the -1 043 -408 coming 10 years Gross differences 414 496 Tax rate 35,7% 34% Net deferred income tax assets (-)/liabilities (+) 148 170 Of which presented in the financial statements as: Deferred tax 1 254 1 109 Deferred tax assets -425 -300 Deferred tax assets arising from negative resource rent carryforwards not included on the SoFP -368 -604 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 61 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR When assessing whether it is likely that the Group will be able to make use of its accumulated negative resource rent carryforwards, deferred resource rent tax assets are calculated using a conservative estimate of future electricity prices and on the assumption that future yields on short-term government debt will be between 0.8% and 2.2%. (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Changes in net deferred tax liabilities (+)/ assets (-) over the year Net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 31 Dec. prior year 809 839 New deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) 14 13 Deferred tax liabilities (-)/assets (+) at businesses disposed of during the year 12 0 Change in net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) included in comprehensive income 36 60 Change in deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) recognised through profit or loss -40 -103 Net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 31 Dec. 829 809 Changes in deferred tax on items in the SoCI Remeasurements of pensions 30 55 Cash flow hedges 6 5 Net change in deferred tax on items in the SoCI 36 60 NOTE 13 DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Amortisation of intangible assets 14 57 39 Impairment of intangible assets 14 63 2 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 15 588 566 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 15 0 -6 Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses recognised in ope708 601 rating profit Impairment of financial assets 11 9 0 Total depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses recognised in sta717 601 tement of cash flows AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 62 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Amounts in NOK million) Goodwill Software Other Total intangible intiangible assets assets Acquisition cost 214 276 118 608 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 0 -71 -61 -132 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 214 205 57 476 Carrying amount at 01/01/2017 214 205 57 476 Additions 11 33 78 122 Disposals at book value -79 -29 -2 -110 Depreciation 0 -34 -23 -57 Impairment losses -52 0 -11 -63 Carrying amount at 31/12/2017 94 175 99 368 Acquisition cost 94 275 160 529 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 0 -100 -61 -161 Carrying amount at 31/12/2017 94 175 99 368 Depreciation period Tested annually 3-5 years 3-8 years for impairment Goodwill impairment The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there is evidence to suggest a fall in value. In 2017 we recognised NOK 52 million in goodwill impairment losses, NOK 32 million of which related to Otera. The remaining NOK 20 million related to various companies in the Agder Energi Venture portfolio. The impairment loss recognised for Otera reflects the fact that the Norwegian part of the business has been loss-making for some time. The other impairment losses related to companies whose profit was lower than expected or that were loss-making. Agder Energi has not identified any other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Goodwill that has arisen in conjunction with acquisitions has been allocated as follows: Breakdown of goodwill on the SoFP (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Otera 38 94 LOS 51 49 NetNordic 0 39 NEG 0 9 Others 5 23 Carrying amount of goodwill 94 214 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 63 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION GRID OPERATION (Amounts in NOK million) Rights and Tunnels Machinery and Power station Regional power Local licences and dams electrical buildings and transmission distribution infrastructure sites grid network Carrying amount at 01/01/2016 1 136 2 793 2 093 924 1 231 2 624 Additions 0 321 368 132 190 622 Disposals at book value 0 0 -6 0 -15 0 Depreciation -5 -63 -164 -56 -75 -269 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 1 131 3 051 2 291 1 000 1 331 2 977 Acquisition cost 1 179 4 386 4 962 2 028 2 247 5 257 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses -48 -1 335 -2 671 -1 028 -916 -2 280 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 1 131 3 051 2 291 1 000 1 331 2 977 Carrying amount at 01/01/2017 1 131 3 051 2 291 1 000 1 331 2 977 Additions 2 513 108 42 438 586 Disposals at book value 0 0 0 -1 0 0 Depreciation -4 -68 -153 -55 -63 -122 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2017 1 129 3 496 2 246 986 1 706 3 441 Acquisition cost 1 179 4 893 5 069 2 069 2 684 5 843 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses -50 -1 397 -2 823 -1 083 -978 -2 402 Carrying amount at 31/12/2017 1 129 3 496 2 246 986 1 706 3 441 Depreciation period (years) 67/ 67-99 20-50 50-67/ 15-50 15-50 not depreciated not depre­ciated. DISTRICT OTHER ACTIVITIES HEATING (Amounts in NOK million) District heating Property Other Work in Total property, progress plant and equipment Carrying amount at 01/01/2016 580 135 151 1 476 13 143 Additions 73 5 -34 -363 1 314 Disposals at book value 0 -1 -7 -44 -73 Depreciation -22 -7 88 0 -573 Impairment losses 6 0 0 0 6 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 637 132 198 1 069 13 817 Acquisition cost 802 207 562 1 069 22 699 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses -165 -75 -364 0 -8 882 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 637 132 198 1 069 13 817 Carrying amount at 01/01/2017 637 132 198 1 069 13 817 Additions 56 0 76 -412 1 409 Disposals at book value 0 -5 -33 0 -39 Depreciation -24 -7 -92 0 -588 Impairment losses 0 0 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2017 669 120 149 657 14 599 Acquisition cost 858 199 575 657 24 026 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses -189 -79 -426 0 -9 427 Carrying amount at 31/12/2017 669 120 149 657 14 599 Depreciation period (years) 8-60 25-99/ 3-20 not depreciation AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 64 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Additions for work in progress are calculated as gross additions less completed projects within the relevant category. Periodic ­m aintenance is included within the relevant category. Capitalised borrowing costs amounted to NOK 27 (28) million in 2017, ­calculated using the Group’s average interest rate of 2.9% (3.0%). NOK 3,104 (3,103) million of property, plant and equipment at joint arrangements is included in the main groups under hydroelectric power generation and under work in progress. Of the additions under distribution networks, NOK 99 (142) million were financed through customer contributions. The stated depre­ciation periods apply to the majority of the assets in each category, although there may be some minor deviations from them. Maintenance expenses came to NOK 210 (197) million in 2017. NOK 281 (302) million of capitalised reinvestments in existing facilities have been included under the additions for the year. Below the useful lives of the most important assets on the SoFP are set out: Hydroelectric power stations Hydroelectric power stations Depreciation (years) Depreciation (years) Waterfall rights Not depreciated Machinery Runners 40 Structures Turbines 40 Rock-fill dams 99 Turbine hall cranes, air handling units, pumps 25 Caverns 99 Turbine regulators 15 Concrete dams 67 Grating cleaners 10 Power station buildings 67 Other buildings 50 Process equipment and communication Grid control systems 20 Penstock Control centre 10 Underground 99 Communications/Control/Logging 10 Underground pipeline 67 Above ground pipeline 40 Electrical systems Transformers 40 Gates, gratings, entrances, etc. Generators 40 Intake gates 50 Auxiliary systems (switches, low-voltage systems) 25 Dam gates 50 Switchgear and other high-voltage systems 25 Gratings 50 Entrances 50 Periodic maintenance (interval) Stream intakes 50 Refurbishment of buildings 25 Machinery – major service 20 Roads and bridges Electrical systems – major service 20 Roads/quays 67 Bridges 50 Other assets Depreciation period (years) Energy distribution networks Sites Not depreciated Depreciation period (years) District heating pipelines 60 Regional power transmission grid: Office buildings 50 Power and ground cables 50 Vehicles 8 High-voltage power lines 40 Fixtures and fittings 5 Grid control systems 20 Office and IT equipment 3 Local power distribution network: High-voltage lines and cables 50 Low-voltage lines and cables 40 Distribution substations 35 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 65 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 16 ASSOCIATES AND JOINT ARRANGEMENTS Agder Energi has various investments in associates and joint arrangements. Joint arrangements include joint ventures and joint operations. Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method, whereas proportionate consolidation is used for investments in joint operations. Associates and joint ventures (accounted for using the equity method) (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Associates 10 24 Joint ventures 21 14 Carrying amount at 31 Dec. 31 37 Profit from associates -23 -9 Profit from joint ventures -11 -6 Gain on disposals 12 7 Share of profit of associates and joint ventures -22 -7 Breakdown of investments in associates: (Amounts in NOK million) Ownership Carrying Additions Disposals Consolidated Carrying interest amount at share of amount at 31/12/2016 profit/loss 31/12/2017 Otovo AS 18,6% 5 5 0 -2 8 Steinsvik Kraft AS 20,0% 8 0 -8 0 0 Skagerak Venture Capital I KS/GP KS 19,6% 10 0 0 -9 1 NorthConnect KS/NorthConnect AS 22,3% 0 13 0 -12 1 Total for associates 23 18 -8 -23 10 Breakdown of investments in joint ventures: (Amounts in NOK million) Ownership Carrying Additions Disposals Consolidated Carrying interest amount at share of amount at 31/12/2016 profit/loss 31/12/2017 Statkraft Agder Energi Vind DA 38,0% 5 1 0 -6 0 Grønn Kontakt AS 42,0% 9 18 0 -5 21 Total for joint ventures 14 18 0 -11 21 Joint operations (proportionate consolidation) Joint operations consist of power stations and water management associations. Agreements regulate key areas of cooperation, and the joint owners receive their respective shares of the electricity generated in return for covering an equivalent proportion of the expenses. The Group uses the proportional consolidation method to account for joint operations, and the Group’s share of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are consolidated on a pro-rata basis. Agder Energi is a joint owner of the following power stations and water management associations: AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 66 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Otra Kraft owns the Holen, Brokke and Skarg power stations on the River Otra. Otra Kraft is owned by Agder Energi Vannkraft, which has a 68.6% interest, and Skagerak Kraft, which has a 31.4% interest, and is managed through the general meeting. The company has its head office at Rysstad in Valle. Ulla Førre is owned by Statkraft, Lyse Energi, Skagerak Energi, Haugaland kraftlag and Agder Energi Vannkraft. Agder Energi Vannkraft has a 6.0% ownership interest in Ulla Førre, which entitles it to an equivalent proportion of the power generated by the facility. The power station Finndøla kraftverk is 50:50 owned by Agder Energi Vannkraft and Skagerak Kraft. The power station Hekni kraftverk is a statutory co-ownership between Agder Energi Vannkraft, with a 66.67% interest, and Skagerak Kraft, with 33.33%. The co-ownership is managed through a steering committee. Agder Energi Vannkraft represents the co-ownership in dealings with third parties. The water management association Otteraaens Brugseierforening comprises Agder Energi Vannkraft, Skagerak Kraft and ­Vigelands Brug. The association is managed through its Board. Agder Energi Vannkraft’s ownership interest, including its indirect interest through Otra Kraft, is approximately 73.8%. Otteraaens Brugseierforening has its business address in Valle. The water management association Arendals Vasdrags Brugseierforening comprises Agder Energi Vannkraft, Skafså K ­ raftverk, Skagerak Kraft and Arendals Fossekompani. The association is managed through a Board, and has its business address in Arendal. Agder Energi Vannkraft’s ownership interest is approximately 52.2%. No single member can have more than 50% of the votes. Sira-Kvina is owned by Agder Energi Vannkraft (12.2%), Lyse Produksjon (41.1%), Statkraft Energi (32.1%) and Skagerak Kraft (14.6%). It is managed through its Board. The company has its business address at Tonstad. Below there follows a summary of the Group’s share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses at jointly controlled assets. The energy sales in the table do not represent actual revenues, and have instead been calculated by multiplying Agder Energi Vannkraft’s actual power generation by the average electricity price, and adding Agder Energi Vannkraft’s share of revenues from concession power. (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Energy sales 1,032 983 Other operating revenues 6 5 Total operating revenues 1,038 988 Transmission expenses -40 -53 Energy purchases -16 -12 Property taxes and licence fees -28 -26 Depreciation -100 -99 Other operating expenses -85 -77 Total operating expenses -269 -267 Operating profit 769 721 Non-current assets 3,112 3,106 Current assets 75 74 Total assets 3,187 3,180 Current liabilities 71 70 Net assets 3,116 3,110 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 67 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 17 NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Investments in shares and ownership interests 5 12 Loans to associates and joint arrangements 7 7 Other receivables 1) 323 241 Pension assets 22 909 821 Total 1 244 1 081 1) The majority of the amount relates to a subordinated loan to Ventelo AS and a vendor credit in conjunction with the sale of the shares in Ventelo, as well as non-current trade receivables. The fair value of non-current financial assets is described in greater detail in notes 25 and 27. NOTE 18 RECEIVABLES (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Face value of trade receivables 2 037 1 886 Bad debt provision 13 9 Total trade receivables 2 024 1 877 Accrued revenues 495 388 Prepaid expenses 56 61 Receivables from joint arrangements 12 10 Other receivables 180 173 Share of current assets at joint arrangements 63 64 Total receivables 2 830 2 573 Ageing analysis of trade receivables (Amounts in NOK million) Not overdue 0-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days Over 90 days Total overdue overdue overdue overdue 2017 1 774 147 17 11 88 2 037 2016 1 740 71 32 3 40 1 886 NOTE 19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Deposits in cash pooling arrangement 0 32 Cash and cash equivalents 52 491 Restricted assets (e.g. term deposits, tax withholding account and client assets) 9 20 Total 61 543 The parent company has set up a cash pooling arrangement with an associated NOK 500 million overdraft facility. Most subsidiaries in the Group in which the parent company holds an ownership interest of at least 50% take part in the cash pooling arrangement and are jointly and severally liable to the bank for the overdraft facility. A NOK 50 million bank guarantee covering the parent company and subsidiaries has been used as security for tax deductions at source. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 68 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 20 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The share capital is made up of Number Face value Share capital of shares (in NOK 000s) Share 2 700 000 670 1 809 000 List of shareholders in Agder Energi AS (Amounts in NOK million) Number of % of class Number of % of class Total % of tot. Share class A A shares class B B shares number of number of capital shares shares shares shares Statkraft Industrial Holding AS 743,197 41.289% 485,990 53.999% 1,229,187 45.525% 823,555 Arendal Municipality 115,017 6.390% 57,507 6.390% 172,524 6.390% 115,591 Kristiansand Municipality 95,400 5.300% 47,700 5.300% 143,100 5.300% 95,877 Grimstad Municipality 53,327 2.963% 26,663 2.963% 79,990 2.963% 53,593 Flekkefjord Municipality 53,269 2.959% 14,650 1.628% 67,919 2.516% 45,506 Lyngdal Municipality 49,745 2.764% 13,680 1.520% 63,425 2.349% 42,495 Kvinesdal Municipality 49,254 2.736% 13,545 1.505% 62,799 2.326% 42,075 Lillesand Municipality 40,901 2.272% 20,450 2.272% 61,351 2.272% 41,105 Marnardal Municipality 44,500 2.472% 12,238 1.360% 56,738 2.101% 38,014 Sirdal Municipality 43,845 2.436% 12,057 1.340% 55,902 2.070% 37,454 Mandal Municipality 42,343 2.352% 11,644 1.294% 53,987 2.000% 36,171 Vennesla Municipality 42,343 2.352% 11,644 1.294% 53,987 2.000% 36,171 Froland Municipality 31,847 1.769% 15,924 1.769% 47,771 1.769% 32,007 Søgne Municipality 33,601 1.867% 9,240 1.027% 42,841 1.587% 28,703 Evje og Hornnes Municipality 27,511 1.528% 13,756 1.528% 41,267 1.528% 27,649 Songdalen Municipality 31,689 1.761% 8,714 0.968% 40,403 1.496% 27,070 Lindesnes Municipality 31,470 1.748% 8,654 0.962% 40,124 1.486% 26,883 Hægebostad Municipality 28,776 1.599% 7,913 0.879% 36,689 1.359% 24,582 Farsund Municipality 27,502 1.528% 7,563 0.840% 35,065 1.299% 23,494 Birkenes Municipality 22,679 1.260% 11,340 1.260% 34,019 1.260% 22,793 Åmli Municipality 21,921 1.218% 10,960 1.218% 32,881 1.218% 22,030 Risør Municipality 21,052 1.170% 10,525 1.169% 31,577 1.170% 21,157 Valle Municipality 20,327 1.129% 10,164 1.129% 30,491 1.129% 20,429 Bygland Municipality 19,995 1.111% 9,998 1.111% 29,993 1.111% 20,095 Iveland Municipality 19,155 1.064% 9,578 1.064% 28,733 1.064% 19,251 Tvedestrand Municipality 19,066 1.059% 9,533 1.059% 28,599 1.059% 19,161 Åseral Municipality 21,776 1.210% 5,988 0.665% 27,764 1.028% 18,602 Vegårshei Municipality 14,553 0.809% 7,277 0.809% 21,830 0.809% 14,626 Bykle Municipality 13,232 0.735% 6,616 0.735% 19,848 0.735% 13,298 Gjerstad Municipality 12,423 0.690% 6,211 0.690% 18,634 0.690% 12,485 Audnedal Municipality 8,284 0.460% 2,278 0.253% 10,562 0.391% 7,077 Total 1,800,000 100% 900,000 100% 2,700,000 100% 1,809,000 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 69 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The NOK 1,809 million of share capital is made up of class A and class B shares. Class A shares can only be owned by shareholders who meet the conditions for being allocated indefinite waterfall licences under the relevant current legislation. Class B shares are freely negotiable. In all other respects, class A and class B shares have equal rights. The company has entered into an industrial collaboration agreement with its biggest shareholder, Statkraft Industrial Holding AS. There is also a shareholders’ agreement between the shareholders in the company. The company has a corporate assembly with 15 members, who are elected for a two-year term. The proposed dividend payout for 2017 comes to NOK 606 million in total, equivalent to NOK 224 per share. NOTE 21 PROVISIONS (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Pension liabilities 22 293 303 Other non-current provisions 1 524 1 473 Total 1 817 1 776 Breakdown of other non-current provisions (Amounts in NOK million) Supply of free Supply of free Cash-settled Unearned Other Total electricity 1) electricity and electricity revenue, provisions 4) compensation contracts 3) customer 2) contributions Carrying amount at 01/01/2016 531 209 43 184 85 1,052 Unrealised gains and losses 118 0 -18 0 0 100 New provisions 0 7 0 142 199 348 Provisions used 0 0 0 -7 -20 -27 Carrying amount at 31/12/2016 649 216 25 319 264 1,473 Carrying amount at 01/01/2017 649 216 25 319 264 1,473 Unrealised gains and losses 8 0 -20 0 0 -12 New provisions 0 5 0 99 9 113 Provisions used 0 0 0 -11 -39 -50 Carrying amount at 31/12/2017 657 221 5 407 234 1,524 1) Perpetual obligations to supply electricity free of charge that are presented as financial instruments at fair value in accordance with IAS 39, as they can be settled in cash. Also see notes 25 and 27. 2) Perpetual obligations to supply electricity free of charge and pay compensation that are accounted for in accordance with IAS 37. These obligations to supply free electricity cannot be settled in cash. Compensation involves annual cash payments that are adjusted by inflation every five years. 3) Non-current cash-settled contracts measured in accordance with IAS 39. Also see notes 25 and 27. 4) Mainly relates to a provision in conjunction with the sale of Fosen Vind DA. The final consideration depends on several parameters such as future tax rates, development costs and depreciation rates. There is still uncertainty about several of these parameters, and the provision is updated as and when new information becomes available. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 70 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 22 PENSIONS The Group’s pension plans For people taken on before 1 April 2007 (1 January 2007 for employees at Otera Infra), the Group has a defined benefit pension plan run by Agder Energi Pensjonskasse, which meets the legal requirements for public sector occupational pension plans. Those taken on after 1 April 2007, as well as employees at companies outside Norway, are part of a defined contribution pension plan. The Group’s pension plans satisfy the requirements laid down in the Act on Mandatory Occupational Pensions. Defined benefit pension plans The Group has a funded public pension plan for its employees in Norway, which entitles them to defined future pension benefits, based on their number of years of service and salary on reaching retirement age. Pension liabilities were calculated by an independent actuary in December, and represent an estimate of the situation at 31 December. Similarly, the gross pension plan assets at 31 December were estimated by the Group’s management in December. Certain current and former senior managers are entitled to pension benefits over and above those covered by the company pension plan; see Note 32. Provisions for these plans are presented under unfunded pension liabilities. Defined contribution pension plan Anyone taken on after 1 April 2007 is entitled to membership of a defined contribution pension plan. Early retirement schemes (AFP schemes) Employees covered by a public pension plan have an early retirement scheme, known as an AFP scheme. This is a so-called public sector AFP scheme, which like all such schemes set up from 2011 onwards does not receive a government subsidy. The Group is therefore fully liable for all of its obligations under the scheme. When calculating the pension liability, it has been assumed that there will be a 100% take-up of the early-retirement scheme by the age of 64 and a half. For accounting purposes, employees start accruing early-retirement pension rights on reaching the age of 50 or on joining the Group, whichever is later. Employees in Norway covered by the defined contribution plan are entitled to a private AFP scheme, which from 2011 onwards means a lifelong supplement to their retirement pensions from the National Insurance Scheme. This AFP scheme is partly funded by contributions made by the employer. The state covers the remaining 33% of the cost. The AFP scheme is considered a defined benefit plan, but for the moment it is being accounted for as a defined contribution plan. In 2017, the annual contribution to the scheme was 2.5% (2016: 2.5%) of qualifying pay between 1 and 7.1 times the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (“G”) for each employee covered by the scheme. Actuarial assumptions When calculating the pension expense and net pension liabilities, a number of assumptions have been made (see table below). The discount rate is based on the interest rate on covered bonds. The assumptions used to calculate pension liabilities are consistent with the most recent guidelines on actuarial assumptions as of 31 December. The Group uses the latest version of the Norwegian life tables (GAP 07) for its estimates of life expectancy, probability of disability, etc. Extracts from the actuarial tables are reproduced below. This table shows life expectancy and the probability that an employee in a given age bracket will suffer disability or die within a year. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 71 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR DISABILITY RISK IN% MORTALITY RISK IN% LIFE EXPECTANCY Age Man Woman Man Woman Man Woman 20 0,07 0,07 0,01 0,01 86 90 40 0,22 0,22 0,06 0,04 85 89 60 2,16 2,59 0,45 0,33 84 88 80 5,66 2,97 88 90 (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 The pension expense for the year has been calculated as follows Current service cost 49 50 Interest income on net pension plan assets -14 -8 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 7 7 Employee contributions -8 -6 Administration costs 6 0 Pension expense for the year, defined benefit plans 40 43 Private AFP scheme including employers’ NICs 5 5 Defined contribution pension plans (including employers’ NICs) 39 28 Total pension expense recognised in the income statement 7 84 77 Pension liabilities and pension plan assets Change in gross pension liabilities Gross pension liabilities at 1 Jan. 1 852 1 886 Current service cost (incl. emp. NICs) 56 57 Interest cost 47 46 Benefits paid/paid-up policies -75 -69 Remeasurements 88 -69 Gross pension liabilities at 31 Dec. 1 969 1 852 Breakdown of defined benefit pension liabilities Funded pension liabilities 1 677 1 565 Unfunded pension liabilities 292 287 Gross pension liabilities at 31 Dec. 1 969 1 852 Change in gross pension plan assets Fair value of pension plan assets at 1 Jan. 2 369 2 192 Expected return on pension plan assets 62 54 Remeasurements 175 121 Pension contributions 41 57 Benefits paid/paid-up policies -62 -56 Fair value of pension plan assets at 31 Dec. 2 584 2 369 Net pension liabilities/assets (-) at 31 Dec. -616 -517 Net pension assets recognised on the SoFP 17 909 821 Pension liabilities recognised on the SoFP 21 293 303 Net pension liabilities/assets (-) recognised at 31 Dec. -616 -517 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 72 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Change in net defined benefit pension liabilities Net defined benefit pension liabilities (-) at 1 Jan. -517 -306 Pension expense recognised in profit or loss 40 43 Company net contributions incl. employers’ NICs -47 -59 Pension benefits included under operating expenses -6 -4 Remeasurements -87 -191 Net pension liabilities/assets (-) recognised at 31 Dec. -616 -517 Remeasurements are made up of Changes in demographic assumptions 15 -54 Changes in financial assumptions 73 -15 Excess return on assets -175 -121 Total remeasurements included in the SoCI -87 -191 The remeasurements in 2017 were mainly due to an excess return on pension plan assets and a change in the discount rate. Sensitivity analysis for a +/0.5% percentage point change in the discount rate Increase in pension liabilities if the discount rate falls 158 123 Fall in pension liabilities if the discount rate rises -152 -114 The sensitivity analysis only looks at potential changes in the discount rate, as it is the only parameter considered to have a significant impact on recognised pension liabilities. Assumptions used to determine pension liabilities at 31 Dec. Discount rate 2,30% 2,60% Annual wage growth 2,50% 2,50% Increase in the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (“G”) 2,00% 2,25% Annual indexing of pensions 1,50% 1,50% Expected average remaining years of service (funded) 8,1 year 8,2 year Expected average remaining years of service (unfunded) 7,5 year 5,6 year Retirement age: 64.5 years on average for both years. Assumptions used to calculate the pension expense for the year Discount rate 2,60% 2,50% Annual wage growth 2,50% 2,25% Increase in the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (“G”) 2,25% 2,25% Annual indexing of pensions 1,50% 1,50% Distribution of pension plan assets by investment category at 31 Dec. Property funds 12% 12% Interest-bearing financial instruments 29% 34% Equities 37% 33% Hedge funds 22% 21% Total 100% 100% Pension plan assets consist of instruments traded on a stock exchange or funds that publish daily prices. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 73 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR 2017 2016 Number of people covered by the pension plans Defined benefit plan: current employees 409 430 Defined benefit plan: accrued entitlements and retired employees 1 189 1 198 Defined contribution plan: current and temporary employees 748 957 Current employees entitled to public sector AFP, and early retirees 304 328 NOTE 23 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities Bonds 5 281 4 859 Liabilities to financial institutions 2 209 2 328 Other interest-bearing non-current liabilities 14 5 Total 7 504 7 192 Interest-bearing current liabilities Commercial paper 600 850 Overdraft and other interest-bearing current liabilities 180 14 Current portion of non-current liabilities (principal repayments due within one year) 956 1 087 Total 1 736 1 951 The fair value of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities is described in Note 25. All of the above statement of financial position items are carried at amortised cost in accordance with IAS 39. Note 28 sets out further details of interest rates, durations, liquidity risk, credit facilities, etc. Some loans form part of hedging relationships in accordance with IAS 39. See Note 29 for a more detailed description. (Amounts in NOK million) Change in interest-bearing liabilities broken down by cash and non-cash items. Interest-bearing liabilities at 31/12/2016 9 143 New long-term borrowings (cash item) 1 410 Repayment of long-term borrowings (cash item) -1 095 New short-term borrowings (cash item) 600 Net change in overdraft (cash item) 166 Repayment of short-term borrowings (cash item) -850 Exchange rate fluctuations (non-cash item) 150 Gains/losses on fair value hedges (non-cash item) -284 Interest-bearing liabilities at 31/12/2017 9 240 NOTE 24 OTHER NON-INTEREST-BEARING CURRENT LIABILITIES (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Trade payables 611 662 Unpaid government taxes and duties, tax deducted at source, etc. 599 517 Share of non-current liabilities at joint arrangements 71 70 Other current liabilities 1 096 1 115 Total 2 377 2 364 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 74 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments constitute a significant proportion of Agder Energi’s total assets, and they have a big impact on the Group’s financial position and results. The majority of the financial instruments are used in energy trading or financial activities. Within energy trading, financial instruments are used as part of a hedging strategy. When managing the Group’s exposure to risks associated with future electricity prices and exchange rates, these instruments are viewed together with future physical trading; see Note 28. Physical energy trading is only recognised in the financial statements when the energy is supplied/bought, whereas energy and currency derivatives are measured at fair value through profit or loss. If there are large volumes of these derivatives, they can therefore cause great volatility in the Group’s reported statement of financial position and net income, without it reflecting the overall financial results. Financial instruments used in financial activities mainly consist of loans and interest rate swaps. When managing the Group’s interest rate risk, these two types of financial instruments are assessed together, and they are also viewed in the context of the Group’s other interest rate risks; see Note 28. In the financial statements, loans are measured at amortised cost, whereas interest rate swaps are measured at fair value through profit or loss. This can cause fluctuations in the Group’s reported profit or loss, without it reflecting its overall financial performance. There are some minor exceptions to this asymmetrical treatment; see Note 29 on accounting hedges. In order to highlight the unrealised impact of these electricity, currency and interest rate contracts, their values and changes in value are presented on separate lines in the statement of financial position and income statement. The table below shows the carrying amount and fair value of the Group’s financial instruments, with the exception of trade debtors and payables, whose carrying amounts are almost identical to their fair values. (Amounts in NOK million) Note Carrying Fair value Carrying Fair value amount 2017 amount 2016 2017 2016 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Derivatives 26 1,201 1,201 1,350 1,350 Total financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 1,201 1,201 1,350 1,350 Available-for-sale assets Equities 17 5 5 12 12 Total available-for-sale assets 5 5 12 12 Loans and receivables at amortised cost Loans to associates 17 7 7 7 7 Other non-current receivables 17 323 323 241 241 Cash and cash equivalents 19 61 61 543 543 Total loans and receivables at amortised cost 391 391 791 791 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Non-current liabilities, obligations to provide free electricity 21 657 657 649 649 and pay compensation Non-current liabilities for electricity contracts measured at 21 5 5 25 25 fair value Derivatives 26 971 971 671 671 Total financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 1,633 1,633 1,345 1,345 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Bonds 23 5,981 6,091 5,952 6,050 Liabilities to financial institutions 23 2,478 2,531 2,328 2,376 Commercial paper 23 600 600 850 850 Overdraft and other interest-bearing current liabilities 23 181 181 14 14 Total financial liabilities at amortised cost 9,240 9,403 9,143 9,290 * For loans and receivables at amortised cost, the estimated fair value is based on valuation techniques that do not only use observable market data to arrive at a valuation. For financial liabilities at amortised cost, the estimated fair value is based on valuation techniques that only use observable market data to arrive at a valuation. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 75 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 26 DERIVATIVES Agder Energi has both independent derivatives (simply referred to as derivatives) and embedded derivatives. Agder Energi has some contracts for physical energy sales that are settled in euros. The contractual obligation to supply electricity is met using electricity generated by the Group, so the contracts do not fall within the scope of IAS 39. However, the fact that the contracts are settled in euros means that they contain an embedded foreign currency derivative. Under the criteria set out in IAS 39, the foreign currency derivatives are not closely related to the electricity contract. They are therefore separated from the contracts for physical delivery and measured at fair value. In the table below, derivatives with positive and negative fair values are shown separately by portfolio. The portfolios are described in greater detail in Note 28. The figures for energy derivatives are the accounting values of contracts which, under the criteria set out in IAS 39, fall within the definition of financial instruments. Power contracts for physical delivery that qualify for the own use exemption under IAS 39 are not defined as financial instruments. There are therefore significant discrepancies between accounting values and underlying financial values, as the portfolios contain both contracts that fall within the scope of IAS 39 and ones that do not. A small proportion of the Group’s interest rate derivatives are designated as accounting hedges; see Note 29 on accounting hedges. Agder Energi offers several managed electricity trading products to the retail market. With these products, Agder Energi supplies physical electricity to a portfolio of customers, on whose behalf it actively trades electricity through NASDAQ (the marketplace for cash-settled electricity futures). These NASDAQ positions are measured symmetrically. In other words, Agder Energi recognises equivalent contracts with respect to the retail customers covered by the electricity trading products, but with the opposite exposure of the NASDAQ positions. This symmetrical treatment means that these financial positions do not have any impact on Agder Energi’s income statement, but it does result in an increase in total assets, as the gross value of derivatives on the statement of financial position rises. At the end of 2017, the Group had derivatives worth NOK 87 (117) million that were assets in relation to NASDAQ and liabilities in relation to customers. Similarly, it had derivatives worth NOK 24 (14) million that were assets in relation to customers and liabilities in relation to NASDAQ. (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Derivative assets (non-current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 95 424 Currency derivatives and basis swaps 0 35 Embedded currency derivatives in electricity contracts 650 397 Interest rate swaps 19 28 Total derivatives 764 884 Derivative assets (current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 355 139 Embedded currency derivatives in electricity contracts 82 48 Interest rate swaps 0 279 Total derivatives 437 466 Derivative liabilities (non-current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 394 109 Currency derivatives and basis swaps 175 33 Interest rate swaps 253 323 Total derivatives 822 465 Derivative liabilities (current) Portfolio of cash-settled electricity contracts* 31 135 Currency derivatives and basis swaps 104 71 Interest rate swaps 14 0 Total derivatives 149 206 * Includes both the portfolio of financial production hedges and the retail customer portfolio. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 76 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 27 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The below table sets out to what extent observable market data are used to value financial instruments measured at fair value. The financial instruments have been broken down into the various categories used by the Group for classification purposes. (Amounts in NOK million) Note Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2017 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value * 26 1 201 0 469 731 Shares and ownership interests 17 5 0 0 5 Total assets 1 206 0 469 736 Supply of free electricity and compensation 21 657 0 0 657 Long-term cash-settled electricity contracts 21 5 0 0 5 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value * 26 971 0 773 198 Total liabilities 1 632 0 773 859 2016 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value * 26 1 350 0 905 445 Shares and ownership interests 17 12 0 0 12 Total assets 1 362 0 905 457 Supply of free electricity and compensation 21 649 0 0 649 Long-term cash-settled electricity contracts 21 25 0 0 25 Derivatives and electricity contracts measured at fair value * 26 671 0 601 70 Total liabilities 1 345 0 601 744 * Includes derivatives listed on a stock exchange, embedded derivatives in electricity contracts, cash-settled electricity contracts and electricity contracts for physical delivery measured at fair value in accordance with AS 39. Level 1 instruments are financial instruments the fair values of which can be determined from market prices in an active market. Level 2 instruments are financial instruments the fair values of which are estimated using a valuation model that only uses market data as its inputs. Level 3 instruments are financial instruments the fair values of which are estimated using a valuation model that does not only use market data as its inputs. In 2017 the Group recognised a net loss of NOK 445 million on level 3 financial instruments. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 77 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Level 3 assets and liabilities at fair value * (Amounts in NOK million) Shares and Supply of free Electricity Long-term Total ownership electricity and contracts measucash-settled interests compensation red at fair value electricity contracts Opening balance at 01/01/2017 12 -649 374 -25 -287 Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss -7 -8 159 20 164 Closing balance at 31/12/2017 5 -657 534 -5 -122 * Liabilities are shown with a minus sign. The amount recognised relates to contracts still held by Agder Energi at the end of 2017. The valuation of contracts measured at fair value under Level 3 is most sensitive to changes in assumptions about the EUR/NOK exchange rate and electricity prices. A 10% increase (reduction) in the electricity price would have given a NOK 79 million increase (decrease) in the valuation. A 5% strengthening (weakening) of the Norwegian krone against the euro would have given a NOK 338 million increase (decrease) in the valuation. FAIR VALUE OF ENERGY DERIVATIVES In measuring the fair value of energy derivatives, the following parameters and assumptions have been applied: Electricity prices Listed derivatives and other bilateral contracts are measured using a smooth forward curve based on the final price on the ­statement of financial position date. The prices used are discounted. Agder Energi has a number of perpetual supply contracts (compensation power), which are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. The market value of these contracts has been calculated based on a 200 year term. NASDAQ market prices are applied for the first five years. For subsequent periods, best estimates of future prices are used. Foreign currency For contracts quoted in foreign currency, the calculation for the first five years is based on the exchange rate at the end of the reporting period and the associated forward exchange rates. For subsequent periods separate exchange rate assumptions are used. Commodities For certain electricity contracts, the contract price is linked to the prices of various commodities. Valuations are based on the forward prices on the relevant commodity exchanges. If there are no quoted prices for the relevant time period, the commodity prices are inflation-adjusted from the last quoted market price. Green electricity certificates Contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity certificates that do not qualify for the own use exemption under IAS 39 are ­measured at fair value. Valuations are based on forward prices. For contracts with terms that run beyond the period for which market prices are available, a risk discount is applied to the available forward prices. CO2 CO2 contracts are valued using the forward price of emission quotas (EUAs) on NASDAQ and ICE. Interest rates Energy derivatives are discounted by the market interest rate curve (swap curve). For the purpose of discounting perpetual supply contracts related to compensation power, a risk-adjusted nominal interest rate is used. FAIR VALUE OF CURRENCY AND INTEREST RATE DERIVATIVES Interest rate swaps, currency swaps and currency futures Interest rate and currency swaps, as well as currency futures (including embedded currency derivatives in electricity contracts), are valued by discounting future cash flows to their present value. Expected cash flows are calculated and discounted by looking at the observed market interest rates on the various currencies (swap curves) and the observed exchange rates, which are used to derive forward exchange rates. Where possible, the estimated present values are checked against the equivalent calculations carried out by the counterparties to the contracts. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 78 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 28 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Agder Energi’s business activities expose it to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. There follows a more detailed description of these risks, and of how they are managed. MARKET RISK Market risk primarily consists of electricity price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk. Risk management at Agder Energi focuses on entire portfolios of contracts, and not specifically on contracts that fall within the scope of IAS 39. There are internal guidelines on exposure to market risk, for both the hedging and trading portfolios. Agder Energi’s back and middle office staff have been given responsibility for continuously monitoring compliance with limits on risk exposure. Trading in both cash-settled and physical contracts is monitored systematically and reported regularly, both to senior management and to the Group’s risk management section. MARKET RISK ARISING FROM ELECTRICITY PRICES Power generation portfolio Agder Energi’s hydroelectric power generation business is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations in prices and volumes, as both future prices and precipitation levels are unknown. Agder Energi enters into contracts and trades various cash-settled instruments in order to secure its revenues from electricity sales. This helps to stabilise revenues from one year to another, which is considered desirable on account of the great uncertainty surrounding electricity prices. Hedging activities take into account both the Group’s risk profile and expected electricity prices. For risk management purposes, cash-settled and physical contracts are considered together. The exposure of the portfolio at any given time consists of expected future power generation, purchase and sale commitments under long-term physical contracts, as well as contracts on NASDAQ and bilateral cash-settled contracts. Bilateral financial contracts are only used to a limited extent. The physical contracts in the portfolio comprise contracts concluded on normal commercial terms, contracts to supply concession power and various contracts to supply free power and compensation power. The durations of the commercial contracts vary, but they all expire by the end of 2030. The Group has perpetual agreements to supply compensation power, and the contracts to supply concession power are also perpetual. These perpetual contracts cover less than ten percent of the Group’s mean electricity generation. Retail customer portfolio The retail market covers the sale of electricity to consumers in Norway, and to state-owned entities and private companies throughout the Nordic region. It includes both contracts for physical delivery and cash-settled contracts. Contracts for physical delivery are based on spot prices or prices that have been fixed for varying lengths of time. When the retail business has agreed a fixed price with a customer for a specific length of time, this creates an electricity price risk. This risk is hedged by using cash-settled contracts with NASDAQ or other bilateral counterparties within or outside the Group. The retail customer portfolios are exposed to volume and market timing risks, as many of the physical fixed-price contracts are flexible in terms of the volumes delivered. Based on experience, knowledge of normal seasonal variation and knowledge of other specific issues that affect end users’ electricity consumption, Agder Energi calculates the volumes likely to be consumed, and which consequently need to be hedged. Limits have been set on the maximum unhedged exposure to price and volume risk. Management is kept informed of the exposure level relative to the specified limits. With many of our business customers we have contracts to provide management and electricity trading products that reflect their expected actual electricity consumption. This part of our business involves signing contracts with retail customers that mirror the conditions obtained by Agder Energi in the market. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 79 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR The net exposure of the retail portfolios at any given time consists of sale contracts with prices that are fixed for varying lengths of time, as well as contracts on NASDAQ and bilateral cash-settled contracts. The vast majority of the contracts expire in less than three years, but there are some contracts with longer terms. The portfolio shall minimise electricity price risk and hedge the value of future revenues from this area. The retail portfolio maintains a net long position in cash-settled contracts. Trading portfolios Agder Energi has trading portfolios which are managed independently of its expected power generation. All of the contracts in the trading portfolios are measured at fair value in the financial statements. VaR calculations are the most important tool used to manage the risk exposures arising from these portfolios. The financial ­exposure at any given time is limited in relation to the power generation portfolio. Electricity trading authorisations are expressed in terms of limits on potential losses. At an operating level, risk management focuses on minimising any losses. Electricity price sensitivity Impact on profit of gains and losses on assets and liabilities at fair value in the event of electricity price fluctuations (Amounts in NOK million) Change in electricity -10% 10% Total impact on profit before tax 281 -281 The table shows a partial risk analysis of how the Group’s pre-tax profit would be affected by changes in the values of assets and liabilities in the event of a parallel 10% decrease/increase in forward electricity prices. The analysis only covers assets and liabilities measured at fair value in accordance with IAS 39. MARKET RISK – CURRENCY Agder Energi is exposed to currency risk, mainly through its electricity generation business and retail business. The biggest exposure to currency risk arises from physical electricity sales by the electricity generation business. Nord Pool Spot contracts are settled in euros, and Agder Energi has also entered into long-term contracts to sell electricity that are payable in euros. In addition, currency risk arises as a result of financial trading on NASDAQ OMX being settled in euros. Exposure to currency risk arising from electricity generation over the coming years is hedged in accordance with adopted limits on risk exposure. Exchange rate hedging can be done separately from electricity price hedging. In the retail business, currency risk arises if customers are invoiced in a different currency from the one used to buy the physical electricity, certificates of origin and electricity certificates, or the one used to settle cash-settled electricity futures. This currency risk is hedged through banks or the parent company and is managed at Group level. An independent risk management section is responsible for checking that trading in foreign exchange instruments adheres to the adopted strategies and limits on risk exposure. The table below shows a partial risk analysis of how the Group’s pre-tax profit would be affected by changes in the values of assets and liabilities in the event of a parallel 5% decrease/increase in the NOK/EUR exchange rate. A decrease is taken to mean the Norwegian krone strengthening in relation to the euro. The analysis covers changes in the value of currency futures, basis swaps, foreign currency loans, electricity derivatives, long-term contracts to sell electricity measured at fair value under IAS 39 and ­embedded derivatives within long-term physical contracts. Impact on profit of gains and losses on assets and liabilities in the event of exchange rate fluctuations (Amounts in NOK million) Change in exchange rate (NOK/EUR) -5% 5% Total impact on profit before tax 9 -9 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 80 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR MARKET RISK – INTEREST RATES The vast majority of the Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises from its debt portfolio. The Group also has an offsetting ­exposure to interest rate fluctuations through the deductible interest rate for resource rent purposes, and through the reference interest rate applied to the income cap on its grid operating business. Interest rate swaps are used to achieve the desired e ­ xposure to interest rates within the Group’s debt portfolio. The fixed interest period is set by using fixed-interest loans and interest rate derivatives. Sensitivity to interest rates is measured by modified duration within a defined period of 1 to 5 years. Average duration at the close of the year was 4.2 years. The chosen strategy aims to minimise net financial expenses over the long term, while reducing risk to an acceptable level. It is based around making use of the Group’s natural interest rate hedges, such as the income cap on its grid operating business and the deductible interest rate used to calculate the resource rent tax payable by the power generation business. The group finance department is responsible for taking positions. Exposure to interest rate risk is measured. Current e ­ xposure to interest rate risk in relation to the limit specified in the finance strategy is reported monthly to the CFO. Interest rate exposure is also reported to the Group’s Board of Directors in the risk report. Impact on profit of interest rate fluctuations (Amounts in NOK million) Change in interest rates -1 percentage point +1 percentage point Impact on interest expense (indicates higher expense) 40 -40 Gains and losses on interest rate swaps recognised in profit or loss -223 201 Total impact on profit before tax -183 161 Gains and losses on hedging instruments, cash flow hedges -68 61 Total impact on comprehensive income (before tax) -251 222 The table shows a partial risk analysis of how the Group’s pre-tax profit would be affected by a parallel 1% increase/decrease in the yield curve. It also shows the impact on other comprehensive income and expenses as a result of certain interest rate derivatives being designated as cash flow hedges. All impacts are shown before tax. The analysis only covers interest-bearing liabilities measured at amortised cost under IAS 39 and interest rate derivatives. Breakdown of interest rates by currency 2017 2016 Nominal average interest rate, NOK 3,3% 3,3% Nominal average interest rate, euros 2,0% 2,3% AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 81 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Fixed-interest periods within loan portfolio* (Amounts in NOK million) 1-3 år 3-5 år 5-10 år NOK-denominated loans 3 013 3 955 1 507 Euro-denominated loans 1 440 1 529 1 110 Total 4 453 5 484 2 617 * The table takes into account the impact of interest rate swaps and shows the average volume of hedged loans in the three time frames. CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk that a party to a cash-settled or physical trade will cause his counterparty to incur a loss by failing to fulfil his obligations. Agder Energi takes on counterparty risk by selling and distributing electricity, and by selling other goods and ­services. The trading of financial instruments also gives rise to counterparty risk. The majority of cash-settled electricity contracts are cleared through NASDAQ. For these contracts, there is assumed to be little counterparty risk. For all other electricity c­ ontracts, the maximum exposure to any individual counterparty is determined based on an internal credit rating. The credit rating is based on information such as key financial figures. Counterparties are then grouped in various risk classes, each of which is allocated a maximum exposure level. Bilateral contracts are subject to limits on exposure to individual counterparties, both in terms of value and duration. In order to limit credit risk, bank guarantees are sometimes demanded when a contract is signed. Parent company guarantees are also used. In those cases, the parent company is assessed and classified in the normal way. Agder Energi has good procedures for ensuring that outstanding receivables are paid on time. An ageing analysis of customers is continuously monitored. Historically Agder Energi’s losses on its receivables have been low. The maximum credit risk arising from energy derivatives is virtually identical to the carrying amount on the statement of financial position. For energy derivatives, the credit risk associated with all contracts traded through NASDAQ is limited by the fact that counterparties provide cash collateral or bank guarantees. For bilateral contracts, including long-term electricity contracts with industrial customers, there is not normally any such security. LIQUIDITY RISK Agder Energi is exposed to liquidity risk arising from the fact that its liabilities do not mature at the same time as when cash flows are generated, as well as from variations in margin requirements and settlement dates for futures traded through NASDAQ. Agder Energi manages this risk through liquidity forecasts and simulations, as well as by establishing minimum liquidity requirements. Agder Energi uses a NOK 500 million credit facility with a bank as a reserve for liquidity requirements relating to NASDAQ. In ­addition, Agder Energi has set up NOK 1,500 million of credit facilities with banks to protect itself against refinancing risk. This amount is big enough to provide sufficient time to set up alternative financing arrangements. These facilities were unused at the end of the year. The capital markets consider Agder Energi to be a low-risk borrower, and the Group has good access to credit. Liquidity risk is reassessed regularly. The Group finance department is responsible for ensuring that the Group has adequate liquidity within the framework of the finance strategy. Key figures relating to liquidity risk are included in the Group’s risk report to the Board of Directors. Targets have been established for the minimum remaining term to maturity of the debt portfolio, and credit facilities with banks shall cover all loans maturing within at least 9 months. Maturity structure of liabilities (Amounts in NOK million) Due in Due in Due in Due in Due in Due after Unspeci2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2022 fied Bonds and liabilities to financial institutions 959 1 356 1 366 1 085 1 072 2 621 0 Commercial paper and overdraft facility 781 0 0 0 0 0 0 Interest payments 244 205 177 164 160 575 0 Total interest-bearing liabilities 1 984 1 561 1 543 1 249 1 232 3 196 0 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit 149 84 112 91 83 93 1 020 or loss Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 2 377 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total non-interest-bearing liabilities 2 526 84 112 91 83 93 1 020 Total 4 510 1 645 1 655 1 340 1 315 3 289 1 020 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 82 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Breakdown of loans by currency (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 NOK-denominated loans * 6 278 6 370 Euro-denominated loans 2 999 2 769 Total 9 277 9 139 * The comparative figures for 2016 in the table include one bond with a face value of USD 100 million that matured in 2017. The bond is presented under NOK-denominated loans, as the Group used currency swaps to ensure that it had no exposure to USD exchange rates arising from the loan. See Note 29 on accounting hedges. The Group has 198 million euros of euro-denominated loans. In addition, Agder Energi has used basis swaps to convert NOK 1,000 million of loans into 107 million euros of euro-denominated loans. This is reflected in the above table. The fair value of the swaps at the end of 2017 was NOK -69 million, which was included under derivatives on the statement of financial position; see Note 26. Basis swaps are contracts to swap principal and interest payments between currencies. When the contract expires, the principal is swapped back to the original currency using the exchange rate when the contract was signed. Euro-denominated loans are used as cash flow hedges to secure future cash flows in euros, but hedge accounting is not used. Credit facilities with banks The parent company has a long-term NOK 2,000 million committed facility with a bank to back-stop its short-term borrowing programme in the event of problems in financial markets, as well as to cover liquidity requirements in NASDAQ. The parent ­company has also set up a cash pooling arrangement with an associated NOK 500 million overdraft facility. At the close of the year, the Group had NOK 2,320 million in total in unused credit facilities. NOTE 29 ACCOUNTING HEDGES Agder Energi has various interest swaps linked to specific loans that serve as cash flow hedges, i.e. they are variable-to-fixed ­interest rate swaps. The face value of the hedged items is 91 million euros. Beyond this, the Group had two basis swaps that qualified as accounting hedges. These were linked to a USD-denominated fixedrate bond that matured in 2017. The fact that these basis swaps have matured is the reason for the fall in the value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges in the table below. In addition to the above, until the end of 2013 Agder Energi had designated 168 million euros worth of loans as cash flow hedges of highly probable future revenues from electricity sales. As of 2014, Agder Energi decided not to meet the documentation ­requirements in relation to accounting for these foreign currency loans as hedges. Hedge accounting was no longer used for these loans after that point. Unrealised foreign exchange losses on the loans that arose during the period of hedge accounting will be reversed through profit or loss between now and 2028 in parallel with the recognition of the hedged electricity sales. For its other financial hedging relationships, the Group does not satisfy the extensive documentation requirements specified in the IFRS rules on hedge accounting. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 83 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Fair value of derivatives designated as hedging instruments Derivatives designated as fair value hedges 1 285 Derivatives designated as cash flow hedges -76 -99 Total fair value of derivatives designated as hedging instruments -75 186 Fair value hedges Gains/losses on derivatives used as fair value hedges -54 -37 Gains/losses on hedged items in fair value hedges, hedged risk 54 37 Hedge ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss 0 0 Cash flow hedges Gains/losses recognised in the SoCI 23 5 Reclassified to profit or loss 0 17 Total gains/losses on hedging instruments recognised in the SoCI 23 21 Cash flow hedge ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss 0 0 NOTE 30 MORTGAGED ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND GUARANTEES ISSUED Mortgages Agder Energi AS has no mortgage debt. Subsidiaries held NOK 1 million in mortgage debt. In addition, NOK 15 million of lease liabilities are classified as financial leases and hence included on the statement of financial position. Liabilities and guarantees issued Agder Energi has no covenants relating to financial key figures in its loan agreements. Agder Energi’s loan agreements do contain negative pledge clauses, which also cover its subsidiaries. This means that any new security interests require the consent of the lenders. Agder Energi has NOK 914 (589) million in off-statement of financial position bank guarantees. NOK 124 (163) million of this relates to cash-settled power exchange agreements, NOK 50 (52) million to tax deductions at source, NOK 572 (197) million to settlement/payment guarantees and NOK 168 (177) million to contractual guarantees. At the close of the year, the parent company had issued guarantees worth NOK 20 (8) million in relation to subsidiaries’ external liabilities. Contractual obligations At any given time the Group has several ongoing investment projects that involve obligations to fulfil contracts with subcontractors. The Group also has obligations arising from its ownership interests in joint arrangements and water management associations; cf. Note 16. Agder Energi Varme has entered into a long-term contract to buy heating energy from the municipally-owned enterprise Returkraft. The contract, which runs for 20 years with an optional extension, commits Agder Energi Varme to buying an agreed volume from Returkraft’s waste-to-energy plant in Kristiansand from 2010 onwards. Since 2010, Agder Energi has had its head office in leased premises at Kjøita in Kristiansand. It has signed a 15+5-year lease on the building with the lessor Kjøita 18 AS. The companies in the Otera Group mainly occupy leased premises. In addition, several companies in the Group have leased cars. NOK 75 million was expensed in relation to these leases in 2017. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 84 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 31 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE REPORTING PERIOD Agder Energi’s operations are extensive, and it can therefore get involved in major and minor disputes from time to time. Contingent liabilities Tax In a provisional decision, the Central Tax Office for Large Enterprises has denied Agder Energi Vannkraft the right to deduct the resource rent for the 85 GWh of free electricity that it has supplied annually in the period since 2011. Agder Energi Vannkraft does not consider that the Central Tax Office for Large Enterprises has any justification for this, and has requested that the draft ­decision be overturned. Based on the precautionary principle, the financial statements assume that the company will not be able to deduct the value of the free electricity it supplies from its resource rent. On account of negative resource rent carryforwards, there would also be little immediate impact on cash flows. However, in the future it could increase the Group’s tax expense and reduce its cash flows by NOK 5-10 million per year. Concession power in the Mandal river system In conjunction with Royal Decree of 6 December 2013 relating to further exploitation of Lake Skjerkevatn and Royal Decree of 3 February 2017 on the so-called Åseral projects, the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy (OED) has changed the price terms for some of Agder Energi Vannkraft’s existing obligations to supply concession power (approximately 30 GWh). Agder Energi Vannkraft had expected the extra electricity generated under the new licences to be subject to the OED price, but thought that electricity ­generated under the existing licences granted prior to 1959 would continue to be supplied at the cost at the relevant power station. The change in the price terms may result in an annual loss of revenue of NOK 2-3 million. Agder Energi Vannkraft considers that the OED has no grounds to change the price terms for older licences in conjunction with issuing the two aforementioned licences, and has decided to take legal action against the central government in order to overturn the change in the price terms. Until the question of the price terms has been finally decided, Agder Energi Vannkraft will supply the abovementioned concession power at the OED price. NOTE 32 MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION, ETC. Board of Directors The compensation of the Board of Directors and Corporate Assembly for 2017 was NOK 1,455,800 and NOK 17,200 respectively. The equivalent figures in 2016 were NOK 1,106,600 and NOK 17,200 respectively. The Board members are not entitled to any special termination benefits such as bonuses, profit-sharing or options. All of the stated figures exclude employers’ NICs. Board of Directors (Amounts in NOK) Directors’ fees Board meetings attended Lars Erik Torjussen, chair 495 800 8 Tine Sundtoft, deputy chair 170 000 5 Jill Heidi Eklund Akselsen, Board member 125 000 7 Leif Atle Beisland, Board member 150 000 6 Steinar Bysveen, Board member* 0 8 Steinar Asbjørnsen, Board member* 0 6 Marit Grimsbo, Board member* 0 8 Siw Linnea Poulsson, Board member* 0 8 Johan Ekeland, employee representative Board member 110 000 7 Øyvind Østensen, employee representative Board member 110 000 7 Gro Granås, employee representative Board member 110 000 6 Tore Kvarsnes, employee representative Board member 110 000 7 * Employees of Statkraft are not paid Directors’ fees. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 85 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR In 2017, the audit committee appointed by the Board received NOK 25,000 in fees. In 2017, Board members’ deputies received NOK 75,000 in fees. None of the Board members received compensation from any other companies in the Group, with the exception of the employee representatives, who receive salaries for their ordinary jobs. Their compensation as Agder Energi employees is not included in the above figures. No Board members have any loans from the company. Senior management team (Amounts in NOK 1,000) Period Salary Bonus 2) Other Total Pension benefits 1) taxable expense income Tom Nysted – CEO Whole year 3 109 133 3 242 783 Pernille K. Gulowsen – CFO Whole year 1 867 111 1 978 583 Unni Farestveit – CSR Director Whole year 1 868 114 1 982 600 Steffen Syvertsen – Business Area Director, Marketing Until 7 May Steffen Syvertsen – Business Area Director, Energy From 8 2 035 537 121 2 693 236 Management May Anders Gaudestad – Business Area Director, Marketing From 8 967 75 1 042 107 May Frank Håland – Director of Shared Services Whole year 1 867 112 1 979 243 Jan T. Tønnessen – Business Area Director, Whole year 1 868 111 1 979 226 Hydroelectric Power Edvard Lauen Business Area Director Kraftforvaltning Until 7 May 897 482 1 379 232 1) Other benefits include mileage allowances, mobile phones and other benefits. A flat in Kristiansand has been made available to the CEO. 2) Bonus paid out in 2017. This amount includes holiday pay that will be received in 2018. Loans/guarantees issued and share option schemes No members of the senior management team have been granted loans or had guarantees issued on their behalf by Agder Energi. Agder Energi does not have any share option schemes for management or other employees. Bonuses and pension plans The Business Area Director Steffen Syvertsen is entitled to a bonus worth up to four months’ gross basic salary based on an ­assessment of the results achieved against defined goals. The rest of the senior management team have no bonus agreements for 2017. The CEO has a pension plan that allows him to retire at the age of 67 with a pension equivalent to 66% of his qualifying salary. The qualifying salary is based on his regular salary, and the cost of his pension includes retirement pension benefits in excess of 12G, which are not covered by the National Insurance Scheme or the public sector occupational pension plan. In order to receive this pension, he must have 30 years of qualifying service. The CEO must retire at the age of 67, but between the ages of 62 and 67 both the company and the CEO may decide that he should vacate his position as CEO. The notice period is six months. For other members of the senior management team, the notice period is also six months. There are no special agreements on termination compensation. The executive directors Pernille K. Gulowsen and Unni Farestveit are entitled to a pension equivalent to 66% of their qualifying salaries on retirement at the age of 67, subject to them having 30 years of qualifying service. Their qualifying salaries shall be based on their regular salaries, and the cost of their pensions includes retirement pension benefits in excess of 12G, which are not covered by the National Insurance Scheme or the public sector occupational pension plan. Jan T. Tønnessen, Steffen Syvertsen, Frank Håland and Anders Gaudestad have defined contribution pension plans in line with the Group’s standard pension plan. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 86 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 33 RELATED PARTIES All associates and joint arrangements specified in Note 16 are classified as related parties of Agder Energi. The Group had NOK 5 million of sales to such companies in 2017. The people specified in Note 32, who are members of the Group’s senior management team or Board of Directors, are also related parties of Agder Energi. Agder Energi’s largest shareholder is Statkraft Industrial Holding, which owns 45.525% of the shares in the company. Sales to companies in the Statkraft Group amounted to NOK 29 million in 2017 and NOK 29 million in 2016. Purchases from those ­companies amounted to NOK 54 million in 2017 and NOK 144 million in 2016. Statkraft Industrial Holding AS is also a joint owner of several of the joint arrangements in which Agder Energi holds an ownership interest. All transactions with related parties are carried out on an arm’s length basis. NOTE 34 ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSALS AND BUY-OUT OF NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Acquisitions The table below shows the businesses that were acquired in 2017. All acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method. The list below does not include capital increases or other financing from Agder Energi. Acquisitions in 2017 Company Country Interest bought in Ownership interest Activities 2017 in% at 31/12/2017 Markedskraft Deutschland GmbH * Germany 100,0 100,0 Portfolio management Entelios AG Germany 100,0 100,0 Demand response Systempartner AS Norway 100,0 100,0 IT operations * The name is changed to Agder Energi Solutions GmbH. The total cost of ownership interests acquired in 2017 was NOK 45 million. Overall calculation of net assets and goodwill at the time of acquisition for acquisitions in 2017 (Amounts in NOK million) Carrying amounts (IFRS) at Asset write-up Acquisition SoFP acquisition date Intangible assets 10 48 58 Property, plant and equipment 5 0 5 Trade debtors and other current receivables 28 0 28 Bank deposits 7 0 7 Deferred tax 0 -10 -10 Trade payables and other current liabilities -30 0 -30 Net assets 20 38 58 Non-controlling interests 0 0 0 Net assets acquired 20 38 58 Goodwill 0 0 0 Total net assets acquired plus goodwill 20 38 58 Cash consideration for shares 47 Total consideration 47 A NOK 11 million gain was recognised in conjunction with one of the acquisitions since the value of the net recognised assets exceeded the consideration paid. This was due to expected future losses at the acquisition date. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 87 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Acquisitions in 2016 Company Country Interest bought in Ownership interest Activities 2016 in% at 31/12/2016 Telge Kraft AB 1) Sweden 100,0 100,0 Retail market IPnett AS 2) Norway 100,0 100,0 Telecommunications Nordgröön Energie GmbH & Co. KG Germany 61,4 61,4 Electricity aggregator 1) The name is changed to LOS Energy AB. 2) The company was sold in 2017 in conjunction with the sale of NetNordic. Calculation of net assets and goodwill at the time of acquisition of Telge Kraft (Amounts in NOK million) Carrying amounts (IFRS) at Asset write-up Acquisition SoFP acquisition date Intangible assets 0 29 29 Inventories 36 6 42 Trade debtors and other current receivables 512 0 512 Derivatives 0 43 43 Bank deposits 22 0 22 Deferred tax 0 -17 -17 Trade payables and other current liabilities -542 0 -542 Net assets 28 61 89 Non-controlling interests 0 Net assets acquired 89 Goodwill 37 Total net assets acquired plus goodwill 126 Cash consideration for shares 126 Total consideration 126 Calculation of net assets and goodwill at the time of acquisition of IPnett (Amounts in NOK million) Carrying amounts (IFRS) at Asset write-up Acquisition SoFP acquisition date Deferred tax assets 7 0 7 Intangible assets 3 21 24 Property, plant and equipment 17 0 17 Inventories 31 0 31 Trade debtors and other current receivables 75 0 75 Bank deposits 47 0 47 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities -11 0 -11 Interest-bearing current liabilities -17 0 -17 Trade payables and other current liabilities -129 0 -129 Net assets 24 21 45 Non-controlling interests 0 Net assets acquired 45 Goodwill 21 Total net assets acquired plus goodwill 66 Cash consideration for shares 43 Consideration for shares settled with shares in acquirer 23 Total consideration 66 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 88 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Disposals In 2017, Agder Energi sold NetNordic Holding AS. Discontinued operations therefore refers to that company. The transaction was completed in August. The table below shows how the figure for profit from discontinued operations is calculated, broken down into the operating ­performance until disposal and the gain/loss on disposal. (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Operating revenues 433 582 Operating expenses -407 -576 Operating profit 26 6 Net financial income/expenses -3 -6 Profit before tax 23 0 Tax expense -3 2 Net income 20 2 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 224 0 Tax on gain on disposal of discontinued operations 0 0 Net income from discontinued operations 244 2 Net cash provided by operating activities 25 3 Net cash provided by/used in investing activities 178 -54 Net cash provided by financing activities 11 67 Net cash flow from discontinued operations 214 16 The financial results for 2016 have been reclassified from continuing operations to discontinued operations. The table below shows the impact on the restated lines in the income statement. 2016 (Amounts in NOK million) Previously Change Restated reported Other operating revenues 2 100 -582 1 518 Other raw materials and consumables used -1 317 336 -981 Employee benefits -1 014 177 -837 Depreciation and impairment losses -608 7 -601 Other operating expenses -853 56 -797 Financial income 16 -3 13 Financial expenses -266 9 -257 Income tax -154 -2 -156 Net income 262 0 262 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 89 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 35 GROUP STRUCTURE The table below shows the companies in the Agder Energi Group at 31/12/2017. Subsidiaries Ownership interest in%* Country Agder Energi Nett AS 100.0 Norway Agder Energi Vannkraft AS 100.0 Norway Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning AS 100.0 Norway LOS AS 100.0 Norway LOS Energy AS 100.0 Norway LOS Energy AB 100.0 Sweden LOS Energy Trading AB 100.0 Sweden LOS Energy ApS 100.0 Denmark LOS Energy OY 100.0 Finland Enfo AS 100.0 Norway Entelios GmbH 100.0 Germany Agder Energi Solutions GmbH 100.0 Germany Nordgröön Energie GmbH 61.4 Germany Otera Infra AS 100.0 Norway Otera Sverige AB 100.0 Sweden Otera AB 70.0 Sweden Otera Ratel AB 100.0 (70.0) Sweden European Electric Technology AB 100.0 (70.0) Sweden Otera Ratel AS 100.0 (70.0) Norway Agder Energi Varme AS 100.0 Norway Norsk Varmeog Energiproduksjon AS 100.0 Norway Baltic Hydroenergy AS 100.0 Norway UAB Baltic Hydroenergy 100.0 Lithuania JSC Latgales Energetika 64.0 Latvia Stoaveien 14 AS 100.0 Norway Stoa 192 AS 100.0 Norway Stoa 234 AS 100.0 Norway Agder Energi Venture AS 100.0 Norway NEG AS 67.1 Norway Norsk Energigjenvinning AS 100.0 (67.1) Norway NEG Skog AS 100.0 (67.1) Norway NEG Flis AS 100.0 (67.1) Norway Norsk Biobrensel AS 100.0 (67.1) Norway Norbio AB 100.0 (67.1) Sweden Norbio Energi AS 100.0 (67.1) Norway HPE Holding AS 100.0 Norway Cleanpower AS 67.0 Norway Bioenergy AS 67.9 Norway Bio Energy Sales AS 100.0 (67.9) Norway Lahaugmoen Drift AS 100.0 (67.9) Norway Adaptic AS 95.0 Norway Verdisikring Safety AS 100.0 (95.0) Norway Ledlight Group AS 100.0 (95.0) Norway Meventus AS 100.0 Norway Meventus ApS 100.0 Denmark Meventus AB 100.0 Sweden ReSiTec AS 92.5 Norway Metallkraft AS 99.4 (91.9) Norway Netsecurity AS 91.2 Norway Systempartner AS 100.0 (91.2) Norway AE Venture Energy AS 100.0 Norway * Figures in brackets indicate Agder Energi AS’s indirect ownership interest in companies where it holds minority interests through intermediate companies. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 90 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Non-controlling interests Most of the Group’s non-controlling interests relate to the subsidiary groups Otera AB and NEG AS. Their turnover and profit are shown in the table below, together with a summary statement of financial position. Otera AB NEG AS (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Operating revenues 560 597 152 192 Net income -32 26 1 1 Non-controlling interest’s share of net income -10 8 0 0 Assets 180 186 126 124 Liabilities 301 263 89 84 Equity 1) -121 -77 37 40 Non-controlling interest’s share of equity 0 0 12 13 1) In the case of Otera AB, the parent company is a pure holding company, and the group’s activities are carried out through two subsidiaries. The group’s negative equity is due to a business combination that resulted in the parent company being financed through a vendor credit from its sister company Otera Sverige AB. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 91 III III < > Introductrion Introduction governance Corporategovernance Corporate The TheAgder AgderEnergi Energi Group Group Agder Energi Agder ASAS Energi CSR CSR AGDER ENERGI AS AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 92 III < > Introductrion Introduction governance Corporategovernance Corporate The The Agder Agder Energi Energi Group Group Agder Energi Agder ASAS Energi CSR CSR AGDER ENERGI AS FINANCIAL STATEMENT Click on the text to go to the page of your choice Income statement 94 Statement of financial position 95 Statement of cash flows 96 Accounting principles 97 NOTES Note 1 Intra-group transactions and balances 99 Note 2 Employee benefits, management compensation, etc. 99 Note 3 Pensions 100 Note 4 Auditor’s fee 102 Note 5 Other operating expenses 102 Note 6 Financial income and expenses 102 Note 7 Tax 103 Note 8 Intangible assets 104 Note 9 Property, plant and equipment 104 Note 10 Other non-current financial assets 104 Note 11 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 105 Note 12 Cash and cash equivalents 106 Note 13 Equity 106 Note 14 Interest-bearing liabilities 106 Note 15 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 107 Note 16 Provisions 107 Note 17 Market and financial risk 107 Note 18 Contingent liabilities 108 Note 19 Mortgaged assets, liabilities and guarantees issued 108 Auditor’s report 109 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 93 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR INCOME STATEMENT (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Other operating revenues 1 268 277 Total operating revenues 268 277 Employee benefits 2, 3 -198 -183 Depreciation and impairment losses 8, 9 -15 -14 Other operating expenses 1, 4, 5 -177 -199 Total operating expenses -390 -396 Operating profit -122 -118 Financial income 1, 6 2 196 1 643 Financial expenses 1, 6 -1 052 -575 Net financial income/expenses 1 144 1 068 Profit before tax 1 021 950 Tax expense 7 -87 -165 Net income 935 785 Allocation of profit: Proposed dividends 13 606 607 Transferred to other reserves 13 329 178 Total appropriations 935 785 Earnings per share/Earnings per share, diluted (NOK) 346 291 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 94 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Intangible assets 8 7 12 Property, plant and equipment 9 31 38 Investments in subsidiaries 11 3 444 3 316 Investments in associates 11 65 42 Other non-current financial assets 10 8 746 7 947 Total non-current assets 12 294 11 355 Receivables 1 1 758 1 331 Cash and cash equivalents 12 177 744 Total current assets 1 935 2 075 TOTAL ASSETS 14 229 13 430 Paid-in capital 13 1 907 1 907 Retained earnings 13 1 429 1 178 Total equity 3 337 3 085 Deferred tax 7 82 118 Provisions 3, 16 358 333 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 14 8 430 7 962 Total non-current liabilities 8 870 8 413 Interest-bearing current liabilities 14, 17 600 850 Tax payable 7 7 91 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 1, 13, 15 1 416 991 Total current liabilities 2 023 1 932 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 14 229 13 430 Kristiansand, 5th April 2018 Board of Directors of Agder Energi AS Lars Erik Torjussen Tine Sundtoft Jill Akselsen Leif Atle Beisland Steinar Bysveen Chair Deputy chair Marit Grimsbo Steinar Asbjørnsen Siw Linnea Poulsson Johan Ekeland Øyvind Østensen Tore Kvarsnes Gro Granås Tom Nysted CEO AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 95 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities Profit before tax 1 021 950 Depreciation and impairment losses 6, 8, 9 75 14 Cash flows from investments in subsidiaries -1 238 -1 109 Tax paid -91 -119 Change in net working capital, etc. -42 106 Net cash provided by operating activities -275 -158 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets -3 -9 Acquisitions/financial investments and equity investments in subsidiaries -29 -42 Net change in loans -754 -619 Sale of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 2 2 Sale of businesses/financial assets 24 253 Net cash used in investing activities -760 -415 Financing activities New long-term borrowings 1 410 1 113 Repayment of long-term borrowings -1 077 -1 410 Net change in current interest-bearing liabilities -250 300 Intra-group distributions received 855 913 Intra-group distributions paid out -239 -153 Dividends received from subsidiaries 376 295 Dividends paid -607 -660 Net cash used in financing activities 468 398 Net change in cash and cash equivalents -567 -175 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 744 919 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 177 744 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 96 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES The financial statements have been the exception of research and developthe Group’s overall debt portfolio. Instru­presented in compliance with the Norwement costs, which are expensed as they ments in the hedging portfolio thus meet gian Accounting Act and generally are incurred. This means that expenses the criteria for hedge accounting, which ­accepted accounting principles. associated with intangible assets are means that all profit and loss effects are ­ included on the statement of financial recognised over the contract period and Accrual, classification and measureposition if it is considered probable that the value of the portfolio is kept off the ment principles future economic benefits attributable to statement of financial position. In accordance with generally accepted the assets will flow to the company and it accounting principles, the financial has been possible to reliably measure the Foreign currency and currency s­tatements are based on the historical acquisition cost of the asset. ­instruments cost, revenue recognition, matching, The finance department manages the conservatism, hedging and congruence ­ Property, plant and equipment Group’s overall exposure to currency risk. principles. In the event of uncertainty, Property, plant and equipment is depreTo some extent Agder Energi AS acts as best judgement is applied. Financial staciated in a straight line over its anticipaa counterparty within the Group when it tements are prepared using uniform ted useful life. Maintenance on property, does not make sense to hedge subsidi­ principles that are applied consistently ­ plant and equipment is considered an aries’ exposure to currency risk directly over time. The financial statements have operating expense, while upgrades and in the market. Where the parent company been prepared on the assumption of the replacements are added to the acquisitihas acted as a counterparty in conjuncbusiness being a going concern. on cost of the asset and are depreciated tion with the need of subsidiaries to together with the asset. The distinction ­ hedge their currency risk exposure Recognition of revenues and expenses between maintenance and upgrades/­ ­ arising from electricity sales, the Revenues and expenses are recognised improvements is judged on the basis of ­contracts are accounted for as part of in profit or loss when they are earned/ the condition of the asset when it was the Group’s currency hedging activities. incurred. Revenues from the sale of acquired. These contracts are presented on the goods are recognised on delivery. Revestatement of financial position at fair nues from services are recognised in the Non-current financial investments ­value, with changes in fair value recogniincome statement as they are supplied. The historical cost method is used for sed through profit or loss. shares, bonds and other financial instruGeneral principles for measurement ments. This means that shares/ownersReceivables and classification hip interests are carried at cost, and any Trade debtors and other receivables are Current assets and current liabilities dividends received are recognised as presented on the statement of financial cover items that are due for payment ­ other financial income. Dividends and position at their nominal value less ­within one year of the transaction date, intra-group distributions received are ­anticipated bad debts. Provisions for bad ­ as well as items relating to the business recognised if the underlying profit was debts are made on the basis of individual ­ cycle. Other items are classified as nonearned while the asset was owned by the assessments of the individual receivacurrent assets or non-current liabilities. Group. Intra-group distributions received bles. Current assets are carried at the lower of are recognised in the year that they are cost and fair value. Current liabilities are allocated by subsidiaries. Dividends from Cash pooling arrangement carried at their nominal value on the subsidiaries are also recognised in the Agder Energi AS is part of a cash pooling ­initial date. year that they are appropriated by the arrangement with its subsidiaries. This subsidiary. Investments are written down means that the Group has a joint bank ac­ Non-current assets are carried at cost, to fair value if there is evidence of othercount for short-term deposits and shortbut are written down to the recoverable than-temporary impairment. Dividends term loans. Interest income and ­interest amount if there is evidence of impairfrom associates are recognised when expenses arising from the cash pooling ment, in compliance with the Norwegian they are approved. arrangement are classified as ­external in accounting standard on the impairment the company’s income statement. of non-current assets. Interest rate swaps Interest rate swaps are used to match the Pensions Intangible assets duration and interest rate sensitivity of Defined benefit pension plan Intangible assets are included on the the company’s debt portfolio to the Pension costs and pension liabilities are statement of financial position if they ­ Group’s policy and strategy. Interest rate calculated using a linear accumulation meet the criteria for capitalisation, with swaps are managed within the context of model based on assumptions relating to AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 97 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR discount rates, projected salaries, the ­ eferred tax liabilities/assets are calcuD Contingent liabilities and contingent ­level of benefits from the National Insulated on the basis of the temporary difassets rance Scheme and future returns on ferences that exist between accounting If there is a greater than 50% probability ­pension plan assets, as well as actuarial and tax values, as well as the tax effect that an uncertain liability will need to be calculations of mortality, voluntary of any loss carryforwards. Deferred tax settled, a provision is made based on a turnover, etc. Pension plan assets are assets are only recognised on the statebest estimate of what the settlement will measured at their fair value, and have ment of financial position if it is likely that be. If there is a smaller than 50% probabeen deducted in the net pension liabilithey will be realised in the future. Tax on bility that an uncertain liability will need ties presented on the statement of finanequity transactions is recognised directly to be settled, information is provided in cial position. Remeasurements over the in equity. the notes. Contingent assets are not course of the year are recognised in the ­recognised, but if there is a greater than statement of financial position at the end Liabilities 50% probability that the company will of the year, so that the carrying amount Agder Energi AS uses the amortised cost receive payment, information is provided always reflects the full extent of the liabiprinciple, and consequently the effective in the notes. The amount is not estimated lities. In the event of changes in pension interest rate method, for interest and if it would be inappropriate to do so u­ nder obligations arising from plan amendliabilities. Under the effective interest ­ generally accepted accounting princiments, the portion of the change that has rate method, the carrying amount of a ples. Furthermore, under generally already been accrued at the time of the loan is the sum of future cash flows accepted accounting principles entities ­ amendment is recognised directly in the ­attributable to the loan discounted by the shall be able to recognise liabilities/­ income statement. Pension expenses and original effective interest rate calculated provide information based on best judgenet pension liabilities include a charge for for the cash flows. This means that loan ment without this prejudicing the out­ employers’ national insurance contribuarrangement fees are deducted on initial come of any court case. tions. recognition, and that over the duration of the loan, the difference between the Statement of cash flows Defined contribution plan ­nominal interest rate (the rate charged) The statement of cash flows has been For defined contribution plans, the and the effective interest rate (the rate prepared using the indirect method. Cash ­pension expense is equivalent to the preexpensed) is recognised in the statement and cash equivalents includes cash, bank miums/contributions paid over the courof financial position under amortisation. deposits and other short-term, liquid se of the year. In practice loans are therefore initially ­investments that can be converted into ­recognised at their face value less arranknown cash values immediately and at Taxes gement fees, which means that the debt insignificant risk, and that mature less Income tax is calculated in accordance is not carried on the statement of finanthan three months after their acquisition with standard tax rules. The tax expense cial position at its nominal value. dates. in the income statement consists of tax payable and changes in deferred tax A provision is made for Agder Energi AS’s ­liabilities/assets. Tax payable is calculaproposed dividends at 31 December. ted on the taxable profit for the year. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 98 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTES NOTE 1 INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Intra-group balances Other non-current financial assets 10 8,157 7,455 Trade receivables 30 30 Other current receivables 1,691 1,241 Total receivables 9 878 8 726 Trade payables 15 1 2 Other current liabilities 15 630 239 Total liabilities 631 240 Revenues and expenses relating to intra-group transactions Other operating revenues 248 258 Total operating revenues 248 258 Other operating expenses 22 20 Total operating expenses 22 20 Cash flows from investments in subsidiaries 6 1,238 1,109 Other interest and financial income 242 232 Other interest and financial expenses 15 39 Net financial income/expenses 1 466 1 304 NOTE 2 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS, MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION, ETC. (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Employee benefits Salary 149 144 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 21 20 Pension expense including employers’ NICs 3 13 11 Other benefits and reimbursements 15 8 Total 198 183 Number of full-time equivalents at 31 Dec. 157 153 For details of management compensation and non-executive Directors’ fees at Agder Energi AS, please see Note 32 to the consolidated financial statements. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 99 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 3 PENSIONS The company’s pension plans For people taken on before 1 April 2007, the company has a defined benefit pension plan run by Agder Energi Pensjonskasse, which meets the legal requirements for public sector occupational pension plans. Employees taken on after that date are members of a defined contribution pension plan. Defined benefit pension plans The Group has a funded public pension plan for its employees, which entitles them to defined future pension benefits, based on number of years of service and salary on reaching retirement age. Provisions for pension liabilities in the pension plan are calculated using a linear accumulation model based on methods and assumptions that comply with the relevant current accounting standard. Pension liabilities were calculated by an independent actuary in December, and represent an estimate of the situation at 31 ­December 2017. Similarly, the gross pension plan assets at 31 December 2017 were estimated by the Group’s management in December. Certain current and former senior managers are entitled to pension benefits over and above those covered by the company ­pension plan. Provisions for these plans are presented under unfunded pension liabilities. Early retirement schemes (AFP schemes) Employees are covered by different AFP schemes, depending on whether they are part of the defined benefit or defined contri­ bution pension plans. Employees covered by the public pension plan have, in addition to their occupational pension, an early retirement scheme, known as an AFP scheme. This is a so-called public sector AFP scheme, set up as of 2011. The scheme does not receive any government subsidy. The company is therefore liable for all of its obligations under the scheme. Employees covered by the defined contribution plan are entitled to a private AFP scheme. This AFP scheme is funded by contri­ butions made by the employer. The contribution for 2017 was 2.5%. Actuarial assumptions When calculating the pension expense and net pension liabilities, a number of assumptions have been made (see table below). The company uses the latest version of the Norwegian life tables (GAP 07), for life expectancy, probability of disability, etc. The pension expense for the year has been calculated as follows (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Current service cost 12 11 Administration costs 1 0 Interest income/expenses on pension assets/liabilities -7 -5 Employers’ National Insurance Contributions 2 2 Employee contributions -1 -1 Pension expense for the year, defined benefit plans 7 7 Defined contribution pension plans (including employers’ NICs) 6 4 Total pension expense recognised in the income statement 13 11 The total pension expense also includes unfunded plans for senior managers. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 100 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Pension liabilities and pension plan assets (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Gross funded pension liabilities 367 339 Unfunded pension liabilities 127 108 Gross pension liabilities at 31 Dec. (including employers’ NICs) 494 447 Fair value of pension plan assets at 31 Dec. 771 709 Net pension liabilities (+)/assets(-) at 31 Dec. -277 -262 Change in defined benefit pension liabilities Net defined benefit pension liabilities at 1 Jan. -262 -190 Pension expense recognised in profit or loss 7 7 Company contributions incl. employers’ NICs -6 -29 Pension benefits included under operating expenses -3 -3 Remeasurements -14 -50 Net pension liabilities (+)/assets(-) at 31 Dec. -277 -262 Net pension assets 404 370 Pension liabilities 128 108 Net pension liabilities (+)/assets(-) at 31 Dec. -277 -262 Remeasurements are made up of: Changes in demographic assumptions 20 -8 Changes in financial assumptions 16 -8 Excess return on assets -51 -34 Remeasurements recognised on statement of financial position -14 -50 The remeasurements in 2017 were mainly due to an excess return on pension plan assets and a change in the discount rate applied. Assumptions used to determine pension liabilities at 31 Dec. 2017 2016 Discount rate 2.30% 2.60% Annual wage growth 2.50% 2.50% Increase in the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (“G”) 2.25% 2.25% Annual indexing of pensions 1.50% 1.50% Expected average remaining years of service (funded) 7.1 7.8 Expected average remaining years of service (unfunded) 7.2 5.9 The assumptions used to calculate pension liabilities almost entirely follow the Norwegian Accounting Standards Board’s guidelines on actuarial assumptions as of 31 December 2017. Number of people covered by the pension plans 2017 2016 Defined benefit plan: current employees 73 72 Defined benefit plan: accrued entitlements and retired employees 319 323 Defined contribution plan: current employees 79 72 Current employees entitled to public sector AFP, and early retirees 61 54 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 101 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 4 AUDITOR’S FEE (Amounts in NOK 000s excl. VAT) 2017 2016 Total fees paid to auditor for auditing and other services comprise the following: Statutory audit 532 640 Other certification services 4 0 Tax advice 4 10 Other services not related to auditing 25 9 Total 565 658 NOTE 5 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Property-related expenses, lease of machinery and office equipment 46 54 Purchase of plant and equipment 5 4 External services 110 130 Office supplies, telecommunications, postage, etc. 4 4 Travel expenses, subsistence allowances, mileage expenses, etc. 8 7 Sales, advertising, representation, membership fees and gifts 5 6 Other operating expenses -1 -7 Total 177 199 NOTE 6 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Income from investments in subsidiaries* 1,238 1,109 Profit/loss on investments in associates 10 7 Exchange rate gain 707 292 Other interest and financial income 242 236 Total financial income 2 196 1 643 Impairment charge against non-current financial assets 60 0 Exchange rate losses 706 288 Other interest and financial expenses 286 288 Total financial expenses 1 052 575 Net financial income/expenses 1 144 1 068 * Profit/loss from investments in subsidiaries comprises allocated dividends, intra-group distributions from subsidiaries and gains on the disposal of subsidiaries. These amounts are recognised in the income statement as they are considered to reflect the return on the investment. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 102 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 7 TAX (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 The tax expense consists of Income tax payable 126 150 Change in deferred income tax -40 18 Corrections to previous years’ tax assessments 1 -3 Tax expense in income statement 87 165 Tax payable on the statement of financial position Profit before tax 1,021 950 Permanent differences -647 -259 Change in temporary differences 151 -89 Profit/loss for income tax purposes 525 601 Income tax payable 126 150 Taxable intra-group distributions -119 -60 Tax payable on the statement of financial position 7 91 Reconciliation of nominal tax rate with effective tax rate Profit before tax 1 021 950 Expected tax based on nominal rate 245 237 Tax effect of Non-deductible expenses/non-taxable income -155 -65 Corrections to previous years’ tax assessments 1 -3 Impact of change in tax rate -4 -5 Tax expense in income statement 87 165 Effective tax rate 8% 17% Breakdown of temporary differences/deferred tax assets Property, plant and equipment -14 -13 Current assets/liabilities -43 196 Pension liabilities 330 326 Derivatives 83 -18 Total taxable (+)/deductible (-) temporary difference 357 492 Total capitalised deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) 82 118 Changes in net deferred income tax over the year: Net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 1 Jan. 118 88 Change in net deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) on items recognised in equity 3 12 Change in deferred tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) recognised through profit or loss -40 18 Net deferred income tax liabilities (+)/assets (-) at 31 Dec. 82 118 Changes in deferred tax on items recognised in equity Remeasurements of pensions 3 12 Total change 3 12 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 103 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 8 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (Amounts in NOK million) Software Cost as of 01/01/2017 39 Additions 1 Disposals 3 Cost as of 31/12/2017 36 Accumulated depreciation at 31/12/2017 27 Accumulated impairment losses at 31/12/2017 2 Carrying amount at 31/12/2017 7 Depreciation for the year 6 Impairment losses for the year 0 Useful life/depreciation period 3-8 years NOTE 9 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Amounts in NOK million) Properties Vehicles, fixtures, Total property, plant fittings, machinery, and equipment etc. Cost as of 01/01/2017 35 32 67 Additions 0 3 3 Disposals 1 1 1 Cost as of 31/12/2017 35 34 69 Accumulated depreciation at 31/12/2017 11 27 37 Accumulated impairment losses at 31/12/2017 0 0 0 Carrying amount at 31/12/2017 24 7 31 Depreciation for the year 2 7 8 Impairment losses for the year 0 0 0 Useful life/depreciation period 25 years – not 3-8 years depreciated NOTE 10 OTHER NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Loans to Group companies 1 8,157 7,455 Loans to associates 1 2 Other non-current receivables 1) 184 120 Pension assets 3 404 370 Total non-current financial assets 8 746 7 947 1) Other non-current receivables mainly comprise a subordinated loan and a vendor credit provided in conjunction with the sale of the shares in Ventelo. They also include foreign currency loans and a guarantee to NASDAQ. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 104 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 11 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES (Amounts in NOK million) Registered The company’s The company’s Ownership Carrying office equity profit/loss interest and amount* voting rights Subsidiaries Agder Energi Vannkraft AS Kristiansand 2 386 996 100% 1 937 Agder Energi Kraftforvaltning AS Kristiansand 23 1 100% 20 Agder Energi Nett AS Arendal 1 003 167 100% 613 LOS AS Kristiansand 102 43 100% 214 LOS Energy AB 1) Södertälje 55 21 100% 146 LOS Energy AS Kristiansand 261 27 100% 110 Otera Infra AS Kristiansand 48 -26 100% 71 Otera AB 1) Stockholm -121 -32 67% 0 Otera Sverige AB Stockholm 134 4 100% 72 Agder Energi Varme AS 1) Kristiansand 122 3 100% 125 Agder Energi Venture AS 1) Kristiansand 139 215 100% 68 Agder Energi Solutions GmbH 1) Berlin -5 -11 100% 14 Stoaveien 14 AS Kristiansand 6 2 100% 1 Stoa 192 AS Kristiansand 1 0 100% 2 Stoa 234 AS Kristiansand 1 0 100% 2 Baltic Hydroenergy AS 1) Kristiansand 34 6 100% 34 Enfo AS Bærum 2 -3 100% 16 Entelios AG München -13 -26 100% 0 Total shares in subsidiaries 3 444 Associates and joint ventures 2) Statkraft Agder Energi Vind DA*** Kristiansand 0 -42 38% 7 North Connect KS** Kristiansand 16 -47 22% 21 North Connect AS** Kristiansand -2 -5 22% 3 Grønn Kontakt AS *** Kristiansand 3 -13 47% 32 Others 2 Total for associates and joint ventures 65 * Carried at the lower of cost and fair value ** Associates *** Joint ventures 1) Subsidiaries of Agder Energi AS with subsidiary groups. For an overview of the Group’s organisation structure, see Note 35 of the consolidated financial statements. 2) The equity and profit of associates and joint ventures has been estimated for 2017. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 105 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 12 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 0 289 Deposits in cash pooling arrangement 177 455 Total 177 744 Agder Energi AS has set up a cash pooling arrangement with an associated NOK 500 million overdraft facility. Most subsidiaries in which the parent company holds an ownership interest of at least 50% take part in the cash pooling arrangement and are jointly and severally liable to the bank for the overdraft facility. A NOK 50 million bank guarantee covering Agder Energi AS and its subsidiaries has been used a security for tax deductions at source. NOTE 13 EQUITY (Amounts in NOK million) Note Share capital Share Other paid-in Other Total equity premium capital reserves account Equity at 01/01/2017 1,809 47 51 1,178 3,085 Net income for the year 0 0 0 935 935 Remeasurements of pensions 3 0 0 0 11 11 Allocated for dividends 15 0 0 0 -606 -606 Merger 0 0 0 -88 -88 Equity at 31.12.17 1 809 47 51 1 429 3 337 For details of share capital and shareholder information, please refer to Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements. NOTE 14 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 Non-current liabilities with a term to maturity of more than 5 years Liabilities to financial institutions 866 1,024 Bonds 1,756 1,175 Total 2 622 2 199 Non-current liabilities with a term to maturity of more than 5 years Liabilities to financial institutions 1 584 1 276 Bonds 4 225 4 487 Total 5 809 5 763 Total interest-bearing non-current liabilities 8 430 7 962 Interest-bearing current liabilities Commercial paper 600 850 Total interest-bearing current liabilities 600 850 Guarantees and obligations relating to interest-bearing non-current liabilities are described in greater detail in Note 19. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 106 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR NOTE 15 OTHER NON-INTEREST-BEARING CURRENT LIABILITIES (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Trade payables 36 17 Intra-group trade payables 1 1 2 Unpaid government taxes and duties, tax deducted at source, etc. 13 15 Allocated dividends 13 606 607 Other current liabilities 129 111 Other current liabilities to Group companies 1 630 239 Total other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 1,416 991 NOTE 16 PROVISIONS (Amounts in NOK million) Note 2017 2016 Pension liabilities 3 128 108 Other non-current provisions 230 224 Total provisions 358 333 In 2016, Agder Energi sold its ownership interest in Fosen Vind DA. The final transaction price depends on various future metrics and a large proportion of the amount received has therefore not yet been recognised as income. NOK 190 million of the company’s other non-current provisions are related to this. The remaining NOK 40 million represent a provision against a lease contract. NOTE 17 MARKET AND FINANCIAL RISK Risk management policy and strategy The Group’s Board of Directors has formulated an overall risk management policy containing frameworks and guidelines to e ­ nsure a uniform approach to risk management throughout the Group. In order to manage exposure to market and financial risk, and based on the risk management policy, separate risk strategies have been drawn up for the following areas: • Production • Electricity trading • Retail market • Finance (interest rates and foreign currency) One of the main purposes of the risk management policy and strategies is to hedge against fluctuations in future cash flows. Electricity derivatives with subsidiaries and NASDAQ as counterparties Several of Agder Energi AS’s subsidiaries trade cash-settled electricity derivatives on NASDAQ. Formally, this involves Agder Energi AS acting as NASDAQ’s counterparty, and Agder Energi entering into identical contracts with the relevant subsidiaries in parallel. The company uses hedge accounting for these contracts, and so they are not capitalised. The net value of contracts with NASDAQ was NOK 298 million at 31 December 2017. The value of the company’s contracts with its subsidiaries was NOK -298 million. Debt portfolio The Agder Energi Group’s whole loan portfolio is held by Agder Energi AS. This exposes the company to a significant interest rate risk. The Group has a central Finance department within Agder Energi, which has overall responsibility for banking services, financing, currency operations, corporate finance and other financial services. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 107 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Interest rate risk is measured by modified duration, which is kept within a target period of 1 to 5 years. Rules on durations and other rules relating to interest rate portfolios, liquidity risk, etc. are given in the risk policy and finance strategy. The chosen strategy aims to minimise net financial expenses over the long term, while reducing risk to an acceptable level. Exposure to interest rate risk is measured and monitored. The group finance department is responsible for taking positions. The parent company’s debt portfolios include foreign currency loans. 198 million euros in loans are used as a hedge against fluctu­ ations in the Group’s revenues in that currency. Agder Energi AS has lent an equivalent amount in euros to Agder Energi Vannkraft AS. Agder Energi AS has also taken out interest rate and currency swaps for 107 million euros of mirrored loans provided to Agder Energi Vannkraft AS. NOTE 18 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Agder Energi AS had no significant contingent liabilities at the end of the year. NOTE 19 MORTGAGED ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND GUARANTEES ISSUED Mortgages Agder Energi AS currently has no mortgage loans. Liabilities and guarantees issued Agder Energi AS has no covenants relating to financial key figures in its loan agreements. Agder Energi AS’s loan agreements contain negative pledge clauses, which also cover its subsidiaries. This means that any new security interests require the consent of the lenders. Agder Energi AS has NOK 914 million in outstanding off-statement of financial position bank guarantees. Of this total, NOK 696 million comprises payment guarantees for physical and cash-settled electricity trading, including NOK 123 million for an internal guarantee for transmission tariffs passed on to customers, NOK 168 million relates to contractual guarantees and NOK 50 million relates to tax deducted at source. At the close of the year, the parent company had issued guarantees worth NOK 20 million in relation to subsidiaries’ external liabilities. Contractual obligations Agder Energi Group leases office premises at Kjøita in Kristiansand. The lease contract is between Kjøita 18 AS and Agder Energi AS. At the end of the year, the contract had 8 years left to run, with a renewal option for a further five years. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 108 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AUDITOR’S REPORT AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 109 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 110 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 111 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 112 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AT AGDER ENERGI IN 2017 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 113 III < > Introduction Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AT AGDER ENERGI IN 2017 Click on the text to go to the page of your choice CSR at Agder Energi 2017 115 Agder Energi, society and the enviornment 117 Agder Energi’s values 118 Ethical Guidelines 119 Steering documents related to CSR 120 Group CSR Goals 122 Stakeholders and Agder Energi 123 Value added statement 124 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 114 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR CSR AT AGDER ENERGI 2017 NETWORK RELIABILITY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (tCO²e) 4 644 3 278 99,98% 2 813 2017 1 640,7 1 262,1 99,98% 951,3 2016 2015 99,98% 2017 2016 2015 Direct emissions Indirect emissions AVAILABLE DISTRIBUTION TO SELECTED STAKEHOLDERS 2017 2016 DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE 20,6% 7,1% (NOK MILL.) The company The company 21,4% 22,8% Employees Employees 5,1% 6,5% Lenders Lenders Net amount the company 685 Net amount employees 712 34,6% 41,3% Net amount lenders 171 The public sector The public sector Net amount the public sector 1 151 Net amount shareholders 606 18,2% 22,2% Shareholders Shareholders AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 115 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR Power stations 2017 2016 2015 45 45 45 * Power stations refers to power stations owned by companies reporting in the CSR report and varies from the numbers presented earlier in the annual report Aerial cables (km) 2017 2016 2015 13 766 13 556 13 520 Heating/cooling pipes (km) Cables under ground (km) 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 78 75 72 8 010 7 792 7 675 ENERGY GENERATIONS (GWH) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 WATER 8 809,40 8 884,10 9 002,70 9 067,70 7 740,00 SOLAR PV 0,04 0,04 0,04 0,04 0,04 DISTRICT HEATING 161,83 158,94 138,58 132,73 150,80 TOTAL ENERGY GENERATION 8 971,26 9 043,08 9 141,33 9 200,47 7 890,84 AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 116 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI, SOCIETY AND THE ENVIORNMENT Renewable energy has a vital role to play To give our stakeholders as accurate and in limiting climate change while safe­ complete an understanding as possible guarding the quality of life of people of CSR at the Agder Energi Group, we today and into the future. That’s why our ­report on CSR both here in this annual most important contribution to society is report and in a separate, more compregenerating and distributing renewable hensive CSR report. This report gives a energy safely and reliably. general overview, while the details are described in the CSR report. If you would What we do is important. The way we do like to find out more about how we meet things is also important. It is important to our responsibilities, or if you have any us, but also to our stakeholders. Agder comments on how we go about it, we Energi has therefore established values, would love to hear from you. ethical guidelines and various Group ­ guidelines to ensure that the Group’s We supply the clean energy needed to activities respect the needs of society ­ help society operate smoothly now and and the environment. Compliance is into the future. That’s why we must run monitored at the individual companies ­ our business in the same way that we and at the Group level. ­exploit renewable energy: today’s needs mustn’t be met at the expense of the Our duty to run our business responsibly needs of future generations. is formalised through our membership of the UN Global Compact and our annual reporting in accordance with the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In 2018 we aim to continue improving our Unni Farestveit work in this area. Director CSR and Corporate Development AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 117 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR AGDER ENERGI’S VALUES Agder Energi’s values set standards for our day-to-day work, both with respect to our own conduct and what we can expect of others. Together with our Ethical Guidelines, our values give us direction and the strength to make the right choices. Our values are: Closeness Credibility Agder Energi shall be close to its customers and the We shall gain credibility by keeping promises, both to ­region. Customers shall know that we are there for them. third parties and within our organisation. The way in An open dialogue based on a joint understanding of the which we achieve our goals is just as important as facts helps us to bring out the best in each other. By reaching them. Individual employees must safeguard cooperating we preserve our regional identity and help their integrity and credibility in all of their activities, both to develop the region. within and outside the business. Dynamism Innovation We shall be dynamic, and have a clear corporate strategy We shall promote innovation and creativity, so that our that helps us to implement projects and achieve our employees become more skilled and efficient, enabling ­goals. This dynamism shall be shown both by the organithem to help to grow and develop our business. Innovasation and by individual employees. Organisational dynation is a process in which people build on each other’s mism involves having decision-making procedures that contributions and ideas. We have to think in new ways ensure successful implementation and profitability. Indiand create new processes, while also retaining the best vidual dynamism involves exploiting any opportunities aspects of what we currently do. that exist within the framework of our overall strategy. For more information about the Group’s values, go to www.ae.no. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 118 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ETHICAL GUIDELINES Agder Energi’s Group Strategy reflects our values and has a ­ thics, values and management requirements are some of the E strong focus on ethical conduct. All conduct at the Group topics covered by the Group’s management development should adhere to its Ethical Guidelines. ­programme, and managers and employees’ awareness of the Ethical Guidelines is measured in our employee satisfaction The Ethical Guidelines were revised and approved by the Board surveys. Ethics, values and management requirements also in December 2013. The document “Ethics at Agder Energi” played a pivotal role in our response to the #metoo movement describes how anyone representing the Group should conduct in 2017, and that will remain the case in 2018. themselves. The main points were published in a separate booklet in 2014. In second quarter 2014 all employees received The aim of these measures is to further raise awareness about an e-learning course on ethical dilemmas and how to handle ethical conduct at Agder Energi. Agder Energi has an ethics them. Checks were made to ensure that employees had committee that advises managers and employees on how to ­completed the course. deal with ethical dilemmas. The committee also monitors how whistleblowing is dealt with. We carry out regular activities to ensure that knowledge and awareness of the Ethical Guidelines remains at a high level. Our ethical guidelines are available at www.ae.no AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 119 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STEERING DOCUMENTS RELATED TO CSR The ways in which we meet our CSR responsibilities are set out in a number of steering documents. These are implemented in our organisation and are followed up within individual companies and at Group level. Some of the most important steering documents related to CSR are: GROUP HSE GUIDELINES GROUP HR GUIDELINES The Group HSE Guidelines set out the underlying prinThe Group HR Guidelines aim to ensure that the manaciples governing activities related to Health, Safety gement and governance of key HR processes is consisand the Environment (HSE). The document also deals tent within all companies in the Group. The guidelines with the duties and areas of responsibility of managers include a description of the Group’s values and of how and employees within these areas. Agder Energi has a they should be implemented in HR policy, training, the joint HSE management system for the whole Group. corporate culture and staff welfare policy. They also Meanwhile, subsidiaries also have their own manuals state that Agder Energi should have a good working dealing with company-specific matters. environment. Agder Energi shall perform regular working environment surveys and ensure that any Agder Energi has a zero accident vision, and aims to ­ necessary corrective measures are identified and have a low level of sickness absence (< 3.0%). We work ­implemented. All Agder Energi employees must adhere actively to create a working environment that is to the adopted values and Ethical Guidelines. Agder ­enjoyable, rewarding and open, where risks are under Energi also has an operational HR strategy that descricontrol and all work activities are completely safe. bes key priority areas and the actions that need to be taken. The HR strategy applies to all wholly-owned subsidiaries. GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT GROUP PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES GUIDELINES These guidelines regulate the framework for procureThe Group Risk Management Guidelines lay the founment, as well as establishing goals and corrective dations for integrated, appropriate risk management ­measures. They also regulate ethical aspects of our at the Agder Energi Group, and are designed to protect relationships with our subcontractors. Procurement the Group’s profitability and optimise its capital allocaprocesses must be carried out in a way that ensures tion. Individual companies must identify, assess, review high ethical standards within the Group. Anyone who and monitor their own exposure to risks. They draw up acts on behalf of the Group must adhere to high ethical risk management strategies for the areas where this is standards in their dealings with bidders and subconrequired by the nature of the risk and its potential tractors. ­impact on their financial performance, and reassess those strategies annually. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 120 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR ETHICS AT AGDER ENERGI CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY The document “Ethics at Agder Energi” is a guide to proper conduct for employees, Board members, The CSR and environmental strategy defines CSR in ­­contractors, consultants and anyone else who acts on Agder Energi and sets out the Group’s goals in this behalf of Agder Energi. The guide describes the kinds area. The strategy includes a plan of action to ensure of dilemmas individuals may face in their work and that goals are achieved. The document describes the ­makes clear what is acceptable and unacceptable condivision of responsibilities between the various parts duct. Agder Energi’s ethical guidelines are based on of the Group management team and the companies. loyalty, integrity and trust. All new employees must Reporting structure is also described. take an e-learning course on our ethical guidelines. GROUP CSR AND ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDELINES These guidelines describe in greater detail the division of responsibility for implementing the CSR and Environmental ­Strategy between the Group management and the various business areas. The managements of the business areas are responsible for implementation, which includes setting environmental goals that are relevant to their operations and taking the necessary actions to achieve them. The methodology for stakeholder involvement is also described, as well as which channels business areas should use to ensure that they meet CSR requirements. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 121 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR GROUP CSR GOALS Based on the CSR and Environmental Strategy and the Group The environment CSR and Environmental Guidelines, and informed by the Ethical Each company within the Agder Energi Group draws up environGuidelines and Group HR Guidelines, we have set joint goals for mental goals for its operations, reflecting the nature of its busithe Group relating to key areas of CSR. Both individual companess. Subcontractors must have procedures in place for nies and the Group management team are responsible for environmental protection measures. meeting the Group CSR Goals. The goals cover four main areas: Individual companies are responsible for ensuring that their Human rights suppliers meet this requirement. Amongst other things, some Agder Energi and its subcontractors shall conduct themselves companies require suppliers and contractors to report various in accordance with the UN’s internationally accepted human environmental data. rights conventions. A subcontractor is defined as someone who performs services for or sells products to Agder Energi. The Anti-corruption activities Group and its subcontractors shall never be complicit in the Agder Energi’s goal is that no form of corruption shall take breach of human rights. place anywhere within the Group’s operations. This is backed up by a risk assessment of various parts of the The Group’s anti-corruption activities comply with national and business focusing on the likelihood of breaches of human rights. international laws, regulations and conventions. In order to Suppliers are assessed on the basis of their importance to ­prevent corruption and misconduct, the Group has developed Agder Energi, and checks are carried out in conjunction with and implemented a range of measures including ethical guideliaudits and site visits to suppliers. nes, procedures for reporting and investigating misconduct, whistleblowing channels, Integrity Due Diligence (IDD) for Labour rights ­acquisitions and supplier requirements. These are followed up Agder Energi and its subcontractors shall comply with the eight through three main areas of focus. fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on the right to organise, the right to collective 1. Overall anti-corruption guidelines including goals, attitudes bargaining and the elimination of forced labour, child labour and requirements of companies. These include: and discrimination at the workplace. i. discussions with the management teams at the companies ii. ethical guidelines and an anti-corruption manual Labour rights are monitored using a risk assessment of the iii. checking third parties’ ethical guidelines and antilikelihood of them being breached. For suppliers and corruption programmes to confirm that they are in line with contractors, the importance of the delivery and of the project current laws and best practice are also taken into account. Measures used to guarantee labour 2. An annual assessment of the corruption risk in the business rights include audits, visits to suppliers and the obligation to processes of companies in the Group ensure compliance. The obligation to ensure compliance is an 3. Regular training of all employees using annual web-based obligation to ensure that pay and working conditions at the courses and dilemma training adapted to the actual risks at suppliers comply with the current regulations on the general the companies application of collective agreements. AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 122 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR STAKEHOLDERS AND AGDER ENERGI Agder Energi defines stakeholders as people or groups who are affected by, or who could affect, the Group’s business activities. Cooperation with stakeholders is a high priority for the Group and having the trust of its stakeholders is vital to the Group’s core business. As a publicly owned limited liability company, Agder Energi business partners. CSR reporting is a key aspect of our depends on the trust of its stakeholders. Cooperation with ­ c ­ ommunication with the Group’s most important stakeholders. ­stakeholders is therefore part of the Group’s day-to-day activiThe Purpose of this reporting is to meet our stakeholders’ ties. Each company defines its most important stakeholders in needs regarding information about the Group’s efforts to inteits business plan, and the Group’s most important stakeholders grate social and environmental considerations into its day-toare the stakeholders that have been identified as important by day operations. the highest number of companies. The important stakeholders include employees, shareholders, customers, stakeholder organisations, government authorities, suppliers, lenders and other AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 123 III III < > Introductrion Corporate governance The Agder Energi Group Agder Energi AS CSR VALUE ADDED STATEMENT The value added statement gives an account of the wealth created by the Group over the year, and shows how it is distributed amongst the stakeholder groups: employees, lenders, the public sector, shareholders and the company itself. The figure for value added is adjusted for unrealised gains and losses on energy, currency and interest rate contracts. (Amounts in NOK million) 2017 2016 (restated) Operating revenues 11 050 8 705 Goods consumed/operating expenses -7 188 -5 295 Gross added value 3 862 3 410 Capital depreciation -708 -601 Net added value 3 154 2 809 Net financial items, excl. interest -73 -75 Discontinued operations 244 2 Available for distribution 3 325 2 736 DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE Employees Gross salaries and benefits 1 118 1 057 Tax paid by employees -262 -289 Employers' National Insurance Contributions -144 -143 Net amount received by employees 712 625 Lenders Interest, etc. paid to lenders 171 178 Net amount received by lenders 171 178 The public sector Ordinary taxes 209 156 Property taxes 146 160 Resource rent tax 390 383 Tax paid by employees 262 289 Employers' National Insurance Contributions 144 143 Net amount received by the public sector 1 151 1 131 Shareholders Allocated for distributions by the company (dividends/guarantees) 606 607 Net amount received by shareholders 606 607 The company Retained earnings 678 184 Non-controlling interest's share of profit 7 11 Net amount received by the company 685 195 Total amount distributed 3 325 2 736 2 736 Proportion received by each stakeholder group Employees 21,4% 22,8% Lenders 5,1% 6,5% The public sector 34,6% 41,3% Shareholders 18,2% 22,2% The company 20,6% 7,1% AGDER ENERGI ANNUAL REPORT 2017 124 Design: Kikkut kommunikasjon, Photo: Agder Energi, Translation: Språkverkstaden The Corporate social responsibility report for Agder Energi 2017 is available at ae.no Agder Energi P.O. Box 603 Lundsiden, 4606 Kristiansand Visiting address (head office): Kjøita 18, 4630 Kristiansand Tel. no.: +47 38 60 70 00 Organisation number: NO 981 952 324
