UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Date: 12 December 2018 Submitted by Itad Ltd. Statement from Managing Partner To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Itad Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Itad Ltd. is committed to making those principles part of our strategy, culture and day to day operations. We are also committed to engaging more widely through our work in advancing progress against the Sustainable Development Goals. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours Sincerely, Tim Ruffer, Managing Partner Supported by our Executive Committee: Sarah Ockenden, Chief Operating Officer Rob Lloyd, Partner of investments in international development and drive improved policies and programmes. Overview of Itad Ltd. and our work Figure 2: Itad’s Theory of change What we do. Itad Ltd. (hereafter known as Itad) is a values-driven organisation committed to make international development more effective to ensure it has the greatest possible beneficial impact on people’s lives. We provide monitoring, evaluation, learning and knowledge services in international development. These services deliver information and insight to ensure decisions are based on the best evidence available of what works, what doesn’t and why. Itad has an increasing profile as a thought leader in its field and continues to work on projects that achieve its strategic aim of making a difference. Through our work, we are able to engage with our clients in advancing progress against the Sustainable Development Goals. Our work covers a range of sectors as shown below: Figure 1: Thematic areas of work Engagement in Sustainable Development Goals. As well as supporting our clients in making progress against the SDGs, we actively participate in wider knowledge sharing in the sector. Some examples from the last year are below: ▪ Measuring progress towards SDGs: a Payment by Results perspective https://www.itad.com/measuring-progress-towards-sdgs-paymentresults-perspective/ ▪ Reflections on evaluating integrated rural development https://www.itad.com/reflections-on-evaluating-integrated-ruraldevelopment/ ▪ AVANTI – Advancing Knowledge for Agricultural Impact Our work with our clients contributes to policies and programmes being more https://www.itad.com/avanti-launch/ effective and ultimately helps to ensure that resources invested into the areas set out in figure 1 have the greatest impact. We communicate learning from our work to stimulate broader debate about what works and the best methods for evaluation. Our expectation is that this will make decision-making more evidence-based as others engage with our evaluation reports and knowledge products and learn from our experiences. We hope that the sharing of our work will strengthen the scrutiny We thrive in a learning environment. We work closely with How we work others to generate and share knowledge and skills. Itad’s core values shape the culture of the organisation, its identity and brand. We expect all staff to uphold these values throughout their work. Over the course of 2018, we have been working to ensure that these values are reflected throughout policy and the operation of those policies. To enable clear communication and We are committed to fostering our personal and professional dissemination of our policies we have created a framework called ‘Working with development, working together within a supportive working Itad’. environment which promotes diversity and a healthy workIncluded in the framework is a statement regarding our commitment to the 10 UN life balance. Global Compact Principles which helps to reinforce and underpin our ways of working. In the framework, we state the actions that we have taken against each principle which is included below. The Framework provides guidance and support to individuals for making decisions We actively promote gender equality and wider social and carrying out their work in ways that are ethical and compatible with Itad’s inclusion, both through our work and within our Values. It applies to all employees, board members, externally subcontracted staff organisation. and suppliers. Our Values A key focus during the year has been the development of our safeguarding framework of policies which includes Child Protection, Whistleblowing, HR policy, We are dedicated to making a contribution to equitable and Code of Conduct and Governance to ensure they are best practice and uphold Itad sustainable international development through the values. This area of work has included forming a safeguarding working group which independent perspective we provide. is developing reporting mechanisms and a risk management framework, companywide consultation, policy review and training for all staff. We are currently working on training for our externally contracted consultants. We strive to do the best job possible; this challenges us to continually adapt by exploring new approaches and reflecting systematically on the quality of our work. Figure 3: Overview of the Framework for Working with Itad ▪ Be sensitive to gender roles, and issues of disability, age and ethnicity, and be mindful of the potential implications of these differences when planning, carrying out and reporting on work. ▪ Neither offer nor accept gifts, hospitality or services which could create, or imply, an improper obligation. Leadership and team working ▪ Respect and listen to different views/opinions within a team. ▪ Communicate clearly and concisely in the most appropriate medium. ▪ Be proactive in building rapport with colleagues, key associates, partners and clients. ▪ Raise difficult issues with a view to positive resolution. ▪ Be proactive in working with and sharing lessons with colleagues. ▪ Manage own emotions and behaviour in difficult situations, ensuring own anxiety and/or frustration does not impact on others. ▪ Always act in a way which supports and upholds the reputation and values of Itad. Our Code of Conduct sets a professional standard that all staff and suppliers are expected to uphold. We expect all staff and suppliers to uphold ethical integrity, treat each other with mutual respect, listen to each other and be open to different views and opinions. An extract of our Code of Conduct is included below: Ethical Integrity ▪ Be independent and impartial. Any conflicts of interest or partiality will be made explicit. ▪ Safeguard confidential, sensitive and personal data acquired through the project and not use it for personal advantage or for the benefit of, or detriment of third parties. ▪ Be aware of the issues when interacting with vulnerable people and be sensitive to their needs. ▪ Be aware of differences in culture, customs, religious beliefs and practices, and any implications these may have in terms of interacting with people in the course of work Progress against UN Global Compact Principles and next steps ▪ No reportable ▪ Further The Company is committed to promoting the human rights and equality of H&S issues. development of opportunity for all staff and job applicants. We aim to achieve a work environment free from discrimination or harassment, and in which all ▪ Levels of our inclusion decisions are based on merit. All employees, whether part-time, full-time or sickness and and diversity temporary, will be treated fairly and with respect. Selection for absenteeism policy and employment, promotion, training or any other benefit will be on the basis of monitored by reporting and aptitude and capability. All employees will be helped and encouraged to HR and monitoring is a develop their full potential and the talents and resources of the workforce reported to business will be fully utilised to maximise the efficiency of the organisation. senior priority for management. 2019. ▪ Itad is compliant with all UK employment legislation including the ▪ Gender ▪ Safeguarding Principle 1. Employment Rights Act 1996, the Employment Act 2002, the Equality Act diversity is training 2010, and Health & Safety in Employment Act 1992. Businesses monitored and provided to should support ▪ Itad has an anti-bullying and harassment policy and procedure in place. reported to suband respect the senior contractors. ▪ All Itad employees receive equal pay for equal work regardless of race, protection of management. ▪ Online health caste, national origin, religion, age, disability, gender, marital status, internationally sexual orientation, union membership or political affiliation. We have an ▪ Safeguarding and safety proclaimed equality opportunities policy in place. training refresher Human Rights human rights. completion training to be ▪ All Itad employees are paid at least the minimum wage, and receive pay rate. rolled out to all slips; all employees receive all the benefits to which they are entitled staff. under UK law. ▪ Itad has a Health & Safety Policy that complies with UK law. ▪ Itad employees receive safety training relevant to their job which includes safety & security training for members of staff required to travel overseas. ▪ By end of Jan 19’, all staff will have received safeguarding training. The aim of the training is to help all staff understand what safeguarding is, responsibilities through our work and actions that we take and how to respond to issues. (Safeguarding is preventing and responding to harm caused by sexual exploitation, abuse, harassment or bullying. The aim is to minimise the likelihood and impact of these actions towards both the people we are trying to help, and also people who are working in the sector.) ▪ Itad has a formal grievance procedure that allows employees to raise employment issues with management. ▪ We have an arrangement in place with ISOS who can provide 24/7 medical and security advice to staff and consultants travelling overseas. ▪ We provide access to an employee wellbeing helpline for all staff. Principle 2. See above. Itad also carries out due diligence of its supply chain ensuring Registration forms Registration forms Businesses they have equivalent policies and processes in place. for all suppliers and to be developed to should ensure subcontractors are specifically that their own completed which incorporate the UN operations are includes equality Global Compact not complicit in legislation. Principles. human rights abuses. Principle 3. N/A ▪ Itad employees are permitted to join a trade union and are protected Businesses under UK employment law. should uphold the freedom of ▪ Itad pays above minimum and living wage. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. Registration forms Labour ▪ All Itad employees have full contract documents including notice periods ▪ Employee Businesses to be developed to and are free to leave our employment at any time, upon agreed contracts are should uphold reasonable notice. specifically audited the elimination annually for incorporate the UN of forced or ▪ All Itad subcontracts include anti-slavery and human trafficking clauses. ISO to ensure compulsory ▪ Itad complies with minimum wage standards. correct Global Compact labour. templates are Principles. used. ▪ No claims made. Principle 5. Identity details Child protection ▪ Itad does not employ any children under the age of 18; date of birth is Businesses verified by external policy in confirmed at the start of employment with passport verification. should uphold referencing development and the effective company. online training to be abolition of child rolled out. labour. Principle 6. As above (included ▪ Itad has an Equality Policy in place and adheres to all UK Equality Act Businesses in Safeguarding 2010 legislation in recruitment and employment procedures. should uphold policy). the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7. Environmental Annual reporting ▪ Itad has an environmental policy that is well publicised and practised Businesses policy reviewed against the policy to around the business. should support a annually. be implemented in precautionary ▪ Itad does not use or store chemical or other dangerous substances. 2019, including approach to reporting on our environmental carbon footprint challenges. from flights taken. As above. ▪ Staff are ▪ Investigation Principle 8. encouraged to into a carbon Businesses Environment recycle where offsetting should undertake possible. scheme is initiatives to ▪ Itad provides a currently in promote greater bike to work progress. environmental scheme and ▪ Further responsibility. secure bike encourage staff storage. to find ▪ Registration environmentally forms for all friendly ways to suppliers deliver our includes work. E.g. video environmental conference management. rather than fly to a meeting. Principle 9. ▪ Itad has an environmental policy and annual reporting procedure in Businesses place. Our work in the climate change sector contributes to the should development of new technologies encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Subcontractors sign Registration forms Principle 10. ▪ Itad has in place an anti-bribery policy and procedure compliant with the up to our antito be developed to Businesses UK 2010 Anti-Bribery Act. bribery statement specifically should work ▪ Itad has a whistle blowing policy and procedures in place compliant with or provide their incorporate the UN against all forms the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998. own. Global Compact of corruption, ▪ The risks of corruption are considered in the design of our work. Principles. including extortion and bribery. Anti-corruption
