How We Implement The Global Compact Principles International Personal Finance has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since December 2008. Over the last year we have further aligned our business with the ten Global Compact principles by providing key employees with training on modern slavery issues. To inform our stakeholders about how we are advancing those principles within our sphere of influence, we have developed our 2017 Communication on Progress. Our Communication on Progress (COP) submission can also be downloaded from the sustainability section on our public corporate website. I welcome this opportunity to express IPF’s continued support for the work that the Global Compact does to challenge businesses around the world to operate in ways that meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. I am pleased to confirm that we will continue aligning our business with these principles. Gerard Ryan Chief Executive Officer – International Personal Finance PLC International Personal Finance PLC (“IPF”) is a London Stock Exchange listed company headquartered in Leeds, West Yorkshire. It is the ultimate holding company of a number of overseas subsidiaries (“the IPF Group”) which provide straightforward consumer finance across 11 markets. The IPF Group operates in two divisions: Home Credit (in Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania, Mexico) and Digital (in Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Australia, Poland, Spain and Mexico). The following table is structured according to the COP minimum requirements and is compiled from our 2017 Annual Report and the ipfin.co.uk website. This report covers the period January 2017 – December 2017. Principles What we do HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Support and respect We work to promote a culture that supports internationally recognised human rights the protection of and seeks to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. Our Code of Ethics and Group international human policies reflect our commitment to act ethically in all our business dealings and to rights within their follow leading international standards in relation to employment, human rights, and sphere of influence. core labour standards. We actively encourage our employees and agents to raise Principle 2 Make sure their own concerns on unethical business practices and offer an independently operated corporations are not whistleblowing hotline for those who, for whatever reason, choose not to use internal complicit in human reporting methods. rights abuses. We have a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and provide training on the risk our business faces from modern slavery in its supply chains to employees who are more exposed to such risks. We have undertaken a risk assessment of all existing suppliers to the IPF Group based on a number of risk-factors including the nature of services and spend. All new suppliers are assessed following the same methodology. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Freedom of Our Group policies cover core labour standards. Membership of trade unions is not association and the common within the consumer credit industry; however part of our office personnel are effective recognition members of unions in Poland and Mexico, where we engage in dialogue with the of the right to unions to discuss the company progress in addressing labour standards. In Poland, our collective bargaining. Social Dialogue Manager ensures that company policies affecting labour standards are Principle 4 The elimination of all consulted with the unions; additionally, trade unions are invited to cooperate with the forms of forced and local Health and Safety Committee. compulsory labour. As a financial services provider, the businesses within the IPF Group have relatively Principle 5 The effective straightforward supply chains compared with those of other sectors. Forced, abolition of child compulsory, or child labour is not a direct issue for the business as we are officelabour. based, and employ mainly skilled staff. Agents need to be over 18 (21 in some Principle 6 The elimination of markets). Nonetheless, we have communicated our commitment to oppose slavery discrimination in and human trafficking in our direct operations and in the indirect operations of our respect of supply chains and have provided employees in human resources, agent support and employment and procurement with training on our standards and processes and how to spot forced occupation. labour and how to react. Moreover, we are taking steps to reduce as far as possible, any indirect impacts through our Responsible Supply Chain Management Policy. We are committed to promoting equality of opportunity for all employees and work to create an environment, free from discrimination and harassment in which cultural diversity and individual differences are positively valued and where decisions are based on merit. Our Code of Ethics and annual business ethics training covers employees’ duty to treat colleagues with dignity and respect at all times as well as the procedures to raise a concern about discrimination. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Principle 7 Support a precautionary As a consumer financial services business, our direct environmental impact is lower approach to than some other organisations but we recognise that our day-to-day use of transport, environmental energy and natural resources used to run our business should be conducted in a way challenges. that creates the least harm to the environment we operate in. We measure our rePrinciple 8 Undertake initiatives source use and publically report our carbon footprint on an annual basis. to promote greater environmental The majority of environmental issues associated with our business are indirect and we responsibility. seek to manage these through our Responsible Supply Chain Management Policy. Principle 9 Encourage the All aspects of the Group’s business and related administrative activities are conducted development and in such a way as to minimise, as far as possible, any environmentally harmful activities diffusion of or processes and to drive resource efficiency. environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Work against Our AntiBribery and Corruption policy sets our commitment to conducting our affairs corruption in all its so as to combat bribery and corruption. The Group’s trading activities must be forms, including conducted with honesty and integrity and in accordance with the law, ensuring that extortion and the Group is compliant with the anti-bribery and/or anti-corruption legislation of any bribery. jurisdiction applicable from time to time to any Group company. The Group operates controls and procedures to ensure that no one acting on its behalf: • offers, promises or gives a bribe; • requests, agrees to accept or receives a bribe; nor • bribes a public official to obtain or retain business or an advantage. All companies, employees and agents are required to comply with the relevant antibribery and corruption legislation in their markets. In addition, because of the extraterritorial application of the UK Bribery Act 2010 to overseas subsidiaries, all employees and agents are also required to comply with the provisions of this Act. We have internal reporting procedures in place for those employees who have concerns regarding any aspect of bribery or corruption by themselves or by others, as well as the external whistle-blowing hotline.
