Annual Review 2017 Progress built on 220 years of industrial history Contents CEO’s review............................................................................ 2 Supply chain.......................................................................... 28 This is Valmet.......................................................................... 6 Health, safety and environment............................... 32 Key figures................................................................................. 7 Business lines............................................................................ 8 People and performance............................................... 36 Worldwide.................................................................................. 9 Market data by business...................................................... 10 Our solutions......................................................................... 41 Market data by area............................................................... 11 Research & development..................................................... 42 Value creation........................................................................ 12 Valmet’s role in the circular economy................................. 44 Strategy.................................................................................. 16 Corporate citizenship...................................................... 48 Strategy implementation......................................................17 Progress of Must-Win actions ............................................ 20 Contacts.................................................................................. 52 Financial targets.................................................................... 24 Sustainability......................................................................... 25 Progress of Sustainability 360º agenda............................ 26 valmet | annual review 2017 this is valmet Valmet’s history in a nutshell 1797 19 th CENTURY Valmet’s journey begins The roots of Valmet's with the founding of predecessors are deep in Tampere Clothing Factory, industrial history: Götaverken later known as Tamfelt. (1841), Tampella (1856), Beloit (1858), Karlstads Mekaniska Werkstad (KMW) (1860), Sunds Defibrator (1868). 1968–1996 Valmet focuses on paper 1951 machines, while strengthening its technological expertise The former arms factories in paper and board machines manufacturing war reparation and paper finishing products merge to form the technology through mergers State Metalworks, Valmet. and acquisitions: Karstads The product range was Mekaniska Werkstad in 1986, wide: aircraft, ships, paper Wärtsilä paper finishing machines, trains and tractors. machinery in 1987, Tampella Papertech in 1992. 2000–2009 Several mergers and 1999 acquisitions strengthen and Metso is created through the expand the product and merger of Valmet and Rauma. services offering, e.g. Beloit Valmet’s paper technology Technology in 2000, Kvaerner and Sunds Defibrator’s fiber Pulping and Kvaerner Power in technology operations merge, 2006, and Tamfelt in 2009. and Metso now serves the pulp industry as well. 2015 The acquisition of Metso’s 2013 Process Automation Systems completes Valmet’s offering, Metso demerges into two strengthening the company’s companies: Valmet and Metso. competitiveness by creating a Metso’s Pulp, paper and power unique customer offering that business transfers to Valmet, combines process technologies, which focuses on the global pulp, services and automation. paper and energy industries. 1 ceo's review valmet | annual review 2017 the year 2017 was extraordinary year for our board, tissue and paper technologies 2 valmet | annual review 2017 ceo's review Progress built on 220 years of industrial history The year 2017 was a special one for Valmet, with a celebration of to be extremely well received by customers, with orders placed for six the company’s 220 years of industrial history. The history of Valmet tissue-making lines from Spain, Russia and North America. can be woven from many different strings, looking into the history In our Pulp and Energy business line, demand for our bioenergy of the different companies that today form Valmet. The first roots of technologies was good, and we continued our business expansion Valmet were established in 1797, when Tampere Clothing Factory in Japan with two new biomass boilers and flue gas cleaning system was founded and our paper machine clothing business began. delivery agreements. In the pulp business, one of the major customThroughout our long history, Valmet has had a crucial role in er projects – key technology delivery to Metsä Fibre’s Äänekoski moving several industries forward with the help of its technological bioproduct mill – was completed, and the mill successfully started solutions. Many innovations created by Valmet’s experts in colup exactly on time. The orders received in Pulp and Energy business laboration with our customers have led to significant leaps in the line were lower than last year, at EUR 678 million. pulp, paper and energy industries. They have enabled totally new bio-based products for consumers, odorless pulp mills with good Growth in stable business and improved company level environmental performance, and continuous improvements in profitability energy, water and raw material efficiency in production processes. Our stable business – meaning the Services and Automation We are proud of our past, and we are embracing the future by business lines – continued its solid performance. Orders received aiming to always be one step ahead in developing new, future-foincreased by 5 percent in the Services business line, and 6 percent cused solutions that benefit our customers and the whole planet. in the Automation business line. Orders received in the stable We achieve this through our unique offering, combining leading business totaled EUR 1.6 billion, which was almost half of Valmet’s process technologies, services and automation. total orders received in 2017. The strategic initiatives – our new services approach launched in 2016 and Industrial Internet services Extraordinary year for our board, tissue and paper launched in 2017 – further strengthen our competitiveness in the technologies global markets. Our Paper business line develops and provides technologies for In 2017, Valmet’s orders received increased by EUR 133 million, board, paper and tissue production. Last year was a successful one to EUR 3,272 million. Net sales were EUR 3,159 million and our for the business line, and orders received increased by 44 percent, profitability improved further. The Comparable EBITA margin amounting to a record-high EUR 1,035 million. Orders came from was 7.2 percent, moving closer to our target range of 8–10 percent. the board and paper producers, as well as from tissue-makers. CusThe work on profitability and efficiency is continuing, and with an tomer activity was especially strong in China, with five containerorder backlog of EUR 2.3 billion, we have a sound basis for 2018. board machine orders. In addition, a fine paper machine was ordered from the United Arab Emirates and several rebuilds of paper maConsistent progress in strategic focus areas chines were ordered both from Europe and other parts of the world. Our way forward is based on four Must-Wins that we are focusing Furthermore, all our newest tissue-making technologies continued on – Customer Excellence, Leader in Technology and Innovation, 3 ceo's review valmet | annual review 2017 Process Excellence, and Winning Team. Under these Must-Wins, cesses to ensure and strengthen our sustainable and responsible we concentrated for example on the global implementation of our way of operating globally. new services approach – Shared Journey Forward – introduced in Valmet’s strong progress in sustainability has been globally 2016. As part of this program, we renewed our Industrial Internet recognized, and in 2017 Valmet was selected in the Dow Jones offering to our customers and started to build a related ecosystem World and Europe Sustainability Indices for the fourth consecuwith leading partners in the field. We also established Performance tive year. Valmet was also selected to the Ethibel Europe SustainCenters for each customer industry as a channel to our Industrial ability Excellence Index for a second consecutive year as one of Internet services. the 200 ethical investment targets, and received an Arating in We have systematically widened our global footprint close to our the CDP Climate rating for its work to mitigate climate change. customers in recent years. As Asia-Pacific continues to be one of In the coming years, we will continue with this long-term work, the major growth areas for Valmet, we inaugurated a new Services and at the same time build further business opportunities based center in Indonesia in September 2017. The Indonesian service cenon our comprehensive sustainability work. We believe that being at ter's offering includes roll services, fiber line services, field services, the forefront of sustainable development in products and services machine section upgrades and mill improvement projects. for customers and acting as a responsible corporate citizen enables Our major internal efficiency development program – the Leap future business success. Forward enterprise resource planning system (ERP) renewal project – has progressed well. In late 2017, we successfully started the Becoming the champion in serving our customers stepwise implementation of the ERP, first in our Services Business Looking back to the year 2017, I am happy to see all the good progLine in Finland. ress in the strategic focus areas, in our financial performance, and Furthermore, we continued to have a very positive trend in emin the way our personnel works together and commits to moving ployee engagement, and working together continued to be our maour customers’ performance forward daily in the field. The shift jor internal strength. To accelerate our progress in our Must-Wins, towards a cleaner world and sustainable business practices is an we ran seven global training programs, improved our performance ongoing one, and Valmet wants to be part of creating future solumanagement processes, activated internal mobility and enhanced tions to strengthen this development. We combine digitalization internal mentoring. and our strong process expertise to ensure optimized production with maximized resource efficiency and minimized environmental Mitigating risks and creating opportunities through footprint in our customers’ production processes – and in our own sustainability leadership operations – every day. Valmet’s mission is to convert renewable resources into sustainable I see many opportunities in front of us. With an innovative results. This means that with the help of our process technologies, mindset, strong customer focus and consistent work, we can bring services and automation, our customers can develop and produce the future to our customers today and tomorrow. recyclable and sustainable products from renewable raw materials. I warmly thank our customers for the strong trust they have In that way, Valmet is also at the heart of the circular economy. shown in Valmet, and our partners for the fruitful collaboration. In our first four years as an independent company, we have conTo the entire Valmet team – thank you for your great commitment centrated on sustainability risk mitigation in our operations. That and diligent work! is why we have worked a lot to ensure sustainable procurement practices globally, to drive a strong safety culture, and to develop Pasi Laine our people, R&D and Health Safety and Environment (HSE) proPresident and CEO 4 valmet | annual review 2017 this is valmet Focusing on the best services experience Read more: Meaningful dialogue with data p.40 www.valmet.com At Valmet, we want to offer our customers world-class services that move their process reliability and performance forward. To fulfill this goal, we have unified our way to serve and renewed our services offering. This services approach is called Shared Journey Forward. At the core of giving our customers the best services experience are our commitments – 'safety comes first', 'close to you', solutions to your needs', and 'people you can trust'. We are committed to delivering these experiences to our customers – every day. To make it easier for our customers to find just the right service or solution, we offer our services in three categories: reliability services, performance services, and new technology for process and automation upgrades. Our services respond to our customers' everyday challenges, like keeping equipment and processes running reliably, or optimizing the performance of industrial processes to get the most out of the least. We help our customers to keep their processes competitive with the latest developments and the best expertise. We also have an extensive Industrial Internet solutions offering, as well as expertise and experience in remote solutions. BACK IN THE OLD DAYS Knitting frames at fabrics factory in Tampere in the 1960's. 5 this is valmet valmet | annual review 2017 This is Valmet Valmet is the leading global developer and supplier of process technologies, automation and services for the pulp, paper and energy Total net sales, industries. We aim to become the global champion in serving our EUR million customers. 3,159 Valmet’s strong technology offering includes pulp mills and board, paper and tissue production lines, as well as power plants for bioenergy production. Our advanced services and automation solutions improve the reliability and performance of our customers’ processes and enhance the effective utilization of raw materials and energy. Personnel 12,268 Valmet’s net sales in 2017 were EUR 3.2 billion. Our more than 12,000 professionals around the world work close to our customers and are committed to move our customers’ performance forward – every day. Valmet’s head office is in Espoo, Finland, and its shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki. Net sales by business line, EUR million Personnel by business line, % Services 1,178 (1,163) Services 45% (44%) Automation 296 (290) Automation 14% (14%) Pulp and Energy 929 (826) Pulp and Energy 14% (14%) Paper 755 (647) Paper 23% (23%) Other 4% (5%) Net sales by area, EUR million Personnel by area, % North America 605 (644) North America 10% (11%) South America 238 (205) South America 4% (5%) EMEA 1,557 (1,369) EMEA 66% (65%) China 417 (362) China 14% (14%) Asia-Pacific 342 (346) Asia-Pacific 6% (6%) 6 valmet | annual review 2017 this is valmet Key figures Financial1 2017 2016 CHANGE Orders received, EUR million 3,272 3,139 4% Services 1,242 1,182 5% Automation 317 299 6% Orders received in Pulp and Energy 678 939 -28% the Paper business Paper 1,035 718 44% line increased Order backlog , EUR million 2 Net sales, EUR million 2,292 3,159 2,283 2,926 0% 8% 44% Comparable EBITA 3, EUR million 226 196 15% % of net sales 7.2% 6.7% Operating profit (EBIT), EUR million 178 147 21% % of net sales 5.6% 5.0% Dividend per share, EUR 0.55 4 0.42 31% Return on capital employed (ROCE) before taxes, EUR million 15% 12% Comparable Research and development expenses, net, EUR million 64 64 0% EBITA margin Social 2017 2016 CHANGE 7.2% Personnel 2 12,268 12,012 2% Total recordable incident frequency (TRIF)2, 5 Own employees 5.5 6.0 -8% Contractors 10.1 7.6 33% Safety committee coverage, % personnel Support for non-profit organizations, EUR million 92 0.1 91 0.3 -51.2% 56 Number of supplier sustainability audits 56 54 4% supplier sustainability Environmental 2017 2016 CHANGE audits CO2 emissions , 1,000 t 6 86 83 4% Energy consumption, TJ 1,336 1,336 0% Water consumption, 1,000 m 3 3,046 3,149 -3% Waste, 1,000 t 42 39 8% NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions, t 86.6 75 16% Water 1 Group figures: the formulas for calculation of the key financial figures are presented in the Financial Statements 2017. consumption At the end of period. reduced by 2 3 Comparable earnings before interest, taxes and amortization. 3% 4 Board of Directors’ proposal. 5 TRIF reflects the number of injuries resulting in medical treatment, restricted work or an absence of at least one workday per million hours worked. 6 Scope 1 and 2 (location-based) emissions. 7 this is valmet valmet | annual review 2017 Valmet business lines Valmet operates through four business lines. We have a strong global market position in all our businesses. Services NET SALES, Automation NET SALES, EUR MILLION EUR MILLION 1,178 296 Services offers fit for purpose Automation solutions range services to improve the reliability from individual measurements and performance of the to mill-wide process automation customers’ production processes systems. They are designed ORDERS RECEIVED, ORDERS RECEIVED, and new technology upgrades to maximize the profitability EUR MILLION EUR MILLION to take the production to the of customers’ businesses next level. We are close to our customers by over 120 service centers and by remote services. 1,242 by improving production performance as well as cost, material and energy efficiency. 317 We never compromise safety and we work hard every day to earn our customers’ trust. #1–2 IN SERVICES #1–3 IN AUTOMATION Pulp and Energy NET SALES, Paper NET SALES, EUR MILLION EUR MILLION 929 755 Pulp and Energy business line Paper business line delivers provides complete pulping lines, complete board, tissue and from wood handling to pulp paper production lines as well drying, boilers for heat and power as machine rebuilds and key ORDERS RECEIVED, ORDERS RECEIVED, generation and solutions for solutions. Our technologies are advanced biomass conversion. EUR MILLION designed for high operational EUR MILLION Our technologies maximize the value of renewable raw materials while increasing production 678 and environmental efficiency, flexibility and reliability. Our machines have a modular 1,035 efficiency and minimizing structure with as much environmental impact. standardization as possible to #1 IN TISSUE #1–2 IN PULP enable easy to use, cost efficient #1 IN BOARD #1–3 IN ENERGY solutions to our customers. #1 IN PAPER 8 valmet | annual review 2017 this is valmet Valmet worldwide Valmet has a strong global presence close to its customers to serve different local needs. We have operations at 156 locations in Read more: 33 countries around the world. We have over 120 service centers, Market data 87 sales offices, 36 production facilities, and 16 research and by area on p.11 www.valmet.com development (R&D) centers. Our more than 12,000 professionals work in close cooperation with our customers every day around the globe. North America South America EMEA China Asia-Pacific 17 service centers 3 service centers 16 R&D centers 8 service centers 11 service centers 7 production units 2 production units 63 service centers 6 production units 16 sales offices 8 sales offices 5 sales offices 21 production units 4 sales offices 54 sales offices 1,223 534 8,088 1,696 727 NET SALES, NET SALES, NET SALES, NET SALES, NET SALES, EUR MILLION EUR MILLION EUR MILLION EUR MILLION EUR MILLION 605 238 1,557 417 342 9 this is valmet valmet | annual review 2017 Market data by business MARKE T SIZE 1 VALME T ’S POSITION BUSINESS & GROW TH MARKE T DRIVERS PRODUC T GROUP AND COMPE TITION Services EUR 8.0bn • Increasing pulp, paper2 and energy Rolls and Workshop Services • #1–2 ~1–2% production • Voith, Xerium • Demand for more efficient Mill Improvements • #1–2 processes, maintenance and outsourcing of non-core operations • Andritz, Bellmer, Voith • Customers decreasing own Performance Parts • #1–2 resources • Andritz, Kadant, Voith • Size and gradually aging installed base, capacity increases in China, Fabrics • #6 South America and Asia-Pacific • Albany, AstenJohnsen, Voith, Xerium • Machine and mill closures in North America and EMEA Energy and • #3–4 • Demand for Industrial Internet Environmental • Andritz, Babcock & Wilcox, Sumitomo based solutions SHI FW Automation EUR 2.0bn • Ageing machines and installed Distributed Control • #3 in P&P3, niche player in energy and ~1% automation systems System (DCS) process industries • Investments in new pulp and paper • ABB, Emerson, Honeywell, Siemens, machines and power plants Yokogawa • Demand for raw material Quality Management System • #1–2 in P&P3 savings, process efficiencies and (QMS) • ABB, Honeywell, Voith sustainability • Demand for Industrial Internet Analyzers and • #1 in P&P3 based solutions measurements • ABB, BTG Pulp EUR 1.4bn • Growth in board and tissue consumption • #1–2 ~1% • Need for virgin wood pulp. Decreasing availability of recycled paper • Andritz and limitations to recycling rates • Increased size of pulp lines and mills • New applications for bio based products • Increasing environmental awareness and stricter regulations Energy EUR 2.0bn • Growth in energy consumption • #1–3 ~1% • Demand for sustainable energy and shutdowns of coal capacity • One of few global players in • Modernization of aging plants bioenergy niche • Incentives and regulation • Andritz, Babcock & Wilcox, Sumitomo SHI FW Board EUR 1.0bn • World trade, e-commerce and emerging markets growth drive • #1 ~2–3% packaging • Voith • Demand for light-weight board • Shift from plastic packaging to renewable materials • Conversions from paper to board Paper EUR 0.3bn • Increasing role of digital media decreases demand for printing and • #1 ~-1% writing papers • Voith • Demand for technology driven efficiency improvements Tissue EUR 0.7bn • Rise in purchasing power and living standards • #1 ~3% • Fast growth in emerging markets • Andritz, Toscotec, Voith • Demand for higher quality 1 M  arket size is defined as Valmet’s target market, meaning those geographical markets, product segments and customer industries where Valmet is currently competing or aiming to compete. 2 Refers to board, paper and tissue, as well as other paper grades. 3 Pulp and paper 4 Figures for 2016 production and 2016–20 growth based on RISI estimates 10 valmet | annual review 2017 this is valmet Market data by area MARKE T SIZE 1 ARE A & GROW TH MARKE T CHAR AC TERISTICS VALME T ’S POSITION North America Target market • Mature market with large aging installed base • Net sales: EUR 0.6bn (19% of total) size1: EUR 2.8bn creating service demand • Employees: 1,223 • Rebuild and new process technology opportunities • Leading position P&P process technology, a P&P3 annual in board and tissue grades. Capacity closures in well-established position in the services and production 4: printing papers automation business 150m tonnes, • Continued customer focus on availability, reliability, growth +0.9% operating cost and environmental savings in mills • Service, rebuild and upgrade opportunities in pulp South America Target • Service growth driven by demand for more efficient • Net sales: EUR 0.2bn (8% of total) market size1: operations and environmental considerations • Employees: 534 EUR 1.6bn • Cyclical process technology project business • Valmet has a strong position and installed base driven by large pulp mill investments. Continuous in in pulp mills and services P&P3 annual opportunities in pulp mill rebuilds and upgrades • Continued strong competition from regional production 4: • Opportunities in tissue, and occasionally in board, players expected in pulp & energy as well as 40m tonnes, with new lines and rebuilds from Andritz in large new pulp mills growth +2.9% • Brazil’s political and economic instability impacts • Local presence important, especially in Brazil project decisions due to customs duties EMEA Target • Valmet’s largest Area with significant services and • Net sales: EUR 1.6bn (14% of total) (Europe, Middlemarket size1: technology markets and large installed base • Employees: 8,088 East and Africa) EUR 5.7bn • Services growth potential through broader service • Leading position in P&P process technology as offering, agreements-based business and new value well as in biomass boilers in energy P&P3 annual added solutions to increase customers’ productivity • Leading position in the more fragmented production 4: and efficiency services market and in P&P automation 160m tonnes, • Process technology project opportunities in board, growth +1.3% tissue, pulp and energy driven by increasing focus on sustainability and growth in packaging and tissue consumption China Target • Growing services market driven by new board • Net sales: EUR 0.4bn (13% of total) market size1: and tissue lines, and demand for energy savings, • Employees: 1,696 EUR 2.8bn efficiency improvements and reliability • Leading position in P&P process technology • Process technology project opportunities in board, and a strong position in services and P&P P&P3 annual tissue and energy driven by growing consumption, automation market production 4: stricter environmental regulation and demand for • Continued strong competition from local and 120m tonnes, clean energy global competitors growth +2.4% Asia-Pacific Target • Services growth potential in both emerging and • Net sales: EUR 0.3bn (11% of total) market size1: mature markets in growing installed base and • Employees: 727 EUR 2.5bn market share • Leading position in P&P process technology and • Process technology project opportunities in increasing local presence P&P annual 3 rebuilds, grade changes and new capacity in pulp, • Increasing competition from Chinese players production 4: board and tissue, and in renewable energy projects moving into Asia-Pacific region 100m tonnes, in selected countries growth +1.8% 11 this is valmet valmet | annual review 2017 Value creation INPUTS BUSINESS MODEL Financial • Total equity EUR 933 million • Net interest-bearing debt EUR -100 million • Cash and cash equivalents EUR 296 million Customers Pulp and paper industry Natural Energy industry • Purchased components (mainly metals-based) Other process industries • Purchased raw materials (mainly metals, minerals, polymers and gas) • Energy consumption 1,336 TJ y processes • Water consumption 3,046,000 m3 Ke Human R&D • Number of employees 12,268 Marketing • FTE1 of subcontractors and supervised workers Sales • Investment in development and know-how Engineering • Investment in occupational health and safety Procurement Production Infrastructure Delivery • 156 locations in 33 operating countries2 Service • 36 production units and over 120 service centers • 87 sales offices • Suppliers in over 50 countries Intellectual • Proven customer references • Technology know-how Our employees, • Product portfolio expertise and experience • 16 technology centers and pilot facilities • R&D expenses EUR 64 million • 1,300 protected inventions Social and relationship • Open dialogue with stakeholders (e.g. customer events, investor meetings, supplier days, stakeholder surveys) Valmet’s • Cooperation with over 30 universities and research institutes Way Forward: • Over 25 memberships in associations Mission, Strategy, Must-Wins, • Relationships and partnerships Vision and Values • Collaboration with local communities 1 Full-time equivalent 2 Includes technology centers All figures are from Decemeber 31, 2017, unless otherwise stated. 12 valmet | annual review 2017 this is valmet CUSTOMERS’ OUTPUTS OUTCOMES END PRODUCTS Process technologies Economic • Pulping process equipment, process • Wages and benefits EUR 807 million Board islands and complete pulp mills • Payments to suppliers • Individual board, tissue and paper EUR 2,191 million machine sections, complete • Taxes EUR 44 million production lines and machine • Support for non-profit organizations rebuilds EUR 0.1 million Paper • Boiler islands, power plants, • Retained equity EUR 59 million heating plants • Payments to shareholders and • Environmental solutions creditors EUR 79 million • Technologies for converting biomass • More efficient and profitable to fuels, chemicals, and materials Tissue customers’ processes Automation Social • Distributed Control Systems (DCS) • Direct and indirect employment • Quality Control Systems Pulp • Improved employee competences • Analyzers and measurements • Direct and indirect occupational • Performance and service solutions health and safety • Industrial Internet and remote • Customer loyalty Process solutions • Trust and reputation steam • License to operate Services • Influence on operating environment and regulations • Spare parts and components • Maintenance and shutdown District management Environmental heating • Outsourcing services Valmet’s own operations • Production consumables • More efficient processes enable the • Process support and optimization use of less natural resources and • Process upgrades Electricity lower CO2 emissions • Remote solutions and services Customers’ operations • Valmet’s technology and services Other outputs enable the production of customer’s CO2 emissions: products with less energy, water Biofuels • Scope 13: 16,800 tCO2 and raw materials and improved flexibility in fuel source selection to • Scope 24: 69,300 tCO2 replace fossil fuels with renewable • Scope 35: 1,767,000 tCO2 ones BioWaste: materials • Non-hazardous waste 39,090 t • Hazardous waste 2,420 t 3 Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by Valmet, such as fossil fuels burned on site. 4 Scope 2 (location based) emissions are indirect GHG emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heating and cooling, or steam generated off site but purchased by Valmet. 5 Scope 3 data covers only four selected relevant categories; category 1: purchased goods and services; category 4: upstream transportation and distribution; category 6: business travel; and category 9: downstream transportation and distribution. 13 this is valmet valmet | annual review 2017 1960's Knitting frames at fabrics factory in Tampere 14 valmet | annual review 2017 this is valmet Today Weaving loom at Tampere fabrics factory 15 strategy valmet | annual review 2017 Strategy Valmet’s Way Forward crystallizes the identified megatrends, our mission, strategy and the related strategic actions that describe how we aim to achieve our vision of becoming the global champion in serving our customers. Valmet’s mission is to convert renewable resources into sustainable Valmet’s main customer industries are the board, tissue, paper, results, and it defines our core purpose. Customers can use our techpulp and energy industries. We are committed to improving our nologies, automation and services to help them refine renewable raw customers’ performance through our unique offering, combining materials into sustainable and environmentally responsible prodprocess technologies, automation and services. Valmet’s Services ucts. Moreover, our solutions help our customers, as well as Valmet, and Automation businesses operate in relatively stable markets to perform profitably and responsibly. driven by the size of the installed technology base and customer Valmet’s business environment is impacted by megatrends that mill operating rates. create both opportunities and risks. We have defined three key Our process technologies comprise board, paper and tissue mamegatrends in the areas of resource efficiency, digitalization and chines, as well as pulp mills, and heat and power boilers, which are all consumer behavior, which impact on our strategic choices. Our driven by our customers’ new investments. All our businesses serve values and sustainability agenda are closely linked to our strategy the same customer base, which enables us to deliver customer benand Must-Wins. efits through our full combined offering, as well as to develop new technology and services that improve our customers’ performance. Valmet’s Way Forward OUR VISION OUR MUST-WINS To become the global champion in serving our OUR STRATEGY Customer excellence customers. OUR MISSION Valmet develops and L  eader in technology supplies competitive and innovation Converting renewable process technology, E xcellence in processes r­e sources into services and automation sustainable results. Winning team to the pulp, paper and energy industries. We are committed to moving our customers’ performance forward with our unique offering. OUR VALUES Customers – We move our customers' performance forward MEGATRENDS Renewal – We promote new ideas to create the future Resource efficient and clean world Excellence – We improve every day to deliver results Digitalization and new technologies People – We work together to make a difference Urban, responsible and global consumers 16 valmet | annual review 2017 strategy Strategy Implementation Valmet’s vision of becoming the global champion Solutions for customer needs in serving our customers defines our long-term As part of our 'Leader in technology and innovaMegatrends direction. It means that we want to be the leader tion' Must-Win, we are focusing on developing both in market share and in serving our cusand providing products and services that reduce tomers. We implement our strategy through our our customers’ operating and investment costs, Must-Wins, which structure our strategy implewhile developing solutions that better meet their mentation and tell us where we need to focus in needs. RESOURCEImproving our product cost is important in EFFICIENT AND order to reach our goals. Valmet’s strategy, MustCLEAN WORLD Wins and financial targets were reconfirmed improving our competitiveness – and Valmet’s Climate change, in June 2017. During 2017, Valmet continued to profitability. We achieve this through increasing environmental awareness implement its Sustainability360° agenda as a part modularization, standardization and optimizaand resource scarcity are driving the need to of its strategy. tion of our product design and by enhancing our improve resource efficiency delivery chain. and reduce emissions. Further developing customer excellence With our 'Customer excellence' Must-Win, we focus on providing the best customer service by having strong, capable, and committed teams close to customers, and by providing customer benefits through our integrated offering combinDIGITALIZATION AND NEW ing process technology, automation and services. TECHNOLOGIES In line with this goal, we continue to develop Digitalization, our services approach, 'Shared Journey Forward', 'Innovation Pathways' automatization and new, high-impact technologies with the aim of improving the performance and are driving efficiency and reliability of our customers’ processes while entraining program was new business models. abling a better customer experience and growth in Valmet’s services business. In our process launched to promote technology business, we continue to strengthen Valmet’s position as the preferred supplier. innovation culture We develop our sales management practices through systematic development of sales capabiliURBAN, ties, common tools and processes, to drive growth RESPONSIBLE AND GLOBAL and gross profit. In order to strengthen our local We continuously renew our existing product CONSUMERS presence, we are continuing to develop our local portfolio while developing innovative new soluUrbanization, increasing sales and service capabilities and presence, as tions that improve our customers’ performance living standards, changing demographics, and well as to strengthen our key account manageand create new revenue streams for both our globalization are driving ment. We are focusing particularly on markets customers and Valmet. Strengthening our collabchanges in consumer with higher growth, as well as on markets where oration with key customers is an important part behavior and our customers’ demand. Valmet does not currently have a strong presence. of developing our offering. 17 strategy valmet | annual review 2017 Efficiency in processes health, safety and environment (HSE), we are systematically buildWith the 'Excellence in processes' Must-Win, our focus is on coning a culture of safety excellence to drive zero harm for people and tinuously increasing our efficiency and cost competitiveness by the environment by implementing best-in-class HSE management improving our processes and operations. practices, tools and systems. We have a global project management initiative aimed at conIn procurement, we are targeting cost savings and better quality tinuously improving our gross profit by strengthening our project through further developing our global category management and management and execution through developing key capabilities, by focusing on quality of supply and delivery performance. To keep and common tools and processes. To improve our quality, we are our cost structure competitive, we continuously aim to increase our implementing continuous improvement practices and executing flexibility and optimize our value chain to respond to changes in defocused quality improvement projects across our businesses. In mand. Finally, we are investing in ERP (Enterprise Resource PlanStrategy highlights 2017 New Industrial 4 containerboard Leader in Biomass power internet offering machines for sustainability plant and Nine Dragons automation for Valmet launches its new Valmet was included in the Industrial internet offering, Dow Jones World and Europe DONG Denmark Valmet announces orders to with five Performance Centers sustainability indices for the supply four containerboard DONG Energy in Denmark for customers. Valmet also fourth consecutive year, as machines and related orders a 140 MWth biomassstarted to build a leading well as Arating in the CDP automation systems to Nine fired power boiler plant and Industrial Internet ecosystem Climate rating. Dragons Industries in China. Valmet DNA automation with selected partners. system. 18 valmet | annual review 2017 strategy ning), renewal with the objective of driving benefits through unifying survey, improving our performance management practices and our key processes and ways of working across Valmet. The successful developing leadership and managerial skills. We continuously launch of the first phase of ERP was implemented in late 2017. develop our global training programs to strengthen our strategic capabilities and accelerate the achievement of our Must-Wins. In We are close to our customers 2017, we successfully launched new programs for sales and innoThrough our 'Winning team' Must-Win initiative, we want to ensure vation, and began planning a new program for project execution. that Valmet’s capabilities are globally balanced and close to customOur global programs are complemented by a balanced portfolio ers, and that we have engaged and performance-driven teams. of learning opportunities to support business-specific and local To boost performance and engagement, we are implementing competence development. We also promote internal mobility as a targeted actions based on the OurVoice employee engagement tool for development. Read more: www.valmet.com Key technology 15th tissue Service center at Metsä Group’s production line for opened in Indonesia Äänekoski Sofidel in Spain Valmet strengthens its bioproduct mill presence in Asia-Pacific by Sofidel orders its fifteenth opening a new service center in Valmet delivers a recovery Valmet tissue machine, an Indonesia focusing on serving boiler, pulp drying line and Advantage NTT 200. the pulp, paper and energy lime kiln that are the largest industries. in Europe. The delivery also includes a gasification plant, sulfuric acid plant, and millwide Valmet DNA automation system. 19 strategy valmet | annual review 2017 Progress of Must-Win actions MUST-WIN KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2017 • Implementation of the Shared Journey Forward services approach continued through development of the services offering, including product renaming, and streamlining solution sales and delivery process • New service center inaugurated in Indonesia • New Customer Portal piloted • Customer-specific Mill Teams implemented and CRM system developed Customer • Further develop corporate account management practices Read more: excellence • Implement country growth plans Focusing on the best services experience, p.5 • Industrial Internet offering launched successfully with five Valmet Performance Centers • Industrial Internet ecosystem partnerships agreed with Tieto and Kemira • Orders received of new products and services continued at good level • Successful kick-off of 'Innovation Pathways' global training program Leader in to promote innovation culture Read more: technology Meaningful dialogue with data, p.40 and innovation Making coffee-to-go greener, p.45 • Valmet-wide project execution model implemented in Paper and Services business lines • Implementation of new project management tool started • Roll-out of new ERP system started • Global quality feedback & problem-solving process harmonized • Total recordable incident frequency decreased from 6.0 to 5.5 • Collaboration for contractor safety program started Excellence • Procurement cost savings targets exceeded • 56 supplier sustainability audits conducted in processes • Global Management System certification project established Read more: Auditing suppliers for sustainability, p.31 • Positive trend in employee engagement continues • Target and reward libraries established to align performance practices • Two new global training programs launched • Renewed 360° feedback process aimed at reaching ~1,000 managers Read more: Developing sales Winning team competence, collaboration and connections, p.39 20 valmet | annual review 2017 strategy KEY ACTIONS FOR 2018 STRATEGIC GOALS • Develop sales competences through Sales Journey program Valmet has strong, capable, and committed • Continue implementation of Shared Journey Forward services approach teams close to customers. We serve our in area organizations customers with our full offering and stand • Further develop the new Customer Portal and promote to customers out by combining process technology, • Further develop customer-specific Mill Teams automation and services. • Further develop Industrial Internet offering and accelerate Industrial Valmet provides leading technology and Internet sales in Areas competitive products and services that • Build delivery operations for Industrial Internet applications improve resource efficiency, and reduce • Improve competitiveness and gross profit of selected products with our customers’ operating and investment highest business impact costs. We innovate and develop solutions • Develop new technologies and services, and strengthen Valmet’s that create new customer revenues, and technology leadership we promote renewable materials and our • Strengthen customer input into R&D through meetings with selected key Industrial Internet offering. customers and 'Innovation Pathways' training program • Improve project and project portfolio management practices, enhance risk Valmet operates with efficient and and opportunity management and contract management harmonized processes with continuously • Expand ERP roll-out to cover Finland and prepare for global roll-out increased cost competitiveness. In project • Identify and execute high-impact quality improvement projects business, we increase our flexibility to • Reinforce safety culture through training, best-in-class practices and respond to cyclical demand. Quality, and implementation of HSE action plan in all locations health and safety are constantly improved. • Continue to improve cost competitiveness • Develop global category management and focus on supply quality and delivery performance • Support key suppliers as part of Sustainable Supply Chain program • Certification of Global Management System • Continue to Implement OurVoice engagement survey actions and Valmet has engaged and performancecommunicate progress driven teams living Valmet’s shared values. • Introduce employee role description to continue the development of a culture Competences are globally balanced and of accountability close to customers. • Rollout team management practices and new manager training program • Fully utilize learning library for technical and functional training • Launch new global training program for project execution 21 strategy valmet | annual review 2017 1949 First continuous pulp cooking plant 22 valmet | annual review 2017 strategy Today Compact Cooking 23 strategy valmet | annual review 2017 Financial targets GROWTH Net sales, EUR billion KEY ACTIONS TO REACH THE TARGET 2x 2.9 2.9 3.2 • New Valmet way to serve 1.6 1.5 1.7 • Improved sales process Net sales growth to exceed • Leverage strong installed base market growth: • Innovation and new technology development 1.4 1.5 1.5 • Net sales in stable business to grow over two times the market growth 20151 2016 2017 • Net sales in capital business Stable business to exceed market growth Capital business PROFITABILITY Comparable EBITA, KEY ACTIONS TO REACH THE TARGET % of net sales 8–10% 8–10 • Sales process management 6.7 7.2 • Project management and project execution 6.2 • Procurement & quality • Technology, R&D and ERP 2015 2016 2017 Target Comparable EBITA target 8–10% ROCE Comparable ROCE, % KEY ACTIONS TO REACH THE TARGET 15–20% 15–20 • Profitability improvement 16 14 13 • Net working capital improvement Comparable return on 2015 2016 2017 Target capital employed (pre-tax), ROCE target 15–20% DIVIDEND PAYOUT Dividend per share, EUR/ % net profit 50% 0.35 68% 0.42 76% 0.55 65% ≥50% 2015 2016 2017 Target At least 50% of net profit 1) Figures include Automation net sales from April 1, 2015 onwards 2) Proposal by the Board of Directors. 24 valmet | annual review 2017 strategy Sustainability at the core of our strategy Valmet’s comprehensive Sustainability360° agenda supports the Our Sustainability360˚ agenda and the connected action plans company’s strategy and is at the core of strategy implementation and are also aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Must-Wins. Our sustainability agenda has been defined in accorGoals (SDG), which aim to end poverty, protect the planet, and endance with the three key megatrends identified as most important to sure prosperity for all. All the targets of Valmet’s sustainability acour business. The agenda focuses on five core areas: sustainable suption plan are intended to contribute to the most material SDG's. As ply chain; health, safety and environment; people and performance; a global industrial company, we have an opportunity to positively sustainable solutions; and corporate citizenship. The sustainability impact the development of these goals. Valmet’s contribution to the agenda has been approved by Valmet’s Executive Team and it is refour UN goals that we identified as most relevant to us is described viewed annually. The current sustainability action plan is on-going below. More information about Valmet’s work towards the UN defor 2016–2018. Valmet’s values, Code of Conduct, international prinvelopment goals can be found on Valmet’s website, at valmet.com/ ciples and frameworks, as well as the most important stakeholder sustainability. needs, form the foundation for our sustainability work. Sustainability360º agenda focus areas Sustainable Health, safety and People and Sustainable Corporate supply chain environment (HSE) performance solutions citizenship • We continue to • We develop • We develop and • We increase the • We ensure that develop sustainable our processes, engage our people understanding of our people know procurement competences and • We continuously our customers’ and understand practices globally culture for HSE strengthen sustainability Valmet’s Code of • We support excellence leadership and needs Conduct selected key • We secure that our managerial skills • We integrate • We transparently suppliers to operations meet our • We are a sustainability communicate about meet the level of HSE standards responsible criteria into our our operations sustainability employer and R&D processes • We support local expected by promote diversity communities in Valmet which we operate Valmet’s contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals: Goal 6: Clean water and sanitation Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth Valmet contributes to global economic productivity and innovation through Technologies developed by Valmet help to reduce water pollution and fresh its R&D development. Valmet ensures that it has a positive impact on safe water use in industrial operations. Technologies such as our board-making and fair working conditions and issued a Human Rights Statement in 2017. solutions can also help to increase the recycling of process water. Goal 7: Affordable and clean energy Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production In 2017, Valmet launched new environmental targets for 2030 for its Light-weighting technologies that reduce the amount of fiber used in board own operations, aimed at e.g. improving the use of renewable energy. production, and power boilers that can use agricultural residues impact this Technologies developed by Valmet also impact this goal, e.g. multifuel goal by increasing the efficient use of resources. Valmet’s own programs and boilers for energy production, enabling use of different energy mixes. actions, such as waste management, Valmet’s work towards environmental targets, and supply chain management contribute to this goal. 25 strategy valmet | annual review 2017 Progress on Sustainability 360˚ agenda Sustainable supply chain progress TARGE TS KE Y ACHIE VEMENTS 2017 KE Y AC TIONS FOR 2018 Develop • 73% of new direct suppliers went through the supplier approval • Continue supplier sustainability audits (min. 50 / year) sustainable process and were screened for sustainability • Continue to increase traceability in supply chain procurement • 56 supplier sustainability audits conducted by Valmet and a third• Develop carbon footprint calculations practices party auditor • Continue with sustainability training for global procurement and globally • Created traceability process for tier 2 (suppliers of direct suppliers) integrate sustainability into procurement training programs and pilot with high risk category • Strengthened the number of Valmet's own auditor pool members in risk areas Support selected • Planned sustainability engagement program for key suppliers • Launch sustainability engagement program key suppliers with targets, key suppliers to KPIs and follow-up mechanisms meet the level of sustainability expected by Valmet Health, safety and environment (HSE) progress TARGE TS KE Y ACHIE VEMENTS 2017 KE Y AC TIONS FOR 2018 Drive safety • Safety culture training concept piloted • Start global implementation of safety culture training program culture • Over 850 management safety walks. Training video in use. • Renew Valmet's Health and Safety key performance indicators • 65% of employees completed Safety@Valmet awareness e-learning • Weekly toolbox talks to be held in all workplaces Best in class HSE • Hand injury prevention initiative started • Implementation of global standard for risk assessments management • Collaborating for contractor safety program started • Collaborating for contractor safety program continues practices • Valmet's environmental efficiency program renewed with 2030 • Define global roadmap to reduce waste to landfill targets in alignment with climate science Secure • Valmet HSE induction e-learning launched for our people and partners • Local HSE action plans in all locations and follow-up of selected units compliance and • Global management system project ongoing • Certified global management system in place (to ISO 9001; 14001 and improvements • HSE audits of 12 customer sites and 20 locations 45001) • Complete minimum 20 HSE audits per year Over 850 management safety walks were conducted to further Read more: drive safety culture www.valmet.com/ sustainability in Valmet 26 valmet | annual review 2017 strategy People and performance progress TARGE TS KE Y ACHIE VEMENTS 2017 KE Y AC TIONS FOR 2018 Boost employee • Conducted OurVoice employee engagement survey • Execute OurVoice development actions and communicate progress engagement • 87% response rate, up from 81% in 2015 • Introduce an employee role description to continue to develop a • Increase in employee engagement (+2 percentage points), culture of accountability performance excellence (+3 percentage points) and values (+3 percentage points) indices Develop the best • 99% annual review and 95% mid-year review discussion completion • Ensure annual review discussion coverage of >95% for white collar talent for the annual review population employees • Two new global training programs kicked off • Develop global training portfolio to support strategic goals; launch • Learning library created to support the delivery of technical and project execution program functional training • Utilize learning library for technical and functional training • 1,056 development actions identified for talent review population • Execute development actions for talent review population Increase • 33% internal mobility, up from 29% in 2016 • Create programs and processes to support career development of diversity • Diversity talent prioritized in global training portfolio nomination diversity talent process • Continue prioritizing diversity talent in global training portfolio • Active mentoring program, with 153 mentor-mentee pairs nomination process participating • Widen recruitment pool beyond traditional candidates Be a responsible • Human rights work continued: published human rights statement; • Further develop human rights framework through systematic 3-year employer mapped human rights risks and created action plans based on results roadmap • Renewed 360˚ feedback process; ~1,000 managers identified to take • Rollout team management practices and new manager training part program • Active use of ManagerAcademy; 9,359 hours of training recorded • Run 360˚ feedback process for identified managers • Global wellbeing frame created, 34% more employees took part in the • Launch sustainability e-learning Global Challenge • Plan wellbeing roadmap for 2018–2020 as part of integrated workforce approach Sustainable solutions progress TARGE TS KE Y ACHIE VEMENTS 2017 KE Y AC TIONS FOR 2018 Deepen • Continued to conduct in-depth interviews with key customers • Continue to conduct interviews with selected key customers and understanding • Conducted a benchmark study on customer industries, covering e.g., integrate improvement actions into key account management of customers’ sustainability strategy, goals, actions, measurements and reporting process sustainability • Training arranged for Key Account Managers on Valmet’s • Continue to arrange sustainability training for sales teams needs sustainability messages and actions Integrate • Created case examples of our environmentally efficient technologies • Study the possibility of manufacturing consumables from renewables sustainability • Launched sustainability guidelines for R&D and engineering as part of into research innovation projects and development processes and tools Corporate citizenship progress TARGE TS KE Y ACHIE VEMENTS 2017 KE Y AC TIONS FOR 2018 Ensure • Created e-learning on sustainability • Launch e-learning on sustainability for all Valmet employees compliance • Further developed global process for ensuring sustainability when • Review the Code of Conduct content and relaunch e-learning with guiding entering into new markets principles Promote • Inclusion in Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe Indices (DJSI) • Create a long-term roadmap for social projects transparent for a fourth consecutive year • Continue stakeholder dialogue and encourage stakeholders to give reporting • Assured CO2 levels of procurement, logistics and business travel feedback about sustainability performance in stakeholder surveys and active stakeholder collaboration 27 supply chain valmet | annual review 2017 Supply chain Valmet’s target is to continuously enhance its supply chain management and the transparency of its value chain. Sustainability is fully integrated into the way Valmet operates in its procurement and supply chain processes. Valmet has a global supply chain that includes procurement from Valmet continues to aim for annual savings in procurement of no countries with different risk levels. Ensuring a sustainable supply less than 3 percent. In 2017, Valmet exceeded the target, with savings chain is one of Valmet’s five sustainability agenda focus areas. of 4 percent. In 2018, Valmet will focus on design-to-cost projects, Global megatrends, such as resource efficiency, growing customer with the aim of designing smarter and more efficient solutions to awareness and digitalization, are increasing the need for a transparcreate new savings opportunities. ent supply chain. The work of creating a supplier relationship management (SRM) Potential risks in the supply chain include breaches of intellectual program began in 2016, with the aim of supporting key suppliers property rights and company assets, compromising human rights in developing their operations together with Valmet. The program or labor rights, risks to occupational health and safety, and causing includes targets, KPIs and follow-up mechanisms for selected supenvironmental damage. Valmet’s suppliers could cause reputation pliers. In 2017, Valmet began to integrate and develop a supplier or business risks for Valmet if they were to engage in such unethical sustainability engagement concept in the current SRM program. behavior. The aim is to steer Valmet’s suppliers towards more sustainable Valmet recognizes its responsibility to reduce negative environoperations. Valmet will start implementing this program in 2018. mental and social impacts throughout its value chain and its own Valmet recognizes its role in the global value chain and is comoperations, as well as during the customer use phase of the technolmitted to working with suppliers in developing countries to develop ogies, automation and services that Valmet provides. their operations. Valmet’s current focus is on strengthening proValmet’s supply chain activities promote opportunities and curement and growing its supplier base in developing countries to strive to ensure there is a genuine dialog with suppliers. The aim support growth strategies in Valmet’s operating areas. is to improve and develop suppliers’ operations in many areas, and In 2017, Valmet continued to further integrate sustainability into to further strengthen cooperation. To ensure a comprehensive apits procurement activities. Sustainability is part of procurement’s proach, Valmet’s research and development (R&D) and engineering main KPIs and targets. Valmet also continued its sustainability functions also actively participate in supplier cooperation. training programs for global procurement and developed a new sustainability e-learning course in 2017, which has a study module Sustainable procurement practices specifically for procurement professionals. Suppliers are an integral part of our manufacturing and delivery processes. Valmet aims to ensure that the materials and compoGlobal supply chain management process nents we procure comply with relevant local and global regulations To effectively manage risks in the supply chain, Valmet has a comand standards. Valmet purchases a variety of different products and prehensive approach to sustainable supply chain management, incomponents, electronics, and services. cluding sustainable supply chain policy, risk assessments, supplier Procurement operations are significant in ensuring that Valmet self-assessments, and supplier sustainability audits executed with a is efficient and profitable. Materials, machines and components third party. comprise around 76 percent, and purchased services 24 percent, of Compliance with Valmet’s Sustainable Supply Chain Policy is Valmet’s total direct spend. The figures can vary depending on the the starting point for entering and maintaining any kind of business business line. Valmet has some 10,000 active direct suppliers from relationship with Valmet. We expect all our suppliers to comply more than 50 countries. Some 60 percent of Valmet’s direct purwith the sustainability requirements in the policy, and we have zero chases originate from Finland, Sweden and China. We are sourcing tolerance towards the use of forced labor or child labor. more from emerging markets now, but we are also seeing sourcing Sustainability gates are an integrated and automated part of opportunities with local suppliers in developed countries, especialthe supplier evaluation process and tool. The automated process ly related to our Services business. ensures that all suppliers are assessed in relation to their potential 28 valmet | annual review 2017 supply chain 73% of new direct suppliers were automatically screened for sustainability 56 supplier sustainability audits conducted in 14 countries Purchases (10 largest countries) EUR MILLION 2017 2016 Finland 751 758 Sweden 265 211 China 157 114 USA 116 130 Germany 78 75 Brazil 68 24 Poland 62 65 Estonia 40 30 Italy 34 40 Spain 25 7 29 supply chain valmet | annual review 2017 sustainability risk, sign the Sustainable Supply Chain Policy, and with the corrective actions, Valmet reserves the right to terminate complete a sustainability self-assessment, if this is required based the contract with the supplier. on the risk assessment. The online self-assessment is available in In 2017, Valmet continued to develop global templates and guidnine languages. ance for sustainability auditing to ensure uniform processes. Valmet In 2017, 73 percent of all new direct suppliers were automatically also developed its sustainability audit follow-up guidelines to ensure screened on sustainability. The remaining suppliers have been manglobally consistent processes. In 2017, we held internal training in all ually assessed in regard to potential sustainability risk. The screenareas where the process was enforced, and we shared best practices ing covers business ethics, compliance, human and labor rights, about sustainability auditing across areas and audit teams. health, safety and environmental management, as well as product safety topics. Developing more sustainable transportation solutions Valmet transports large amounts of products at both ends of its valSupplier sustainability auditing ue chain. Valmet is aiming to transport its goods more sustainably, In 2017, Valmet conducted a total of 56 supplier sustainability and continued to develop the tracking of its carbon footprint in audits using Valmet’s global sustainability audit protocol togethtransportation. In 2017, Valmet continued to implement a roadmap er with an independent, certified, third-party auditor, in Poland, with several concrete steps to develop transport solutions and to Estonia, India, Thailand, China, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, the United reduce its CO2 impact from transportations. Activities include e.g., States, Indonesia, Turkey, Hungary, Romania and Sweden. The developing more light-weighting solutions in packaging, developprotocol ensures the process is consistent and enables comparabiling standardized packaging solutions, increasing collaboration ity between suppliers. with key transportation suppliers to reduce CO2 emissions, and Sustainability audit findings are based on non-conformities increasing the use of alternative shipping modes. with Valmet’s Sustainable Supply Chain Policy, or with local or During 2017, Valmet developed its reporting on CO2 emissions international law. Most findings (58 percent of all findings) were and cooperated with selected suppliers to develop transportation related to human and labor rights, as well as health and safety. We reporting and increase data quality. Valmet constantly develops follow up all findings from sustainability audits through a systemits Transport Management System and connects suppliers to the atic process that includes a corrective action plan that the supplier system which helps to increase transport consolidation. In longcarries out and that we monitor and verify. Of all the suggested term transportation contracts, as well, Valmet continues to strive corrective actions in 2015–2017, around 67% were completed and for efficiency, both in performance and in reducing CO2 emissions. verified by the end of 2017. Valmet can support suppliers in impleUpstream and downstream transportation accounted for 71,000 menting corrective actions, but if the supplier refuses to proceed tonnes of CO2 in 2017. A global supplier sustainability management process Required from all suppliers Required based on supplier risk assessment Sustainable Sustainability Supplier selfSustainability Supply Chain Policy risk assessment assessments audits All suppliers are required All suppliers are A low result in A low result in to sign Valmet’s evaluated through the risk assessment the ­self-assessment Sustainable Supply a five-level sustainability leads to a supplier leads to an audit. Chain Policy. risk assessment. sustainability self-assessment. 30 valmet | annual review 2017 supply chain Auditing suppliers for sustainability Every year, Valmet conducts around 50 sustainability audits for its suppliers as part of its sustainable supply chain program. At the core of the process is Valmet’s own supplier sustainability auditor pool, which consists of Valmet professionals from global procurement. These auditors ensure that Valmet’s suppliers meet the minimum requirements in Valmet’s sustainable supply chain policy. Two of Valmet’s auditors, Will Li (China) and Arnaldo Sanchez (Mexico) tell us about their experiences. Will and Arnaldo are part of group of over 30 auditors around the world. Both auditors perform sustainability audits as part of their work. For them, sustainability auditing has been an eye-opening experience. “I see that sustainability audit processes and implementing corrective action plans have a real impact in achieving more sustainable and safe operations at suppliers’ facilities,” says Sanchez. “It has been a great learning opportunity for me, too,” he adds. “I enjoy seeing how many suppliers have really changed the mindset regarding sustainability here in China,” Li explains. Since the two started to audit suppliers, noticeable changes have occurred in both countries. “People in China have become increasingly aware of sustainability. The government is now imposing stricter environmental regulations, and we can support our suppliers so that they are more likely to meet these new requirements,” says Li. “In Mexico, there’s still room for BACK IN THE OLD DAYS improvement regarding safety issues, but Valmet and other global companies Loading for transport of have been pushing Mexican companies forward in sustainability,” says Sanchez. mercerizing equipment to Chile from Sunds Verkstäder AB in 1956. 31 health, safety and environment valmet | annual review 2017 Health, safety and environment We are committed to protecting the health, safety and environment (HSE) of our people, partners, customers and the communities where we operate. Promoting wellbeing at work, driving safety culture and active collaboration with our partners are in focus as we strive towards our goal of zero harm. Everybody home safe, every day Best practice as a global practice We make intensive efforts to provide safe and healthy workplaces for We continued global implementation of our common HSE manall. In 2017, our operations were fatality-free. We have improved our agement routines for customer site safety, as well as with 5S* in our total recordable incident frequency (TRIF) rate for own employees production locations. Throughout the year, we emphasized hand by 50% since 2014, and 9% during this year. We believe all incidents injury prevention at all sites with hand injury awareness training, can be prevented, and we continue to work on reducing injuries and task-specific personal protective equipment risk assessments and their severity through effective preventive and protective measures, continued implementation of Think About , our tool for pre-task as well as by encouraging attitudes and behaviors that maintain a hazard identification. We also emphasized using the 5 Whys or safety mindset in everything we do. fishbone analysis methods as everyday tools for analyzing the root causes of incidents in order to improve the quality of the safe pracA culture where safety always comes first tice reminders we distribute in our HSE alerts after every recordable Valmet managers promote health and safety, and this year we clearincident or serious near miss. ly specified the activities that managers should engage in, such as The Global HSE team performed HSE audits in 12 customer delivering toolbox talks, giving feedback, and ensuring HSE risks projects and 20 production units during the year, with a focus on are considered in all action plans. To further encourage the practice ensuring compliance with HSE standards. We also continued with of management safety walks, we have made a training video, and the practice of local safety booster programs, with targeted actions managers completed over 850 walks in 2017. We also continued to support sustainable changes in HSE performance. with the train-the-trainer approach to safety feedback training for managers in Hagfors, Sweden, and Cernay, France. Excellent collaboration and continuous, constructive In 2017, we started to develop a global safety culture training dialogue program. Part of the program will give all our managers an underIncident rates are higher among our contractors than among our standing of the importance of actively leading safety as a key deterown employees. To address this, we are continuing with our Colminant of a positive safety culture – and the tools to do so – as well laborating for Contractor Safety management program, where we as a commitment to put it into practice. The other part of the proare using pilot schemes and adopting industry best practices to gram is for everyone, and here we explore personal risk tolerance, improve the selection, induction and management of contractors. the value of safety, and the responsibility that we all share to take We started using a pocket size booklet called Safety in Pictures at care of ourselves and each other at work. We piloted both aspects the beginning of the year as a tool to bridge language diversity in of the program in our mill maintenance outsourcing operations in our sites. We have also opened an e-learning platform for suppliers Sydney, Australia, this year. called PartnerAcademy. An HSE induction e-learning course is We continued with our annual global activities, such as the now available, with modules containing both general rules appliWWF’s Earth Hour and our HSE awareness week. In North Amercable to all Valmet workplaces, and also worksite-specific rules. We ica, we held Safety Cafés – informal interactive sessions on topical expect all contractors working in our facilities or at our installation HSE issues – in 18 locations to encourage participation and build or service sites to complete induction before starting work. We also engagement. Proactive reporting of near misses and safety obserheld a Site Service Supplier Safety Day in Gothenburg, Sweden. vations increased by 10 percent in 2017. We also reached our target level of eight hours HSE training per person. *Systematic approach to organizing workplaces (Lean) 32 valmet | annual review 2017 health, safety and environment Health, safety and environmental data Energy CO2 emissions Water consumption TJ 1,000 t 1,000 m3 2,000 0.8 120 0.06 5,000 100 0.05 4,000 1,500 0.6 80 0.04 3,000 1,000 0.4 60 0.03 2,000 40 0.02 500 0.2 20 0.01 1,000 0 0 0 0.00 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Fuel Direct emissions (scope 1) Water consumption Electricity Indirect emissions (scope 2) District heating 1,000 tCO2/EUR million Net sales Steam TJ/EUR million Net sales Waste 1,000 t Management systems (% of headcount) 50 40 SHARE OF CERTIFIED OPERATIONS1, 2017 30 20 10 85% 73% 59% 0 ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 2015 2016 2017 Quality Environmental Occupational Management System Management Systems Health and Safety Hazardous waste Management System Non-hazardous waste 1 Including offices Lost time incident frequency Total recordable incident Coverage of safety committees4, (LTIF)2, own employees frequency (TRIF)3, own employees % of workforce 6 12 5 10 4 8 3 6 Safety 2 4 committees 92% 1 2 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2 LTIF reflects the number of injuries resulting in 3 LTIF+medical treatment and restricted work 4 Percentage of workforce represented in formal an absence of at least one workday per million cases joint management-worker health and safety hours worked committees 33 health, safety and environment valmet | annual review 2017 In 2018, we will proceed with the implementation of updated supAdopting shared standards plier HSE assessment and evaluation processes and continue with We continued our work towards certification in 2018 of one global contractor management meetings with an HSE agenda. management system (GMS). This is done according to the updatWe have open and proactive dialogue with customers on safety ed ISO occupational health and safety, environment and quality in the sales phase of installation or service projects to ensure that standards. We believe this step change away from local systems to all parties are equally committed to rules and responsibilities that a global system that also covers corporate functions supports our will enhance safe work practices. During these projects, we engage process-oriented way of working and enhances strategic alignment, in active benchmarking and sharing of best practices, and we are risk and opportunity management, and continuous improvement. always ready to improve our performance based on what we learn. Certification assures our stakeholders that we integrate sound qualThe discussion continues all the way through to the post-delivery ity and HSE management practices into all aspects of our business. evaluation of the project. We are aiming to expand the coverage to all production facilities so that 90% or more of our people work in operations certified to all Wellbeing at work three standards by 2025 (see table on page 33 for current coverage). Valmet has a global approach to wellbeing, where we focus on acAs part of the GMS project, we are also implementing a global tively promoting five evidence-based actions to improve personal HSE IT application strategy so that we have the best available tools wellbeing: Be active (such as providing exercise opportunities at the to support us. workplace), Keep learning (such as enabling internal job rotation and offering global learning programs), Connect (such as town hall meetings, customer seminars, youth programs, and family days at work), Give (such as mentoring or sending a HighFive feedback) and Take notice (such as lean ways of working). ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY PROGRAM During 2016 and 2017, some 3,500 of our people participated in the Global Challenge™, a health and performance program for comTARGETS 2020 2025 2030 panies all over the world that provides awareness, motivation and 100% compliance with environmental 100% 100% 100% regulations education for lifestyle changes. To keep up our momentum, we also launched an internal campaign called “220 ways to wellbeing” for ISO 14001 system certification (% employees) 80% 90% 90% people to share different tips and experiences of everyday activities. In addition to these global actions, we are co-operating closely Reduction in waste to landfill with occupational health services in our locations to ensure fitness (Baseline reference yearly average 2010–2012) 20% 50% 80% for work and effective management of occupational health risks, as Reduction in water consumption well as to support wellbeing actions. Absenteeism due to sickness (Baseline reference yearly average 2010–2012) 15% 18% 20% and injuries at work remains low, at 2.5% of workhours (2.5). Reduction in location CO2 emissions (Baseline reference yearly average 2005–2009) 20% 40% 60% Reducing our operational footprint We are committed to the sustainable use of resources and the preReduction in location energy consumption 20% 25% 30% vention of pollution, and we always operate within our local envi(Baseline reference yearly average 2005–2009) ronmental regulations and permits. There were no significant spills Increase use of renewable energy in our locations (zero in 2016). Since 2009, Valmet has followed an (% total annual electricity consumption) 20% 30% 35% operational efficiency program in our production locations, with steady progress towards the 2020 reduction targets for energy, water HEALTH AND SAFETY PROGRAM and CO2. During 2017, we renewed the program by setting targets for 2030, as well as by adding new objectives to increase the scope of TARGETS 2018 ISO 14001 system certification, to reduce the amount of waste sent Lost time incident frequency (LTIF) 2 (own employees per million workhours) to landfill, and to increase our use of renewable energy. We also Total recordable incident frequency (TRIF) introduced environmental guidelines for our offices. (own employees per million workhours) 5 One of the largest fractions of Valmet’s waste is sand from our five foundries, which is traditionally landfilled. We took another Near miss and safety observations 3 / employee step towards the circular economy, when 60 tonnes of sand from HSE training 8h / employee the Jyväskylä foundry in Finland was instead reused as material in a golf course construction. Safety committee coverage 90% of employees 34 valmet | annual review 2017 health, safety and environment Workplace exercises are an investment in healthy and happy people For more than 40 years, Valmet has been actively promoting workplace exercises as an investment in healthy and happy people. Stretching and strengthening exercises are known to be effective in preventing strain-related issues caused by poor posture as well as repetitive and static activities including computer work, and manual handling in general. Many Valmet locations now have exercise sessions every day. Our office in Tampere, Finland is one of them. In 2006, a team of Valmeteers started a stretching club, and they still meet every day at 9:30 am to exercise together. The club has 40 members, but everyone is welcome to drop in and participate. The practice began 43 years ago as an instructor-led activity in 1974. “In Tampella, there has been a six-month test of daily exercise breaks. A few minutes of exercising and stretching in the morning and in the afternoon at four different departments,’’ states an article in Tampella tänään, the internal newsletter at the time. “The value of a daily exercise break lies in daily repetition, which makes it an effective habit, strengthening your body and improving performance at work,” continues the article. “We need breaks in static office work; so why not take this kind of instructor lead exercising and stretching break? It surely gives back the BACK IN THE OLD DAYS time that it takes from the working day.” Gymnastic exercises at Rautpohja plant in Finland in 1970's. 35 people and performance valmet | annual review 2017 People and performance Our people – and the teams they work in – are at the heart of Valmet. They live our values, strive to achieve the goals set by our strategy, and improve every day to move our customers’ performance forward. Positive trend in engagement multiple kinds of feedback. The HighFive feedback channel proved At Valmet, we believe an engaged and performance-driven culture popular again in 2017, with a constant stream of positive feedback is built from within. We use the OurVoice survey to measure enaround the organization. In total, 7,684 HighFives were sent during gagement and performance levels, which are important for develthe year. Our annual review and mid-year review discussions oping as a company and building a strong Valmet community. The continued to achieve high completion rates, providing the opporresults of our most recent survey show positive trends in engagetunity for formal manager-employee feedback for over 95% of our ment and performance levels globally. In total, 87% of Valmeteers white-collar employees. participated in the survey (up from 81% in 2015), which gives us an Our rewarding practices help build a high performance culture, excellent base for taking action. and we continuously evaluate the need to develop them. In 2017, we The survey highlights the positive development we continue to granted 3,793 performance rewards as part of our Spot and Special make as a company. The overall results showed improvement in Rewards program. Since its introduction in 2014, the program has all three indices: engagement, performance excellence, and values. been expanded and improved each year to better meet our rewardNinety-three percent of all the questions increased while only 7 ing needs. In 2018, we will expand our reward library and better percent remained stable. Particularly notable were the increases in support the utilization of individual and team rewards, especially in belief in Valmet’s future, feedback on performance, and recognizthe production environment. In the 2017 salary planning process, ing a job well done. Working together continued to be a strength, we once again highlighted the importance of rewarding high perimproving to a level of 85% positive globally, beating the internaformance, and we used in-depth analysis to support the business in tional benchmark. identifying the most relevant focus areas when allocating increases, We identified two global focus areas based on the results: mansuch as gender equality and high performers at the lower end of agerial skills (where we want to continue to develop) and working the pay range. Future changes to our people reporting system will together – an area where we are already strong, but we want to excel. significantly improve the analysis available to make rewarding deWe selected additional focus areas for the business lines and areas, cisions. and follow their progress on a quarterly basis. Better managers make a better Valmet A performance attitude We invest in developing managerial skills, because we believe better We have a strong set of tools in place designed to drive high performanagers make a better Valmet. In 2017, we continued our efforts to mance, and we have continued to improve in how well we utilize strengthen managerial skills through sharing best practices, activethem. In our annual review discussion process, we emphasized ly using our ManagerAcademy learning platform, and increasing the importance of smart target setting to better align and connect the emphasis on the manager role description as the basis for all individual targets with our strategic objectives, and in preparation managerial work. We kicked off a renewed 360° feedback process for the 2018 process, we introduced a target library with example which includes individual coaching that focuses on concrete action targets for key roles. We also took steps to improve how well we planning and follow-up. identify and rate performance differences, and to create action In 2018, we will focus on accountability and on ensuring best plans to address poor performance and reinforce top performance practices are more consistently used across the organization. We’ll through feedback, rewards and development opportunities. launch a face-to-face manager training program that builds on the We look to feedback as a core element of successful performance Forward for Managers training tool, and we will introduce new management, and we are putting processes in place that encourage team management practices and set expectations for them. We will 36 valmet | annual review 2017 people and performance 12,268 employees 11 percentage point increase in engagement since 2014, up 2 points since 2015 7,684 HighFives 9,359 ManagerAcademy learning hours 37 people and performance valmet | annual review 2017 Personnel data Education structure, % Age structure, % Service years, % Doctorate degree 30 30 Master's degree 25 25 Bachelor’s degree Technical diploma 20 20 College degree 15 15 Special diploma High school diploma 10 10 Basic education 5 5 Unallocated 0 0 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 ≤1 20–29 9 ≥6 <1 1– 3– 4* ≥2 30 40 50 –3 –4 –5 9 9 5 2 5–10 1 60–69 4 11–2 0 2016 2017 2016 2017 * Decrease in 3–4 year category due to fewer new hires in 2013. also unveil an employee role description, to be used together with op the strength of our successor bench, to discover hidden talent, and the manager role to create understanding, increase accountability to create development opportunities that challenge and motivate our and strengthen manager-employee relationships. top performers. In total, we identified 1,056 development actions for this group, including mentoring, global program participation, and Programs to take us forward opportunities for internal mobility. We ran seven global training programs in 2017, each designed to Ensuring we have the right competence in place close to our cusaccelerate the achievement of our Must-Wins, as well as to engage tomers continues to be a priority. Our current competence developand develop talent. In total, 551 individuals participated in one of ment initiatives focus on closing identified gaps, successfully transthe 16 sessions held during the year. Project work continued to be an ferring knowledge, and developing our technical competences. We integral part of program success; in total, we began 12 group projects set up a new Learning Library this year to support the delivery of and 157 individual projects during the year. We introduced new technical and functional training in a systematic way to meet busialumni networking groups for select programs to promote project ness needs. The library will be available for all employees starting outcomes and foster collaboration. The two new programs, Sales in January 2018, and we will use it as a tool in the annual review Journey and Innovation Pathways, kicked off with good results, and discussions. Other new programs launched in 2017 to support busiwe began developing a new program for project execution. Having a ness-specific competence development include Technology School, diverse group of participants is a key success factor for all programs, a field service certificate program, and Fabrics Academy. and this was especially clear in Innovation Pathways, a program We have also taken full advantage of existing programs and prodesigned to build an innovation culture and boost the development cesses to build competence across the organization. We successfully of competitive products that address our customer’s diverse needs. implemented the internal mobility guideline and have seen an increase in positions filled internally, up 16 percent since 2016. Our mentoring Activating talent globally and locally programs continued to attract interest, with 153 mentor-mentee pairs Valmet follows a 70–20–10 learning philosophy, where 70 percent taking part. We expanded access to ManagerAcademy, providing of learning takes place on the job (new projects, internal mobility), new learning opportunities for around 1,000 individual contribu20 percent from learning relationships (mentoring, coaching), and tors. When it comes to attracting new talent, we tried more modern 10 percent from formal training. We run an annual talent review recruitment methods, sharpened our messages, and focused on a process covering approximately 1,500 management, successor and smoother onboarding process to ensure that new talent feels welcome high-potential resources. The focus of the 2017 process was to develand can start contributing to our success from day one. 38 valmet | annual review 2017 people and performance Developing sales competence, collaboration and connections Sales Journey is a competence development framework for the sales function in support of Shared Journey Forward. Sales Journey is being cascaded worldwide during 2017–2019, and it will give teams in the sales and customer interface the opportunity to broaden their existing skills and learn new competencies to succeed in our demanding market environment. Leading the journey The work in sales development began in 2016 with the 'Agility through Sales' program focusing on mill team development, and continued with 'Leading High-Performing Sales Teams', a face-to-face development program designed to improve sales efficiency by strengthening sales management, clarifying expectations of sales leaders, and giving opportunities to put the lessons learned into action. The program received excellent feedback, with an average feedback score of 4.5/5 from the 138 participants. Reaching all geographies Sales Journey is set to reach more than 1,000 Valmet sales professionals across Valmet. We will use it to ensure Valmet’s sales process is consistent, with roles and responsibilities clarified and understood for all organizations. It will also give us the opportunity to review our achievements in mill team development, boost our capability to sell our full offering, and deepen our understanding of customers’ business through extensive case work. Everyone involved practices true customer communication in a variety of challenging situations, learning to lead our team towards higher performance and talk BACK IN THE OLD DAYS about how to work effectively in our matrixed environment. Training on the job for welders, arranged jointly with the local vocational school in 1975. 39 our solutions valmet | annual review 2017 Meaningful dialogue with data Valmet launched its new Industrial internet offering in June 2017, built on the experience and expertise we have gained from our unique combination of process technologies, services and automation over the years. Our systems and measurements with customers' other mill and plant systems provide an enormous amount of data, and our experts have a key role in identifying which data to analyze and how to utilize it for the customers' benefit. As part of its Industrial Internet offering, Valmet has established five industryspecific Performance Centers. The centers serve customers in the pulp, energy, paper and board, and tissue industries, as well as in automation. Our experts work there either physically, or virtually through a remote connection. These centers give customers easy access to our Industrial Internet applications and the expertise they need through secure data connections. We also started to bring the leading industry players together to establish an ecosystem to create new value-adding Industrial Internet applications for pulp, BACK IN THE OLD DAYS paper and energy customers. In 2017, we established ecosystem partnerships Damatic – the first digital with Tieto and Kemira. automation system by Valmet was started in 1979 at Board Machine 2 in Pankakoski mill. 40 valmet | annual review 2017 our solutions Our solutions Valmet’s unique product and services offering is based on its leading technology and expertise. We continuously improve our products and services, and we bring new innovations to market to improve our customers’ performance. Valmet develops and supplies advanced process technologies, auas well as power plants for producing bioenergy. Valmet’s advanced tomation solutions and services for its customers in the pulp, paper automation solutions range from single measurements to milland energy industries. This unique combination enables innovative wide, turnkey automation projects. product and service development and a competitive offering. In 2017, Valmet launched its new Industrial Internet offering, Valmet’s services cover everything from maintenance outsourccombining our knowledge of process technology, automation and ing to mill and plant improvements and spare parts (read more services, and started to build an ecosystem that brings together key about our services approach on p. 5). Our strong technology offerplayers in the business (Read more from the previous page). ing includes pulp mills, tissue, board and paper production lines, Valmet’s unique customer offering – combining process technologies, automation and services Paper Pulp and Energy • Recycled fiber lines • Complete pulp mills • Tailor-made board and paper machines • Sections and solutions for • Modularized board and paper machines pulp production • Tissue production lines • Multifuel boilers • Modernizations and grade conversions • Biomass and waste gasification PROCESS • Standalone products • Emission control systems T E C H N O L O GY • Biotechnology solutions e.g., for producing biofuels CUSTOMER Services S ER V IC E S A U T O M AT IO N Automation • Spare parts and components • Distributed control systems • Maintenance and shutdown • Quality control systems management • Analyzers and measurements • Outsourcing services • Performance solutions • Production consumables • Process simulators • Process support and optimization • Safety solutions • Process upgrades • Automation upgrades • Remote solutions and services • Industrial Internet solutions 41 our solutions valmet | annual review 2017 Research & Development The aim of Valmet’s R&D is to continuously Examples about the recent development projR&D spend strengthen the company’s technology leadership ects are a Valmet supplied demonstration scale 64 position and further improve its competitive plant for second generation sugar extraction that edge. We achieve this by developing competitive was officially opened at Sappi Ndgodwana Mill in new solutions to customers’ needs; by enhancing South Africa in 2017 and Valmet’s IQ corrugator raw material, water and energy efficiency; and by concept that exploits proven technology in pulp & EUR million in 2017 promoting the use of renewable raw materials. paper industry introducing warp and multipoint Our long-term vision is to develop mills that can moisture measurement technologies for convertproduce pulp, paper and other bioproducts with no ing industry. emissions and minimum consumption of resourcOrders received of es, as well as technologies enabling new, high-value Customer needs drive our work new products and end products utilizing bio-based raw materials. Customers’ needs drive Valmet’s R&D work. services Valmet launches around 100 new products to These include improved production efficiency, the market every year. The value of the new prodhigh availability, usability, safety and environ692 ucts and services in Valmet’s orders received has increased to a good level over recent years. In 2017 it was EUR 692 million. The net spend on research mental performance, and reduced investment and operating costs. Furthermore, our customers want to maximize the value of raw materials and EUR million in 2017 and development was EUR 64 million. create new revenue streams. Customer needs drive Valmet’s R&D work Increase production Improve safety efficiency Reduce emissions, High availability energy and water consumption Provide high-value Reduce investment end products and and operational costs new revenue streams Maximize value Improve usability of raw materials 42 valmet | annual review 2017 our solutions Valmet's pilot facilities • Energy and Biotechnology, Tampere, Finland • Automation, Tampere, Finland • Fabrics and Service, Tampere, Finland • Fabrics, Juankoski, Finland • Board and Paper Technology, Jyväskylä, Finland KAJAANI • Polymer and Hard Coating, Jyväskylä, Finland JUANKOSKI • Fiber Technology, Inkeroinen, Finland SUNDSVALL JY VÄSKYLÄ (2) • Finishing Technology, Järvenpää, Finland PORI TAMPERE (3) • Cutter Technology, Pori, Finland INKEROINEN RAISIO • Air Systems, Raisio, Finland KARLSTAD (2) JÄRVENPÄÄ • Automation, Kajaani, Finland GOTHENBURG • Fiberline and Biotechnology, Sundsvall, Sweden • Cooking and Biotechnology, Karlstad, Sweden OVAR, • Tissue Technology, Karlstad, Sweden PORTUGAL • Evaporator Technology, Gothenburg, Sweden • Filter Fabrics, Ovar, Portugal 1,300 Global megatrends – like resource efficiency, risk of commercializing new technologies. clean solutions and digitalization – are driving Valmet has over 420 R&D professionals workour customers’ needs for sustainable solutions. ing across its businesses. We also have an extensive Many companies are moving towards the circuco-operation network in place with leading unilar economy. Valmet has a strong role to play in versities and research institutions in Europe, Asia, protected the circular economy, helping our customers to and North and South America. Moreover, we have inventions implement it, and in our own operations (Read created successful R&D and innovation partnermore on p. 44–45). ships with customers and suppliers to create a competitive edge through product development. Our pilot facilities and networks give us a competitive edge Boosting innovative culture Valmet has 16 pilot facilities, which carry out both In 2017, Valmet launched a new global innovation internal R&D and customer projects. Our customtraining program, in close cooperation with seers can take advantage of Valmet’s pilot facilities to lected key customers. This program is targeting test new furnishes or fuels, or to optimize the proa concrete business impact through an improved cesses in terms of energy, raw material and water innovation culture, a deeper understanding of consumption. This is important to secure perforcustomer needs and business logic, stronger R&D mance and mitigate risks in new lines and plants, as cooperation with key customers and suppliers, as well as in rebuilds. In 2017, we reached the milestone well as through active internal networking and of 1,000 customer pilot trials at our Karlstad tissue cooperation. The target of the program is to train pilot facility in Sweden. Thanks to these facilities, about 300 Valmet employees from different funcRead more: we can decrease the time to market and reduce the tions during the coming three years. www.valmet.com/research 43 our solutions valmet | annual review 2017 Valmet’s role in circular economy In a circular economy, products, components and materials stay in With modular machine design and smart engineering, Valmet a continuous cycle instead of being thrown away. The key idea is to enables equipment to have multiple uses. Well-planned maintetake as little new materials into use as possible and to minimize the nance and partial replacements can significantly prolong the lifeamount of waste. This can be achieved by reducing the initial need time of equipment as well. for raw materials, by circulating the materials longer in the process, Valmet constantly develops and introduces new technologies by recycling the used materials, and by prolonging the lifetime of and services to support the circular economy. We work with our production equipment with well-planned maintenance. This very customers to utilize our research and pilot facilities to develop soluidea is built into Valmet’s solutions for customers. tions that meet their needs. Circular economy creates business opportunities Implementing the circular economy in our own Demand for a more resource-efficient and clean world is driving the operations need for more sustainable solutions. Valmet has a strong role in the Valmet is also implementing the circular economy in its own operacircular economy by offering customers technology and services for tions by, for example, improving efficiency of production operations converting renewable resources into sustainable products, such as and maximizing the reuse and recycling of metals. In 2017, Valmet pulp, board and bioenergy. renewed its environmental targets for its own operations to further With Valmet’s solutions, customers can for example reduce their improve environmental performance in the long term. The targets environmental load by using less energy, water or chemicals, or by include goals for reducing waste sent to landfill, and water use. Valminimizing waste by using production side-streams from other met requires that its suppliers commit to resource efficiency and applications, processes or even industries. good environmental management, too. Valmet in circular economy rs by combining process t tome ech ur cus nol og o ies y for , au om to con Technologies for on-site Modular machine design m at e io ar recovery of energy and chemicals and smart engineering enable circu allow materials to circulate longer the use of same equipment n l and reduces the need for for other uses and En virgin materials ab ces lin Energy technologies Well planned maintenance rvi g se to reduce the need for tomer industrie and partial replacements non-renewable fuels and Cus s can significantly prolong perations: metal componen the amount of waste the equipment lifetime stomers’ processes: ren own o rs, gases, water, energy ts, metals Board Paper our cu , water, other raw ma ewable ra Solutions to improve Technological solutions energy, water and for biobased products ts to raw material Energy Tissue decrease the need for ts to efficiency non-renewable materials yme , and enable cascaded use Inpu rals, pol terials w ergy across industries Inpu erials, en Pulp Biofuels Converting renewable e resources into min sustainable results mat Preventive Cascaded use across maintenance industries eg. production residuals Ow n operations Continuous improvement of energy and water Shared use of our research efficiency and recyclability and piloting facilities and waste reduction with customers Maximized use of recycled Good environmental metals and reuse of metals management required in own foundries from suppliers Im ns p lem tio ent opera ing c own ircular e conomy in our 44 valmet | annual review 2017 our solutions Making coffee-to-go greener Photo: Hannes Frigård, KuvaBitti Oy Around 16 billion disposable paper cups are used every year around the world, creating vast amounts of waste. The plastic content of these cups makes recycling them challenging. Still, we can make changes one step – or in this case, one paper cup – at a time. Valmet’s innovative curtain coating technology turns the barrier board production inside out making the cups recyclable like paper waste. It’s an excellent example of circular economy in action. In a circular economy people reuse products, components and materials in a continuous cycle instead of throwing them away. Kotkamills, a Finnish forest industry company, converted its printing paper machine to a board machine. One of the innovative grades the machine produces is dispersion barrier-coated cup board. Unlike the conventional cup boards, it can be recycled with normal paper waste, recovering and reusing the fibers. Valmet’s OptiCoat Layer curtain coating stations play an important role in producing this new, more sustainable board grade. With curtain coating, barrier can be applied as a thin coating layer, rendering the plastic extrusion coating obsolete. This fully recyclable board is one example of how Valmet’s technology solutions enable customers to improve their environmental performance and BACK IN THE OLD DAYS lower their ecological footprint. Mobile research laboratory at Norske Skogindustries AS Skogn PM1 in 1986. 45 our solutions valmet | annual review 2017 1979 Valmet's Damatic Automation system 46 valmet | annual review 2017 our solutions Today Valmet's Industrial Internet 47 corporate citizenship valmet | annual review 2017 Corporate citizenship Valmet is socially responsible and actively develops its processes to be fully aligned globally. In 2017, Valmet maintained its position among the world’s sustainability leaders. The company received external recognition for its strategic and integrated approach to sustainability and for its sustainability reporting. With global operations in 33 countries, Valmet provides employprinciples, Valmet has continued to develop a comprehensive due ment and business opportunities to a wide range of stakeholders and diligence framework and monitoring system for human rights. It indirectly builds wealth in local societies. We promote transparency will be implemented and used globally in our operations. Valmet's in our communications with our stakeholders and actively engage comprehensive framework includes long-term action plans that are with them to learn about their expectations. We aim to ensure that monitored and reported. all our operations comply with laws and regulations in a socially Valmet has identified 14 salient potential human rights impacts responsible and globally aligned manner. and potentially vulnerable groups in Valmet's value chain. In 2017, Valmet identified potential human rights-related risks for both ValCode of Conduct and other guiding policies met and the rights holders, and identified actions to catch potential Valmet’s Code of Conduct guides the behavior and decisions of Valviolations and remedy them, mitigate risks and enable continuous met’s employees and its partners, and it creates a uniform foundation improvement. for all our business transactions and work assignments. The Code In 2017, Valmet issued a statement to promote its commitment of Conduct is supported by a set of policies defining more detailed to and respect for human rights, and to raise awareness among its principles for specific activities. All these policies are described in stakeholders. Valmet’s Human Rights Statement is approved by more detail in Valmet’s GRI Supplement, on page 11. Valmet’s President and CEO, and it applies to all employees and All new employees learn about, and must get to know the Code of entities within Valmet. Conduct. Valmet has an obligatory e-learning course for all employees about our Code of Conduct. By the end of 2017, almost all of our Social and environmental assessment for business employees (99.8%) had completed the training. The Code of Conexpansions duct e-learning course is available in 19 languages. In 2017, Valmet In 2017, Valmet continued to develop its global sustainability asbegan the work to develop a new e-learning course on sustainability. sessment process for new market entries or expansions. The target The course’s topics include Valmet’s sustainability agenda, focus aris to ensure that Valmet operates in accordance with the Code of eas and how sustainability is connected into daily work. The course Conduct whenever operations expand or new legal entities are esis obligatory for all white-collar employees at Valmet. tablished in new countries. The assessment process was piloted in Valmet supports and promotes the principles set out in the UN 2016 for our service center investment in Jakarta, Indonesia. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding PrinciWhen expanding Valmet’s business presence, we build an unples on Business and Human Rights, the UN Sustainable Developderstanding of local market practices to identify our economic, ment Goals, the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights social and environmental impacts, as well as the potential risks. The at Work of the International Labour Organization (ILO), and the sustainability assessment process covers human and labor rights, OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. health and safety, environmental management, and business ethics issues. The results are used in decision-making processes. Human rights As a global company, Valmet recognizes its responsibility to reActive stakeholder dialogue spect human rights and requires its business partners to do the Valmet’s most relevant stakeholders are its existing and potential same. To ensure compliance with international laws and guiding customers and employees, suppliers and subcontractors, share48 valmet | annual review 2017 corporate citizenship A recognized sustainability leader Support for non-profit organizations, % EUR 123,341.80 in total Youth activities 67% Science, research and education 19% Environmental protection and nature conservation 1% Others 13% Income taxes (10 largest countries) EUR MILLION 2017 2016 Finland 20.0 51.1 Sweden 9.0 0.8 China 2.8 2.8 Italy 1.8 0.5 Brazil 1.5 0.4 Japan 1.5 2.4 Portugal 1.5 1.2 USA 1.5 9.2 Canada 1.3 1.7 Chile 0.8 0.8 49 corporate citizenship valmet | annual review 2017 holders and investors, media, non-governmental organizations, Stakeholder meetings and events in 2017 authorities and local communities, research institutes, universities Valmet arranges several stakeholder meetings and events annually and vocational schools. such as seminars, meetings and customer events, to maintain diaValmet engages in active stakeholder dialogue on sustainability logue with its stakeholders. themes, such as the development and implementation of energy During 2017, Valmet arranged six Supplier Day events, in China, and climate policy, legislation and regulation, and research and India, South Korea, Indonesia, Brazil, and the United States. The technology development activities in environmental technology. events aimed to achieve more sustainable and open relationships Valmet has a stakeholder survey available online for all of Valmet’s with our suppliers and to increase their ability to deliver added valstakeholder groups. Valmet reviews its sustainability agenda against ue and innovative solutions for our businesses. The topics discussed the results annually. The aim of the survey is to map which sustainincluded innovation and R&D, enhanced networking, quality and ability themes are most important to our stakeholders. sustainability, especially ensuring health and safety in operations Valmet promotes the development of sustainable solutions and throughout the value chain. Some 203 supplier companies attended has a long tradition of supporting e.g. universities in researching these events. sustainable production technologies. We also share our knowledge Valmet engaged with investors and analysts through different and raise awareness of environmentally efficient products among channels, such as conference calls, roadshows, and meetings. The our stakeholders to initiate further discussion. dialogue also included webcasts, site visits and the Annual General During 2017, Valmet continued the tradition to support Meeting. non-governmental, humanitarian organizations that work locally with youth activities, environmental protection, and research and Valmet recognized as a sustainability leader education (see graph on page 49). Valmet has been recognized for its actions and strategy to mitigate climate change and for its reporting on sustainability actions. In In 2017, Valmet engaged in the following projects: 2017, Valmet was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index • Our seasonal donation was directed to Save the Children. The (DJSI) for the fourth consecutive year and thus maintained its posidonation supports the organization’s work in Syria and neightion among the world's sustainability leaders. Valmet was included boring countries. in both the DJSI World and Europe indices. Valmet was also in• In Finland, Valmet developed and executed a youth program cluded in the Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe with the Children and Youth Foundation to offer 100 young for 2017 and received Prime status in the oekom Corporate Rating. people paid, three-week internships. Valmet also reports to CDP, an international non-profit orga• Valmet continues to support SOS Children’s Village in Chennai nization that promotes sustainability. Valmet was awarded a leadand Mumbai, India. Valmet’s local employees are also engaged ership position and the second-best Aranking in CDP’s Climate in creative activities with the children and gave them gifts of program in 2017. Valmet’s Annual Report for 2016 was chosen as sport equipment and utility bags. Best Practice in Sustainability by Report Watch. Distribution of economic value added to our stakeholder groups Direct economic Economic value distributed Retained in business value generated Revenues Operating costs: EUR 2,191 million EUR 3,180 Employee wages and benefits: EUR 807 million Payments to providers of capital: EUR 79 million EUR million Payments to government: EUR 44 million 59 million Support for non-profit organizations: EUR 0.1 million 50 valmet | annual review 2017 corporate citizenship Unique opportunities for young people To celebrate its 220 years of industrial history and the centenary of Finland's independence, Valmet provided 100 young people an opportunity to develop their working life skills during 2017. Valmet offered internships for youngsters aged 16–29 who have challenges in finding their paths in life or in working life skills, for example, to complete practical work training and gain work experience in its Finnish units during the spring and autumn. Valmet's program was planned and executed in cooperation with the Children and Youth Foundation, Academic Work and WorkPilots. In 2017, some 45 young people attended the program in the spring and 55 in the autumn (58 girls and 42 boys). Each of the participants had a personal mentor from Valmet, responsible for creating a safe and inspiring environment for the trainees, and for providing meaningful assignments that helped them practice their working life skills and build self-confidence. The program received plenty of positive feedback from the participants and the mentors. Preparing presentations, taking photos and filing were mentioned as their favorite tasks, among many others. More than 50 percent of the trainees felt that their self-esteem had improved during the program. “I became more BACK IN THE OLD DAYS confident about my skills and future,” one of the participants said. “I learned a A skiing competition for great deal from the young people,” said one of the mentors. children organised by Rautpohja in Finland in the 1950's. 51 contacts valmet | annual review 2017 Contacts VISITING ADDRESS MEDIA CONTACTS FOLLOW VALMET ON SOCIAL MEDIA Valmet Oyj media@valmet.com Keilasatama 5 linkedin.com/company/valmet FI-02150 Espoo, Finland SUSTAINABILITY CONTACTS sustainability@valmet.com twitter.com/valmetglobal POSTAL ADDRESS twitter.com/valmetir Valmet Oyj INVESTOR RELATIONS P.O. Box 11 ir@valmet.com youtube.com/valmetglobal FI-02151 Espoo, Finland facebook.com/valmetcorporation ORDER PUBLICATIONS Tel. +358 (0)10 672 0000 www.valmet.com/subscribe instagram.com/valmetglobal firstname.lastname@valmet.com UNSUBSCRIBE PUBLICATIONS media@valmet.com WWW.VALMET.COM Valmet r­ eports 2017 valmet | annual review 2017 valmet | annual review 2017 ANNUAL REVIEW valmet | annual review 2017 valmet | annual review 2017 FINANCIAL Annual Review 2017 2017 Financial Statements 2017 STATEMENTS Progress built on 220 years of industrial history and Information The report describes With 220 years of industrial history, we for Investors 2017 AND INFORMATION are committed to moving our customers Valmet’s market performance forward – every day. environment and FOR INVESTORS the progress of its The report includes strategy, operations Valmet’s Financial and sustainability Statements for 2017 in 2017. and information about its shares, shareholders Valmet Oyj PO Box 11 FI-02151 ESPOO, FINLAND www.valmet.com 5 6 7 and management. valmet | annual review 2017 valmet | annual review 2017 GRI SUPPLEMENT valmet | annual review 2017 valmet | annual review 2017 CORPORATE valmet | annual review 2017 valmet | annual review 2017 REMUNERATION GRI Supplement 2017 2017 Corporate Governance GOVERNANCE Remuneration STATEMENT 2017 Statement 2017 Statement 2017 The report includes With 220 years of industrial history, we STATEMENT 2017 With 220 years of industrial history, we The report covers are committed to moving our customers are committed to moving our customers Valmet’s sustainability performance forward – every day. The report covers performance forward – every day. Valmet’s remuneration reporting indicators Valmet’s governance principles and and principles, and principles and remuneration in 2017. its alignment with activities, Board and the Global Reporting management in 2017. Initiative (GRI) Standards framework. Valmet Oyj PO Box 11 FI-02151 ESPOO, FINLAND www.valmet.com Valmet Oyj PO Box 11 FI-02151 ESPOO, FINLAND www.valmet.com 9 10 11 12 13 52 About this report This report is made from paper and pulp that DESIGN AND PRODUCTION were produced on Valmet machinery and equipMiltton Oy ment. It is printed on Maxioffset paper, which is certified according to the PEFC standard and the PAPER Nordic Ecolabel. Maxioffset 250 g This report is from sustainably managed forMaxioffset 140 g ests and controlled sources. PEFC certification requires that the forests are managed well with PRINTING regard to biodiversity, forest health and mainteGrano Oy nance, as well as recreational use. The PEFC logo promotes responsible consumption. The Nordic Ecolabel ensures that products IC ECOLAB that are used in printed matter fulfill certain NO RD E L criteria. Inks are mineral-oil free, and for all other materials, those that are recyclable and environmentally friendly are preferred. 4041 0955 Printed matter With 220 years of industrial history, we are committed to moving our customers performance forward – every day. Valmet Oyj Keilasatama 5 / PO Box 11 FI-02151 ESPOO, FINLAND www.valmet.com
