November 2018 Communication on Progress To the United Nations Global Compact Message from the Co-CEOs expressing support for the Global Compact (Extract of JCDecaux’s 2017 Registration Document) “Our proactive Sustainable Development approach is a real driver for growth and innovation and it lies at the heart of our strategy. It allows us to adapt ourselves to challenges in our activity and translate them into opportunities for citizens, brands, cities and societies. This is shown by the 67% reduction in energy consumption of the advertising light boxes fitted in new bus shelters in Lyon in France or the renew of our commitment to the Global Compact supporting human rights, the prevention of corruption and the protection of the environment. We are also proud to have launched in 2017 the first worldwide campaign for road safety in partnership with the “Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile” (FIA). Aware of the role we must play as an economic actor, our commitment to a more sustainable world is also reflected in the promotion of general interest causes which are given broad exposure through the reach of our media with a daily audience over 410 million of people per day. In 2017, some of our objectives initially defined in 2014 were revised considering the evolution of our activities in more than 75 countries. In 2018, we want to go further with our stakeholders and to launch a new reflection process to nurture and sustain even more our Sustainable Development Strategy in order to create always more shared value.” Jean-Francois Decaux Jean-Charles Decaux Chairman of the Executive Board and Co-CEO Co-CEO In 1964, Jean-Claude Decaux invented an economic model that is, today, more relevant than ever: providing cities with products and services offering a public service to citizens financed by advertising revenues. Deployed across all of the Company’s activities (cities, airports, transport services, shopping centres, etc.), our economic model offers numerous advantages particularly in its service dimension. This economic model allows cities to provide high-quality services to citizens, to have outdoor communication spaces available to connect with them, and to improve their eco-mobility offer with no impact on local finances and taxpayers, thanks to advertising revenues. We provide urban solutions with a low environmental impact and offer high-quality, aesthetically pleasing and accessible products and services in line with our values to serve cities and the public. With the launch of our Sustainable Development Strategy in 2014, JCDecaux set itself ambitious objectives to minimize its impacts on the environment and create social and stakeholder value: Reduce our energy consumption Reduce our other environmental impacts Deploy a group-wide Health and Safety Policy Implement an ambitious group-wide Social Policy Reinforcing sustainable development in the Purchasing Policy Strengthen employees’ commitment towards sustainable development See the appendix for a summary of priorities, objectives and results to date. In this Communication on Progress, we report on specific Company commitments, practical measures and outcomes which have been achieved to date in each of the four areas addressed by the Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. All the information published in this document was compiled mainly from JCDecaux’s 2017 Registration Document as well as the Group’s International Charter of Fundamental Social Values, Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct of Suppliers. -2JCDecaux’s 2018 Communication on Progress content table UN Global Compact JCDecaux’s Public Public Main implementation actions and outcomes principles commitments references references HUMAN Principle 1: Businesses The Company has issued International  The International Charter of Fundamental Social Values is made available to all 2017 RIGHTS should support and respect a formalised commitment Charter of JCDecaux employees. Registration the protection of to respect human rights Fundamental Document  An evaluation is carried out by the Sustainable Development Department every internationally proclaimed standards and prevent Social (pdf pages other year on the compliance of subsidiaries’ local practices with the Charter’s human rights any violations in its 2013 Values (all 66 ; 75-76) principles. A 100% compliance rate was achieved in 2016. Another survey was International Charter of pages) Principle 2: make sure that conducted in 2018, results are currently being validated with countries. Fundamental Social they are not complicit in Code of Values.  A legal representation letter is signed by each subsidiary’s General Management human rights abuses Conduct of every year stating their compliance with the Charter and its principles. While the Charter applies Suppliers to the benefit of all (pdf pages  A verification of the local deployment of the Charter is carried out systematically JCDecaux employees 8-11) by the Internal Audit Department when auditing subsidiaries. around the world,  The signature of the Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 70% of Group JCDecaux extended its key suppliers in 2017. This measure is currently being expanded. commitment to respecting human rights to its  A yearly evaluation and an audit every three years of key suppliers including suppliers through the human rights criteria are carried out. In 2017, 36% of key suppliers were JCDecaux Code of evaluated and 17% were audited. This measure is also currently being expanded. Conduct of Suppliers. Related SDGs: SDG3, SDG5, SDG8, SDG10 -3UN Global Compact JCDecaux’s Public Public Main implementation actions and outcomes principles commitments references references LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses The Company has International  At the end of 2017, there were 607 employee representatives at JCDecaux 2017 should uphold the issued a formalised Charter of worldwide, 603 meetings were held with staff representatives, 54 agreements were Registration freedom of association commitment to respect Fundamental signed for a total of 188 agreements in force in 2017 and 50% of Group employees Document and the effective employees’ rights to Social were covered by collective bargaining agreements. (pdf pages recognition of the right to freedom of association Values (all  The International Charter of Fundamental Social Values is made available to all 64-73 ; 75collective bargaining and collective pages) JCDecaux employees. A Charter practical guide was deployed at the end of 2016 76) bargaining as well as in order to provide all JCDecaux subsidiaries with a practical tool to better Principle 4: the Code of prevent forced labour, understand and implement each commitment of the Charter. elimination of all forms of Conduct of child labour and any forced and compulsory Suppliers  An evaluation is carried out by the Sustainable Development Department every forms of discrimination labour (pdf pages other year on the compliance of subsidiaries’ local practices with the Charter’s in its International 8-11) principles. A 100% compliance rate was achieved in 2016. A 100% compliance Principle 5: the effective Charter of Fundamental rate was achieved in 2016. Another survey was conducted in 2018, results are abolition of child labour Social Values issued in currently being validated with countries. Principle 6: the 2013.  A legal representation letter is signed by each subsidiary’s General Management elimination of The same commitments every year stating their compliance with the Charter and its principles discrimination in respect apply to the Group’s  A verification of the local deployment of the Charter is carried out by the Internal of employment and suppliers as detailed in Audit Department when auditing subsidiaries occupation JCDecaux’s Code of Conduct of Suppliers  The signature of the Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 70% of Group key issued in 2014. suppliers in 2017. This measure is currently being expanded. Related SDGs: SDG3,  A yearly evaluation and an audit every three years of key suppliers including SDG5, SDG8, SDG10 human rights criteria are carried out. In 2017, 36% of key suppliers were evaluated and 17% were audited. This measure is also currently being expanded. -4UN Global JCDecaux’s Public Public Compact Main implementation actions and outcomes commitments references references principles ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: As part of its 2017  The use of Life Cycle Analyses (LCA) and an eco-design approach by the R&D 2017 Businesses Sustainable Registration Department for the design of furniture Registration should support a Development Document  Furniture energy reduction initiatives are undertaken on (1) energy efficiency, (2) energy Document precautionary Strategy, the (pdf pages usage and (3) carbon neutrality. Subsidiaries have to comply with strict rules such as the (pdf pages approach to Company has issued 53-62) use of highly efficient lighting technologies for all new contracts. Other measures in place 56-62 ; 75are the introduction of schedule power modulation, lighting switch-off at night, and lighting environmental 2 strategic priorities retrofits of existing furniture where possible 76) Code of challenges which concern the Conduct of  Vehicle energy reduction initiatives are undertaken, including eco-driving training, protection of the Principle 8: Suppliers optimization of logistics rounds, and the choice of environmentally friendly vehicles. These environment: the measures led to a 15% fuel consumption per km travelled reduction in 2017 vs. 2012. undertake (pdf pages Reduction of our initiatives to 12-13)  JCDecaux’s renewable electricity procurement policy enabled the Group to cover 54% of Energy Consumption promote greater its electricity consumption with renewable electricity in 2017. Our objective is to cover and the Reduction of 100% of our electricity consumption by renewable energy by 2022. environmental our Other responsibility  The use of PEFC or FSC certified paper posters (92% of paper posters ordered were Environmental hence certified in 2017) and the recycling of paper posters (75% of paper posters posted Principle 9: Impacts. were recycled in 2017). encourage the This commitment is  The reduction of waste volume produced through the refurbishment of furniture at the end development of a contract. also reflected in the and diffusion of Group’s Code of  The implementation of the ISO 14001 certification covered 52% of Group revenues in environmentally Conduct of Suppliers 2017, with 14 countries certified. friendly technologies which includes  An e-learning training programme on Sustainable Development is currently being principles on the deployed in all Group subsidiaries with the objective to reach 100% of employees equipped preservation of the with a computer by the end of 2018. environment.  The signature of the Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 70% of Group key suppliers in 2017. A yearly evaluations and regular audits of key suppliers including Related SDGs: environmental criteria are carried out. In 2017, 36% of key suppliers were evaluated and SDG12, SDG13 17% were audited. This measure is currently being expanded. -5UN Global Compact JCDecaux’s Public Public Main implementation actions and outcomes principles commitments references references ANTIPrinciple 10: The Company has Code of  Ethics matters are dealt with at the highest level of the organisation through the 2017 CORRUPTION Businesses should work issued a formalised Ethics (all Ethics Committee, a sub-committee of JCDecaux’s Supervisory Board. Registration against corruption in all commitment to pages)  The Code of Ethics and its Practical Guide are made available and must be signed Document its forms, including prevent corruption in by all JCDecaux employees. (pdf pages Code of extortion and bribery all its forms in its Code 75-76) Conduct of of Ethics.  A legal representation letter is signed by each subsidiary’s General Management Suppliers every year stating their compliance with the Code of Ethics and its principles. The same (pdf pages commitment applies 12-13)  A verification of the local deployment of the Code of Ethics is carried out by the to the Group’s Internal Audit Department when auditing subsidiaries. suppliers as detailed  An e-learning training on the prevention of corruption practices was deployed in in JCDecaux’s Code early 2017. At the end of February 2017, 82.5% of the targeted employees had of Conduct of followed this training. Suppliers.  A confidential alert procedure is in place. Related SDGs: SDG8  The signature of the Code of Conduct of Suppliers has reached 70% of Group key suppliers in 2017. This measure is currently being expanded.  A yearly evaluation and an audit every three years of key suppliers including ethics criteria are carried out. In 2017, 36% of key suppliers were evaluated and 17% were audited. This measure is also currently being expanded. -6-
