OPERATIONS 1–25 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 52–54 The year in brief 1 Gränges is a global This is Gränges 4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 55–65 leader in aluminium CEO statement 6 Board of Directors 62 Global trends 8 Group Management 64 engineering, manuStrategy and financial targets 10 facturing and Business model 12 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66–111 Market overview 14 Content 66 innovation The inside story 18 Consolidated financial statements 67 Products and innovation 20 Notes to the consolidated Production and processes 24 financial statements 72 Parent company financial statements 96 SUSTAINABILITY 26–45 Notes to the parent company Value chain 29 financial statements 100 Supply chain 32 Definitions 105 Gränges’ operations 34 Five-year summary 106 Society 44 Proposed appropriation Customers 45 of retained earnings 108 Auditor’s report 109 RISK MANAGEMENT 46 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES 112 THE SHARE 50 GRI Index 119 Glossary 122 Annual General Meeting 123 History 124 Addresses 125 2017 IN BRIEF STRONG PERFORMANCE AND ACTIONS FOR FUTURE GROWTH Sales volume increased to 373.0 ktonnes (239.1).1) Return on capital employed was 16.7 per cent (17.5). Net sales increased to SEK 11,435 million (7,207). N  et debt amounted to SEK 2,292 million (2,722) on 31 December, 2017, which corresponds to 1.8 times  djusted operating profit increased by 35.8 per cent to A adjusted EBITDA (2.1). SEK 933 million (687), corresponding to an adjusted operating margin of 8.2 per cent (9.5). Initiated investment of USD 110 million in US capacity expansion. Profit for the period increased to SEK 652 million (498). Signed letter of intent to form a joint venture with Diluted earnings per share increased to SEK 8.64 (6.64). Mitsubishi Aluminum in North America. Cash flow before financing activities amounted to SEK 572 million (–2,046). The figures for 2016 include Invested in advanced spray-forming production. a cash consideration for the acquisition of Noranda downstream operations1) of SEK 2,581 million. 1) The Noranda downstream operations were consolidated into Gränges’ accounts from 22 August, 2016. Financial summary Sales volume per region, 2017 SEK million 2017 2016 Change Sales volume, ktonnes 373.0 239.1 56.0% Net sales 11,435 7,207 58.7% Europe, 18% Adjusted operating profit2) 933 687 35.8% Asia, 23% Adjusted operating margin, % 8.2 9.5 –1.4 ppt Americas, 59% Adjusted operating profit per tonne, kSEK 2.5 2.9 –0.4 Operating profit 917 559 64.0% Operating margin, % 8.0 7.8 0.3 ppt Profit for the year 652 498 31.0% Earnings per share basic, SEK 8.65 6.66 1.99 Earnings per share diluted, SEK 8.64 6.64 2.00 Cash flow before financing a ­ ctivities 572 –2,046 n/a Equity/assets, % 41.5 37.0 4.5 ppt Net debt 2,292 2,722 –430 Return on capital employed, % 16.7 17.5 –0.8 ppt 2) Adjusted for items affecting comparability (see Note 12). Sales volume, 2007–2017 Adjusted operating profit, 2013–2017 ktonnes SEK million % 400 1,000 12 300 750 9 200 500 6 100 250 3 0 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 Europe Asia Americas Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating margin GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 1 THE YEAR IN BRIEF 2017 QUARTER BY QUARTER Q1 Q2  he positive sales trend continued, and second T Strong sales development in Asia and the Americas and increased operating profit. quarter was Gränges’ strongest quarter to date.  ales volume increased by 7 per cent and operatS Improved operational performance with high ing profit by 11 per cent, excluding the acquired product quality and good metal management. business in the US. Increased earnings and cashflow led to net debt Appointment  of Kent Schölin to SVP Research back in target range of 1–2 times adjusted EBITDA. & Innovation. I nauguration of Gränges Research & Innovation centre in Finspång. Q3 Q4 Higher sales volume and increased profit. C  ontinued sales growth, good development in China. Decision to expand the capacity in the Huntingdon G  ood sales development in all regions in the facility in the US, investment of in total USD 110 fourth quarter, which is the seasonally weakest million over two years. quarter of the year. I nvested in advanced spray-forming production to  ppointment of Jörgen Abrahamsson to A secure supply of TRILLIUM® billets. President Europe  ividend of SEK 3.00 per share proposed to D the AGM in May 2018. 2 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 THE YEAR IN BRIEF >> SUSTAINABILITY Creating value through sustainability is Further developing the group-wide one of Gränges’ strategic pillars. In 2017, and global sustainability framework to Gränges continued to focus on developsupport value creation from sustaining a stable platform for future value ability, to be implemented in 2018 creation, by means of: Appointing a VP of Sustainability, Integrating the acquired operations in strengthening the company’s sustainthe US into Gränges’ sustainability ability organization agenda, procedures and reporting Read more about Gränges’ sustainability efforts and performance on pages 26–45 and 112–121 >> ELECTRIC VEHICLES The strong growth of electric vehicles in the years ahead will support the demand for heat exchanger materials. Electric vehicles require additional cooling of batteries, which increases the use of heat exchangers materials. Read more on page 9 >> TRILLIUM® ACTIVE BRAZING Gränges continues with the successful route with its TRILLIUM® technology introducing TRILLIUM® Lean, a new multi-layer material with enhanced potential for especially challenging applications. Furthermore, the investment in advanced spray-forming production capability provides opportunities to expand within Active brazing with products such as TRILLIUM®. Read more on page 23 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 3 THIS IS GRÄNGES A GLOBAL LEADER IN ALUMINIUM Gränges is a leading global supplier of rolled aluminium products for heat exchanger applications and other niche markets. The company develops, produces and markets advanced materials that enhance efficiency in the customer manufacturing process and the performance of the final products. >> SALES BY MARKET Gränges’ customers are in the automotive industry, the stationary heat exchanger industry, and niche markets such as transformers and food packaging. Automotive, 46% Automotive heat exchangers: Every second Other: In North America, Gränges is a Stationary, 26% car produced in the world today contains major supplier of winding material for Other, 28% heat exchangers with Gränges’ material and ­transformers, and aluminium foil suitable expertise. for food packaging. Stationary heat exchangers: Aluminium is increasingly used as a stationary heat Automotive, 46% exchanger material, and Gränges holds a Stationary, 26% strong position. Other, 28% Reported sales volume 2017. >> SALES BY REGION Gränges has sales across three major regions. The acquisition of Noranda in 2016 has made Americas the largest market, with 59 per cent of Gränges’ sales volume in 2017. Europe, 18% Europe: Leading position in rolled products Americas: Leading position in rolled Asia, 23% for brazed aluminium heat exchangers. ­aluminium products for stationary heat Americas, 59% exchangers. Second largest supplier in rolled Asia: Leading position in rolled products for products for aluminium heat exchangers for brazed aluminium heat exchangers. China the automotive industry. Strong positions in accounts for more than 60 per cent of niche markets such as transformers and Gränges’ sales in Asia. food packaging. Europe, 18% Asia, 23% Americas, 59% Reported sales volume 2017. Key production facilities Gränges’ total production capacity of about 420,000 tonnes is split across five production sites on three continents. These facilities are highly optimized according to lean-principles with demanddriven ­production, and meet customer requirements in terms of quality, flexibility, and delivery. Headquarters Sales offices and technical support Production sites 4 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 THIS IS GRÄNGES VISION To transform the world through innovative aluminium engineering INVESTMENT CASE REASONS TO INVEST IN GRÄNGES 1 Market leading position 4 Industrial craftsmanship 7 Well-invested facilities Gränges has a leading position in the Of the many companies involved in Gränges’ production facilities have a global market for rolled aluminium rolled aluminium products, few have total annual capacity of 420,000 tonnes, products for heat exchangers. The the comprehensive competence are well invested and have low annual market share in the niche of materials required to produce the technologimaintenance requirements. To meet for brazed aluminium heat exchangers cally advanced materials in which strong demand, expansion investments was around 20 per cent in 2017. Gränges specializes. will be made in the coming years. 2 A leader in brazing materials 5 High technology content 8 A stable revenue model Brazing is the main technology in manCustomers have special requirements The cost of the primary raw material ufacturing aluminium heat exchangers in terms of product performance and is passed on to customers, which in the automotive industry, and is metallurgical properties. Gränges me­ans that the performance does not expected to increase for stationary Research & Innovation organization significantly depend on fluctuations in heat exchangers. Gränges has a leadworks closely with the customers. the price of aluminium. The Group’s ing position in brazed heat exchanger income is based on the value that is materials across all regions. 6 Strong presence in Asia added to the products. Gränges was established in China in 3 Close to customers 1996, and has built a leading position Geographical proximity is necessary in Asia since then. In 2017, Gränges’ to meet customer demand. Gränges growth in Asia was 6.8 per cent, and has its own production capacity and a this market has the highest growth strong customer base in all major expectations in the years ahead. markets. The ten largest customers accounted for 53 per cent of Gränges’ sales volume in 2017. AUTOMOTIVE HEAT EXCHANGERS STATIONARY HEAT EXCHANGERS PERFORMANCE IS KEY SHIFT TO ALUMINIUM Demand for automotive heat exchanger strips is closely A large number of manufacturers, end users and tied to the global vehicle production and the number ­applications fragment the market for stationary heat of heat exchangers installed per vehicle. A number of exchangers. The market includes commercial and resiunique heat exchangers are developed for every new dential property, data centres, and manufacturing. vehicle platform. Advanced requirements for product Together, these areas account for a considerable share performance, especially in terms of energy efficiency, of energy consumption in many countries. Demand for imply that brazed aluminium heat exchangers are reduced energy consumption and restrictions on the use ­currently the prevailing technology in this industry. In of, and choice of, refrigerants is driving demand for recent years, environmental requirements and passensmaller and lighter heat exchangers, and is speeding up ger c­ omfort demands have increased the number of heat the shift to aluminium as a stationary heat exchanger exchangers in cars. The shift towards electric vehicles material. will drive demand for compact liquid-filled heat exchangers, where Gränges and its patented TRILLIUM® technology holds a strong position. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 5 CEO STATEMENT “Research and innovation is a core element of Gränges’ strategy” FOCUS 2017 FOCUS 2018 Increase customer driven research and innovaC  ontinue to assess growth opportunities in all tion by using our competences in aluminium regions materials and processing I ncrease efforts in R&I and business developFurther develop our sustainability framework ment related to solutions for electrical vehicles based on the foundation laid in 2016 I mplement the new global and group-wide Drive operational excellence to achieve cost ­sustainability framework efficiency C  ontinue to implement and communicate Gränges’ Evaluate investments to increase our capacity model for operational excellence and continuous and capabilities in the US improvements Assess long-term growth opportunities in Asia C  ontinue to develop our leaders and build diverse and high performing teams 6 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CEO STATEMENT A STRONG BASE FOR LONG-TERM PROFITABLE GROWTH We continue to focus on growth while retaining profitability. Our dedicated and long-term investment in innovation and sustainability drives our development. I look back on yet another financially exchanger materials. With the investfor compact liquid-filled heat exchangstrong year for Gränges. Above all, we ment in advanced spray-forming techers, where our patented TRILLIUM® techhave taken important steps to drive nology, we can now address a larger nology has a competitive advantage. All Gränges’ long-term growth – with investmarket with innovative materials within in all, we see the electrification in the ments in new manufacturing capacity, in Active brazing. This will be an important automotive industry as a potential for a Research & Innovation (R&I) and strategic product category for us in coming years. larger addressable market. acquisitions that strengthen our existing We have also continued the developoffering. We have a particular focus on ment of our TRILLIUM® technology and Sustainable business the electrification of the automotive introduced TRILLIUM® Lean, a new In all things we do, we have a responsiindustry. Major technology shifts often ­multi-­layer material for particularly bility to drive the development in a direcpresent challenges, but for heat exchangchallenging applications. With our tion that favours all our stakeholders, ers we predict a strong position in this ­TRILLIUM® products we help customers hence our strong focus on sustainability evolving market. reduce costs, create new designs, as an integrated part of our business. increase profitability and reduce their We strive to minimize the environmental Strong markets environmental impact. The launch of impacts of our operations, uphold ethical In comparison with 2016, we have seen TRILLIUM® Lean has received a very business practices and provide a safe more positive market development positive response from our current autoand good work environment. We partici­globally in 2017. A strong Chinese market motive customers as well as from new pate in the UN Global Compact since fuelled our sales in Asia, with good volindustrial customers. October 2016 and are committed to conumes to both local and global customers. tinuously integrating the ten principles In Europe, we continued to grow our share Strengthened R&I into our strategy and our operations. In in a market characterized by robust Research and innovation is a core element 2017 we continued to focus on developing growth. In the Americas, sales volumes of Gränges’ strategy, and during the year a stable sustainability platform. Among continued to increase with good growth we have further increased our efforts in other initiatives, we updated our global across all our product categories, furthis area. We have inaugurated our global and group-wide sustainability framework ther boosted by strong sales of heat Research & Innovation centre in Finspång, which we will implement in 2018. exchanger materials to stationary appliand we have strengthened our compecations and to automotive customers. tence in electric vehicles in Shanghai. Asia Strategy for growth is by far the largest electric vehicle marOur strategy remains intact. We are set New capacity ket, accounting for more than 76 per cent to drive growth through innovation and Since our plants in the US are currently of the electric vehicles produced globally acquisitions, increase efficiency through running close to maximum capacity, in 2017. Being close to this large and continuous improvements and add value we decided to take the next step in our fast-growing market allows us to better through our sustainability initiatives. strategic growth plan for North America. support our global customers in product This includes increased focus on prodThe plan includes an expansion of the development for future applications. uct development for electric vehicles, Huntingdon facility to meet growing with its good long-term growth potendemand for light gauge foil, automotive Electric vehicles tial. The good near-term market prosheat exchanger materials, as well as As I mentioned above, we view the global pects together with strong financials, heating, ventilation and air conditioning trend with increased electrification in the make me confident that we will continue (HVAC) applications. We also signed a automotive industry as positive. Natuto create value for all our stakeholders letter of intent with Japanese Mitsubishi rally, the key to success is a strong focus and reach our financial targets. In other Aluminum to form a joint venture in on R&I and close cooperation with our words, achieving sustained and sustainNorth America for the manufacturing heat exchanger customers, not only in able profitability. of advanced aluminium materials for Asia but in all our markets. A higher share brazed automotive heat exchangers. of hybrid vehicles, electric vehicles and advanced features such as autonomous New materials driving, will have a positive impact on We have taken important steps in the demand for heat exchanger materials. As development of next generation heat an example, the shift will drive demand Johan Menckel, CEO GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 7 GLOBAL TRENDS GLOBAL TRENDS The world is facing a period of intense change. Economies are dramatically evolving, triggered by development in emerging markets, the accelerated rise of new technologies, sustainability issues, and changing consumer preferences around ownership. These trends will also influence Gränges’ industries. >> U  rbanization The world’s urban population is expected to double by 2050 and most of this growth will happen in Asian megacities. There are currently 29 megacities with populations of over 10 million in the world, 16 of them in Asia. This rapid urbanization will produce challenges in infrastructure, services, job creation, climate, and environment. Reports show that cities today consume 75 per cent of the world’s natural resources and account for 80 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions. Global sustainability and climate change issues must therefore be resolved in cities. >> Digitalization Digitalization, increasing automation, and new business models, are starting to revolutionize the automotive industry and lead to disruptive trends such as autonomous driving, electrification, connectivity, and shared economy. To succeed, automotive original equipment manufacturers (OEM), suppliers, and service providers form alliances or participate in future ecosystems – for example, around infrastructure for autonomous and electrified vehicles. The emergence of a sharing economy will lead to higher fleet utilization, resulting in new requirements for vehicle materials and design, and therefore new business opportunities for suppliers. >> L imited resources Megatrends such as urbanization, electrification, and an expanding global middle class, will have a huge impact on the economics of materials. There will be a large rise in the production of passenger aircraft, electric vehicles will account for a rapidly growing share of new car sales, and sales of smartphones are expected to reach close to 2 billion units in 2018. This will put major pressure on the world’s natural resources and create temporary or long-term shortages of critical materials such as copper, lithium, nickel, and cobalt. Business models involving recycling and a circular economy will become increasingly important in meeting such challenges. 8 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GLOBAL TRENDS ELECTRIFICATION OF THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY The electric vehicle 1) market is set to change from early deployment to mass market adoption in the years and decades ahead. This will have short-term and long-term consequences for Gränges. The expected strong growth in sales of electric vehicles will support demand for aluminium heat exchanger materials. In 2017 close to 4.1 million new electric cars were produced – a new record and 26 per cent up on 2016. Even though this made the global installed base to surpass 3 million electric vehicles, it corresponds to just 0.3 per cent of the total number of light vehicles in circulation. However, assessments of country targets, OEM announcements and scenarios on electric car adoption indicate that sales of electric vehicles will continue to grow at a fast pace, and that the global fleet may reach 20 million by 2020 and 70 million by 2025. This strong growth is driven by battery technology development and by the multiple benefits electric vehicles can bring to societies: energy security, urban air quality, greenhouse gas reductions, and noise mitigaGRÄNGES’ VIEW OF THE tion. The global fleet is so far concenELECTRIC VEHICLES MARKET trated in a few markets, with Asia being by far the largest market for electric vehicles with more than 76 per cent of I ncreased electrification in vehiB  attery technology will continue worldwide production in 2017. cles supports demand for aluminto evolve. Long-term, electri­ In the past two years, a large number ium heat exchanger materials. fication is likely to bring major There is a strong need for highly changes to the automotive indusof global OEMs have announced plans to efficient heat exchangers, particutry, including its supply chain. create or significantly widen their eleclarly for the thermal management tric model offering over the next decade. of batteries. Plug-in hybrid elecG  ränges has a competitive advanIn the short-term new models such as tric vehicles have a greater need tage of being the global market Tesla Model 3 will drive sales in North for heat exchanger materials. leader in rolled aluminium prodAmerica, Toyota Prius will drive sales in ucts for heat exchangers. The Japan, and Nissan Leaf and GM Bolt The first-generation electric leading position supports new globally. In addition, several Chinese vehicles have similar design as partnerships and the ability to combustion engine cars. Next participate in a sustainable develOEMs are planning to greatly expand generation vehicles will have a opment. Gränges Research & capacity. wide variety of designs and sysInnovation centres in Sweden and tems adapted solely for using an China are focused on solutions for electric powertrain. This is also electric vehicles and other new when sales will take off. applications. 1) L  ight vehicles that are powered entirely or partly by electricity. They are often divided into hybrids and all-electric. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 9 STRATEGY AND FINANCIAL TARGETS GROWTH THROUGH INNOVATION By offering customized products with a high technical content, Gränges aims to grow faster than the market in the coming years, with sustained and sustainable profitability. By 2020, Gränges intends to be the market leader within rolled aluminium heat exchanger materials in all regions. >> STRATEGY 2020 The strategy has four main pillars: 1 DRIVE GROWTH THROUGH INNOVATION Gränges wants to lead the development of heat 3 INCREASE EFFICIENCY THROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENTS Gränges aims to increase productivity, process stability, and exchanger materials and advanced aluminium soluenergy efficiency, and to reduce waste in its operations. tions and be customers’ preferred choice. ACHIEVEMENTS 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS 2017 Increased the capacity in the Americas by 5 per cent. Established a new organization for Research & Improved the quality and reduced number of claims Innovation (R&I) and inaugurated the global R&I by 25 per cent. centre in Finspång, Sweden. Reduced the energy consumption by 2 per cent Launched TRILLIUM® Lean, a patented new per tonne. technology for brazing without the need for adding Increased the share of internal recycled aluminium a fluxing agent. in production by 3 per cent. 2 CREATE VALUE FROM SUSTAINABILITY Gränges strives to minimize the environmental impacts 4 GROW PRESENCE THROUGH STRUCTURAL EXPANSION Gränges plans to invest in production capacity and of its operations, uphold ethical business practices and capabilities, and to expand into adjacent markets. provide a safe and good work environment. ACHIEVEMENTS 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS 2017 I nitiated an investment of USD 110 million to expand the  onducted a carbon footprint study to provide a C capacity at the production plant in Huntingdon, United baseline for future target setting and a reduced States. carbon footprint. S  igned a letter of Intent with Mitsubishi Aluminum to I ncreased focus on cross-audits to improve safety establish a joint venture in North America for production of and promote best practice across the organization. advanced aluminium products to the automotive industry. C  ompleted training in Gränges’ Code of Conduct I nvested in spray-forming production to secure the supply for all employees in the US and China. of TRILLIUM® billets. 10 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGY AND FINANCIAL TARGETS >> LONG-TERM FINANCIAL TARGETS Gränges should grow at least in line with the market, generate a return on capital employed of 15–20 per cent, have a net debt of one to two times EBITDA, and pay a dividend of 30–50 per cent of the profit for the year. In 2017, all these targets were either met or exceeded. GROWTH ktonnes Comment: Noranda was consolidated into Gränges’ accounts from August 2016, which Increase sales volume at least in line 400 56.0% greatly increased sales for the full year of with the company’s end markets. 2017. The organic sales volume increased by 300 4,6 per cent in 2017, which was higher than 45.9% the growth in end markets. 200 4.6% 0.9% 2.5% 100 13 14 15 16 17 Sales volume Growth CAPITAL STRUCTURE SEK million Comment: In 2017 net debt was reduced by 3,000 3 SEK 430 million to SEK 2,292 million, after a Net debt should normally be 1–2 times rise in 2016 with the acquisition of Noranda, adjusted EBITDA over a 12-month period. which was entirely financed with loans. On 2,000 2 December 31, 2017, net debt amounted to 1.8 times adjusted EBITDA and has returned to the target range faster than 1,000 1 expected. 0 0 14 15 16 17 Net debt Net debt/EBITDA RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED SEK million % Comment: Return on capital employed de­­ creased by 0.8 percentage points to 16.7 Generate a return on capital employed of 6,000 20 per cent in 2017. Higher capital employed, 15–20 per cent over time. as a result of the acquisition of Noranda 4,500 15 in August 2016, was offset by a strongly improved adjusted operating profit. 3,000 10 1,500 0 13 14 15 16 17 Capital employed Return on capital employed DIVIDEND POLICY SEK per share % Comment: A dividend of SEK 3.00 per share is being proposed. This is an increase of 25 The target over time is to pay a dividend 9 45 per cent on the previous year, and correof 30–50 per cent of the profit for the sponds to 35 per cent of the profit for the year. Decisions on dividends will reflect 6 40 period in 2017. the company’s financial position, cash­­flow, and outlook. 3 35 0 30 14 15 16 17 Earnings per share, diluted Dividend per share Dividend payout ratio GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 11 BUSINESS MODEL A FOCUSED BUSINESS MODEL Gränges is a global leader in aluminium engineering, manufacturing, and innovation. The focus is on rolled aluminium products for heat exchangers and selected niche applications. “The ­company’s Strong customer relationships Gränges works closely with its customSpecially adapted manufacturing plants specialization, ers – from product design to full-scale Gränges’ manufacturing plants in production. Gränges’ business relationShanghai and Finspång are optimized product knowledge, ships are therefore typically long-term for the production of heat exchanger and lean manu­ and 85 per cent of the company’s customers have been with it for more than materials for brazed heat exchangers. In the US, the efficient manufacturing facturing, enable 10 years. plants are well suited for the production of materials for stationary heat exchan­ it to offer high Leading edge technology gers, food packaging, transformers, and added value, Gränges is highly competent in development and production, particularly in the other niche markets. To meet increasing demand, a decision to invest in additional excellent quality, development of alloys, hot rolling of clad capacity in the US was taken in 2017. materials, thermo-mechanical processand delivery ing, and slitting. Together these skills An organization rich in experience precision.” enable Gränges to produce high value added products. Gränges’ many years of specialization in developing and manufacturing rolled products for brazed heat exchangers Proven revenue model have built up experience and expertise Gränges generates its revenue through in material characteristics and manuselling advanced materials manufacfacturing processes at all levels of the tured for specific customers and appliorganization. cations. Prices are based on the added value Gränges offers in terms of material properties and product complexity. The cost of aluminium, which is the ­primary input material, is passed on to customers. GRÄNGES’ BUSINESS MODEL HEAT EXCHANGER ALUMINIUM PRODUCERS GRÄNGES END-USE MARKETS PRODUCERS PRO ION DU The performance of the final product CT CT depends largely on the material MASS P RO VELOPMENT properties and the design, which DU DE are Gränges’ competences. The ­company’s specialization, product knowledge, and lean manufacturing, PR N enable it to offer high added value, OD UCT TIO excellent quality, and delivery V ALID A precision. 12 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS MODEL GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 13 MARKET OVERVIEW A TRULY GLOBAL PLAYER Gränges is one of the few genuinely global players in rolled aluminium products with production, sales, and customer-driven product development on three continents. Many of Gränges’ customers are also global, having production and sales in Europe, Asia and the Americas. Gränges has a leading global position in exchanger industry. Thus, they need to ments, product range, lead times, techrolled aluminium materials. In the induscontinuously improve heat exchanger nical support, price, and customer sertry for rolled products for brazed heat performance, reduce weight to meet vice. Competitors are primarily major exchangers Gränges has a clear market demand for lower environmental impact, global aluminium companies such as leading position, estimated at around reduce total costs and increase the Aleris, Arconic, Novelis and UACJ. In Asia 20 per cent globally. The automotive value of their cooling and climate control there are several local players that are industry accounts for about half of solutions. A core challenge is to meet direct competitors to Gränges on the Gränges’ sales. Stationary heat exchan­ the requirements of next generation Asian market. In Europe, there are signs g­­ers, transformers, and food packaging automotive platforms, new applications of growing competition from manufacare additional end customer markets and demands of end customer products. turers in Eastern and Southern Europe, that have become significant parts of This means that as a supplier, Gränges while the North American market has Gränges’ business after the acquisition needs to be at the forefront of developseen increased competition from Asian of Norandas downstream operations ing adaptable and customized aluminmanufacturers. In the US, anti-dumping in 2016. ium materials. and counterrailing duties on Chinese imports of certain rolled aluminium Market characteristics Long-term relationships products were imposed in the second High barriers to entry The long development cycles of new car half of 2017, which has reduced compeThe market for advanced aluminium platforms in the automotive industry, tition from Chinese suppliers. materials is relatively hard to enter profrequire long-term cooperation between itably. This is not primarily due to the producers and their suppliers. Gränges capital-intensive nature of the industry, has long-term relationships with its cusbut rather because of the high level of tomers, a result of Gränges’ strong focus competence and experience required to to continuously developing new proddevelop the new, advanced materials ucts, materials, and processes in close that customers demand. Competence cooperation with customers. These and experience are also critical to operlong-term customer relationships also ating flexible production processes effireflect the strength of Gränges’ brand ciently, and to be able to guarantee a for heat exchanger materials, recogEND CUSTOMER MARKETS high degree of delivery reliability in nized for its capacity as a global supplier terms of volume, time and quality. All in with excellent delivery accuracy. Of all, this places high demands on wellGränges’ customers, 85 per cent have tuned manufacturing capabilities and worked with the company for more than Automotive, 46% Stationary, 26% processes refined over extended periten years. Other, 28% ods of time, as well as effective customer service and a global logistics Competitors capacity. Gränges’ competitors vary in size and strategic focus. Factors affecting the Continuous improvements degree of competition differ between Automotive, 46% Stationary, 26% Manufacturers of heat exchangers are regions and end user markets, but genOther, 28% faced with constant demands for im­­ erally Gränges competes on product provements from their customers in the quality, technically advanced products, Gränges´ sales volume per end customer automotive and the stationary heat the ability to meet customer requiremarket, for full-year 2017. 14 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 MARKET OVERVIEW END CUSTOMER MARKETS THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY research firm IHS, global light vehicle Gränges’ market share, The automotive industry includes all production increased by 2.3 per cent (4.0) globally: 20 % types of vehicles, from light to heavy in 2017, while an average annual growth duty, as well as hybrid and electric vehiof 2.1 per cent is expected between 2018 cles. Demand for heat exchanger material and 2020. The production of electric is strongly linked to global vehicle provehicles is expected to grow, from low duction and the number of heat exchangvolume levels, by 40–60 per cent annually ers per vehicle, which tends to increase in in the coming years, to reach a market line with requirements for improved pershare of around 18 per cent globally in formance and enhanced functionality. 2021. Brazed aluminium heat exchangers represent nearly 100 per cent of the market today. According to the international THE STATIONARY HEAT HVAC, regardless of type, is construction Gränges’ market share, EXCHANGER I­ NDUSTRY (HVAC) investment, new regulations on energy globally: 10 % HVAC (heating, ventilation and air condiefficiency, climate changes and ecotioning) includes systems for heating nomic growth. Brazed aluminium heat and cooling, for instance in private exchangers account for only a small houses, commercial premises, and share of the total market. Gränges is industrial buildings. Stationary heat both a supplier of brazed and mechaniexchangers have a broad group of end cally-assembled aluminium heat users in industries such as the agriculexchangers, with the strongest position tural sector, retail, healthcare, manuin the Americas with close to 10 per cent facturing and property. Underlying market share. growth factors for heat exchangers in OTHER END CUSTOMER MARKETS voltages in electric power applications. It consists of two or more coils called “Aluminium is becomAluminium foil provides a complete barwindings, which are wrapped around a ing more common rier to light, oxygen, moisture, and baccore. In North America, aluminium is teria. These properties make it ideal for becoming more common as winding as winding material food cartons and pouches. Semi-rigid containers are among the most versatile material in distribution transformers, while copper is more common for large in distribution of all types of packaging and are widely power transformers. Aluminium has sigtransformers” used for pre-packaged foods, easily nificant cost and weight advantages withstanding great differences in temover copper. perature from freezing to heating. The markets for semi-rigid containers Another end market in North America and for transformer windings made in is materials for transformers. A transaluminium are expected to show stable former is an electrical device used to annual growth. increase or decrease the alternating GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 15 MARKET OVERVIEW 59% GEOGRAPHIC EXPOSURE Gränges has manufacturing, sales, and technical Huntingdon, Salisbury, Newport support on three continents. ­Furthermore, the Franklin production sites in ­Finspång and Shanghai are equipped with important competence centres for research and innovation in close cooperation with customers. Global light vehicle production 2017, per region Europe1), 26% Asia, 52% Americas, 22% Sales markets Sales offices and technical support Production facilities Share of sales volume, full-year 2017 1) I ncluded Middle East & Africa in Europe. AMERICAS Gränges has been present in the American market since America. Gränges’ global customers accounted for 1994, and is the second largest supplier of rolled aluminaround 15 per cent (30) of sales volume in the Americas. ium products to the automotive industry. Through the Gränges’ production sites located in the Southeastern acquisition of Noranda’s downstream business in 2016, United States supply the majority of our customers in the Gränges obtained a leading position in the stationary region. However, material for brazed aluminium heat heat exchanger industry and simultaneously became a exchangers is supplied from Gränges’ plants in Finspång, major supplier of winding material for transformers and Sweden and in Shanghai, China. aluminium foil for food containers. Americas accounted for around 59 per cent (39) of group sales volume in 2017.1) Gränges’ main markets in the Americas are the 1) F  ollowing the consolidation of Noranda operations US and Mexico. Brazil is an important market in South into Gränges’ accounts from 22 August, 2016 Production of light vehicles in Americas, 2017–2021 Million 2.4% 22.0 1.3% 0.8% 21.5 3.5% 21.0 –0.7% 20.5 20.4 21.1 21.3 21.6 22.1 20.0 17 18 19 20 21 Number of vehicles Growth 16 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Stockholm Finspång 18% 23% ewport Tokyo Seoul Shanghai Pune EUROPE ASIA Gränges has a strong position in the European market Since the establishment of the plant in Shanghai in 1996, and, through its advanced technological product content, Gränges has gained a leading position in the Asian marit has strengthened its leading position in the automotive ket. In 2017, Asia accounted for 23 per cent (34) of heat exchanger industry over the last ten years. In total, group sales in terms of volume, with China as its main the European market represented around 18 per cent market. Other key markets include Thailand, South (27) of sales v­ olume in 2017, with the UK, Italy, the Czech Korea and India. The automotive industry accounts for Republic and Poland as the single largest markets. the bulk of Gränges’ sales in Asia. Most of the producEurope is a consolidated market with global customers tion volume at Gränges’ plant in Shanghai is sold in Asia, accounting for around 81 per cent (77) of the sales volof which around half goes to China. Global customers ume in 2017. The majority of the volume supplied to the accounted for 41 per cent (43) of sales volume in 2017. European market is produced at the plant in Finspång. Production of light vehicles Production of light vehicles in Europe, 2017–2021 in Asia, 2017–2021 Million Million 2.6% 24 55 1.8% 3.4% 2.0% 0.5% 0.6% 23 53 3.1% 3.7% 0.9% 22 51 2.6% 21 49 22.3 22.8 22.9 23.0 23.4 50.0 50.4 52.0 53.7 55.1 20 47 17 18 19 20 21 17 18 19 20 21 Number of vehicles Growth Number of vehicles Growth GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 17 THE INSIDE STORY THE INSIDE STORY Modern vehicles typically contain up to ten different heat exchangers, sometimes more. In recent years, the number of heat exchangers per vehicle has increased, as engines have become more advanced, and environmental requirements and passenger comfort demands have grown. There are heat exchangers for cooling engines, transmission oil and engine oil, air conditioning systems, heaters, and in some cases, also for cooling batteries. Today, Gränges is a world leader in heat exchanger materials, and around 50 per cent of sales are to customers in the auto­motive industry. Active chiller (for battery cooling) P  assive chiller (for battery cooling) Hybrid system radiator C  harge air cooler Condenser AC Engine radiator 18 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 THE INSIDE STORY  vaporator AC E Compartment heater Engine oil cooler Transmission oil cooler GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 19 PRODUCTS AND INNOVATION CUSTOMER-DRIVEN INNOVATION Gränges’ advanced aluminium products are the result of long-term commitment to research and innovation, and close product development cooperation with customers. Gränges conducts world-class strategic Group. The purpose is to strengthen the research and innovation and customer-­ company’s leading position in the develdriven product development based opment of brazed heat exchanger mateon extensive knowledge of material rials, and to develop new innovative aluR&I CENTRES properties and characteristics. The minium products based on research and ­strategic research is managed globally, innovation. Through collaboration with Finspång: Global R&I centre. while the customer-driven development Erbslöh Aluminium, Gränges is securing Global development of materials and solutions for brazed heat is carried out locally. On 31 December, expertise in advanced spray-forming exchangers and new technologies. 2017, Gränges’ research and innovation technology, which is well suited for the Regional development for Europe. work had generated 52 patent families next generation of materials for heat and 165 patents, with a further 73 patent exchangers. Shanghai: Regional R&I centre. applications pending. Regional development for Asia. The R&I process Solutions for electrical vehicles Strategic, global research Fundamental research and innovation and related new applications. Gränges Research & Innovation (R&I) is work in key areas is often carried out Huntingdon: Regional R&I centre, the company’s competence unit for the in-house. In selected areas Gränges to be established. Regional develcomplete metallurgy of brazed aluminworks with universities and research opment for Americas. Materials ium. This includes the entire process institutes. New alloys and alloy combiand solutions for stationary heat from melting in slab production, to the nations are initially tested through pilot exchangers. final use of brazed heat exchangers rolling in laboratories and via computer worldwide. The work is conducted simulations at Gränges R&I, before fullcross-functionally within Gränges, with scale production. This process faciliexternal customers and, in selected key tates the planning of effective highareas, with leading universities and precision production processes. research institutes. Gränges R&I comprises around 60 highly educated Application centre employees worldwide, including metalGränges’ product developers and techlurgists, chemists, metallographers, nicians are represented throughout physicists, mechanical engineers, and Asia, Europe and Americas, helping custechnicians – all specialists in rolled tomers optimize the interaction between aluminium products for heat exchanger their machinery, processes, and applicaapplications. Gränges R&I is based in tions, and Gränges’ products. To support Finspång, Sweden, and in Shanghai, this work, Gränges has an application China, and there are plans to establish centre that can replicate the cus­­­t­­omers’ an additional centre in Huntingdon, USA. forming and brazing processes. Furthermore, the centre is ideal for testing small A leading position units of custom-designed heat exchangIn 2017, Gränges upgraded its R&I faciliers. To explore the applications of brazed ties in Finspång. The expansion includes heat exchangers within air-­conditioning new office and laboratory areas, new and other industries, Gränges is building laboratory equipment, and a new organcompetence within heat exchanger proizational set-up, putting research and totype design, optimization, and perforinnovation at the centre of the Gränges mance testing. 20 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PRODUCTS PRODUCTSAND ANDPRODUCTION INNOVATION CLAD TUBE CLAD FIN UNCLAD FIN CLAD PLATE MAIN PRODUCT GROUPS Gränges offers its heat exchanger ­customers up to 3,000 product speci­ ﬁcations, including 200 combinations of alloys. The products can be divided into four main groups: CLAD TUBE Consists of a core alloy with braze clad on one or two sides, and in many cases a core alloy with a braze clad on the outside and a corrosion-resistant clad on the inside of the tube. The customer makes a tube by folding or welding the material. CLAD FIN Consists of a core alloy with braze clad on each side, and is primarily used in ­condenser applications. UNCLAD FIN The most basic heat exchanger material. Unclad fin comprises only one alloy without clad layers. CLAD PLATE Consists of a core alloy clad with braze clad on one or two sides. The rolled product is stamped or shaped by the customer depending on the application and used in most kinds of heat exchanger applications, either for coolant plates or manifolds. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 21 PRODUCTS AND INNOVATION Technical support tually unlimited possibilities for custombroader product offering that meets Gränges R&I centres offer advanced ized solutions based on carefully additional needs in the stationary HVAC technical support to customers and perselected alloy combinations, delivery industry. form a wide range of services, from valiconditions, cladding thicknesses, and dation processes to highly advanced geometries. Annual Asian seminar focuses troubleshooting. This includes aluminon innovations ium braze simulations, brazeability Focus on stationary heat exchangers Gränges hosts annual technical semitests, sagging tests, filler flow tests, and Gränges focuses on driving technologinars for its customers and other partprototype brazing, enabling Gränges to cal change through stationary heat ners in Asia, alternating between China offer tailored and optimized aluminium exchangers, from mechanically bonded and India. In 2016 the seminar took products. For troubleshooting and to tubes and fins to brazed aluminium heat place in Nanjing, China, and in 2017 in support specific development projects, exchangers. This was also the case in Pune, India. Around 80 of Gränges’ largGränges can also simulate the critical the automotive industry where Gränges’ est customers, OEMs and other busiconditions of the customer’s processes solutions played a key role in converting ness partners in the region attended the and operational environments for the from conventional to contemporary sysseminar in Pune. The seminar focused heat exchangers. tems. The focus is on products that conon requirements and challenges in the tribute to improved energy efficiency emerging Indian automotive industry, Customization provides added value and reduced environmental impact. and how this will influence the local heat Gränges has a comprehensive range of Gränges delivers prototypes that cusexchanger market at both aggregated clad and unclad rolled aluminium prodtomers can test with their own applicalevel and by end customer markets. ucts used for brazed heat exchangers for tions. This benefits the development of Representatives from Gränges demonapplications with a high degree of funceven stronger, lighter, and more corrostrated how the company’s advanced tionality and performance. Depending on sion-resistant heat exchanges with material solutions can help customers the specific needs of a given application, greater efficiency and lower environto meet market demands. One example Gränges offers multi-layer products mental impact. With the acquisition of presented at the seminar was with up to five layers. This provides virNoranda in 2016, Gränges obtained a TRILLIUM®. INNOVATION – EVERYONE CAN CONTRIBUTE To respond to the rapid technical advances in almost all industries, and to emphasize its importance for long-term development and profitability, Gränges has added “Innovative” to its core values, in addition to Committed, Accessible and Action-oriented. Torkel Stenqvist, Senior Expert Brazing at Gränges Research & Innovation, held a presentation about TRILLIUM® at the seminar in Pune, India. 22 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PRODUCTS AND INNOVATION TRILLIUM® In 2017, Gränges continued the development of the TRILLIUM® technology and introduced TRILLIUM® Lean TRILLIUM® – the next step ogy and introduced TRILLIUM® Lean, a invested in production capacity together TRILLIUM® is a technology that simplinew multi-layer material with enhanced with Erbslöh Aluminium GmbH to proﬁes the complex brazing process by potential for especially challenging appduce aluminium billets utilizing advanced making the degreasing, ﬂuxing, cleanlications. TRILLIUM® Solid, launched in spray-forming technology. The investing, and drying stages redundant. 2010, and TRILLIUM® Lean help customment provides opportunities to expand Instead, we make it happen within the ers reduce costs, create new designs, within Active brazing with TRILLIUM®. material in a process called Active and reach a higher level of proﬁtability – brazing. In 2017, Gränges continued the while reducing their environmental development of the TRILLIUM® technolimpact. In addition, Gränges has GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 23 PRODUCTION AND PROCESSES EXPANDING TO MEET GROWING DEMAND With manufacturing capacity on three continents, Gränges has created a platform that meets complex customer demands and enables continued global expansion. Thanks to more than 40 years’ experience rolled products for brazed aluminium 2017. To add further productive capacity, and specialized knowledge of production heat exchangers, which is a complex, Gränges has initiated investments of of materials for brazed heat exchangers, multi-step process. In the US, Gränges USD 110 million to expand its aluminium Gränges has become a world leader in has three production sites with a comrolling operation in Huntingdon to meet rolled aluminium for the heat exchanger bined capacity of 200,000 tonnes. The growing demand for light gauge foil, industry. Continual efforts are made to largest, in Huntingdon in Tennessee, has automotive heat exchanger materials, as improve efficiency and productivity at all one of the most modern and cost-effiwell as heating, ventilation and air conGränges’ production sites, contributing to cient rolling mills in North America. All ditioning applications. The expansion a smaller environmental impact and Gränges’ sites are ISO-certified for qualincludes investment in buildings, castimproved profitability for both Gränges ity standards. In Sweden and China the ers, cold rolling mills, annealing furand its customers. sites are also ISO-certified for environnaces, and slitters. When completed in mental standards. 2019, Huntingdon’s capacity will rise Gränges’ footprint from about 160,000 to nearly 200,000 Gränges has production sites on three Knowledge sharing tonnes a year. continents with a combined capacity of Close cooperation between the producGränges has also signed a letter of 420,000 tonnes. The production site in tion plants in China, Sweden and the US intent with Japanese Mitsubishi AlumiFinspång was established in 1922 and drives growth and improvement work – num to form a joint venture in North aluminium products for brazed heat at all sites. Initiatives to learn from each America to manufacture advanced aluexchangers have been produced since other include internal audits, where minium materials for brazed automotive 1972. The site has a production capacity teams from production facilities heat exchangers. The letter of intent of 100,000 tonnes. The production site in cross-audit each other. These internal represents the first step towards formShanghai was established in 1996, and audits are conducted continually and ing the joint venture. This will bring since then Gränges has focused on focus on health, safety, and the environtogether the significant expertise of aluexpanding capacity to keep pace with ment at the respective operations. minium rolling for the two companies the region’s rapidly growing market. The when establishing a new production site capacity now stands at 120,000 Capacity expansion in the US plant in North America. Expansion in tonnes per year. In both Finspång and Capacity utilization has been high atSWEDEN/SHANGHAI all Huntingdon and the future joint venture Shanghai, production is focused on three US plants throughout 2016 and with Mitsubishi Aluminum mark the next 1 Raw material 2 Melting 3 Molten Metal Holding Internal scrap 4 DC Cast Purchased scrap EDEN/SHANGHAI WEDEN/SHANGHAI PRODUCTION PROCESS OVERVIEW, FINSPÅNG AND SHANGHAI Alu ingots EDEN/SHANGHAI Alloying elements Raw Melting MoltenMolten metal DC Production of Liner plates, 6 Scalping Hot rolling 1 Raw material 2 Melting 3 Metal 5 Homogenization 7 Production of Liner Plates material material holding Metal casting cutting, clad, assembling 6 Scalping 11 22 Melting 3 Molten 77 Holding of Slabs 55 Rawmaterial Melting MoltenMetal Homogenization Scalping Cutting Productionof ofLiner LinerPlates Plates Raw 3 Holding Homogenization 6 Slabs ofSlabs Production Clad Cutting Holding of Cutting 8 Pre-heating 9 Hot rolling Assembling Clad Clad Internal scrap (breakdown mill) Assembling Assembling Internalscrap scrap 4 DC Casting Shanghai Hot Rolling: Internal tal 5 Homogenization 6 Scalping 7 Production of Liner Plates 44 DCCasting Casting Single Stand Double Coiler Mill Purchased scrap of Slabs DC Cutting Purchasedscrap Purchased scrap Clad Alu ingots Assembling Aluingots Alu ingots 4 DC Casting Alloying elements Alloyingelements Alloying elements Internal scrap Purchased scrap 8 Pre-heating Alu ingots 9 Hot rolling 10 Hot rolling 11 Cold rolling 88 Pre-heating Pre-heating Alloying elements 99 (breakdown Hotrolling Hot rolling mill) 10 10 (final mill to coiling) Hotrolling rolling Hot 11 11 Coldrolling Cold rolling (breakdown Shanghai mill) Hot Rolling: (final mill Shanghai (final Hotto coiling) Rolling: (breakdown mill) Single mill StandtoDouble coiling) Single Stand Double Coiler Mill Shanghai Hot Rolling: Shanghai Hot Rolling: Single Stand Double Coiler Mill Shanghai Hot Rolling: Shanghai Hot Rolling: Coiler Mill Single Stand Double Coiler Mill 12 Annealing Single Stand Double Coiler Mill Single Stand Double Coiler Mill 10 Hot rolling 11 Cold rolling 24 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 (final mill to coiling) Shanghai Hot Rolling: ler Mill Single Stand Double Coiler Mill PRODUCTION AND PROCESSES step in Gränges’ strategic growth plan Cladding: A key capability that profor the North American market. vides high added value and differentiates Gränges from manufacturers of Lean production rolled products for general use. The Gränges conducts production based on company produces singleand doulean manufacturing principles. This ble-sided clad products, and symmetrientails creating optimized production cal and asymmetrical products, with flows, a direct link between production many different alloy combinations. steps and well-defined and efficient Rolling and thermo-mechanical processes. Production lead times is kept processing: Used to alter alloys’ microas short as possible, and balanced structure to achieve desired properties against the need for processes to be of the end product. Gränges has extencost efficient, which also enables sive experience of thermo-mechanical AWARD FOR OPERATIONAL Gränges to offer a flexible customer processes, and their effect on the perEXCELLENCE service. formance of materials in the brazing Gränges’ operations in Shanghai process. put together a multidisciplinary Technical leadership in heat Slitting: Gränges has market-leading team to study every aspect of the exchanger material competence and experience in slitting burn-loss problem in a year. Their Over the years, Gränges has developed technologies that play an integral role in efforts resulted in efficiencies with a strong effect on burn-loss rates, four specific competences that have manufacturing heat exchanger materials. 5 Homogenization 6 Scalping from 7 Production of Liner Plates 4.5ofper cent in 2014 to 2.1 en g Metal 3 Molten Metal contributed to give it 5 technical Homogenization leader6 Scalping 7 Production Liner Plates ng Holding of Slabs of Slabs Cutting per cent in 2016, producing signi­ Cutting ship within heat exchanger materials: Clad Assembling Clad ficant material and cost savings. Assembling 4 DC Casting Alloy development: Gränges has At the 2017 Gränges Company 4 DC Casting excellent expertise in developing alloys Awards, the Shanghai team won and combinations with properties spethe Operational Performance cifically adapted to each step of customAward. This yearly awards programme is part of Gränges’ efforts ers’ manufacturing processes – from to encourage staff to continually forming to assembly and brazing. improve the business. 9 Hot rolling 10 Hot rolling 10 Hot rolling 11 Cold rolling 11 Cold rolling ill) (final mill to coiling) (final mill to coiling) ling: (breakdown mill) 7 Production of Liner Plates Shanghai Hot Rolling: Shanghai Hot Rolling: ble Coiler Mill Cutting Shanghai Hot Rolling: Single Stand Double Coiler Mill Single Stand Double Coiler Mill Single Stand Double Coiler Mill Clad Assembling Cold rolling Slitting Packaging 13 Slitting 13 Slitting 14 Packaging 14 Packaging 11 Cold rolling 14 Packaging GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 25 SUSTAINABILITY 26 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY CREATE VALUE FROM SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is an essential element of Gränges’ strategy and operations. The company strives to minimize the environmental impacts of its operations, uphold ethical business practices and provide a safe and good work environment. Gränges’ core values action oriented, Foil Roller Initiative. Additionally, Gränges committed, innovative, and accessible, is a member of Svenskt Aluminium, define the way Gränges works, and are European Aluminium Association and also qualities of the company’s sustainthe Confederation of Swedish Enterprise ability agenda. The company takes ecoin Europe. In Asia Gränges is a member nomical, environmental, and social of the China Nonferrous Metals Industry responsibility, and strives to improve Association, the Nonferrous Metals HIGHLIGHTS 2017 conditions in its value chain. ­Society of Shanghai, and the Shanghai I ncorporated the acquired In 2017, Gränges continued to build a Aluminium Trade Association. In the US operations in the US into the stable platform for future value creaGränges is a member of the Aluminium 2017 sustainability report tion. At the end of the year, the company Association.  ompleted training in Gränges’ C further developed its group-wide and Gränges also follows developments Code of Conduct for all em­­ global sustainability framework, which at the global Aluminium Stewardship ployees in the US and China will be implemented in 2018. ­Initiative.  onducted audits of seven C Stakeholder dialogue UN Global Compact and Sustainable strategic suppliers to the Maintaining a transparent and longDevelopment Goals production facilities in term stakeholder dialogue is a key priorGränges has participated in the UN Finspång and Shanghai ity for Gränges. The expectations and Global Compact since October 2016. I ncreased the share of re­cyrequests from various stakeholders In doing so, Gränges undertakes to fulfil cled aluminium used as input such as employees, customers, supplithe principles of the Global Compact material ers, investors, and society, contribute relating to human rights, labour law, the to shape the company’s sustainability environment and anti-corruption. The  onducted a carbon footprint C agenda as well as its sustainability principles also form the foundation of study, providing the basis for reporting. the company’s Code of Conduct. future target setting and a Further information on Gränges’ stake­­Furthermore, Gränges is committed to reduced carbon footprint holder dialogue and the process of idenhelping fulfil the 2030 Agenda and UN R  educed the energy use per tifying material sustainability topics can Sustainable Development Goals. In 2017, tonne product in Finspång be found on page 113. Gränges has identified seven sustain­ and Shanghai ability development goals that align with Networking and co-operation the company’s sustainability agenda. Established a global HR CounThrough participation in industry initiaThe company’s aim is that its sustain­ ­­­­cil to develop and har­­m­­onize tives, Gränges works to ensure that aluability efforts should create value for all global HR activi­­ties and to minium is mined, produced and used stakeholders and also make a positive share experiences sustainably. In this way, Gränges concontribution to these goals. Conducted group-wide crosstributes to improvements in the industry audits to improve safety, and promotes robust networks on the promote best practice, and markets where the company is active. achieve greater cooperation Gränges is a member of several industry bodies such as the Global Aluminium GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 27 SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT GRÄNGES’ SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Gränges’ sustainability report has been The sustainability report relates to the For more information, please contact: prepared in accordance with the GRI financial year 2017. It includes Gränges’ Sofia Hedevåg Standards Core option and also constioperations at the start of 2017. This is the VP Sustainability tutes Gränges’ Communication on Profirst year that Gränges’ acquired operasofia.hedevag@granges.com gress in line with the UN Global Compact tions in the US are included in the sus+46 733 03 79 79 guidelines. The report and its contents tainability report. Gränges’ last sustain­ have not been externally assured. Detailed ability report was published on 14 March, information on the company’s stakeholder 2017. Gränges intends to publish a susdialogue, materiality assessment, sustaintainability report annually. ability data, and GRI Index, can be found on pages 112-121. 28 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY | VALUE CHAIN VALUE CHAIN Gränges’ value chain ranges from mines where bauxite is extracted to users of rolled aluminium products. The company works to create value for its stakeholders at all stages of the value chain. SUPPLY CHAIN GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS CUSTOMERS Primary aluminium suppliers Melting and Rolling and Heat HVAC and casting slitting exchange End vehicle manufacusers Scrap aluminium suppliers OEMs Internal scrap recycling turers Aluminium scrap Aluminium scrap SUPPLY CHAIN GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS CUSTOMERS An efficient and sustainable supply chain Gränges is committed to efficient proWorking closely with its customers, VALUE CREATION is essential for Gränges’ long-term cesses, leading R&I and providing an Gränges constantly looks for opportuni­success and development. To ensure attractive workplace. These areas are ties to apply its technical expertise. responsible sourcing, Gränges follows critical for Gränges to achieve sustain­ The company’s products increase the strict routines and guidelines for sourcable growth. efficiency of customers’ production proing metals and purchasing other materiGränges continuously works to reduce cesses, as well as the performance of als and services. Gränges’ ambition is to energy consumption and thereby costs, end products. In this way Gränges conbe a responsible and reliable business as well as negative impacts on the envitributes to more sustainable products for partner and for the company’s suppliers ronment. customers and improves its customers’ to maintain the same high sustainability By enhancing health and safety as well competitiveness. standards as Gränges. as diversity and equality, Gränges aims to offer an attractive workplace that encourages employees to develop professionally and contribute to the company’s success. The ore required to produce aluminium, Gränges’ production comprises melting Gränges’ rolled aluminium products can ALUMINIUM bauxite, is extracted from bauxite mines. and casting as well as rolling and slitting. be found in engine cooling products, cliAfter mining, bauxite is refined into aluThe melting and casting of aluminium are mate control solutions, power transmisminium oxide, which is the input material energy intensive processes and Gränges sions, and packaging. Aluminium from for the production of metallic aluminium. strives to reduce the company’s energy Gränges is found in the heat exchangers The mining and production of primary aluconsumption. Energy costs are the most of half of the world’s cars manufactured minium is energy intensive, so Gränges significant expense after metal and pertoday, and the trend is towards more, strives to use a higher proportion of sonnel costs. As a result of process effismaller, and lighter heat exchangers. recycled aluminium. Gränges purchases ciencies, Gränges has successfully re­­ Increased environmental requirements both primary aluminium and scrap aluduced the company’s energy consumption for stationary heat exchangers support minium. In 2017, recycled input materials per tonne of aluminium in the past four the shift from copper to aluminium, and constituted 15.4 (14.8) per cent of used years. This has been done by in­­creasing Gränges has a strong position to capmaterials at Gränges. The company works the metal yield in the production process ture these opportunities. actively to increase traceability and and re-melting unavoidable production responsible resource use for primary scrap. By re-melting scrap in-house and recycled aluminium. rather than selling it to third parties, Gränges avoids quality degradation and energy losses involved in transporting and handling scrap. Read more: Ethics and anti-corruption Read more: Ethics and anti-corruption Read more: Ethics and anti-corruption pages 30–31, and A sustainable supply pages 30–31, Recycled aluminium page pages 30–31, and Customers page 45. chain pages 32–33. 34, Energy use page 35, Emissions page 36, Water use page 37, An attractive and safe workplace pages 38–39, Diversity and equality page 40, and Health and safety pages 41–43. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 29 SUSTAINABILITY | VALUE CHAIN ETHICS AND ANTICORRUPTION Gränges’ operations are characterized by sound business ethics and an honest and open corporate culture. All internal relationships and relationships with suppliers, customers, and other business partners and stakeholders, should be characterized by responsible, ethical and sound business principles. Gränges does not tolerate any form of bribery, extortion or corruption. An ethical, transparent and proactive During 2017, Gränges provided several attitude in the value chain is fundamentraining programmes: tal and vital. This enables Gränges to • For Gränges’ production facilities in Around avoid conflicts of interest, ensure accuthe US, online and classroom based rate reporting, run, grow and develop a 90% Code of Conduct training was provided long-term sustainable and profitable for all employees. The training focused business, and protect the Gränges brand. on content and how to apply the Code. In addition, a number of managers, Code of Conduct and training purchasing, and sales personnel, as Gränges complies with all applicable well as other key individuals, comof eligible employees have local and international laws and regulapleted UN Global Compact online completed the UN Global tions. Gränges’ Code of Conduct conanti-corruption training. tains requirements that are stricter than ­C ompact online training • For Gränges’ production facility in those in laws and regulatory frameShanghai, virtually all employees comworks. All employees, the Board of pleted online Code of Conduct training. Directors, independent consultants, and others acting on Gränges’ behalf, must • Basically all Gränges’ sales personnel comply with the Code of Conduct. in positions of responsibility completed The Code of Conduct is a framework anti-corruption training during the year that describes what Gränges considers to in conjunction with a global sales conbe responsible and sustainable behavference. iour, and establishes that the company’s operations are to be run in accordance Anti-corruption training is offered every with responsible and ethical business and other year to employees in the sales commercial principles. These are applied organization, as well as purchasers, every day at work by all employees. other white collars, and key individuals During the year the routines were up­ who have external contacts, at all facilidated and improved. The Code of Conties and at head office. They are also duct has been integrated into the new trained in the company’s Code of Conduct employee orientation process, which and Anti-corruption Policy every other covers themes such as corruption, year at seminars and workshops. bribes, and other inappropriate benefits. The Board of Directors also has to be All employees must comply with informed of, and comply with, the AntiGränges’ Insider Policy and Anti-corrupcorruption Policy. tion Policy. The Anti-corruption Policy defines, explains, and expands on what Supplier Declaration Gränges means by corruption, including Gränges’ suppliers of raw materials how to manage gifts to charitable causes, must comply with Gränges’ Supplier which mainly takes place at the local Declaration. The aim is that suppliers level, as well as contributions to political should maintain the same anti-corrupcampaigns. Gränges regularly reviews tion standards as Gränges, and to disand updates its policies. tance themselves from bribes or any form of corruption. 30 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY | VALUE CHAIN Should Gränges acquire another company, it performs thorough due diligence to ensure there is no corruption and that the counter party maintains the same high standards as Gränges with respect to anti-corruption. Whistleblower function Gränges has a whistleblower function whereby employees can anonymously notify the company if they suspect that anything inappropriate has taken place within the company, if any person is involved in irregularities, or if the principles in the Code of Conduct are being breached in any other way. An anonymous tip can be made to a group of individuals including the General Counsel, the SVP Human Resources and the VP Sustainability. The whistleblower function is available to all employees and is described in the company’s Code of Conduct and on the intranet. A description of how the whistleblower function works is also displayed on noticeboards at the production facilities. Goals and performance Gränges has zero tolerance for all types of corruption or bribes. In 2017 there were no incidents involving bribes or other corruption, and no business contracts were breached or not renewed due to corruption. All managers, white collars in positions of responsibility, key personnel in purchasing and sales, and other key individuals who have external contacts, are required to complete the UN Global Compact online anti-corruption training. So far around 90 per cent of all of these employees have completed the training in 2016 and 2017. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 31 SUSTAINABILITY | SUPPLY CHAIN A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN An efficient and sustainable supply chain is essential for Gränges’ long-term success and development. To ensure responsible sourcing, Gränges has routines and guidelines for sourcing metals and other materials and services. The company aims to be a responsible and reliable business partner and that its suppliers maintain similarly high sustainability standards. Sourcing metals Suppliers to the production facilities with a supplier of slabs on a quality and An efficient supply chain for metal in Finspång and Shanghai are selected efficiency programme. purchases ensures that Gränges has based on criteria such as quality, service, access to the right raw materials at the price, delivery precision, reliability, ethSupplier assessments right time, which is vital for the company ics, and material traceability. The comTo ensure sustainable behaviour, all to meet its customers’ needs. Optimized pany’s suppliers must share Gränges’ suppliers of raw materials are to comply sourcing is essential to buy the right raw sustainability values and, like Gränges, with and sign Gränges’ Supplier Declamaterials with proper documentation. strive to minimize environmental impact, ration which was introduced in 2015. In This enables Gränges to make efficient be responsible in complying with labour doing so, the suppliers undertake to use of surplus materials from produclaws and guarantee good working condicomply with all applicable laws and regtion processes and to maximize recytions, not tolerate any form of bribery or ulations, including the 10 principles of cling. Sourcing of raw materials needs to corruption, and respect human rights. the UN Global Compact, and to observe be constantly coordinated with the proresponsible, ethical, and sound busiduction units. Gränges in the US ness and commercial principles. Gränges has long-term and close relaGränges’ production facilities in the US Gränges’ Supplier Declaration states tionships with its suppliers and works buy primary and scrap aluminium that suppliers are to have zero tolerance with them on for example product develthrough metal commodity traders and for all types of bribes and corruption opment. aluminium producers. Suppliers are and for collaborating in violation of comselected based on criteria such as availpetition laws. They are also to avoid conGränges in Finspång and Shanghai ability, price, and quality. Origin-labelled flicts of interest, provide reasonable Gränges’ production facility in Finspång aluminium enables traceability in the working conditions, promote good has around 30 suppliers of ingots, slabs, sourcing process. health and safety at their workplaces, alloy components and scrap metal, one and respect human rights, such as not third of which are categorized as strateRisks and continual improvements accepting child labour or any form of gic suppliers.1) In 2017 one new strategic Risks relating to Gränges’ supply chain forced labour, and to respect the envisupplier was added. Suppliers to the proinclude a lack of easy access to materironment by, for example, minimizing duction facility in Finspång are located in als, ethical risks such as bribery and harmful emissions and waste. Suppliers Scandinavia and elsewhere in Europe. corruption, and labour law related risks must also ensure that the principles in Gränges’ production facility in Shangsuch as unreasonable working conditions the Supplier Declaration are in turn hai has seven large suppliers of ingots, and child labour. To manage these risks adhered to by their own suppliers. slabs and alloys, of which three are catGränges is focusing on better control and Almost all suppliers to Gränges’ egorized as strategic suppliers and routines for materials sourcing. Gränges production facilities in Finspång and three are traders. There is no scrap is aiming for better coordination of proShanghai have signed Gränges’ Supplier metal purchasing in China as it is difficesses and audits of suppliers of ingots, Declaration. A few suppliers to the procult to find scrap metal of the right qualslabs, alloy components, and scrap. The duction facility in Finspång have not ity in the Chinese market and the price production facility in Finspång has initisigned the Supplier Declaration as they of primary aluminium is basically the ated a process for this during the year. follow their own codes of conduct which same as the price of scrap aluminium. One improvement implemented during are in line with Gränges’ requirements. Suppliers to the production facility in the year was a project in which the proAll strategic suppliers to the production Shanghai are located in China. duction facility in Shanghai collaborated facility in Shanghai, who account for a 1) A  strategic supplier to Gränges’ production facility in Finspång is a supplier that is critical to Gränges and has a direct impact on the properties of the end products. A strategic supplier to Gränges’ production facility in Shanghai is a supplier that is vital to Gränges’ long-term growth and profitability and accounts for a large portion of the volume. 32 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY | SUPPLY CHAIN combined 90 per cent of total purchases, Shanghai evaluates traders who supply Goals and performance have signed the Supplier Declaration. the company. All strategic suppliers to Gränges’ proThe remaining suppliers with which the Supplier audits are performed by duction facilities in Finspång and production facility in Shanghai has longGränges. The focus is on quality and Shanghai should have been audited by term relationships have signed a Quality delivery precision, but issues relating to 2020. In 2017 seven strategic suppliers Agreement and an EHS Agreement. the environment, labour laws, health were audited, four of them being suppliThese are largely alig­ned with Gränges’ and safety, and human rights are also ers to Finspång and three of them being Supplier Declaration. covered. Gränges also checks to ensure suppliers to the Shanghai facility. This If a supplier fails to comply with the that suppliers’ management systems includes the new supplier to the producSupplier Declaration, Gränges first dismeet Gränges’ criteria. tion facility in Finspång added during cusses how the supplier can rectify the In 2017, Gränges initiated several the year. All of Gränges’ strategic suppliproblem and then an action plan is cresteps to improve supplier assessments: ers to the production facilities in Finated. To date, no such discussion or • The production facility in Finspång spång and Shanghai have been audited. action plan has been necessary. produced a score card to assess and improve its ability to measure and Regular audits follow up its suppliers’ activities. This To ensure that suppliers comply with the includes suppliers’ environmental Supplier Declaration and are behaving in impact through its transportations. a sustainable manner, Gränges performs The score card programme is supplier audits. expected to be implemented in 2018. Gränges’ production facilities in Fin• Gränges’ production facilities in the Contribution to spång and Shanghai aim to audit all US started processes to increase the Sustainable Development Goals strategic suppliers before entering into traceability of materials and to pera contract with them and then perform form supplier audits. This is expected regular audits of these suppliers. Each to be finished in 2018. year Gränges’ production facility in INDIRECT MATERIALS AND SERVICES Gränges’ purchasing of indirect materials and services is als and services. The focus is mainly on quality, but the mainly done at the local level in the different regions. This suppliers’ environmental actions, working conditions, includes buying materials such as spare parts and packethics, and human rights are also taken into account. aging materials, and buying maintenance services for the Gränges audits its suppliers of services to the producproduction facilities. Gränges aims to have long-term tion facility in Shanghai. The audits focus on health and relationships also with its suppliers of indirect materials safety, and regulatory compliance. Gränges’ production and services. facilities in the US perform an initial evaluation of suppliers using a self-assessment form. Supplier audits Sourcing is to a certain extent coordinated between The suppliers of indirect materials are audited in varythe production facilities, mainly with respect to buying ing degrees. Gränges’ production facility in Finspång materials from global suppliers. performs audits of the main suppliers of indirect materiGRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 33 SUSTAINABILITY | GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS RECYCLED ALUMINIUM Gränges uses aluminium, both primary and recycled, together with alloys to produce rolled aluminium products. The extraction of bauxite and production are continually developed in line with • Increasing the share of recycled scrap of primary aluminium are energy-intensive Gränges’ development strategy for new input versus primary aluminium and processes. The use of energy affects alloys. Gränges’ production facilities in alloys. both costs and the environment. Gränges the US use simplified scrap codes while • Ensuring that internal aluminium scrap therefore strives to maximize the use of the production facilities in Finspång and can be reinserted into the production recycled aluminium as this is more cost Shanghai use code systems that allows process. efficient and sustainably beneficial. different clad scrap combinations to be grouped together. The coding system More specific goals related to metal Increased use of recycled aluminium enables efficient scrap handling and yield and internal scrap use are set for Aluminium can be recycled without any optimized re-melting, thereby minimizeach production facility. significant impact on quality. Gränges ing the sale of scrap that cannot be The share of recycled material used works continually to improve internal re-used in production. as input material has increased from recycling rates and increase the share of 14.8 per cent in 2016 to 15.4 per cent recycled aluminium used as input in the Balance between application in 2017. The increase in overall use of production process. A certain volume of ­requirements and recyclability recycled materials is driven by the proprocess scrap cannot be avoided in proRecycling possibilities are increasingly duction facilities in the US where more duction, and for cost effectiveness, interimportant when developing new prodexternal scrap was used as input matenal scrap is reinserted into the process ucts and alloys. Research and innovarials. On a group level, this was partly through re-melting. tion activities are focused on identifying offset by less use of recycled materials In addition to using internal scrap, integrated solutions that not only achi­ in the production facility in Finspång Gränges also buys external scrap from eve the required technical specification, and a lower level of recycled material dealers or from Gränges’ customers. but also enable improved recycling in externally sourced slabs in the proThe advantage of buying scrap from rates. To ensure suitable material propduction facility in Shanghai. Gränges’ own customers is that the comerties, Gränges clads different alloys ­­­position is known, and it is therefore onto the aluminium alloy cores. The easier to incorporate the scrap into new claddings change the composition, products. which affects the recycling potential. If external scrap of sufficient quality is Gränges runs a research programme to unavailable on the market, primary aluobtain alloys designed for optimal comminium is used. This is generally more binations of application requirements expensive than recycled aluminium and and recyclability. Contribution to so the use of recycled aluminium is Sustainable Development Goal always prioritized. Gränges’ production Goals and performance facility in Shanghai does currently not Gränges aims to increase the use of use externally sourced scrap as it is difrecycled aluminium in its production ficult to obtain scrap with sufficient process. This will be achieved by: quality and as there is little price difference between primary aluminium and scrap in China. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Scrap codes enable efficient use % 2017 2016 Group-wide scrap codes, for classification of different scrap types, are used to Asia 1.0 4.2 ensure that scrap is used in appropriate Europe 16.0 18.1 processes, and that the volume of un­­ Americas 24.8 19.4 used scrap is minimized. Scrap codes Gränges total 15.4 14.8 34 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY | GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS ENERGY USE Energy use significantly affects both costs and emissions. Reductions therefore offer opportunities to improve profitability, competitiveness, and environmental performance. Gränges primarily uses energy in the form Energy efficiency measures Increased awareness of natural gas, electricity, and liquefied During the year, Gränges has focused on Staff are regularly trained to save energy petroleum gas. The energy is mainly used in including the US operations in overall and become more aware of energy effifurnaces where aluminium is re-melted routines and processes. Work on energy ciency throughout the organization. An either via direct combustion or induction. audits has been initiated and the proe-learning course is also available at the To improve energy efficiency, Gränges conduction facility in Huntingdon has been production facility in Finspång. tinually carries out energy audits, implereviewed to identify efficiencies. In the ments related improvements, and selects US, Gränges will initially focus on reducGoals and performance ing natural gas consumption and in 2018 Gränges has set energy efficiency goals the best available technology in new investfor all production facilities and measures ments. Energy aspects are an integrated the company will rebuild the melter in to improve efficiency are continuously part of Gränges’ group-wide EnvironmenHuntingdon to improve efficiency. implemented. To ensure continuous im­­ tal, Health and Safety Policy, and the proImplemented energy efficiency measprovements Gränges has also decided to duction facility in Finspång has a certified ures are primarily linked to increased implement certified energy management energy management system according to metal yield and recovery of waste heat systems for all production facilities. ISO 50001. from various processes. Gränges has also The overall energy use per tonne prodconducted process optimization to re­­ uct has decreased from 3.4 MWh/tonne Energy regulations duce leakages from pneumatic devices, in 2016 to 3.3 MWh/tonne in 2017. This is Gränges’ operations in Shanghai adheres optimize ventilation, improve the effimainly due to energy efficiency measures to the Shanghai Energy Conservation ciency of heat exchangers, avoid unnecimplemented in the production facilities Regulations, which stipulates Gränges essary idling, reduce internal transport, in Finspång and Shanghai. to work with energy efficiency and new upgrade motors and pumps, and insulate energy solutions. The company’s operafurnaces to improve their efficiency. tions in Finspång is under the energy effiGränges also plans to replace fossil Contribution to ciency directive, but as a certified energy fuel trucks with automatic electric Sustainable Development Goals management system is in place, no additrucks, which will improve energy effitional activities are needed to fulfil the ciency and reduce emissions. directive’s legal requirements. In the US, no energy related regulations currently affect Gränges’ operations. ENERGY RECOVERY PROJECT Total energy use GWh 2017 2016 Since 2014, Gränges has worked on a large energy recovery project which Electricity 403 395 will enable the entire Finspång site to Natural gas 773 748 be independent of external heat supOther1) 59 58 plies. The demand for heat will be met Gränges total 1,236 1,201 by using waste heat from furnaces, which is fed into the local district 1) Includes diesel, petrol, LPG and district heating. heating network. Only on really cold winter days will the facility rely on external heat sources. The project will be finalized during Energy intensity autumn 2018 and should be fully operMWh/ ational before the winter 2018/2019. tonne product 2017 2016 Gränges total 3.3 3.4 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 35 SUSTAINABILITY | GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS EMISSIONS Reducing emissions is important to secure future environmental permits and thereby Gränges’ license to operate, and for Gränges’ stakeholders. Gränges emits various substances shipments and cut CO2 emissions by goods, Gränges has increased the avermainly to air, but also to water and soil. 1,200 tonnes. age load per truck. Gränges strives to Emissions to air, in terms of carbon dioxDuring the year, Gränges has installed make internal logistics more efficient ide, nitrogen oxides and dust, come from new flue gas monitoring equipment in the through improved processes and investburning fossil fuels and particularly natproduction facility in Shanghai. The new ment to reduce the use of forklifts. The ural gas and liquefied petroleum gas. system continuously monitors flue gases company works with eco-driving to re­­ Emissions of oil are linked to the cold and helps to identify improvements. New duce fuel use. By better coordinating rolling mills where a mixture of oil and oil mist purifiers and oil recovery systems loading between machines, Gränges has water is sprayed over the mills to keep have also been installed to cut oil conalso cut the number of trucks. them from overheating. Emissions are sumption and emissions. monitored and managed as part of daily Emissions of carbon dioxide and other Goals and performance operations. greenhouse gases are not regulated by Gränges’ long-term goal is to reduce its legislation, but are important for Gränges carbon footprint by reducing greenhouse Management systems and regulations and its stakeholders. To improve undergas emissions throughout the value In Finspång and Shanghai, Gränges has standing of its indirect greenhouse gas chain, both direct and indirect. implemented local environmental manemissions, Gränges has conducted a carSince 2016 direct and indirect emisagement systems according to ISO bon footprint study. The study shows that sions of greenhouse gases per tonne 14001. In the US, Gränges has initiated Gränges’ direct and indirect emissions of packed product has decreased by 2 per a process to implement a certified sysgreenhouse gases amount to approxicent and 7 per cent respectively. The tem. Within each management system, mately 4.6 Mtonnes, where the majority reduction of direct emissions is mainly Gränges works continually to improve in are indirect emissions emanating from connected to increased energy efficiency areas such as emissions. production of primary aluminium. Addiand the reduction of indirect emissions is Emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulphur tional information is available on page 115 due to a higher share of recycled materidioxide, dust, volatile organic compounds in the Sustainability notes. The study will als in relation to total input materials. (VOC) and in some parts of the organizaprovide the basis for future target setting. tion, oil emissions, are regulated by legGreenhouse gas emissions are related to islation. Compliance is a prerequisite for using fossil fuels and reductions can Gränges’ continued license to operate. therefore be directly linked to energy effiContribution to Local authorities continually monitor ciency measures – please see page 35. Sustainable Development Goal compliance to ensure that emissions are Gränges continually examines how it within limits. can optimize transportation and logistics flows. By optimizing production Measures to reduce emissions planning and inventories of finished All Gränges’ production facilities have modern technology and emissions are generally maintained well below the limits. To Total emissions of greenhouse gases1) avoid potentially exceeding limits, Gränges Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 works continually with inspections and ktonnes CO2e 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 controls of maintenance routines. Gränges total 169.7 164.3 132.7 130.7 4,300 4,400 One improvement implemented during the year was a project in which Gränges’ production facilities in the US converted Carbon intensity Tonnes CO2e/ Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 many outbound shipments to customers tonne product 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 to rail delivery. This has reduced carbon emissions by around 70 per cent on these Gränges total 0.45 0.46 0.35 0.37 11.4 11.6 1) For definition of Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 see page 115. 36 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY | GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS WATER USE Gränges’ production equipment depends on cooling water to ensure high operational efficiency. Lack of cooling water could result in overheating and interruptions during production. Ensuring sustainable water use and in a closed loop system using non-conWater use, million m3 access to clear fresh water is essential tact cooling towers. Used water is disfor economic growth and welfare. charged to nearby water bodies without Gränges’ operations are located in areas further treatment. with different water risks and water conAt the production facility in Finspång, sumption is managed based on local cirsurface water is withdrawn from a cumstances. nearby lake. The plant is situated in an area with low water stress and currently Water risks and regulations there are no restrictions on water withProduction facilities in Finspång and drawal. The water is used to cool differthe US are situated in areas with low to ent components of the production facilMunicipal water, 0.5 med­­­ium risk, while the facility in Shangity. Heated cooling water is released into Ground water, 0.8 hai is situated in a medium to high risk nearby waterways. Measurements are Surface water, 2.0 area.1) Water use and management for made daily to ensure that the released Gränges’ production facility in Shanghai water does not contain hazardous subare regulated via permits and by legislastances. Hazardous condensates are tion such as “Water Pollution Prevention treated before being returned to nearby and Control Law of the People's Repubwater bodies. lic of China”, “Water Law of the People's No water sources are considered to Republic of China”, and “Management in be significantly affected by the water Shanghai Drainage Ordinance”. withdrawal or discharge from Gränges’ operations. Water is managed according to local conditions Measures to improve water The production facilities in Shanghai ­management and in the US have closed-loop cooling All coolers in the production facility in systems with a high degree of recirculaFinspång have been replaced and up­­ tion. These systems reduce water congraded to coolers with double casing. sumption and the risk of water getting This reduces the risk of oil and other contaminated. The production facility in chemicals entering the cooling water and Shanghai uses municipal tap water for thereby reaching the nearby recipient. both production processes (mainly coolThe control system at the production ing) and for office buildings. Water from facility in Shanghai has been updated the cooling system is further re-used in from conductivity control to ionization other parts of the production process, control. The new system enables for example in the cold rolling mill. Water Gränges to re­­duce the volume of water of insufficient quality is later discharged that must be constantly replaced in the to the local waste water treatment plant. cooling system. Discharges can only be made within the Contribution to limits of the local drainage permit, which Goals and performance Sustainable Development Goal specifies how much and what kind of Local reduction targets for water conwater the facility can discharge. In the sumption are implemented in the proUS, Gränges withdraws ground water duction facility in Finspång, while other from its own wells, which serves to cool production facilities lack firm targets. 1) B  ased on the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas developed by the World Resources Institute. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 37 SUSTAINABILITY | GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS AN ATTRACTIVE AND SAFE WORKPLACE Gränges aims to offer a safe work environment where all employees, regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, and background, have the opportunity to develop and can earn market rates of compensation. Competent, committed, innovative and skilled employees form the foundation on which Gränges can develop and produce high-quality products. The Gränges Group had a total of 1,568 Programmes and awareness employees (1,136) on average during 2017. Gränges has continued to focus on Gränges strives to offer good working developing its succession planning proconditions and interesting career and gramme to secure the next generation of GRÄNGES’ personal development opportunities to managers and long-term leadership for CORE VALUES attract and retain talented employees. the Group, and on introducing a groupThis is vital if Gränges is to maintain its wide Talent Management Programme. long-term competitiveness and position This is aimed at identifying and using as a global leader. employees’ full potential through develGränges has a professional recruitment opment that benefits both the individuprocess to ensure the company hires als and the company. A new group-wide skilled employees. Employee and manintroduction programme for new ager training takes place continually to employees has also been introduced. guarantee high quality craftsmanship, Gränges is perceived as an attractive ACCESSIBLE strong morale, and good leadership. It is employer among civil engineering stuimportant that employees are proud to dents in Sweden. According to Univerwork for Gränges. sum’s annual survey of students at all of Sweden’s universities, awareness of One Gränges Gränges has increased by more than 30 During the year a key priority has been per cent in less than a year. to integrate the acquired US operations with the rest of the Group. Strong corporate culture COMMITTED The integration process began immeGränges’ strong corporate culture and diately after the acquisition was comvalues are important in attracting and pleted and has progressed well. It has retaining employees. included coordinating career planning The corporate culture is a key factor in programme and policies. Gränges’ ability to be a workplace where During the year a new HR vision was employees are healthy and happy and adopted as part of the process of creating can develop and perform well. This in One Gränges. The intention is to ensure turn results in less sick leave and fewer INNOVATIVE that Gränges is the industry’s most att­ accidents, increased work efficiency, ractive employers with proud, talented, higher product quality, and better profitand high-performing employees in a ability. diverse and safe environment. The core values action oriented, comGränges also launched its Company mitted, accessible, and innovative, mean, Awards during the year. These are to among other things, that decisions are recognize employees, teams or departmade as far down as possible in the ments that have achieved significant organization. These values also mean improvement during the year. They are that all employees are expected to be ACTION ORIENTED also a means of strengthening the comcommitted and to drive change according mon corporate culture. to set goals and activities, take initiatives, and be persistent and thorough. 38 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY | GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS The core value innovative, added in 2017, Regular employee surveys responsible and ethical business and implies that all parts of the organization Gränges conducts regular employee surcommercial principles. These are applied are to be infused with creativity and fresh veys to assess and follow up on ongoing every day at work by all employees. ideas to find new and better solutions to activities, to identify areas for improvePlease see pages 30–31 for more inforboth short-term and long-term challenges. ment, and to give employees an opportumation related to the Code of Conduct. Expectations of good cooperation and nity to express their opinions. The emplo­y­excellent service, in both internal and ­­ees are asked to respond to questions Collective bargaining agreement and external relationships, are high. about the workplace, leadership, comstaff turnover rate Gränges works to firmly establish its pensation, influence, work environment, A total of around 70 per cent in Gränges core values through seminars and workdevelopment opportunities, and health Group are covered by collective bargainshops. In processes such as recruitand safety. ing agreements. ment, new employee orientation, comDuring the year Gränges conducted one In 2017, the staff turnover rate increased pensation reviews, and promotion, the employee survey in the operations in the to 7.4 per cent, compared to 3.4 per cent core values have a central and vital role. US and one in the operations in Finspång. (excluding Gränges’ operations in the The surveys had a response rate of more US) in 2016. Development and international than 70 per cent, which indicates strong career opportunities engagement. The results of the employee Every year employee development discussurveys were very good with positive sions and compensation reviews take scores for areas such as job satisfaction, place. Training programmes are mainly opportunities for skills development, provided locally and based on local needs. health, and work environment. The comTo optimize employee development, bined average result shows that more professional development and training than 7 out of 10 employees experience programmes are individualized as much Gränges as a good or very good employer. as possible. This is based on formal One of the challenges, according to responsibility, individual skills, and the the employee surveys, is to improve the company’s needs, and also to a large internal communication. Steps have extent on the individual development been taken to improve this. plans established annually based on the The next survey will be a group-wide results of development discussions. one and will take place in 2019. Gränges’ worldwide expansion is leadEmployee surveys will be conducted ing to more international career opportuevery other year after that. nities. The company has started to introduce a global job rotation programme Code of Conduct Contribution to where employees may be offered an opp­ The Code of Conduct, a framework that Sustainable Development Goal ortunity to work for a fixed period at a describes what Gränges considers to be different unit within the Group. responsible and sustainable behaviour, Gränges’ incentive programme covers establishes that the company’s operasenior executives and key individuals. tions are to be run in accordance with Organization and governance The SVP Human Resources is a member of Gränges Group’s Extended Management Team. Each region has a local HR departGränges’ employees ment under the management of a local HR 2017 20161) 20162) 2015 manager. In 2017, Gränges established an Average number of employees 1,568 1,136 962 964 HR Council with representation by the SVP – of which employed Human Resour­ces and the local HR manin production 1,077 789 619 631 agers. The purpose of this council is to Employee turnover, % 7.4 – 3.4 4.5 cooperate even better on HR matters, to Sick leave3), % 2.0 – 2.2 2.0 develop and harmonize global HR activi1) I ncluding Gränges’ operations in the US from 22 August 2016. Average number of employees for 2016 has been ties, and to share experiences to work in restated due to adjustments in the acquired business in the US. 2) Excluding Gränges’ operations in the US. accordance with best practice. 3) Read more on page 42. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 39 SUSTAINABILITY | GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Gränges aims to be a workplace characterized by diversity and equality. Embracing all types of skills and expertise is important for Gränges to remain competitive in the long term. Gränges believes that diversity is a comThe ambition is that all groups of em­­ ation Policy ensure that no groups are petitive advantage and that a multifacployees complete diversity training in treated unfairly or neglected. eted workplace helps to promote growth 2018. The diversity perspective, In matters relating to the Group’s and profitability. A diverse workplace increased diversity, and inclusive leadBoard of Directors, Gränges’ nominating increases creativity, flexibility, and proership are important parameters in the committee follows the guidelines in the ductivity, which benefits individuals, company’s training programmes. Swedish Corporate Governance Code. teams, the company, and customers. All employees are to have the same The goal is for Gränges’ Board of DirecA multifaceted workplace also reflects good opportunities to pursue their car­ tors to have an even gender distribution the international market in which Gränges eers. It should be easy for employees to and broad range in terms of age, geooperates. No employee should experience combine work and family, and Gränges graphical origin, experience, education, discrimination based on gender, age, does its best to offer various flexible and professional background. world view, background, sexual orientasolutions. tion, ethnicity, physical ability or anything Goals and performance else. Management teams should we Compensation review and policies Gränges’ goal for Asia and Europe is that well-composed and all employees must All employees are to receive fair market women, including managers, account for be treated equally. Gränges is to have an rates of pay. Gränges regularly conducts 20 per cent of the workforce. In 2017 the inclusive leadership and corporate culture. compensation reviews. share of female employees for the Group Gränges has an ambition to work proIn 2017 reviews were conducted within reached 14 per cent, with 11 per cent in actively to achieve a workplace characGränges in Finspång and Shanghai. The Asia and 20 per cent in Europe. terized by diversity and equality. compensation review within Gränges in Gränges’ gender equality goal for Asia Finspång examined gender distribution and Europe states that women, includand pay structures. The compensation ing managers, shall account for 20 per review did not find any non-objective, cent of the workforce. gender-related pay disparity. A compariRecruitment is an important tool in son of senior executive compensation ensuring greater workplace diversity revealed that Gränges is in line with and equality. The ambition is to have 30 comparable companies. per cent women among all new recruits The next review period will be in 2018. in Asia and Europe. In 2017 women acc­ Gränges’ employees work according to ounted for 18 per cent of all new recruits its Diversity Policy. This is reflected in in the Group. both the corporate culture and in leadIn the recruitment process, all else ership, and is reflected in the internal being equal, individuals from underrepsurveys that are regularly conducted. resented groups are given recruitment The Diversity Policy establishes that Contribution to priority. no employee is to experience discrimiSustainable Development Goals During the year Gränges has: nation based on their gender, age, world • Developed and implemented a new view, background, sexual orientation, group-wide Diversity Policy. ethnicity, physical ability or anything • Provided diversity training to managers. else. The Diversity Policy and Remuner40 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY | GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS HEALTH AND SAFETY Providing a safe and good work environment is a top priority for Gränges, which has strict safety routines and continually works to improve safety. Gränges works systematically to identify Continuous improvements Other measures implemented in the US and eliminate safety risks. The company Gränges continually improves the work include an updated and improved risk continually invests in safety measures environment and safety at the workassessment and job safety analysis, as to prevent accidents at production facilplace. Examples of measures implewell as a process (with an accompanying ities in line with its goal of an injury-free mented during the year are: action plan) to identify risks to improve workplace. No employee should be at • Internal audits where teams from the physical safety of employees at the risk of injury at his or her place of work. different facilities cross-audit each facilities in Huntingdon, Newport and A corporate culture characterized by other were conducted in Shanghai, Salisbury. high safety and safety awareness, with China and in Salisbury, USA. Read The facility in Shanghai introduced a few accidents, also enables Gränges to more on page 43. new monthly health and safety inspection maintain production quality, a positive • An annual Environment, Health and and has conducted a review to document atmosphere at the workplace and good Safety Performance Award was introenvironmental, health and safety issues. profitability. High safety awareness is duced. The facility in Salisbury won This included producing guidelines and also essential in safeguarding Gränges the 2017 award in recognition of outlining improvement measures. as a brand. In addition, good safety is having zero accidents in 2016, and In Finspång, Sweden, a safer heavy vital in avoiding negative or emotional because it had reduced the number of transport system has been introduced, consequences, and accident-related injuries in three consecutive years new footpaths have been built indoors to costs – both for the employee and the (measured as Total Recordable Rate) better separate pedestrians and vehicompany. cles, and improvements have been made to outdoor storage areas for materials to reduce the risk of collapse. ZERO VISION Gränges’ goal is to be an injury-free workplace. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 41 SUSTAINABILITY | GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS Safety first At all production facilities, health and provided for production personnel and Safety first is an important aspect of leadsafety is handled within the framework of management. All production employees, ership at Gränges, and safety in the five a management system in accordance for example, receive specific safety traincritical categories has top priority. These with the global standard OSHAS 18001. ing focusing on aspects such as hand and are: fall protection, molten metal, mobile The workplace in Shanghai is OSHAS finger injury prevention. All new employequipment, confined spaces, and control 18001 certified. ees go through safety training when they of hazardous energy lockout-tagout-verify Gränges’ group-wide Environmental, start their jobs. – ensuring that machinery is fully switched Health and Safety Policy is implemented Gränges also performs chemical risk off and de-energized before maintenance throughout the Group and supplemented assessments. Gränges strives to miniwork begins. by local policies such as a policy for rehamize employee exposure to chemicals Ongoing local training is provided at bilitation. and takes steps to ensure that the comproduction facilities, with an emphasis All employees are covered by accident pany uses alternatives that are as envion behaviour-based safety. One examand sickness insurance and undergo regronmentally sound as possible. ple is theme weeks focusing on specific ular health check-ups. safety themes. Risk assessments and job safety ana­ Goals and performance Knowledge sharing and cooperation lysis are carried out for both repetitive Gränges has zero tolerance for injuries among facilities takes place through and non-repetitive tasks. This involves and accidents. The number of total re­ cross-audits and by communicating identifying hazards associated with work cordable accidents, including Gränges’ information on significant incidents to tasks, assessing the risk of injuries and production facilities in the US, increased promote best practice and harmonize developing action plans to manage and by 7 cases compared to prior year. work processes. mitigate these risks. Management and Gränges’ goal for Asia and Europe is to To promote better safety, knowledge the safety representatives coordinate have a sick leave lower than 3 per cent. is also shared with other companies. and prioritize the actions. Sick leave for Gränges Group during the Safety work is integrated into Gränges’ year amounted to 2.0 per cent, compared Zero vision operational excellence programme, which to 2.2 per cent (excluding Gränges’ operaGränges continuously strives towards an is part of the strategy of continuous im­­ tions in the US) in 2016. For Asia and injury-free workplace. To this purpose provements throughout the organization. Europe the sick leave in 2017 was 0.7 per the company performs risk analysis on All incidents and accidents are regiscent and 3.3 per cent respectively. the hazards that exist in the workplace tered and categorized in incident reportand deploy actions to reduce or elimiing systems. Events reported in the incinate these risks. dent reporting systems are followed up In 2017 there were nine serious accion a weekly and monthly basis. dents where nine individuals were in­jured. Regular safety inspections are conThis resulted in a total of 403 days of ducted in all offices and production facilabsence from work. ities in which a physical assessment is Of the 28 recordable workplace accimade of the work environment. Safety dents, 14 resulted in “Lost Workday inspections are followed by safety comCases”. Most of the incidents, in all locamittees at the various facilities. Super­ tions, were related to hand and finger visory safety committees, headed by injuries; 13 of 28 cases were related to President Europe in Finspång and Presisuch injuries in 2017. dent Asia in Shanghai, monitor the efficiency of the work of all safety commitPolicies, safety inspections tees. In the US, each production facility Contribution to and training has an employee run safety committee Sustainable Development Goals Gränges complies with all applicable supported by local management. laws and regulations. The company aims All employees take part in comprehento further increase safety to ensure a sive safety training at least once a year safe and good work environment. and specific safety courses are regularly 42 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY | GRÄNGES’ OPERATIONS REGULAR GROUP-WIDE CROSS-AUDITS FOR COOPERATION AND IMPROVED SAFETY Internal audits, where teams from Gränges’ production facilities cross-audit each other, are conducted continually. The purpose is to improve safety and promote best practice across the organization. Group-wide plant cross-audits are carried out once In the second cross-audit a team made up of every six months. The teams consist of specialists in employees from Gränges’ production facilities in the health, human safety, and the environment. US and Finspång travelled to the facility in ShangTwo cross-audits were conducted during the year. hai. The internal audit in Shanghai was coordinated A team comprising employees from Shanghai and with Gränges’ work on operational excellence. Finspång conducted a cross-audit in Salisbury. The In connection with the cross-audits, the teams audit focused on the five critical categories: fall prepared proposals and recommendations for pripro­­­­tection, molten metal, mobile equipment, confined ority improvements. This helps to enhance safety, spaces, and lockout-­tagout-verify. Fire and environparticularly for production workers. mental protection were also covered. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 43 SUSTAINABILITY | SOCIETY GRÄNGES IN THE LOCAL COMMUNITY Gränges contributes to positive development in society and aims to be an important and engaged actor in the local community. Gränges creates local jobs that offer In Finspång, Gränges sponsors Curt In the US, Gränges’ employees have em­­ployees good employment terms and Nicolin Gymnasiet, an upper secondary been helping a local non-profit organizaa safe work environment. school, to which Gränges offers interntion. The company has also provided The company also contributes to chariships and summer jobs for students, as donations for educational and other table causes and is engaged in sponsorwell as Linköping University. types of programmes in the local comship, mainly at local level and locations Gränges also takes an active role in munity. Additional initiatives will be where Gränges has operations. Gränges supporting local associations in Finimplemented next year. sponsors education, cultural events, local spång and participates in various initiaIn Shanghai, Gränges has made donasports clubs, sports competitions, and tives to develop and make Finspång an tions to a local kindergarten. Gränges in various types of non-profit organizations. even more attractive town. Shanghai also offers internships. Internships for individuals who have recently come to Sweden One aspect of Gränges’ community en­­ gagement in Finspång is its efforts to help integrate those who have recently come to Sweden. Gränges plans to form a partnership with Curt Nicolin Gymnasiet to offer internships to new arrivals. “Gränges sponsors education, cultural events, local sports clubs, sports competitions, and various types of non-profit organizations.” 44 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY | CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS Gränges strives to be customers’ first choice as partner and supplier. Customer satisfaction with Gränges products and services is at the core of the company’s long-term profitability and existence. Gränges develops new technologies and business function was implemented to products designed to solve customers’ serve the often complex demands of specific needs. The company’s customglobal customers who have operations 85% ers demand high performance and cost in multiple markets. By working on efficiency, and Gränges continually global product specifications and optiworks to develop products that reduce mizing deliveries of global customers’ process costs and the use of materials products, Gränges streamlines both the at customer applications. value chain and its R&I activities. The streamlining enhances efficiency and of Gränges’ automotive Focus on customer needs customer satisfaction. heat exchanger customers Gränges focuses on customer needs, leading technologies, industrial craftsDeveloping customer relationships have engaged the company manship, and sustainable solutions. The To develop customer relationships, for more than 10 years. company’s sales organization continuGränges regularly conducts customer ally works to meet customer expectasurveys. The most recent study was tions and deliver products of high and conducted in 2016 and showed that cusconsistent quality. The strong customer tomers appreciate Gränges for its comfocus leads to long-term relationships. petent staff, delivery quality, and docu85 per cent of Gränges’ automotive heat mentation. Product quality, research exchanger customers have engaged the capability, and technical support were company for more than 10 years. also some of the key reasons customers At the 2017 technical seminar in Pune, choose Gränges over its competitors. India, Gränges’ representatives showed Results from the study are reviewed how the company’s advanced material internally and lead to the development solutions can help customers meet marof Gränges’ internal processes and speket demands. Invited guest speakers cific customer relationships. from Indian original equipment manufacturers spoke on electrification, fuel efficiency, and other industry relevant topics. Organization As an international company, Gränges Contribution to introduced a global customer function in Sustainable Development Goals 2016 and the company’s sales force is now organized in a matrix to ensure that Gränges provides high-quality service to local and global customers. The global GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 45 RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT As a group with operations in different parts of the world, Gränges is exposed to various risks and uncertainties. Gränges’ risk management aims to identify, assess, and reduce risks related to the Group’s business and operations. Local risk reporting systems for environment, quality, and health and safety are in place at the production sites. Risks are managed as a part of daily operations where key risks are raised to the regional management team and mitigation measures are implemented. Gränges always maintains adequate insurance coverage in relevant areas. MARKET RISKS OPERATIONAL RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS Market risks are managed and Operational risks are managed and Financial risks are managed in accordance controlled by the corporate functions controlled by the corporate functions with Gränges’ Financial Management Policy. and operating units in accordance with and operating units in accordance with Gränges uses derivatives and other finanestablished guidelines and procedures. established guidelines and procedures. cial instruments to reduce financial risks.  isks related to market development R Quality and efficiency risks C urrency risk and competition Risks related to critical machine C ommodity price risk  isks related to customer satisfaction R breakdowns or calamities I nterest rate risk  isks in the supply chain R Health and safety risks L iquidity risk  nergy price risks E Environmental risks C redit risk  olitical risks P Risks related to employees and the workplace Business conduct risks Risks related to compliance and upcoming legislation 46 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT MARKET RISKS RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS RELATED 1. Changes in the automotive market 1. Diversification and adaptability TO MARKET About half of Gränges’ sales volume goes to suppliers in the Gränges is a global company operating in all major regions. ­DEVELOPMENT automotive industry. Vehicle production depends on a numThe worldwide presence reduces risks of an economic AND ber of external factors such as the global economy, interest downturn in individual markets. Gränges has a diversified COMPETITION rates, consumer behaviour, taxes, and legislation. During an product portfolio and about half of sales are to other niche economic downturn, the automotive industry normally sees markets in the industry, including stationary heat exchanga decline in production, which reduces demand for aluminers, transformers, and food packaging. The aim is to conium products used in vehicles. tinue to increase sales to other markets than the automotive industry. 2. Technology becomes outdated Gränges’ advanced aluminium products and technological 2. Extensive R&I leadership is a result of a long-term commitment to Research and innovation is a core element of Gränges’ stratresearch and innovation, and a close cooperation with cusegy, and Gränges continues to increase its efforts in this tomers to develop new products and solutions. It is a risk area. To be able to meet future market demands, in-depth that the technology becomes outdated and Gränges loses research work is combined with innovation. Gränges supits leadership. ports its customers in product development for future applications such as electrical vehicles, and invests to secure competence and advanced technology suited for next-generation materials. RISKS RELATED Maintaining customer focus and providing the right prodGränges upholds good relationships with customers to proTO CUSTOMER ucts at the right time to customers are key success factors actively meet their demands. Additionally, the company regSATISFACTION for Gränges. Dissatisfied customers can adversely affect ularly conducts global customer satisfaction surveys. This the company’s profitability and market share, and may also tracks customers’ perceptions of Gränges’ products and pose a reputational risk. services. Results from the studies are reviewed internally and results in actions to develop Gränges’ internal processes and specific customer relationships. RISKS IN THE 1. Ethical, environmental and social risks 1. Supplier Declaration and audits SUPPLY CHAIN Ethical risks are related to bribes and other types of corrupTo ensure that suppliers have zero tolerance of corruption, tion. Environmental risks are mainly connected to environhave reasonable working conditions, good workplace health mental permits and the potential lack of compliance. and safety standards, and respect human rights and the Labour law risks in the supply chain include unfair working environment, suppliers must sign and follow Gränges’ Supconditions. In certain regions there is a risk of child labour. plier Declaration. This means that suppliers pledge to observe all applicable laws and regulations, including the 10 2. Supply of slabs and other materials principles of the UN Global Compact. Furthermore, Gränges Gränges depends on the supply of commodities, mainly aluaims to regularly audit its strategic suppliers. minium. Insufficient supply means that Gränges cannot produce end products. In the future, depending on chosen end 2. Supply management designs, special material types may be more difficult to Gränges enters into agreements with suppliers in each source due to their special characteristics. ­market to ensure deliveries on the basis of estimated volumes. Gränges has its own cast house in the production facilities, making it less sensitive to supply issues regarding for example slabs. ENERGY PRICE Energy price risks relate largely to changes in energy prices Gränges uses hedging and delivery agreements to secure RISKS that can adversely affect Gränges’ operating profit. Gränges future energy supply and price. Financial hedges and physiis mainly exposed to price changes in electricity and natural cal fixed-price contracts may be used up to two years before gas, but the price of other energy commodities may also delivery. affects Gränges’ operating profit directly and indirectly. POLITICAL Gränges has operations in Sweden, China and the US and Political risks in Sweden are limited and easy to monitor, RISKS serves customers in around 50 countries. Markets and while political risks in China and in the US are closely monioperations are affected by the political and economic envitored particularly regarding cross-border trade. ronments of these countries. Political changes could interfere with the company’s supply chain, production, or market activities, and affect the ability to meet the demands of Gränges’ customers. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 47 RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATIONAL RISKS RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK RISK MANAGEMENT QUALITY AND Quality and efficiency risks are mainly connected to defecTo ensure high-quality products and efficient production EFFICIENCY tive products and insufficient process stability, and often ­processes, Gränges has ongoing programmes for operational RISKS due to unplanned stoppages at plants. excellence and is continually upgrading and maintaining ­production equipment. RISKS RELATED Critical machine breakdowns or calamities (such as fire) risk Gränges follows proven maintenance plans for critical machinTO CRITICAL to damage equipment. ery and ensures access to spare parts and service staff to MACHINE ­continually maintain critical machinery. Gränges has invested ­BREAKDOWNS in state-of-the-art fire protection systems and has extensive OR CALAMITIES insurance policies in place. HEALTH AND Cast houses and rolling mills are work environments that Gränges has strict safety routines and continually invests in SAFETY RISKS impose significant health and safety risks. Examples of various safety measures to prevent accidents at plants. Regusuch risks are finger, hand, foot, and leg injuries. Also, prolar safety training is held for all employees and targeted safety duction personnel risk being exposed to chemicals that are training is carried out for specific safety issues. Employees hazardous to health. Strict safety routines may never be work according to the Environmental, Health and Safety Policy. bypassed or assigned a lower priority. If the implementation Gränges performs chemical substance hazard analysis and of safety procedures is unsuccessful or inefficient, employregularly substitutes chemicals to reduce exposure to personnel. ees and other individuals may be injured. Unsafe workInternal cross audits are carried out regularly at the various places can also lead to increased employee turnover as well production sites to further improve the work environment and as higher operating costs. Injuries can lead to production health and safety, enhance operational integration, and work interruptions, which could result in financial costs for according to best practice. Improved health and safety is also Gränges. part of Gränges’ operational excellence ­programme, to work for continous improvements. ENVIRONMENTAL Environmental risks relate to emissions to water, soil and air Environmental risks are reported as risk observations in local RISKS or releases of environmentally hazardous substances incident management systems at plants. Risks are managed in resulting from incidents and accidents, such as fire, oil spill, accordance with a set routine and integrated as a part of daily or leak of hazardous substances. Such events may have operations. Key risks are raised to the regional management financial, non-­financial, and regulatory repercussions. team and mitigation measures are implemented accordingly. Measures to mitigate environmental risks are also integrated in investment and maintenance routines. RISKS RELATED 1.Critical competence and talent 1. Attractive workplace TO THE Gränges operates in a specialized niche where experience Gränges offers remuneration levels in line with market rates EMPLOYEES and knowledge of the company’s markets, customers, and and conditions of employment necessary to recruit, develop, AND THE production are key factors for the company’s success. and retain key employees. WORKPLACE Competent, engaged, and innovative employees with solid Gränges conducts continual training to maintain top-level knowledge provide the foundation to develop and manufaccraftsmanship and leadership. ture high-quality products. Gränges works actively to strengthen its corporate culture Losing key employees can negatively affect Gränges’ and core values, which are important for employees to feel ­possibilities of conducting and developing its operations good, thrive, develop, and perform. and its ability to develop new products. 2. An inclusive approach 2. Diversity and gender equality In recruitment processes, if all other factors are equal, the under-­ A workplace that is diverse and equal, and where all types of represented gender will be prioritized. Leadership programmes skills are used, is important in ensuring that Gränges maintains include activities that support a more equal gender balance. long-term competitiveness. Lack of gender equality and diverGränges provides flexible working arrangements so that employees sity may affect Gränges’ ability to reach its long-term goals. can easily combine their work commitments with their family lives. BUSINESS Violations of the company’s internal policies, Anti-corruption All Gränges employees, board members, contracted consultCONDUCT RISKS Policy and Code of Conduct may adversely affect the comants and others who act on Gränges’ behalf, must follow the pany’s r­ eputation and brand, and therefore earnings. Code of Conduct. Gränges employees and board members must also follow policies such as the Anti-corruption Policy and take reasonable steps to ensure that Gränges’ independent business partners, including suppliers, customers, and joint-venture partners, do not engage in corruption or other illegal or unethical activities related to their business with Gränges. Employees regularly undergo training in the Code of Conduct and anti-corruption as well as the company’s core values. The Group’s internal communications support and develop this work. Gränges’ whistleblower function enables employees to report incidents anonymously. RISKS RELATED Gränges operates in many different markets, with local laws Gränges observes all applicable local and international laws TO COMPLIANCE and rules. Failure to keep abreast of legislative and regulaand regulations. AND UPCOMING tory requirements may cause financial liabilities or even Gränges continually monitors legislative and regulatory LEGISLATION loss of permits. developments through external partners, and through memberIf employees or individuals who work on Gränges’ behalf ship in various industrial organizations. The company’s employ­violate laws and rules, it could have negative consequences for ees are regularly informed of relevant changes that the comGränges. The company may be affected by events that damage pany must follow. Gränges conducts in-house training of confidence in the company, its operations, or employees, for relevant personnel to ensure good knowledge and understandexample if environmental, quality, or ethical requirements are ing of legal risks and requirements. not met in the manner prescribed by Gränges. 48 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL RISKS RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK RISK MANAGEMENT CURRENCY RISK Gränges Group’s sales are primarily generated outside of Gränges’ Financial Management Policy regulates the comSweden. Sales contracts are mainly signed in US dollars, pany’s management of foreign exchange risk. Gränges uses Euro and Chinese yuan, depending on where the customers financial instruments, mostly forwards, to reduce the comare located. Changes in foreign exchange rates have an pany’s exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates with impact on Gränges’ income statements, balance sheets, regard to its commercial cash flows. Changes in exchange and cash flow. rates for firm commitments are managed in accordance Over time, changes in foreign exchange rates also affect with a model whereby the exposure with a duration of up to the company’s long-term competitiveness and earning 18 months is hedged. Exposures relating to customer orders capacity. without firm commitments are partly hedged up to 24 months. COMMODITY Gränges procures large volumes of aluminium for the comGränges’ Metal Management Policy regulates the compaPRICE RISK pany’s production facilities in Sweden, China and the US. ny’s management of commodity price risk. The goal is to The price of aluminium is based on the trade price on the balance the short and long position so the company is not LME in London or SHFE in Shanghai. Gränges’ revenue affected by changes in the price of aluminium. Financial model means that the cost of aluminium is passed on to the instruments are used to manage commodity price risk. customer to the extent possible, through the agreements Gränges takes no positions for speculative purposes. with customers and suppliers. Sometimes there can be a lag between the aluminium procurement date and the sale of the finished product, which means that Gränges is partially exposed to fluctuations in the price of aluminium. INTEREST Gränges’ interest rate risk mainly relates to the Group’s Gränges’ borrowings are mainly in Swedish Krona and US RATE RISK interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates may Dollar at floating interest rates. The duration of the interestaffect the Group’s results and cash flow and/or the fair value bearing debt portfolio can be adjusted by longer interest of financial assets and liabilities. The actual interest rate periods or by interest rate swaps. The target for the duration risk also depends on the size of the interest-bearing debt. of the interest bearing debt portfolio is regulated in the Financial Management Policy. In 2017 no interest rate swaps were used to prolong the duration. LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that Gränges will not be able to meet Gränges forecasts future payments and obligations for the its payment obligations. Cash flow from operations, which is next twelve months against incoming cash flows and avail­ affected by changes in working capital among other factors, able credit facilities, including a strategic reserve. Excess is managed at group level. By monitoring liquidity flows in liquidity is managed by the Group’s treasury function and the short and long term, Gränges maintains good financial can be invested at approved banks to mature within six readiness. months. The goal is to optimize the liquidity in the Group, and at the same time minimize liquidity risk. CREDIT RISK Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty does not meet its Gränges’ trade receivable exposure is managed and folfinancial obligations towards Gränges. A credit risk can be lowed up continually in local credit committees. The need related to for example trade receivables or financial counfor provisions is tested every quarter, or when necessary, terparties. according to predefined criterias. The credit risk on financial counterparties is handled by choosing counterparties with a good credit rating, by limiting the actual exposure, and by agreements such as ISDA agreements. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 49 THE SHARE THE GRÄNGES SHARE The Gränges share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm in the Mid Cap segment, the Automobile & Parts category, and traded under the ticker GRNG. Since the listing on the stock exchange in October 2014 and until February 2018, the share has risen 112 per cent. During 2017, the share recorded a decline of 2 per cent. “Shareholders have Since the listing on Nasdaq Stockholm in October 2014 and until the end of The largest shareholder was Fjärde AP-fonden, whose holding increased received a total ­February 2018, the Gränges share have to 9.4 per cent of the total number of risen by about 112 per cent. Shareholdshares, followed by AFA Försäkring with return of 125 per ers have received a total return of 125 6.8 per cent, and SEB Fonder with 4.9 cent since the IPO per cent since the IPO in 2014, when the per cent. Overall, the 15 largest shareannual dividend is included. The share holders’ holdings amount to 46 per cent in 2014” price was 84.25 SEK at the end of 2017, of the total number of shares in Gränges. which represents a market capitalization There are no pre-emption clauses, of around SEK 6.4 billion. The share’s refusal clauses or other restrictions to highest price in 2017 was recorded on 24 the transfer of shares in the company by January at SEK 100.00, and the lowest law, the company’s articles of associaprice was SEK 77.50 on 30 June. tion or any other document in which the company is a party. Turnover and trading locations The Gränges share is traded on several Dividend exchanges and trading platforms. In The Gränges Board of Directors proposes 2017, official trading accounted for 63.0 a dividend of SEK 227 million (180), equivper cent of turnover in the share, of which alent to SEK 3.00 (2.40) per share for the the Nasdaq Stockholm accounted for financial year 2017. The proposed dividend 71.3 per cent. Unofficial trade, so-called is equivalent to 35 per cent (36) of the pro­­“off-book”, represented 22.1 per cent of fit for the year in 2017. Gränges’ Dividend trade in the share. 10.3 per cent of shares Policy is to pay a dividend of between 30 were traded on so-called “dark pools”, and 50 per cent of the profit for the year. with the largest volume of trades on GBS Decisions on dividends will reflect the MTF. The average daily turnover in the company’s financial position, cash flow, Gränges share was 276,306 shares and and outlook. turnover in the share was a total of around 69.6 million in 2017. Incentive programme Prior to Gränges’ IPO in 2014, an em­­ Share capital ployee stock option program was estabShare capital in Gränges amounts to lished for senior executives and other SEK 101 million, distributed among key employees. This programe expired in 75,517,386 shares, each with a quota November 2017 and resulted in a diluvalue of SEK 1.339775. Gränges only has tion of approximately 1.2 per cent of the one class of shares. During 2017 362,000 total number of shares. During 2017, a warrants were exercized, and the numtotal of 397,000 employee stock options ber of outstanding shares correspondwere exercized. For more information on ingly increased with 362,000 and the remuneration and the employee stock share capital with SEK 484,999. option program, see Note 8 on page 78. Ownership changes On 31 December, 2017, the number of Gränges shareholders was 9,279. 50 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 THE SHARE Share capital development Change in number Total number Change in share Total share Date Event of shares of shares capital, SEK capital, SEK 01 Jan 2014 – 37,319,693 – 932,992,325 14 Aug 2014 Decrease in share capital – 37,319,693 –832,992,325 100,000,000 15 Sep 2014 Share split 37,319,693 74,639,386 – 100,000,000 18 Nov 2016 Rights issue 516,000 75,155,386 691,324 100,691,324 04 Apr 2017 Rights issue 20,000 75,175,386 26,796 100,718,120 31 May 2017 Rights issue 337,000 75,512,386 451,504 101,169,624 6 Dec 2017 Rights issue 5,000 75,517,386 6,699 101,176,323 Share information Share data 2017 2016 Market Nasdaq Stockholm Earnings, SEK1) 8.64 6.64 Segment Mid Cap Stockholm Equity, SEK1) 44.04 39.27 Ticker symbol GRNG Cash flow from operating activities, SEK1) 12.82 9.15 ISIN code SE0006288015 Share price at end of period, SEK 84.25 86.00 Listed since 10 October 2014 Dividend, SEK 3.002) 2.40 Currency SEK Dividend rate, % 35 36 Number of shares 75,517,386 Yield, % 3.6 2.8 1) Calculated on the weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted. 2) The Board of Director’s proposal to AGM 2018. Ownership Share of ­capital and Largest shareholders Shares votes, % Geographical distribution Shareholders Share of capital, % Fjärde AP-fonden 7,111,207 9.4 Sweden 9,009 51.0 AFA Försäkring 5,124,790 6.8 United States 64 24.4 SEB Fonder 3,670,513 4.9 Germany 11 3.8 Swedbank Robur Fonder 3,052,050 4.0 Norway 31 2.6 Allianz Global Investors 2,785,794 3.7 United Kingdom 20 0.4 Copper Rock Capital Partners 2,227,526 3.0 Total other 144 17.8 Fidelity 1,982,699 2.6 Total 9,279 100 Dimensional Fund Advisors 1,879,537 2.5 Source: Euroclear as of 2017-12-31. Columbia Threadneedle 1,345,613 1.8 Acadian Asset Management LLC 1,261,569 1.7 Norges Bank 1,230,748 1.6 Paradice Fonder 857,854 1.1 Avanza Pension 812,926 1.1 Lazard 719,719 1.0 Invesco 699,426 0.9 Total 15 largest shareholders 34,761,971 46.1 Other shareholders 40,755,415 53.9 Total 75,517,386 100.0 Source: Holdings as of 2017-12-31. Share distribution The Gränges share development 2014–2017 Volume Number of shares Shareholders Share of capital, % SEK ‘000 1–500 6,026 65.8 100 16,000 501–1,000 1,368 14.4 80 12,000 1,001–5,000 1,308 13.7 5,001–10,000 212 2.2 60 8,000 10,001–15,000 62 0.6 15,001–20,000 40 0.4 4,000 40 20,001– 263 2.8 Total 9,279 100.0 20 0 Oct Jan Jan Dec Source: Euroclear as of 2017-12-31. 2014 2016 2017 2017 Turnover Gränges OMX Stockholm_PI For additional investor relations-related questions, please contact Pernilla Grennfelt, SVP Communications & IR, at pernilla.grennfelt@granges.com, or on: +46 702 90 99 55. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 51 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of Gränges AB Sales (publ), corporate identity number 556001-6122, hereby submit the During 2017 sales volume reached 373.0 ktonnes (239.1), an increase of annual accounts and consolidated accounts for the financial year 56.0 per cent compared with the previous year. Net sales amounted to 1 January–31 December 2017. SEK 11,435 million (7,207). The net effect of changes in exchange rates was negative and amounted to SEK 116 million during 2017. Asia OPERATIONS During 2017, sales volume in Asia increased to 86.3 ktonnes (80.8), which Gränges is a leading global supplier of rolled aluminium products for represents an increase of 6.8 per cent compared to previous year. heat exchanger applications and other niche markets. The Group’s geographical regions are Europe, Asia and Americas. Europe Gränges has five production facilities on three continents with a During the 2017, sales volume in Europe reached 65.6 ktonnes (63.7), combined annual production capacity of 420,000 tonnes. The facilities representing an increase of 2.9 per cent compared to previous year. are at Finspång (Sweden), Shanghai (China), as well as Huntingdon (Tennessee), Salisbury (North Carolina), and Newport (Arkansas) in the US. Americas Gränges’ end customers are in the automotive industry, the stationary During 2017, sales volume in the Americas reached 221.1 ktonnes (94.6), heat exchanger industry, and niche markets such as transformers and an increase of 133.7 per cent compared to previous year. food packaging. The company has long-term customer relationships with global sup­pliers and during 2017, the company’s seven largest Operating profit ­customers accounted for 39 per cent of the net sales. During 2017, operating profit amounted to SEK 917 million (559). The Group’s parent company, Gränges AB, is a Swedish public listed Adjusted operating profit totalled SEK 933 million (687), corresponding company with organization number 556001-6122. Its registered office to an adjusted operating margin of 8.2 per cent (9.5). Changes in foreign is in Stockholm with its head office on Linnégatan 18. exchange rates had a positive effect of SEK 32 million. The positive Gränges’ shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid Cap list. effect from higher sales volume, improved metal management and ­productivity were partly offset by lower average conversion price. Market development Revised assessment of useful life of property, plant and equipment Demand for aluminium products for automotive heat exchangers, which has affected the operating profit positively with SEK 23 million for 2017. is Gränges’ largest market and accounts for about half of the Group’s For more information refer to Note 5. sales volume, is correlated with the number of produced light vehicles. A higher share of hybrid vehicles, electrical vehicles and advanced feaProfit for the period and earnings per share tures such as autonomous driving is also positive for the demand of During 2017, finance income and costs amounted to SEK –115 million heat exchanger materials. Due to lead times in the supply chain there is, (–61). Profit before tax increased to SEK 797 million (500) and includes a however, a time lag between growth in demand for Gränges’ products negative effect from joint ventures of SEK –5 million. Income tax for the and vehicle production. full year 2017 was SEK –145 million (–2), which corresponds to an effecIn the Americas, materials for stationary heat exchangers is the tive tax rate of 18 per cent. Excluding a positive effect from release of a dominant product category. The growth in this market is mainly corporate income tax in China of SEK 53 million and cost for withholding driven by energy efficiency requirements and construction of new tax on a dividend of SEK –19 million, the effective tax rate was 22 per cent houses and buildings. for 2017. Income tax for 2016 includes a release of a provision for corpoThe global production of light vehicles increased by 2.3 per cent in rate income tax in China with a positive effect of SEK 139 million, as well 2017 compared with 2016, according to the international research and as withholding tax of SEK –38 million paid on dividend from the Chinese analysis firm, IHS. The production of light vehicles in Asia increased by subsidiary to Gränges AB. Excluding these effects, the effective tax rate 2.6 per cent in 2017 and in China the increase isolated was 2.0 per for 2016 was 21 per cent. During 2017, the profit for the period increased cent. In Europe the production of light vehicles increased by 3.7 per to SEK 652 million (498) and diluted earnings per share rose to SEK 8.64 cent in 2017. In the Americas production of light vehicles decreased by (6.64). 0.7 per cent in 2017 where growth in South America was counteracted by a weaker market in North America. Cash flow During 2017, cash flow from operating activities increased to SEK 968 Outlook million (686). Cash flow from investing activities was SEK –396 million The automotive heat exchanger market is expected to continue to (–2,732) and includes SEK –42 million for the acquisition of Getek grow in 2018. The analysis firm IHS estimates that the light vehicle GmbH. Capital expenditure during the year amounted to SEK –358 production will increase by 2 per cent globally during the year, and million (–155) and was mainly related to investments to maintain and Gränges expects a positive development in all our regions during 2018. improve efficiency in current production facilities, but also investments Gränges will continue to work actively with innovation related to the expansion of the Huntingdon facility in the US. Cash flow and customer offering, which includes increased focus on product before financing activities increased to SEK 572 million (–2,046). Cash development for electric vehicles where Gränges sees a good growth flow from financing activities was SEK –650 million (2,245) and includes potential. Sustainability is another important area, as well as ensuring a dividend payment of SEK –180 million as resolved by Gränges’ 2017 that the Group have both the capacity and capability of the facilities to Annual General Meeting, new loans of SEK 888 million and amortization meet future demand. Gränges is currently working actively to estabof loans of SEK –1,250 million. Cash and cash equivalents amounted to lish new capacity in the US, but also addressing the capacity needs in SEK 742 million (851) at 31 December 2017. Asia and Europe. Here, different ways of going forward is evaluated. 52 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT Financial position Sustainability Gränges’ total assets amounted to SEK 8,005 million (7,950) at 31 Sustainability is an essential element of Gränges’ strategy and operaDecember 2017. The equity to assets ratio was 41.5 per cent (37.0). tions. The company strives to improve conditions in its value chain Consolidated net debt including pension liabilities was SEK 2,292 and works through participation in industry initiatives to ensure that (2,722 ) million at 31 December 2017. The net debt corresponds to 1.8 aluminium is mined, produced and used sustainably. times adjusted EBITDA. Gränges’ sustainability efforts are focused around topics which internal and external stakeholders have assessed to have the highest Seasonal variations impact. The company focuses on minimizing the environmental impact Gränges’ operations are subject to seasonal variations. Following the of its operations and the prevailing risks, in relation to both products and acquisition in North America which was completed in August 2016, the processes. Increased energy efficiency, metal yield and use of recycled second quarter of the year is considered to be the strongest and the aluminium in production are important topics together with reduced fourth quarter the weakest. water consumption and emissions to air and water. Gränges further works to uphold ethical business practices and the company does not Acquisition tolerate any form of bribery, extortion or corruption. In terms of practices As part of the strategy to strengthen the company’s leading position related to its employees, the company strives to offer a workplace charin the development of brazed heat exchanger materials, Gränges acterized by diversity and equality. Providing a safe and good work enviacquired 51 per cent in the production company Getek Gmbh 6 Octoronment is a top priority for Gränges. Gränges also works to ensure ber 2017. Getek produces aluminium billets using advanced sprayresponsible sourcing of metals and other materials in its supply chain. forming technology and that technology is well suited for the next Gränges’ 2017 sustainability report is included as part of this this generation of materials for heat exchangers. The investment is classi2017 annual report document. The statutory sustainability report has fied as a joint operation and Gränges recognizes its direct right to been submitted by Gränges’ Board of Directors. It has been prepared in jointly owned assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. accordance with the Annual Reports Act on sustainability reporting as From the 2 January 2018 Gränges coordinates the distribution of well as GRI Standards: Core option. It also constitutes Gränges’ Comproducts from the facilities in Finspång and Shanghai to North America munication on Progress in line with the UN Global Compact guidelines. through Gränges Americas. The sales was previously done by the joint The sustainability report outlines the company’s impacts, efforts, venture company Norca Heat Transfer LLC and as part of the distribution policies and performance related to sustainability – including how the change Gränges has acquired the remaining 50 per cent of the company company works with topics related to environment, social conditions, from the joint venture partner. employees, respect for human rights as well as anti-corruption. For For more information of the acquisitions refer to Note 29. more details, please refer to the following sections in this annual report document: Employees • Business model: page 12 The average number of employees in the Gränges Group amounted • 2017 sustainability report: pages 26-45 and pages 112–121 to 1,568 (1,136) during 2017. –Sustainability governance: pages 27–28, 112 – Environmental business practices: pages 34–37, 114–116 Change in Group Management –W orkplace practices (incl. social conditions, employees and Torbjörn Sternsjö, SVP Technology & Business Development and human rights): pages 38–45, 117–118 ­Jörgen Abrahamsson, President Europe, are new members in – Ethical business practices (incl. anti-corruption) pages: 30–31 Gränges’ Group Management from 2017. – Central key performance indicators: pages 114–118 Furthermore, CFO Oskar Hellström was appointed deputy CEO of –G RI index with references to sustainability topics: pages 119–121 Gränges during the year. • Material risks and risk mitigating activities: pages 46–49 Research and innovation Parent company Gränges conducts world-class strategic research and customer driven Gränges AB is the parent company of the Gränges Group. Operations product development that are based on extensive knowledge of mateinclude Group Management and joint corporate functions such as rial properties and characteristics, and our own and customer proglobal R&I, accounting, treasury, legal, communication and leasing duction processes. This strategic research work is managed globally, of properties. The parent company has seven directly or indirectly while the customer-driven development is carried out locally, in close wholly­owned Group companies and one indirect branch office, and is coordination with customers and production plants. partner in two joint venture and one joint operation via subsidiaries. Gränges’ R&I consists of around 60 specialists, many of whom have During 2017, net sales in the parent company amounted to SEK 219 doctorates and collaborate with universities and colleges on a regular million (119). These sales consisted primarily of invoicing of services to basis. New products are in most cases firstly developed in smallthe subsidiaries and leasing of properties. scale in the laboratory. Prior to full-scale production of new products, Operating profit amounted to SEK –47 million (–77) and the profit for Gränges uses computer simulations to design the process route. This the year to SEK 385 million (718) for 2017. Profit for the year includes approach enables the planning of efficient production ­processes with dividend of SEK 378 million (757) received from the Chinese subsidiary. a great deal of accuracy. At 31 December 2017, Gränges’ research and innovation has resulted The Gränges share and ownership in 52 patent families and 165 patents; a further 73 patent applications The share capital in Gränges amounts to SEK 101 million, divided into are under review. An important research project, which Gränges also 75,517,386 shares, each with a quota value of SEK 1.339775. Gränges offers to commercial customers, is TRILLIUM®. only has one class of shares. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 53 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT There are no pre-emption clauses, refusal clauses or other restricLong-term incentive programme (LTI 2017) The long-term incentive tions on the transfer of shares in the company by law, the company’s program (LTI 2017) is offered to senior executives and certain key indiarticles of association or any agreement or other document in which viduals. LTI 2017 will run for three years and is structured as follows: An the company is a party. amount equivalent to the payout from STI 2017 for each participant will At 31 December 2017 Gränges had no shareholder that owned more be reserved in a special so-called LTI bank. Provided that the particithan 10 per cent of Gränges’ capital and votes. pants remain in the employ of the Gränges Group, the amount allocated Ahead of the IPO in 2014, an employee stock option programme to LTI 2017 will be paid by one third per year during the years 2019, 2020 was established for senior executives and other key people in the and 2021, adjusted for total return of Gränges share. The total payout company. 397,000 employee stock options have been exercised from STI and paying LTI programmes may not exceed 150 per cent of ­during 2017 and since the programme has expired any remaining annual basic pay as of the date of the payout. This shall not apply to the warrants have been cancelled and no further shares will be issued person holding the position as President Americas, who instead will have under this program. 200 per cent as a limit. Other benefits Benefits that are not directly related to fixed and variOperating risks and uncertainty factors able pay, such as car allowance, should facilitate the execution of duties As a global business with operations in different parts of the world, and be in line with standard practices in the market for this ­target group. Gränges is exposed to various risks and uncertainties such as raw Pension Pension benefits are to comply with Swedish laws and material prices, market risk, operational and legal risk, as well as ­relevant collective agreements, and be limited to the ITP plan (supple­ financial risk related to foreign exchange, interest rates, liquidity and mentary pension for salaried employees in industry and commerce). funding opportunities. In its risk management, Gränges seeks to idenGränges thus has both defined contribution and defined benefit comtify, evaluate, and reduce risk related to the Group’s business and mitments based on individual circumstances. Pension terms are to be operations. In the section risk management on pages 46–49 Gränges’ in line with market norms. The retirement age for the Chief Executive risks and risk management is further described. Officer is 65. The retirement age for other senior executives is 60–65, For a more comprehensive description of the financial risks, see depending on in which country they are employed. Note 25. Period of notice of termination The contract between the company and Chief Executive Officer stipulates a mutual twelve-month period Guidelines for remuneration to the Management team of notice. Additionally, in the case of termination by the company, General Gränges will offer the remuneration levels and employment ­severance pay is payable without deduction for an additional twelve terms necessary in order to recruit, develop and retain senior execumonths. The contracts between the company and other senior executives. These individuals must have the expertise, motivation and tives stipulate a mutual six-month period of notice. Additionally, in the capacity to be able to uphold, develop and implement comprehensive, case of termination by the company, severance pay is payable of an value-creating strategic objectives for the Gränges Group. Senior additional twelve months, without deduction for the first six months. executives refer to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, the Group’s Information on previously agreed remuneration not yet due for Vice Executive Officer and members of the Management Team. payment In addition to the long-term incentive program LTI 2017, two Remuneration to the Management Team is to be determined by the similar long-term incentive programs, LTI 2015 and LTI 2016, decided Board of Directors, but follow the guidelines adopted by the General upon by the Annual General Meeting from previous years (4 May 2015 Meeting. The basic principle is that remuneration is to be competitive and 28 April 2016), runs parallel. As with LTI 2017, the programmes run and consist of a fixed salary and a variable component such as various for three years and are designed so that an amount equivalent to the incentive programmes. Applicable laws and other relevant regulaoutcome from STI for each year and for each participant is set aside in tions, both Swedish and foreign, in the relevant sector should always a so-called LTI bank. Provided participants continue to be employed be complied with. by Gränges, one third of the amount for LTI 2015 is paid per year during Fixed salary The fixed salary is to consist of normal basic pay. 2017, 2018 and 2019, and for LTI 2016 during the years 2018, 2019 and The salary is based on responsibility, performance, skills and the 2020. The payments are adjusted for total return of Gränges share. complexity and scope of the duties. The total payment of LTI together with STI in one year is limited to 1.5 Variable pay Variable pay is to consist of an annual short-term times an annual salary. incentive programme (STI 2017) and a long-term incentive programme Other Insofar as elected board members conduct work on behalf (LTI 2017). Both STI 2017 and LTI 2017 will provide cash pay outs. There of the company, in addition to board assignments, consultancy fees will be no guaranteed variable remuneration. and other compensation for such work shall be paid. The board may Annual short-term incentive programme (STI 2017) The outcome of deviate from these guidelines in individual cases if there are specific the STI is determined by a number of parameters consisting of financial reasons for doing so. However, such reasons shall imply limited scope key ratios for the Group, such as adjusted operating profit and cash to deviate from these guidelines. conversion, and individual pre-determined targets. Remuneration The Board of Directors is expected to make a decision during March under STI 2017 may not exceed 60 per cent of the total basic pay paid to 2018 regarding the guidelines for remuneration of senior executives all members of the Management team, except for the person holding that the Board will propose to the Annual General Meeting. position as President Americas, whom may obtain 100 per cent of the total basic pay. Events after the end of the year 2 January 2018 Gränges acquired the remaining 50 per cent of Norca Heat Transfer LLC (“Norca”). No additional significant events have occurred after the year end. 54 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 DEAR SHAREHOLDER, Gränges is today a significantly larger company than it was at the time for the IPO in October 2014. Sales have increased from SEK 5 billion to over SEK 11 billion in 2017 and the operating profit from SEK 541 million to SEK 933 million. Today, Gränges has production facilities in three continents, a diversified product portfolio and is the leading actor in the markets the company operates. During the year, the Board of Directors has continued to work on strategic matters for continued growth. One of the items on the agenda has been the decision to expand the Huntingdon facility in the United States, whose capacity will increase by almost 25 per cent when fully expanded in the fall of 2019. A high demand for the product categories that Gränges produces locally in the United States has been a driving factor in this decision. The fact that the US imposed anti-dumping and countervailing duties on imports from China of aluminium foil products in the autumn of 2017, further reinforced the decision. The Board of Directors has also discussed the Group’s capacity and production capabilities in other regions. Gränges has a market leading position in a global market. This position is based on deep technical skills, continuous innovation, long-term customer relations and extensive knowledge of the production of advanced aluminium products. These are key success factors that we intend to continue to build on. In 2017, Gränges’ centre for research and innovation in Finspång has been strengthened with further expertise, and in the coming year Gränges plans to establish a Research & Innovation centre in the United States. “Good corporate governance implies creating Good corporate governance for profitable growth Good corporate governance implies creating good conditions for continued sustainable good conditions for and profitable growth and thus value for our shareholders. The efforts related to performance improvement measures is ongoing and is an important topic for the Board of continued sustainable Directors. During the year, further steps have been taken in the Group’s sustainability work, both in terms of governance, ethics, environment and social issues. From the and profitable growth Board of Director’s perspective, this work entails strengthening the company’s position and thus value for our and business opportunities in the longer term while reducing sustainability-related risks. The sustainability report for 2017 includes the US operations that were acquired share­holders.” in 2016. In 2017, Gränges once again reported a higher growth rate than the market, while improving earnings and reducing debt. In view of the company’s strong financial position and taking into account the company’s outlook, the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual ­General Meeting 2018 that the dividend should be increased by 25 per cent to SEK 3.00 per share. This implies that 35 per cent of the profit for the year will be returned to our shareholders. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to express the Board of Directors’ appreciation to the CEO Johan Menckel and his colleagues for a dedicated and well-executed performance in 2017. Stockholm, February 2018 Anders G. Carlberg Chairman of the Board of Directors GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Good and sound corporate governance ensures that companies are The Code run as sustainably, responsibly, and efficiently as possible in the The Code’s aim is to strengthen confidence in Swedish listed compainterests of the shareholders. It is about complying with external regnies by promoting the positive development of the corporate governulations and doing the right things. Good corporate governance also ance in such enterprises. Gränges complies with the Code and this creates order and systems for the Board and Group Management, and corporate governance report has been prepared as part of Gränges’ contributes to increased confidence among existing and potential application of the Code. Gränges has not reported any infringements owners, customers, legislators, the public, and other stakeholders. of the Code in 2017. The company’s auditors have reviewed this report, Gränges’ corporate governance is based on Swedish regulations and have not made any comments on its contents. and Swedish legislation, primarily the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulatory strucOrganization ture for issuers, the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (”the Code”), Gränges is a leading global supplier of rolled aluminium products for the Articles of Association, and other relevant internal and external heat exchanger applications and other niche markets. The Group has regulations and policies. around 1,600 employees and net sales of more than SEK 11 billion, and CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN GRÄNGES The governance, management, and control of Gränges are distributed between the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors and the CEO under Swedish Company Law, the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and the Articles of Association. Shareholders Vote at the Annual General Meeting Appoints the Nomination committee1) Information Nomination Annual General Meeting External auditor committee Proposes Board and auditor Appoints auditor The auditor reviews Information the annual accounts and accounting, and the Board and CEO’s Objectives, strategies, policies, management. Reports governing instruments, core values, Board of Directors to the Board and remuneration structure. The Board shareholders. sets up the committees and appoints its members. Remuneration committee Audit committee CEO Internal audit Group Management External steering documents Internal steering documents • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association • Swedish Annual Accounts Act • Formal work plan for the Board and committees, • Nasdaq Stockholm’s regulatory structures for issuers instructions for CEO • EU Market Abuse Regulation, no 596/2014 (MAR) • Code of Conduct • Swedish Corporate Governance Code (“The Code”) • Insider Policy • Other applicable laws • Financial Management Policy • Information Policy • Other policies, guidelines, and manuals 1) Appointed in accordance with an instruction for the Nomination committee decided by the Annual General Meeting (AGM). 56 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT the company’s geographical regions are Europe, Asia and Americas. • To resolve, according to the Board’s proposition, on a long-term Gränges has five production facilities on three continents with a (three years) incentive programme, LTI 2017, offered to the manage­combined annual production capacity of 420,000 tonnes. The facilities ment team and selected key individuals as a supplement to the are at Finspång in Sweden, Shanghai in China, as well as Huntingdon annual short-term incentive programme (“STI 2017”). STI 2017 (Tennessee), Salisbury (North Carolina), and Newport (Arkansas) in measures EBIT (50 per cent), cash conversion (30 per cent) and indithe US. vidual performance (20 per cent). Remuneration under STI 2017 The Chinese subsidiary also owns 50 per cent of a company based may not exceed 60 per cent of annual basic pay, except for the perin Shanghai, which is engaged in metal stamping. Since 1 October, son holding the position President Americas, who may obtain 100 2017, Gränges holds 51 per cent of the shares in the production comper cent of annual basic pay. A payout equivalent to the amount for pany Getek GmbH, which produces aluminium billets using advanced STI 2017 is allocated, indexed to the Gränges Group’s total return spray-forming technology. and paid out proportionately each year over three years if the indiThe Group’s parent company, Gränges AB, is a Swedish publicly vidual remains a Gränges Group employee. The total payout from listed company with organization number 556001-6122. Its registered STI and paying LTI programmes may not exceed 150 per cent of office is in Stockholm with its head office on Linnégatan 18. Gränges’ annual basic pay on the date of the payout, except for the person shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid Cap list. holding the position President Americas, who instead will have 200 per cent of annual basic pay as a limit. Shareholders • To approve board members’ and auditors’ fees. Gränges’ shares have been traded on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid Cap list since 10 October, 2014. The share capital in Gränges amounts to SEK Nomination committee 101 million, distributed among 75,517,386 shares that give the right The Nomination committee represents Gränges’ shareholders and to an equal number of votes and an equal share in the company’s its duties consist of proposing nominations for the Chairman of the assets and profits. On 31 December, 2017, the number of shareholders Board, Board members, the auditor, AGM chairman, Board fees, fees totalled 9,279. Fjärde AP-fonden was the largest shareholder, folfor committee work, and fees for the auditor. lowed by AFA Försäkring and SEB Fonder. 65.8 per cent of the shareGränges’ Nomination committee will, before the 2018 AGM, comprise holders held 500 shares or fewer and the 15 largest shareholders held representatives from the company’s three largest shareholders on 46.1 per cent of the total number of shares. Foreign-based share own31 August, 2017, and the Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the ership amounted to 50.3 per cent. No shareholder has a shareholding Nomination committee will be the committee member who represents of more than 10 per cent of the total number of shares. There are no the largest shareholder, unless otherwise agreed by this committee. limits on how many votes each shareholder may cast at a general On 31 August, 2017, Gränges’ three largest shareholders were meeting of shareholders. Fjärde AP-fonden, AFA Försäkring, and SEB Fonder, which have been The Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on 4 May, 2017, authorized invited to nominate candidates for the Nomination committee. On 11 the Board, on one or more occasions before the 2018 AGM, to have the September, 2017, it was announced on the company’s website and in a option of deciding to issue new shares and/or convertible instruments. press release that the Nomination committee ahead of the 2018 AGM These are equivalent to 10 per cent of the total number of shares outhad the following composition: Jannis Kitsakis (Fjärde AP-fonden), standing in the company at the time of the resolution adopted by the Anders Algotsson (AFA Försäkring), Rikard Andersson (SEB Fonder), AGM, 7,517,539 shares. and Anders G. Carlberg (Gränges’ Chairman). The Chairman of the Shareholdings of Board members and Group Management are Nomination committee is Jannis Kitsakis. shown on pages 62–65. More information about the Gränges share and shareholders, including a table showing share ownership on Nomination committee for the 2018 AGM 31 December, 2017, can be found on pages 50–51. Percentage of votes Appointed by/Name on 31 December, 2017 Annual General Meeting Fjärde AP-fonden/Jannis Kitsakis 9.4 The company’s highest decision-making body is the AGM, during AFA Försäkring/Anders Algotsson 6.8 which shareholders exercise their influence over the company. SEB Fonder/Rikard Andersson 5.0 Annual General Meeting 2017 Chairman of the Board of Gränges AB/Anders G. Carlberg 0.0 The AGM was held on 4 May, 2017. At the meeting, 34.348 per cent of shares in the company were represented. Shareholders had until 26 January, 2018, to submit proposals and At the AGM, Anders G. Carlberg, Carina Andersson, Peter Carlsson, comments to the Nomination committee, whose proposals were Katarina Lindström, Hans Porat, and Ragnhild Wiborg were re-elected ­published with the notice convening the AGM. With the publication as Board members. Anders G. Carlberg was re-elected as Chairman of of this notice, the Nomination committee has published a motivated the Board. The Board has an even gender balance, three of the six statement on the company’s website that supports its proposals to the AGM appointed members being women. Board and a report on how the committee’s work has been conducted. Ernst & Young AB was again appointed as the company’s auditors and authorized public accountant Erik Sandström was appointed by Work of the Nomination committee before the 2018 AGM Ernst & Young AB as chief auditor. Since the Nomination committee was formed in autumn 2017, it has met on three occasions. The Chairman of the Board presented an evaluation Other resolutions taken during the AGM included: of the Board’s work that was conducted in September 2017 at the Nomi• To pay a dividend of SEK 2.40 per share; SEK 180,420,926 in total. nation committee’s second meeting on 23 October, 2017, and also noti• To authorize the Board, on one or more occasions before the 2018 fied the Board of the results of its evaluation at the Board meeting on AGM, to have the option of deciding to issue new shares and/or con4 December, 2017. The result of this evaluation was broadly positive. vertible instruments. These are equivalent to 10 per cent of the total In its work before the 2018 AGM, the Nomination committee has number of shares outstanding in the company at the time of the assessed whether the composition of the current Board is sufficiently resolution adopted by the AGM, 7,517,539 shares in total. broad, competent, diverse, and gender equal, and whether it meets • To approve the guidelines proposed by the Board of Directors on demands on the Board given the company’s current and future remuneration to senior executives. ­c ircumstances. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board’s work in 2017 January/February • Year-end report December • Annual report • Budget for next year • Reports from auditors and Nomination committee JAN DEC October F V EB March • Interim report Q3 NO • Notice of the Annual General OCT MAR Meeting (AGM), including matters of the AGM SEP APR April G M • Interim report Q1 AU AY JUL JUN July May • Half-year report Annual General Meeting The Nomination committee has continued to discuss the requireization, and decides on key acquisitions, investments, and disposals. ments for diversity, including discussions based on the Corporate The Board also evaluates the Group Management. Before every AGM, Governance Code’s requirement to state how the policy on diversity and based on proposals made by the Remuneration committee, the has been applied. Gränges’ nomination work is based on the diversity Board prepares proposals for guidelines to determine remuneration requirements stipulated in section 4.1 of the Code. The goal is that for the CEO and to other members of the Group Management. Gränges’ Board should have an equal gender distribution and a good Adopting a systematic and structured process, and each year, the breadth regarding age, ­geographical origin, experience, and education Board evaluates the work of the Board to develop its procedures and and occupational background. efficiency. In 2017 this was conducted under the leadership of the According to the review carried out by the Nomination committee, Chairman of the Board who asked Board members and Board deputy the Board has strong breadth, is diverse in terms of backgrounds and members to grade given aspects of its work, and also gave the Board skills, and has an excellent gender balance. The annual evaluation of members the opportunity to submit proposals for improvements. the Board has formed part of the basis of this assessment. The The results of the evaluation, which are presented in the Nomination Nomination committee works continually to identify and evaluate committee section, were strongly positive throughout. potential new Board members. The constituent Board meeting following the 2017 AGM established In accordance with instructions for the Nomination committee, no the formal work plan for the Board, including work plans for the Remufees will be paid to its members. neration and Audit committees, instructions for the CEO, and an adjusted Insider Policy. The work plan governs the Board’s work and The Board responsibilities, and how this should be divided between the Board The Board’s main responsibility is to manage Gränges’ affairs in the members, between the Board’s committees, and between the Board best interests of the company and all shareholders. The Board continand the CEO, and how often the Board should meet. ually assesses Gränges’ financial position and ensures that the Before every Board meeting, Board members receive an agenda and company’s financial position can be satisfactorily verified. The Board data on which to base decisions. Each Board meeting includes a review decides on issues related to the Group’s strategic direction and organof current business conditions, group results, and financial position and Board composition, attendance and remuneration 2017 Independent Attendance Attendance in relation to Attendance Audit RemuneraBoard of Audit Remunerathe company Board committee tion commitDirectors’ committee tion commitTotal fees, Name Elected year /owners meetings meetings tee meetings fees, SEK fees, SEK tee fees, SEK SEK Anders G. Carlberg 2014 x 14/14 3/3 3/3 516,667 26,667 50,000 593,333 Ragnhild Wiborg 2014 x 12/14 5/5 n/a 285,000 80,000 – 365,000 Terje Andersen (until 04-05-2017) 2009 x 7/7 2/2 n/a 91,667 13,333 – 105,000 Hans Porat 2016 x 14/14 n/a 3/3 285,000 – 25,000 310,000 Carina Andersson 2014 x 14/14 n/a 3/3 285,000 – 25,000 310,000 Peter Carlsson 2016 x 12/14 n/a 2/2 285,000 – 16,667 301,667 Katarina Lindström 2016 x 14/14 5/5 n/a 285,000 40,000 – 325,000 Öystein Larsen 2010 12/14 n/a 3/3 40,000 – – 40,000 Konny Svensson 2013 13/14 5/5 n/a 40,000 – – 40,000 Elin Lindfors 2016 10/10 n/a n/a 40,000 – – 40,000 Tommy Andersson (until 04-12-2017) 2014 10/10 n/a n/a 40,000 – – 40,000 Total fees 2,470,000 58 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT outlook. Other issues that are considered include competition and Audit committee ­general market conditions. The Board regularly reviews the overall risk The Audit committee should comprise at least three Board members situation from a variety of aspects, and the Group’s work on health and elected at a general meeting of shareholders. Most should be indesafety, including accident statistics. The Board also has a system for pendent of the company and Group Management. The committee the continual follow-up of decision-making and unresolved issues. elects a chairman from among its members, who may not be the Chairman of the Board. The Audit Committee meets before each Composition of the Board of Directors reporting date, and after if necessary. Under the Articles of Association, the Board must comprise at least The Audit committee’s duty is to support the Board in fulfilling its four and no more than eight members elected by a general meeting of responsibilities in internal control and accounting, and to ensure the shareholders, with no more than four deputy members. The Board quality of Gränges’ financial reporting. The aim is to improve: the qualconstitutes a quorum when more than half of all Board members ity of the company audit; the relationship between the Board and the (including members appointed by employees) are present. The Board company’s auditor; and the supervision and control of the company’s should consist of a well-balanced mix of the competencies required to financial risk exposure and risk management. manage Gränges’ work responsibly and successfully. The assessment The Audit committee analyses and highlights key accounting issues is that Gränges’ Board has, with regard to the company’s operations, affecting the Group, and monitors the financial reporting process to phase of development, and general circumstances, an appropriate ensure quality. The committee also takes note of the company’s composition characterized by versatility and breadth in terms of impairment test and its assumptions, assists the Nomination commembers’ skills, experience, and background. Gränges’ Board has a mittee to prepare proposals for auditors and their fees, and assesses good gender distribution, since three of its six members are women. the independence of the external auditor. In accordance with the law on Board representation of private-sector The company’s risk management process is based on production employees, staff are entitled to appoint two Board members and two processes and flows. The Audit committee considers the identified deputy Board members. The employee organizations exercised this risk areas. Based on the outcome, the committee determines the right until 4 December 2017 when Tommy Andersson resigned and he focus and scope of the internal auditing and establishes an internal was not replaced. Information about Board members is on pages audit plan based on the identified risks. 62–63 and at www.granges.com Gränges’ internal auditing is reported to the Board and must ensure that the company has sufficient internal control systems for financial Chairman of the Board reporting. The General Counsel is responsible for internal auditing. It The Chairman organizes and leads the Board’s work, represents the is performed on a rolling schedule and is conducted by the company’s company in ownership matters, evaluates the Board’s work, has group accounting function with support from the subsidiaries’ ­day-to-day contact with the CEO, and ensures that the Board fulfils accounting functions, except for the business that is the subject of its duties and obligations effectively. the audit. The purpose of applying so called cross-functional audit between the units is to exchange experiences and achieve best pracThe Board’s work in 2017 tice within the Group. In November 2017, an internal audit of Gränges’ Fourteen minuted Board meetings were held in 2017, of which four operations in North America was conducted and in December an were “per capsulam” (by letter), and five were telephone meetings. The internal audit of the head office in Stockholm was carried out. remaining five were conventional meetings, of which one was held at In conjunction with the quarterly reviews of the company’s financial Gränges’ plant in Finspång, one at the North American operations’ performance and position, the Audit committee takes part in the manheadquarters in Franklin, Tennessee, and the others in Stockholm. agement’s assessment of the areas where estimates are important to The Board formed a quorum at all these meetings. At the February the Group. An area that has been reviewed extensively during 2017 is and September meetings, the Board held sessions in the absence of the company’s new estimates of useful lives, especially for machinery Group Management. The CEO and CFO participated in all meetings. and installations. Other areas highlighted in 2017 are the company’s The Secretary of the Board is Gränges’ General Counsel who is not a hedging strategy and financing. The focus areas of financial and interBoard member. nal control, business control, treasury, IT, and strategic projects have In 2017 the Board’s main issues have been the investment to been continually monitored during the year. expand the rolled aluminium capacity of the Huntingdon plant in the The Audit committee has had five meetings in 2017. The Group’s US, investment in the Getek GmbH production company, new estiauditor, Erik Sandström, attended all committee meetings and mates of useful lives for machines and installations, and establishing reported on controls and audit planning throughout the year. Informaa commercial paper programme to complement the Group’s other tion on members of the Audit committee is in the table on page 58. short-term financing. Auditor Remuneration committee The auditor, elected at the annual general meeting, is responsible According to the Board’s formal work plan, the Remuneration committee for reviewing the company’s annual accounts and accounting, and must comprise the Chairman of the Board, and one or more Board examining Board and CEO management of the company. members elected at a general meeting of shareholders, who should be According to the Articles of Association, Gränges should have at independent from the company and Group Management. Members least one and at most two auditors. Registered auditing firms may be should have the required knowledge and experience of issues relating appointed as auditors. Ernst & Young AB was appointed auditor at the to senior executive remuneration. AGM, and has informed the company that authorized auditor Erik The Remuneration committee submits proposals to the Board on Sandström will be chief auditor until the 2018 AGM. the CEO’s salary and other terms of employment, and sets out limits The external audit of the parent company and group accounts, and for other Group Management salaries and terms of employment. The of the administration of the Board and CEO, is conducted according to committee also adopts guidelines for remuneration principles and International Standards on Auditing (ISA), and with generally accepted evaluates their application. auditing standards in Sweden. The company’s chief auditor particiAt the Remuneration committee’s meetings in 2017, incentive propates in all Audit committee meetings. For information on auditor grammes and pensions have been particular topics of discussion. fees, please refer to Note 9. Information on members of the Remuneration committee is given in the table on page 58. A statement of remuneration to Group Management can be found in Note 8. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CEO and Group Management Gränges’ policies include the Code of Conduct, Supplier DeclaraGroup Management is responsible for developing and implementing tion, Anti-corruption Policy, Environmental, Health and Safety Policy, the Group’s overall strategies relating to issues such as product and Diversity Policy, Energy Policy, Crisis Plan and Information Policy. customer strategies, and acquisitions and divestments. These issues Gränges observes all applicable local and international laws and regare prepared by Group Management to be decided on by the Board. ulations, and it continually works with the precautionary principle by The CEO is appointed by the Board and is responsible for the dayincluding sustainability ­topics in risk assessments. to-day management of the company in accordance with the Board’s Gränges’ sustainability activities are led by the Group Management instructions and guidelines. team and VP Sustainability, who was appointed in October 2017 to manOn 1 January, 2018, Group Management comprised eight people: age the company’s group-wide sustainability agenda. The VP Sustainathe CEO, CFO, President Europe, President Asia, President Americas, bility reports to the SVP Communications & IR and the Group ManageSVP Technology & Business Development, General Counsel, and SVP ment team. The CEO in turn reports to the Board of Directors. Specific Communications & Investor Relations. The SVP Human Resources, sustainability matters are managed by members of Group ManageSVP Process Engineering & Operational Development and, since 1 May, ment. The General Counsel is responsible for governance, the SVP Pro2017, SVP Research & Innovation, are part of the Extended Group cess Engineering and Operational Development for environment, health Management. and safety, and the SVP Human Resources for social responsibility. Group Management holds monthly meetings to review the results Gränges’ sustainability report follows the guidelines of the Global and financial position of the Group and subsidiaries. Other questions Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) framework for sustainability reporting, GRI dealt with at these meetings include strategy issues and follow-up of Standards: Core. The sustainability report for 2017 can be found on budgets and forecasts. Subsidiaries are also monitored more closely pages 26–45 and 112–121. In 2016 Gränges joined the UN Global Comdue to the CEO being chairman of the three subsidiaries in Sweden, pact, which is a commitment to fulfil the Global Compact principles China, and the US. Other members of Group Management and relating to human rights, labour law, the environment, and antiemployee representatives also serve on these companies’ boards. The corruption. subsidiaries’ boards monitor day-to-day operations and approve each subsidiary’s strategy and budget. Internal control regarding financial reporting More information on Group Management is on pages 64–65. Under the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, the Board is responsible for ensuring that the company has good internal control and rouRemuneration of Group Management tines that ensures compliance with established principles for finanAt the end of 2017 and start of 2018, the Board, through the Remunercial reporting and internal control. The Board must also ensure that ation committee, conducted a review of the guidelines for remuneratfinancial reporting complies with the Companies Act, applicable ing senior executives. The Board’s proposition regarding new guideaccounting standards, and other requirements for listed companies. lines will be presented in the decision data for the AGM to be held on 3 May, 2018. More information on remunerating senior executives is Framework in Note 8. Gränges’ work with internal control complies with the established international framework, Internal Control Integrated Framework, pubSustainability management and organization lished by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Gränges’ sustainability agenda and activities are governed by its poliCommission (COSO). According to the COSO model, review and cies and management systems. Gränges is dedicated to developing assessment are carried out in the areas of control environment, risk and implementing these policies to guide employees in their everyday assessment, control activities, information and communication, and work with sustainability and communication with stakeholders. monitoring. GROUP MANAGEMENT CEO Johan Menckel SVP Technology SVP President Europe President Deputy President Asia & Business Communications General Counsel Jörgen Americas CEO & CFO Colin Xu Development & IR Niclas Nelson Abrahamsson Patrick Lawlor Oskar Hellström Torbjörn Sternsjö Pernilla Grennfelt SVP Process SVP Research Engineering SVP Human & Innovation & Operational Resources Kent Schölin Development Magnus Carlström Paul Neutjens Extended Group Management 60 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Gränges’ internal control process is designed to ensure with reaThe Group has a common consolidation system, where the legal sonable certainty the quality and accuracy of financial reporting, and entities report, which provides good internal control of financial ensure that reporting is prepared in accordance with applicable laws reporting. Most controls and processes are automated and authorizaand regulations, accounting standards, and other requirements for tion to access IT systems is limited. Control activities are performed at listed companies in Sweden. This depends on a healthy control enviall levels of the Group. One such example is the established controller ronment, reliable risk assessment, and established control activities; function that analyses and monitors deviations and reports its findand on information, communication, and monitoring working satisfacings to other parts of the Group. torily. Monitoring by Group Management occurs, for example, through regular meetings with subsidiary managing directors to discuss operControl environment ations, financial position, and results, as well as key financial and The control environment is defined by the Group’s organizational operating indicators. The Board continually analyses reports on operstructure, Group Management’s working methods and values, and ations in which Group Management describes the previous period, other roles and responsibilities within the organization. The Audit and comments on the Group’s financial position and results. Significommittee assists the Board with essential accounting issues, and cant fluctuations and deviations are therefore monitored, which limits monitors the internal control of financial reporting. To maintain an the risks of errors in financial reporting. effective control environment and robust internal controls, the Board The closing of the books and work on the annual accounts are prohas delegated the day-to-day responsibility to the CEO, who in turn cesses where there is further risk that errors arise in financial reporthas assigned this responsibility to other members of Group Manageing. Naturally, this work is less repetitive and often includes several ment. instances where estimates are made. Important control activities Quality in financial reporting is ensured through different measures include ensuring that there is a well-functioning reporting structure in and routines. The company has policies and manuals for financial which subsidiaries report using standardized models, and that imporreporting, including the Financial Management Policy, Metal Managetant income and balance sheet items are specified and commented on. ment Policy, Group Accounting Manual and Instruction for Financial In Nasdaq Stockholm’s continual work to monitor regular financial Reporting. In addition to the above, there are important group-wide information by listed companies, Gränges’ Annual Report for 2016 steering documents such as the Code of Conduct, Insider Policy and was one of the reports chosen to be specifically reviewed in relation Information Policy. Work goes on to further develop common group to relevant reporting standards, such as IFRS and the Annual policies and manuals. Accounts Act. The stock exchange’s review of Gränges Annual Report Gränges’ whistleblower function enables employees to anony2016 resulted in observations in parts of Gränges’ accounts, for mously report suspected maladministration or violations of the comwhich the exchange wanted to note the company’s comments and pany’s business ethics rules. The whistleblower function is accessible considerations. Gränges responded to the stock exchange’s quesfor all staff and is described in the company’s code of conduct and on tions and subsequently heard that the exchange had no further the intranet. It aims to guarantee safety in the workplace, maintain questions or comments, asking only that the company considers a good business ethics and curb financial irregularities. No whistlecouple of comments for next year’s accounts. blower complaints have been recorded in 2017. Information and communication Risk assessment Effective and accurate internal and external information is important to To handle the internal and external risks that Gränges’ organization is ensure full and accurate financial reporting on time. Gränges’ financial exposed to, regular risk assessments are carried out. Risks that may reporting follows group guidelines and policies, and is updated and affect financial reporting are identified, measured, and managed. This communicated regularly by Group Management to all relevant staff. is an integral part of day-to-day reporting to Group Management and The accounting function has operational responsibility for day-tothe Board, and forms the basis for assessing risks of errors in finanday financial reporting, and works to ensure that the Group’s guidecial reporting. lines, policies, and instructions are applied uniformly across the Gränges’ operations are characterized by processes with estabGroup. The accounting function also identifies and communicates lished routines and systems. Risk assessment therefore largely deficiencies in financial reporting. occurs within the framework of these processes. At group level, only Policies, guidelines, and manuals are regularly updated and are general risk assessments are conducted. Managers in the Group idenavailable on the intranet. Since 2016, Gränges has an updated Insider tify, monitor, and evaluate these risks. This creates the basis for takPolicy to meet the demands on the company and insiders on the ing well-rounded and correct business decisions at all levels. As a grounds of the EU Market Abuse Regulation (MAR). rule, financial risk such as currency, commodity, refinancing, and All communication from Gränges must be timely, reliable, accucounterparty risk, and interest rate and credit risk, are mainly handled rate, and up-do-date. External communication should be in accordby the parent company’s accounting and finance functions according ance with the Group’s Information Policy, Nasdaq’s regulatory to Financial Management Policy, the Metal Management Policy, the framework for issuers, and other applicable regulations. The finanGroup Accounting Manual and the Instruction for Financial Reporting. cial information should provide the capital and equity markets with a A description of the Group’s risks and risk management is on pages comprehensive and clear picture of the company, its financial posi46–49. tion, development, and strategy. All financial reports and press releases are published on the company’s website and are published Control activities simultaneously to Nasdaq Stockholm and Finansinspektionen. The main purpose of control activities is to prevent and discover material errors in financial reporting at an early stage so that such errors Monitoring can be managed and resolved. Control activities are conducted at a The Board’s monitoring of the internal control of financial reporting general level and at more detailed levels throughout the Group, and occurs primarily through the Audit committee, including the monitoring are both manual and automated in nature. Routines and activities of the internal audit and through contact with the external auditors. have been designed to manage and resolve material risks related to External auditors monitor selected areas of internal control annually financial reporting, and that are identified in risk assessments. within the framework of the group audit, and report the outcome of Depending on the character and type of control activity, corrective their audit to the Audit committee and Group Management. Material action, implementation, documentation, and quality assurance, occur observations are also reported directly to the Board. In terms of the at a group or subsidiary level. As is the case for other processes, each 2017 audit, the auditors have monitored the internal controls in manager is responsible for the completeness and accuracy of the conselected key processes, and have reported their findings to the trol activities. Audit committee and Group Management. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 61 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANDERS G. CARLBERG CARINA ANDERSSON Chairman Board member Born: 1943 Born: 1964 M.Sc. Business Administration. M.Sc. Engineering, Material Chairman of Herenco. Board Science. member of Investmentbolaget Board member of Beijer Alma, Latour, Sweco, AxFast, Recipharm ­SinterCast and Systemair. and ­Beijer Alma. Previous positions: General Previous positions: Board mem­Manager Powder Technology, ber of Sapa 2002–2013. CEO of J.S. Sandvik Materials Technology, Saba, CEO of Nobel Industrier, CEO of Ramnäs Bruk and CEO of CEO of Axel Johnson International, Scana Ramnäs. Board member of Deputy CEO of SSAB and other Mälar­dalens ­Högskola , Sandvik management positions. Riser Technology and chairman Elected to the Board, 2014. of Sandvik Powdermet and ­S andvik Osprey. Chairman of the Remuneration committee and member of the Elected to the Board, 2014. Audit committee. Member of the Remuneration Shareholding: 35,294 shares. committee. Shareholding: 2,402 shares. PETER CARLSSON KATARINA LINDSTRÖM Board member Board member Born: 1970 Born: 1965 B. Sc. Economics. M. Sc. Material ­Science. CEO and resident of Northvolt. Senior Vice President International Board member of Metso, Orbital Manufacturing, Volvo Group Systems and Ketra Lightning. Trucks Operation. Elected member Previous positions: Vice President of the Swedish Royal Engineering Supply Chain and Chief ProcureAcademy. ment Officer at Tesla Motors, Previous positions: Senior Vice Senior Vice President and Chief President, Operations and Supply Procurement Officer at NXP Chain Management at Volvo Group ­Semiconductors, Head of Trucks Operation, various mana­Sourcing at Sony Ericsson. gement positions at Volvo since Elected to the Board, 2016. 1988. Member of the Remuneration Elected to the Board, 2016. committee. Member of the Audit committee. Shareholding: 0 shares. Shareholding: 2 000 shares. HANS PORAT RAGNHILD WIBORG Board member Board member Born: 1955 Born: 1961 M.Sc. Engineering, Material M.Sc. Business Administration. ­Science Board member of Kistefos, Board member of Ecolean. REC Silicon, Intrum, INSR ASA, Previous positions: President and IM Skaugen and EAM Solar. CEO of Nolato, various e ­ xecutive Previous positions: Fund man­ positions at ABB, Vice President of agement oper­ations at Odin Fonder Trelleborg, President of Gadelius and at Wiborg Kapital­förvaltning. Japan. Worked at several investment Elected to the Board, 2016. banks, including Pareto, ABG ­Sundal Collier, First Chicago and Member of the Remuneration ­Scandinavian Bank. committee. Elected to the Board, 2014. Shareholding: 0 shares. Chairman of the Audit committee. Shareholding: 1,176 shares. 62 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES AUDITOR ÖYSTEIN LARSEN KONNY SVENSSON ELIN LINDFORS ERIK SANDSTRÖM Employee representative Employee representative Deputy employee representative Auditor in charge Born: 1957 Born: 1954 Born: 1988 Ernst & Young AB Has been an employee represenUpper secondary school B.Sc. Material Science. Born: 1975 tative on the Board since 2010. education. Authorized public accountant Has been an employee represenand member of FAR. Employed at Gränges since 1979. Has been an employee representative on the Board since 2016. tative on the Board since 2013. Other assignments: Munters, IT architect. Employed at Gränges since 2013. Mycronic, Rottneros, Trade­ Employed at Gränges since 2008. Employee representative of Technical Manager Re-melting. doubler, Praktikertjänst, ­Unionen. Chairman of blue collar union IF Transcom. Metall. Representative of the Swedish Shareholding: 470 shares. Association of Graduate Engineers Employee representative of and the Union for Professionals. IF Metall. Shareholding: 420 shares. Employee representative of Gränges Sweden AB. Shareholding: 235 shares. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 63 GROUP MANAGEMENT 1. PAUL NEUTJENS 2. MAGNUS CARLSTRÖM 3. KENT SCHÖLIN 4. JOHAN MENCKEL 5. PATRICK LAWLOR GROUP MANAGEMENT 1. PAUL NEUTJENS and Gränges Europe 2012–2016. 4. JOHAN MENCKEL Inc., 2007–2009. Several manageSVP Process Engineering & VP HR at Strabag Scandinavia rial positions at Norsk Hydro, CEO ­Operational Development 2009–2012. Head of Strategic 1997–2007. Born: 1971 Born: 1959 Leadership & Training at Peab Member of the Management Team M.Sc. Engineering. M.Sc. Engineering, Metallurgy Group 2006–2009. Head of HR since 2016. at Peab Sverige 2000–2006. CEO of Gränges since 2013. CEO of and Applied Material Science. Sapa Heat Transfer, 2012–2013. Other assignments: Member of SVP Process Engineering & OperaMember of extended Management the Board of Can Art Aluminum Business Area President of Sapa tional Development since 2017. Team since 2017. Extrusions LLP and Vice President Profiles Asia, 2011–2012. ManaCTO at Gränges and member of the Shareholding: 0 shares. ging Director of Sapa Heat Transfer of Global Aluminium Foil Roller Management Team, 2013–2017. Shanghai, 2007–2010. Manage­Initiative (GLAFRI). Strategic Project Director at Sapa ment positions at Sapa Heat Shareholding: 0 shares. Heat ­Transfer, 2011–2013. Director 3. KENT SCHÖLIN Transfer, 2004–2006. Consultant of Lean Production at Sapa Pro­ SVP Research & Innovation at Accenture, 1996–2004. files Europe, 2007–2010. Several Born: 1964 6. PERNILLA GRENNFELT Member of the Management management positions at Alcoa, M.Sc. Engineering, Material Team since 2013. SVP Communications & 1994–2007. Several management Science. Investor Relations positions at Hoogovens AlumiOther assignments: Member of SVP Research & Innovation at Born: 1970 nium, 1986–1994. the Board of Directors in Svenska Gränges since 2017. President for B.Sc. Economics. Postkodföreningen AB and NederMember of extended Management Gränges Europe and member of man Holding. SVP Communications & Investor Team since 2017. the Management Team, 2013Relations at Gränges since 2014. Shareholding: 38,000 shares. Shareholding: 4,000 shares. 2017. Managing Director for Sapa IR Manager at ICA Gruppen, 2013– Heat Transfer Finspång, 2012– 2014. Head of Investor ­Relations 2013. MD of Gunnebo Gateway, at Hakon Invest, 2005–2013. Jour5. PATRICK LAWLOR 2. MAGNUS CARLSTRÖM 2005–2012. Several management nalist and Editor at News Agency positions at Sapa Heat Transfer, President Americas Direkt, 1999–2005. Advisor at MatSVP Human Resources Born: 1964 Born: 1966 1994–2004. Research engineer at teus Fondkommission, 1996–1999. Gränges Technology 1989–1994. B.Sc. Economics. LL.M., Executive MBA, Behavioral Member of the Management Team Sciences (3.5 Y). Member of extended Management President Americas for Gränges since 2014. Team since 2017. since 2016. President Americas of SVP Human Resources of Gränges Shareholding: 4,905 shares. Shareholding: 4,705 shares. Sapa Extrusions during 2010–2015. since 2017. Director HR CFO at Sapa Extrusion North Ame& Communications of Gränges AB rica, 2009–2010. CFO at Indalex, 64 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GROUP MANAGEMENT 6. PERNILLA GRENNFELT 7. COLIN XU 8. TORBJÖRN STERNSJÖ 9. OSKAR HELLSTRÖM 10. JÖRGEN ABRAHAMSSON 11. NICLAS NELSON 7. COLIN XU Sapa Heat Transfer Shanghai 1999– 10. JÖRGEN ABRAHAMSSON Member of the Management Team 2007. Various senior positions since 2014. President Asia President Europe within Gränges and Sapa since Born : 1967 Other assignments: Chairman of Born: 1976 1994. ADP, London Business School. the Board of Directors of SWERMA M.Sc. Economics and Business Member of the Management Team (Swedish Risk Management Administration, MBA. President Europe for Gränges since since 2017. ­Association). President for Gränges Asia since 2017. Production Manager Sapa 2013. Managing Director for Sapa Shareholding: 10,000 shares. Heat Transfer, CEO Rosengrens ProShareholding: 5,000 shares. Heat Transfer S ­ hanghai, 2011– duktions AB, CEO Sapa Profilbear2013. At Sapa Heat Transfer betning AB, Sapa Profilbockning AB 9. OSKAR HELLSTRÖM and Sapa Komponenter AB. Head of Shanghai, 2001–2010, with several leading man­agement positions Deputy CEO & CFO Sapa Profiler Finspång. Production since 2003. Born: 1979 Director Gränges Sweden AB. M.Sc. Engineering and B.Sc. Member of the Management Member of the Management Team Economics. Team since 2013. since 2017. CFO of Gränges since 2013 and Shareholding: 0 shares Shareholding: 0 shares. Deputy CEO of Gränges since 2017. CFO of Sapa Heat Transfer, 2011– 8. TORBJÖRN STERNSJÖ 2013. ­Director Group Development 11. NICLAS NELSON & Control at Sapa Group, 2009–2011. SVP Technology & Business General Counsel ­S trategy Manager at Sapa Group, Development Born: 1964 2008–2009. Consultant at Booz Born: 1962 LL.M. Allen Hamilton, 2005–2008. M.Sc. Engineering. General Counsel at Gränges since Member of the Management Team SVP Technology & Business 2014. Associate General Counsel at since 2013. Development since 2017. Director Autoliv, 2002–2014. Legal Counsel Business Development at Gränges Shareholding: 15,000 shares. at ABB, 1998–2002. Attorney at 2015–2017. President of the joint Hökerberg & Söderqvist Advokatventure Sapa Chalco Aluminium byrå, 1993–1998. Associate at Products Chongqing 2011–2015. Vinge, 1992–1993. Law Clerk at City President of Sapa Profiles in Asia Court of Malmö, 1990–1992. 2007–2010. Managing Director of GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 65 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENT GROUP NOTES GROUP NOTES PARENT COMPANY Consolidated income statement 67 Note 1 General information 72 Note 1 Accounting principles 100 Consolidated statement of 68 Note 2 Basis of preparation of 72 Note 2 Financial risk management 100 comprehensive income consolidated financial Note 3 Breakdown of net sales by 100 Consolidated balance sheet 69 ­statements area of operation Consolidated statement of changes 70 Note 3 New accounting standards 73 Note 4 Items affecting 100 in equity Note 4 Accounting standards 73 comparability Consolidated cash flow statement 71 Note 5 Estimates and 76 Note 5 Operating lease payments 100 Notes to the consolidated financial 72 assumptions in preparing Note 6 Remuneration to auditors 101 statements the consolidated financial statements Note 7 Payroll expenses 101 Alternative performance measures 95 Note 6 Joint arrangements 77 Note 8 Financial income 101 Note 7 Geographic breakdown of net 77 Note 9 Financial costs 101 PARENT COMPANY sales, non-current assets and Note 10 Taxes 101 Parent company income statement 96 average number of employees Note 11 Property, plant and 102 Parent company balance sheet 97 Note 8 Payroll expenses 78 ­equipment Parent company statements of 98 Note 9 Remuneration to auditors 80 Note 12 Intangible assets 102 changes in equity Note 10 Pensions 80 Note 13 Participations in Group 103 Parent company cash flow statement 99 Note 11 Other operating expenses 82 companies Notes to the parent company financial 100 Note 12 Items affecting 82 Note 14 Provision for pension and 103 statements comparability similar obligations Note 13 Financial income and costs 82 Note 15 Interest-bearing liabilities 103 Note 14 Taxes 82 Note 16 Accrued expenses and 103 Definitions 105 deferred income Five-year summary 106 Note 15 Earnings per share 83 Note 17 Pledged assets 103 Proposed appropriation of retained 108 Note 16 Intangible assets 84 Note 18 Contingent liabilities 104 earnings Note 17 Property, plant and 85 equipment Note 19 Related party ­transactions 104 Auditor’s report 109 Note 18 Inventories 85 Note 20 Reconciliation between 104 opening and closing balance Note 19 Overview of financial 86 of liabilities whose cash flows ­instruments are recognized in financing Note 20 Current receivables 87 activities Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents 87 Note 21 Proposed appropriation 104 Note 22 Other liabilities 87 of retained earnings Note 23 Capital management 87 Note 24 Financing and interest88 bearing liabilities Note 25 Financial risk 88 Note 26 Derivatives and hedging 91 Note 27 Share capital 92 Note 28 Leasing 92 Note 29 Acquisition 93 Note 30 Pledged assets, guarantees 94 and contingent liabilities Note 31 Related-party transactions 94 Note 32 Reconciliation between 94 opening and closing balance of liabilities whose cash flows are recognized in financing activities Note 33 Events after the balance 94 sheet date 66 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME ­STATEMENT SEK million Note 2017 2016 Sales revenues 31 11,427 7,199 Other operating revenues 8 9 Net sales 7 11,435 7,207 Cost of materials –7,396 –4,374 Payroll expenses 8, 10 –1,113 –727 Other operating expenses 11 –1,622 –1,155 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 16, 17 –370 –265 Items affecting comparability 12 –16 –128 Operating profit 917 559 Profit from joint ventures 6 –5 2 Financial income 13 5 5 Financial costs 13 –121 –66 Profit before taxes 797 500 Income Tax 14 –145 –2 Profit for the year 652 498 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 652 498 Adjusted operating profit1) 933 687 1) Operating profit before items affecting comparability, see Note 12. EARNINGS PER SHARE SEK Note 2017 2016 Earnings per share, basic 15 8.65 6.66 Earnings per share, diluted 15 8.64 6.64 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 67 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK million Note 2017 2016 Profit for the year 652 498 Items not to be reclassified to profit/loss in subsequent years Remeasurement of pensions before tax 10 7 29 Tax on above 4 –13 Items to be reclassified to profit/loss in subsequent years Change in hedging reserve before tax 26 53 –33 Tax on above –12 7 Translation differences –160 69 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent company 545 557 68 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET SEK million Note 2017 2016 ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 17 3,076 3,347 Intangible assets 16 640 584 Deferred tax assets 14 44 64 Interests in joint ventures 6 17 30 Interest-bearing receivables 19, 24, 31 33 36 Other non-current receivables 19, 26 16 10 Total non-current assets 3,827 4,071 Inventories 18 1,611 1,428 Receivables 19, 20, 26, 31 1,826 1,600 Cash and cash equivalents 19, 21 742 851 Total current assets 4,179 3,878 TOTAL ASSETS 8,005 7,950 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 27 101 101 Share premium 27 49 33 Reserves 405 512 Retained earnings 2,768 2,296 Total equity 3,322 2,942 Deferred tax liabilities 14 60 24 Pension liabilities 10 276 288 Interest-bearing liabilities 19, 24 2,215 2,888 Other non-current liabilities 19, 26 3 9 Total non-current liabilities 2,555 3,209 Interest-bearing liabilities 19, 24 576 436 Current tax liabilities 14 78 34 Other current liabilities 19, 22, 26 1,474 1,329 Total current liabilities 2,128 1,799 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 8,005 7,950 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 69 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Reserves Share Share Hedging Defined benefit Translation Retained Total SEK million Note capital premium reserve pension plans differences ­earnings equity Opening balance, 1 January 2016 100 – –3 –36 492 1,947 2,499 Profit for the year – – – – – 498 498 Items in comprehensive income – – –26 16 69 – 59 Group comprehensive income – – –26 16 69 498 557 Employee stock option scheme – – – – – 1 1 Dividend1) – – – – – –149 –149 Rights issue 27 1 33 – – – – 34 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 101 33 –29 –20 561 2,296 2,942 Opening balance, 1 January 2017 101 33 –29 –20 561 2,296 2,942 Profit for the year – – – – – 652 652 Items in comprehensive income – – 41 12 –160 – –107 Group comprehensive income – – 41 12 –160 652 545 Dividend1) – – – – – –180 –180 Rights issue 27 0 16 – – – – 16 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 101 49 12 –8 401 2,768 3,322 1) Dividend per share was amounted to SEK 2.40 (2.00) during 2017. 70 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT SEK million Note 2017 2016 Operating profit 917 559 Depreciation and impairment charges 370 265 Change in net working capital etc. –267 43 Income taxes paid –53 –181 Cash flow from operating activities 968 686 Acquisition 29 –42 –2,581 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 16, 17 –358 –155 Divestment of property, plant and equipment 0 0 Other capital transactions 4 4 Cash flow from investing activities –396 –2,732 Dividend –180 –149 Rights issue 27 16 34 Interest paid and received 13 –124 –35 New loans 888 3,620 Amortizations –1,250 –1,224 Cash flow from financing activities –650 2,245 Cash flow for the year –79 198 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 851 634 Cash flow for the year –79 198 Translation difference on cash and cash equivalents –30 19 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 21 742 851 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 71 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 GENERAL INFORMATION Business combinations are accounted for in accordance with the acquisition method. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, The Group’s parent company, Gränges AB, is a Swedish public listed ­liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquired business and company. Corporate identity number is 556001-6122, and its registered equity interests issued by the group. The consideration also includes office is in Stockholm with its head office on Linnégatan 18, SE-114 47 fair value of all assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent considStockholm. This document was approved for publication by the Board eration arrangement. of Directors of Gränges AB on 6 March 2018. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. The group 2 B  ASIS OF PREPARATION OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity either at fair value or at the non-­controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquired entity’s net identifiable assets. Basis of preparation Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. The Gränges Group includes, in addition to the parent company Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized gains on Gränges AB, directly and indirectly held subsidiaries of Gränges AB. transactions between group companies are eliminated. Unrealized Significant accounting principles applied in preparing these losses are also eliminated. When necessary, amounts reported by ­consolidated financial statements are described below. Unless subsidiaries have been adjusted to conform with the group’s ­otherwise stated, these principles have been applied consistently for accounting policies. all the years presented. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and presented in compliance with the Inter­national Joint arrangements Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, the Shares in companies in which the Group exercises a controlling influSwedish Annual Accounts Act and RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting ence are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures dependRules for Groups. ing on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor. Joint The financial statements have been prepared by applying the cost arrangements are included in the consolidated accounts as of the date method, with the exception of financial assets and liabilities (includwhen significant influence is transferred to the Group and are consoliing derivatives), which are measured at fair value. Preparing financial dated up to the date when the significant influence ceases. statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of important For joint operations, assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are accounting estimates. recognized in the consolidated accounts in relation to ownership. Management is also required to make certain judgements in Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. applying the Group’s accounting principles. Areas which involve a Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures are initially carhigh degree of judgement, are complex or where assumptions and ried at cost in the consolidated statement of financial position. The estimates have a material impact on the consolidated accounts are carrying amount is then increased or decreased to take account of the described in Note 5. Group’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income An asset or liability is classified as current when it is a part of an from its joint ventures after the date of acquisition. The Group’s share entity’s normal operations, is primarily held for trading, matures of the profit or loss is presented in the line “Profit from joint ventures” within 12 months and consists of cash and cash equivalents at the in the income statement and the line “Interests in joint ventures” in balance sheet date. Other items are classified as non-current. A the balance sheet. Please see Note 6 for further information regarding ­dividend is classified as a liability only upon formal approval by joint arrangements. a ­general meeting of shareholders. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are stated in SEK million. Foreign currency translation Negative amounts refer to expenses or outgoing payments (cash flow). Functional currency and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s Items affecting comparability entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic Items affecting comparability are presented in a separate line and environment in which the operates (’the functional currency’). The refer to non-recurring income and expenses. consolidated financial statements are presented in Swedish krona The primary purpose of this is to present significant non-recurring (SEK), which is the Group’s presentation currency. items separately in order to ensure that changes and the comparability of items presented in adjusted operating profit are more relevant for Transactions and balance sheet items comparative purposes. Income and expenses that are carried in this Transactions in foreign currency are translated to the functional curline and specified and commented on in Note 12. rency at the exchange rates applying on the transaction date or the date when the items were re-measured. Foreign exchange gains and Consolidation losses arising from such transactions and upon translation of moneSubsidiaries tary assets and liabilities in foreign currency at closing day rates are All companies over which the Group exercises a controlling influence are recognized in the income statement. The exception is when the classified as subsidiaries. The Group controls a company when it is transactions constitute hedges and meet the criteria for hedge exposed to or has the right to a variable return from its involvement with accounting of cash flows or net investments, in which case any gains the company and has the ability to affect those returns through its power and losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. over the company. Subsidiaries are included in the consoli­dated Financial receivables and liabilities in foreign currency are stated at accounts as of the date when the control is transferred to the Group and the closing rate and any gain or loss is recognized in financial items in are consolidated up to the date when the controlling influence ceases. the income statement. Other monetary items in foreign ­currency are carried at the closing rate and any gain or loss is ­recognized in operating items in the income statement. 72 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Key changes to current practice are: • Any bundled goods or services that are distinct must be separately recognized, and any discounts or rebates on the contract price New accounting standards adopted by the Group in 2017 must generally be allocated to the separate elements. No standards, amendments and interpretations which became • Revenue may be recognized earlier than under current standards effective for financial years beginning on 1 January 2017 have had if the consideration varies for any reasons (such as for incentives, a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. rebates, performance fees, royalties, success of an outcome etc) – minimum amounts must be recognized if they are not at significant New and amended standards and interpretations which have not risk of reversal. yet become effective but will be applied in future periods • The point at which revenue is able to be recognized may shift: some A number of new standards and interpretations are effective for revenue which is currently recognized at a point in time at the end of financial years beginning after 1 January 2017 and have not been a contract may have to be recognized over the contract term and applied in preparing these financial statements. vice versa. • There are new specific rules on licenses, warranties, non-refund­able IFRS 9 Financial Instruments upfront fees and, consignment arrangements, to name a few. IFRS 9 will enter into force on 1 January 2018 and replaces IAS 39 • As with any new standard, there are also increased disclosures. Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement. Various parts of IFRS 9 have been revised, and one part relates to the classification Entities will have a choice of full retrospective application, or prospecand measurement of financial assets and liabilities. Classification of tive application with additional disclosures. Gränges Group will adopt financial assets is determined on initial recognition based on the cash IFRS 15 using the full retrospective approach from 1 January 2018. flow characteristics of the asset and the company’s business model. The transition will not affect the Group’s financial statements and Dependent on classification the financial assets will be measured at consequently previous periods will not be restated. amortized cost, at fair value through other comprehensive income (OCI) or at fair value through profit or loss. For financial liabilities there IFRS 16 Leases are no changes that will impact the Group. In January 2016, IASB issued a new lease standard that will replace IAS Further the hedge accounting principles have been revised in IFRS 9. 17 Leases and the related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The new principles give companies better opportunities to present the The standard requires assets and liabilities arising from all leases, with financial risk management strategies in the financial statements. As a some exceptions, to be recognized on the balance sheet. This model general rule, it will be easier to apply hedge accounting, as more risk reflects that, at the start of a lease, the lessee obtains the right to use components can qualify as hedged item. The new standard also introan asset for a period of time and has an obligation to pay for that right. duces expanded disclosure requirements and changes in pre­sentation. The accounting for lessors will in all material aspects be unchanged. IFRS 9 also introduces a new impairment model based on expected The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 Jancredit losses. The new expected credit loss (ECL) model involves a uary 2019. Early adoption is permitted. Gränges has initiated the work three-stage approach whereby financial assets move through the with evaluating the effects of the new standard. The initial assessment three stages as their credit quality changes. A simplified approach is is that the new standard will impact Gränges insofar as leasing conto be used for financial assets that do not have a significant financing tracts for premises, vehicles and other large leasing objects will be component (eg accounts and lease receivables), which means impair­recognized in the balance sheet. ment will be recognized based on lifetime ECL and there is no need to track the changes in credit quality. Gränges’ analysis of the new standard is completed and there will be no impact on the Group’s financial statements from the new princi4 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ples regarding classification of financial assets. The new principles regarding calculation of credit loss will impact the impairment proRevenue recognition cess, however it will not have a significant impact on the Group’s Revenue is recognized to the extent that it is likely that the economic financial statements. The new principles for hedge accounting will benefits will accrue to the company and the revenue can be reliably neither have an impact on the Group’s financial statements. The tranmeasured, irrespective of when payment is made. Revenue is stated sition will not significant affect the Group’s financial statements and at the fair value of the compensation which has been or will be consequently the opening balance 2018 will not be restated. received, having regard to contractual terms governing payment excluding taxes and duties. IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers Sales of goods. The Gränges Group sells goods in different markets, IFRS 15 is the new standard for recognition of revenue. IFRS 15 replace and revenues from the sale of goods are recognized in the income IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and their associated statement when the material risks and benefits associated with interpretations (IFRIC and SIC). Revenue is recognized when control of a ­ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer. goods or service transfers to a customer – so the notion of control Sales of services. Revenues from the sale of services are limited for replaces the existing notion of risks and rewards. The basic principle in the Gränges Group and primarily refer to rental income from properIFRS 15 is that a company recognize revenue in the way that best reflects ties owned by Gränges AB. Rental income is allocated to accounting the transfer of the goods or service to the customer. A new five-step properiods in accordance with the lease and is recognized in the income cess must be applied before revenue can be recognized: statement in the period to which the lease refers. Step 1: identify contracts with customers Gains or losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment are Step 2: identify the separate performance obligation accounted for as “Other operating income” or “Other operating Step 3: determine the transaction price of the contract expenses” and are included in the income statement. Step 4: allocate the transaction price to each of the separate Interest income is recognized using the effective interest method performance obligations, and and accounted for under “Financial income”. Step 5: recognize revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 73 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont. Note 4 Statement of comprehensive income Provisions and liabilities The statement of comprehensive income includes items which are Pensions. Gränges Group has a pension system in Sweden and US recognized in equity but which are not included in the regular profit or that ­primarily consists of defined contribution plans as well as some loss for the period. The items in the statement are actuarial gains and unfunded defined benefit plans. losses on pensions, changes in the hedging reserve in hedging transFor defined contribution pension plans the company has a responsiactions and currency translation effects. bility to make contractual payments for its employees’ future p ­ ensions. Future pensions are determined by the size of contributions and the Assets return on the plan assets. After the contributions have been paid the Property, plant and equipment are tangible, long-lived assets which company has no further payment obligations under the defined contriare intended for the production or delivery of goods or for administrabution plan. No provisions are therefore made in the balance sheet. tive purposes. They are stated at cost in the balance sheet less accuThe company’s pension costs for its defined contribution plans mulated depreciation and impairment. Maintenance of assets is ­consist of payments to employees’ pension plans during the reporting ­recognized in operating expenses when the maintenance is carried period and are accounted for as payroll expenses. out while more significant periodic maintenance and expenses for Defined benefit pension plans are based on a promise from the replacements and improvements are accounted for as an investment company to the employees that they will receive a certain pension and added to the cost of the assets. upon retirement, normally defined as a percentage of their final To distribute the cost down to the estimated residual value, items of ­salary. The company is responsible for the size of the future pension property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line benefit and the economic value of this obligation are recognized in basis, divided into different components, over their useful lives using the income statement and balance sheet. the following percentage rates: The liability or asset recognized in the balance sheet in respect • buildings and land improvements 10–40 years, of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined • machinery, inventory and installations 5–30 years, benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value • fixtures and vehicles 5–20 years, of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by • IT equipment and software 5–10 years. independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by disUseful lives and residual values of assets are reviewed each year and counting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of adjusted where required. high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in If the residual value exceeds the carrying amount no further deprewhich the benefits will be paid, and that have terms approximating to ciation charges are recognized. This applies especially to buildings. If the terms of the related obligation. there are indications of impairment of an asset, the asset is written The cost relating to service during the current period is accounted down to its recoverable amount if this is lower than the carrying for as payroll expenses. The net interest cost is calculated by applying amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of net realisable value the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and value in use. and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee Loan expenses in connection with the production of the Group’s benefit expense in the income statement. own property, plant and equipment are recognized as part of the cost Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustof the asset. ments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognized in the Intangible assets. The Group has expenses for research and develperiod in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. opment. Expenditure for research is carried as an expense immediProvisions are recognized for potential loss-making contracts and ately while expenditure for development is recognized as an intangible for restructuring when the decision to restructure is made. Provisions asset if the underlying economic factors are identifiable and repredo not cover any potential future operating losses. As regards sent future economic benefits controlled by the Group. restructuring reserves, there must exist a detailed plan identifying The Group is running a large number of development projects but which operations will be restructured as well as a well-founded the criteria for recognising the projects as intangible assets are expectation among those affected by the restructuring. It must also ­currently not met (see Note 16). be possible to reliably estimate the cost of the restructuring. Capitalised expenditure for internally generated or specially The provision is calculated based on the best estimate of expected adapted software is recognized as intangible assets. These are deprecosts. If the effect is significant, expected future cash flows will be ciated on a straight-line basis over 5–10 years. discounted. Expenditure for internally generated intangible assets is expensed Contingent liabilities and contingent assets. A contingent liability or immediately, as the future economic benefits for the company cannot contingent asset is a potential obligation or potential asset whose be identified and because it is not possible to obtain any degree of existence is uncertain and which will be confirmed by the occurrence certainty during the development phase of the intangible assets. or non-occurrence of a specific future event, such as the out-come of The fair value of intangible assets acquired by the company through legal proceedings or the final settlement of an insurance claim. If the acquisitions is capitalized. probability that the liability has been incurred exceeds 50 per cent a The customer relationships were acquired as part of a business provision is recognized in the balance sheet. If the probability is lower combination (see Note 16 for details). They are recognized at their fair a contingent liability is shown as an additional disclosure in the finanvalue at the date of acquisition and are subsequently amortized on a cial statements, unless the probability of an outgoing payment is straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 20 years. remote. An asset is only recognized in the balance sheet if it is highly Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the probable that the Group will receive the asset. Disclosures regarding excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identicontingent assets are given where an inflow of resources is probable. fiable net assets acquired. Goodwill impairment reviews are underTax. Income tax is the sum of current tax and changes in deferred tax. taken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumTax is recognized in profit and loss, except to the extent that it relates to stances indicate a potential impairment. Any impairment is recognized items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In immediately as an expense and is not sub-sequently reversed. this case, the tax is also recognized in other ­comprehensive income or Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable directly in equity, respectively. Current tax is ­recognized at the amount value. Purchased goods are measured at cost in accordance with the that is expected to be paid to the tax authorities based on the taxable FIFO principle while own-produced finished goods and products in income that is reported for the units included in the consolidated finanprogress are measured at production cost. A deduction is made for cial statements. The income tax is determined using tax rates that have obsolescence. The net realisable value is the estimated selling price been enacted on the ­balance sheet date. less selling costs. For a description of inventories as hedged item in a Deferred tax in the balance sheet has been calculated at the fair value hedge see “Fair value hedging”, under section “Financial ­nominal tax rate based on temporary differences for assets and Instruments”. ­liabilities at the balance sheet date. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash equivalents A provision for deferred tax on retained earnings in foreign subsidiwith maturities of up to three months. aries is recognized to the extent that it is likely that the dividend will be distributed in a near future. 74 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred tax assets are reviewed continually and recognized in the the company’s operating activities. Accounts payable are classified as balance sheet only to the extent that it is likely that future t­ axable current liabilities. Accounts payable are measured at amortized cost. profits can be used. Borrowings (loans) are initially recognized at fair value, net of transDeferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are offset insofar as action costs. Subsequently loans are carried at amortized cost and this is possible under local tax laws and regulations. any difference between the amount received (net of transaction costs) and the amount repayable is recognized in the income statement over Financial instruments the term of the loan by applying the effective interest method. The Group’s financial assets comprise loans and accounts receiv­able Hedge accounting. The Group uses the following criteria for clasas well as derivatives. Purchases and sales of financial assets are sifying a derivative or other financial instrument as a hedging instru­recognized at the transaction date, which is the date when the Group ment: (1) the hedging instrument is expected to be very effective in undertakes to buy or sell the asset. Accounts receivable are recogoffsetting changes in the fair value of or cash flows for an identifi­able nized when the invoice has been sent. Financial assets are removed item (hedged item), with an expected hedge efficiency of 80–125 per from the balance sheet when the right to receive cash flows from the cent, (2) the hedge efficiency can be reliably measured, (3) satisfacinstrument has expired or been transferred and the Group has transtory documentation is drawn up before the hedging instrument is ferred essentially all risks and benefits associated with ownership to acquired showing, in particular, that the hedge relationship is effecanother party. tive, (4) in case of the use of cash flow hedges, that the future trans­ The Group’s financial liabilities comprise borrowings and accounts action is deemed to be highly probable, and (5) the hedge relationship payable as well as derivatives. Financial liabilities are recognized in is reviewed on a regular basis and has proved to be effective, i.e. the balance sheet when the counterparty has performed and a conbetween 80–125 per cent. tractual obligation to pay exists. Accounts payable are recognized Gains and losses on the hedging instrument are recognized in the when the invoice has been received. Financial liabilities are derecogincome statement at the same time as gains and losses from the nized from the balance sheet when the contractual ­obligation has hedged item. been fulfilled or in some other way is extinguished. Fair value hedging. Changes in the fair values of derivatives desigFinancial instruments are initially recognized at fair value plus nated as hedging instruments are recognized immediately in the income transaction costs, which applies to all financial assets and liabilities statement. Changes in the fair value of the hedged item (inventory) relatthat are not measured at fair value through profit and loss. These are ing to the hedged risk are recognized in the income statement in the initially recognized at fair value excluding transaction costs. same way and are recognized as an adjustment on the hedged item’s Financial assets and liabilities are in general not netted even when carrying amount. Hedge accounting is discontinued if: (a) the hedge there is a legal right of netting the carrying amounts and an intention instrument has expired, been terminated, exercized or sold, (b) the to settle them by a net amount or to simultaneously realize the asset hedge no longer meets the aforementioned criteria for hedging, or (c) the and settle the liability. The legal right must not depend on future Group for some reason chooses not to continue to hedge fair value. In the events and must be legally binding for the company and the countercase of a discontinued hedge, changes in the fair value of the hedged party both in case of normal business activities and in the event of item are recognized in the balance sheet until the hedged item (invendefault, insolvency or bankruptcy. tory) is recognized as cost of materials in the income statement. Derivatives are classified either as measured at fair value through Cash flow hedges. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of profit and loss in the subcategory that is called held for trading or as the hedging instrument is recognized in other comprehensive income hedging instrument for which hedge accounting is applied. Derivatives and accumulated in the hedging reserve until the hedged transaction is are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date and accounted executed. At that time the accumulated gains or losses on the hedging for as assets or liabilities. Gains and losses on changes in fair value instrument will be reclassified to the income statement. The ineffective are recognized in profit or loss when the derivative is not part of a portion of the hedging instrument is recognized immediately in the hedge relationship which meets the criteria for hedge accounting. income statement. When a hedging instrument has expired, been sold, Embedded derivatives in contracts are identified and measured sepaexercized or terminated, or the Group has discontinued the hedge relarately. Gränges currently has no embedded derivatives. Purchases tionship, the accumulated gains or losses will remain in the hedging and sales of derivatives are recognized at the transaction date. reserve and will be recognized in the income statement upon execution of Loans and receivables are financial assets which are non-derivathe hedged transaction. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected tives, have fixed or determinable payments, and are not listed on an to occur, the accumulated gain or loss on the hedging instrument will be active market. They are included in current assets, with the exceprecognized immediately in the income statement. tion of items maturing later than twelve months from the end of the reporting period, which are classified as non-current assets. Segments Accounts receivable are always classified as current assets. The The reporting of operating segments is consistent with the internal Group’s loans and receivables comprise accounts receivable and reporting submitted to the highest executive decision maker, which other receivable as well as cash and cash equivalents. These are consist of the CEO. The business operation is characterized by strong ­carried at amortized cost in the balance sheet applying the effective integration between the different regions in order to maximize the interest rate method. Accounts receivable are measured at the Group’s profitability. Operations are monitored on a global market, and amount expected to be paid, i.e. after deducting bad debts. At the end the Group thus reports only one segment in line with IFRS 8. of each reporting period the Group assesses whether there is objecFor information on the geographic distribution of non-current assets, tive evidence of impairment of financial assets. Objective evidence of sales revenue and the average number of employees (see Note 7). impairment includes, for example, indications of significant financial difficulties of a debtor, non-payment of interest or principal and Other principles observable information pointing to a measurable decrease in estiCash flow. The cash flow statement, which has been prepared using mated future cash flows. the indirect method, shows cash flows from operating activities, Impairment loss is calculated as the difference between the carryinvesting activities and financing activities, and explains changes in ing amount of the asset and the present value of estimated future “Cash and cash equivalents” for the reporting period. cash flows (excluding future credit losses which have not occurred), Acquisitions. The acquisition method is used to account for the discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The acquisitions of subsidiaries and operations. All payments to acquire a asset’s carrying amount is written down and the impairment loss is business are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date. The excess recognized in the consolidated income statement. If the impairment is of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable net reduced in a subsequent period and this can objectively be attributed assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. to an event occurring after recognition of the impairment loss (such as Leasing. Leases are classified based on the extent to which the an improvement in a debtor’s creditworthiness), the reversal of the economic risks and benefits associated with ownership of the leased previously recognized impairment loss is recognized in the consoliasset are held by the lessor or lessee. A lease is classified as a finandated income statement. cial lease if it essentially transfers all risks and benefits associated Accounts payable are obligations to pay for goods or services which with ownership of an asset. have been acquired from suppliers or service provides in the course of GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 75 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont. Note 4 The Group has no leases classified as a financial lease, mainly due Critical accounting estimates and judgements to the fact that the Group owns in principle all its production facilities In preparing Gränges’ consolidated accounts, it is necessary to make and machinery. The leases that occur are those where the Group a number of estimates and assumptions which can influence the carjudged that it is not possible or economically advantageous to purrying amounts of assets and liabilities. Future events and changes in chase the underlying asset, such as office facilities, vehicles or invenoperating parameters may make it necessary to make other estimates tories, that will only be held for a shorter part of its service life. and assumptions. When preparing the financial statements, manageOther leases are classified as operating leases. Expenses related to ment makes its best judgements in areas of significant importance. such leases are accounted for as operating expenses. Areas where estimates and judgements are of significant importance Share-based payments. The Group operates a share-based for the consolidated financial statements are: ­compensation plan under which payments are made in the form of shares and the company receives services from employees as Accounting item Note Estimate/assumptions ­compensation for the Group’s equity instruments (employee stock options). The fair value of the employee services received in exchange Property, plant and Recoverable amount and estimate for the grant of the options is recognized as an expense along with a equipment 17 of correct remaining useful life corresponding increase in equity. The total amount recognized as an Estimates and key assumptions expense is based on the fair value of the granted employee stock used in impairment testing options as determined on the grant date. Intangible assets 16 of intangibles The Group also has a share-based remuneration plan based on Determination of tax rate for profits cash settlement. The fair value of employee services received in Income tax 14 in China exchange for the grant of the options is recognized as an expense Economic and demographic along with a corresponding increase in liabilities. The cost of Pension liability 10 assumptions cash-settled instruments is based on the fair value of the granted Assumptions and methods for employee stock options, as determined at each closing date until final inventory valuation and assumption settlement. Inventories 18 of incurrence At the end of each reporting period the Group reviews its estimates of how many shares are expected to be vested based on the service Property, plant and equipment For several of Gränges’ items of propcondition. Any deviations from the original estimates identified in erty, plant and equipment changes in assumptions can have a signifisuch reviews are recognized in the income statement with correcant impact on the value. The value of property, plant and equipment sponding adjustments in equity for equity-settled instruments and is based on cost and is depreciated over the estimated useful life. liabilities for cash-settled instruments. Further information is provided in Note 4. When options are exercized, the company issues new shares. The Intangible assets The valuation of identifiable assets and liabilities in proceeds received, net after any directly attributable transaction connection with the business combinations is primarily based on listed costs, are credited to the share capital (quotient value) and share market prices or external valuation data. When it has not been able to ­premium. obtain listed market prices or external valuation data, a method based on Social security contributions payable in connection with the grant replacement cost, where Gränges has made assumptions and judgments of stock options are considered as an integral part of the grant itself, regarding the present state of those assets and the cost of replacing and the charge will be treated as cash-settled transaction that is them, has been used. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefiremeasured at each closing date until settlement is made. nite useful lives are tested for impairment annually or when there is an Government grants are recognized in the financial statements when indication that impairment is required. Estimates and material assumpit is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be received. The grants tions for impairment tests of intangible assets are presented in Note 16. are accounted for either as income or a reduction of expenses, and are Income tax Gränges has applied for a qualification as a high technolin the latter case matched with the expenses which they are intended ogy company in China for the period 2016 to 2018. This qualification to compensate for. Government grants attributable to assets are would mean that Gränges in China can avail of an income tax rate of 15 accounted for as a reduction of the cost of the asset. The grant per cent instead of the ordinary rate of 25 per cent. However, in order reduces the depreciation of the asset. to obtain the classification special requirements established needs to be met and local authorities will subsequently review that Gränges has met these requirements. Since no pre-approval has been received and in view of the difficulties to currently estimate whether these special  STIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS IN E 5 ­PREPARING THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS requirements will be met for the classification, income tax in the ­Chinese operation has been based on ordinary tax of 25 per cent for 2016. Further information is provided in Note 14. Pension liability Gränges has a number of defined benefit pension Revised assessment of useful life of property, plant and equipment plans. The present value of the pension obligations depends on a In connection with the acquisition of the US operation in 2016 an ­number of factors which are determined on an actuarial basis using a extensive study was performed to determine the value of the tangible number of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net fixed assets and their remaining useful live. The preliminary study pension expense (income) include the discount rate. Each change in showed that life expectancy was different from the assessments these assumptions has an impact on the carrying amount of the applied by Gränges in terms of useful lives, mainly related to machin­pension obligation. Further information on sensitivity analyses etc. ery and installations. In connection with the determination of the for changes in material assumptions is provided in Note 10. acquisition balance in the third quarter 2017, a study was carried out Inventories Valuation of production costs is done using calculation on Gränges’ entire operation regarding machinery and installations models based on current prices and cost levels, where direct and indiand based on this study a new assessment of the useful lives was rect production-related costs are attributed to manufactured prodmade as from 1 July 2017. ucts. For estimation of incursions, assumptions and assessments are Previous useful life for machinery and installations of between 5 based on the turnover rate and other historical data. A description of and 20 years are according to the new assessment now between 5 and Gränge’s method of valuing finished goods and products in work can 30 years, depending on type of component. The change in assessment be found in the section on accounting principles in Note 4. has decreased the costs on the line depreciation, amortization and impairment charges in the consolidated income statement by SEK 28 MSEK during 2017. Of the SEK 28 million, SEK 33 million are decreased costs due to extended remaining useful life and SEK –5 million are increased costs due to reduced remaining useful life. In addition, the line cost of materials was affected by increased costs of SEK –5 million as a result of the revised assumptions during 2017. In total, the revised assumptions have affected the operating profit by SEK 23 million during 2017. 76 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 JOINT ARRANGEMENTS Norca Heat Transfer LLC is a sales and distribution company which Norca Heat Transfer acts as distributor for Gränges’ products in the North American market. Items in the income statement and statement of financial position Gränges owns 50 per cent. The holding is classified as a joint venture (100 per cent). Norca Heat Transfer and is accounted for using the equity method. At the beginning of 2018 the remaining 50 per cent were acquired and will be reported in accordUSD million 2017 2016 ance with the acquisition method from 2018. See Note 29 for more Operating revenue 133 115 information. Depreciation – – Shanghai Gränges Moriyasu Aluminium Co Ltd provides stamping capacity for Gränges’ customers in China. Gränges owns 50 per cent. Operating profit 2 2 The holding is classified as a joint venture and is accounted for using Interest income – – the equity method. The Group has made the assessment of Gränges Interest costs –1 –1 Moriyasu Aluminium Co. Ltd is not essential for the financial stateIncome tax 0 0 ments as a whole and therefore has not provided additional financial Profit for the year 1 1 information in summary. In 2017, Gränges acquired 51 per cent of Getek GmbH (see Note 29 Non-current assets – – for more information). The company is jointly owned with Erbslöh AluCurrent assets, excluding cash minium GmBH, which owns 49 per cent of the company. The terms of and cash equivalents 60 41 the shareholder agreement require consent of the parties in relevant Cash and cash equivalents 7 0 activities. This activity is classified as a joint operation and the Group Total assets 67 41 recognizes its direct right to jointly owned assets, liabilities, r­ evenues and expenses. The company does not deem that any significant capital injections will Total equity 8 8 be required in the joint arrangements in which Gränges participates. Financial non-current liabilities 24 25 Investments accounted for in accordance with the equity method Other non-current liabilities – – Financial current liabilities – 0 Shanghai Norca Gränges Other current liabilities 35 8 Heat Moriyasu Total equity and liabilities 67 41 SEK million Transfer A ­ luminium Total Carrying amount 1 January 2017 24 7 30 Acquisitions/sales – – – Share of profit/loss –5 0 –5 Dividend –4 – –4 Tax –2 – –2 Translation differences –2 0 –2 Carrying amount 31 December 2017 11 7 17 Carrying amount 1 January 2016 24 6 30 Acquisitions/sales – – – Share of profit/loss 2 0 2 Dividend –4 – –4 Translation differences 2 0 2 Carrying amount 31 December 2016 24 7 30 7 G  EOGRAPHIC BREAKDOWN OF NET SALES, NON-CURRENT ASSETS AND AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Net sales are distributed regionally based on where the customers are located. Non-current assets and the average number of employees are based on where Gränges is located. Net sales Non-current assets1) Average no. of employees SEK million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sweden 295 265 659 548 457 433 Rest of Europe 1,935 1,668 5 – – – China 1,914 1,673 940 1,039 524 520 Rest of Asia 997 949 0 0 8 8 USA 5,445 2,298 2,112 2,343 578 175 Rest of Americas 849 353 – – – – Total 11,435 7,207 3,716 3,930 1,568 1,136 1) Excluding deferred tax assets, interests in joint ventures, interest-bearing receivables and other non-current receivables. The seven largest customers accounted for 39 per cent (46) of sales. No customers accounted for more than 10 per cent of total sales in 2017 or 2016. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 77 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 PAYROLL EXPENSES Average number of employees 2017 2016¹) Average no. of employees Of which, women Average no. of employees Of which, women Gränges AB Sweden 26 8 24 8 Subsidiaries Sweden 431 85 410 77 China 520 56 516 53 US 578 70 175 21 Other countries 13 2 12 3 Group total 1,568 221 1,136 162 Board members and other senior executives 2017 2016 No. at balance sheet date Of which, women No. at balance sheet date Of which, women Board members 6 3 7 3 CEO, deputy CEO and other senior executives 8 1 8 1 Salaries, remuneration, social security contributions and pension costs 2017 2016 Salaries and Salaries and remuneration remuneration (of which, Social sec. (of which, Social sec. SEK million variable portion)2) contrib. Pension variable portion) contrib. Pension Gränges AB Board, CEO, deputy CEO and other senior ­executives –27 (–13) –10 –5 –21 (–10) –10 –4 Other employees –27 –8 –8 –17 –6 –4 Subsidiaries Other senior ­executives –16 (–7) –1 –1 –17 (–7) –2 –1 Other employees –820 –158 –33 –499 –118 –26 Group total –890 –176 –47 –555 –136 –35 1) 2016 years average number of employees has been restated due to adjustments in the acquired business in the US. 2) During 2017 SEK 12 million has been received in government grants for Americas. The grant has reduced the payroll expenses. Salaries and other remuneration to the Board members, The contract between the company and CEO is subject to twelve CEO and other senior executives months’ notice by either party without deduction. In case of termination Board members by the company the CEO is also entitled to severance pay of a further Until the Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2017 the Board of Directors twelve monthly salaries, which is off-set against income from new consisted of seven members, elected by the Annual General Meeting employment. The contracts between the company and other senior in 2016. Following the Annual General Meeting in 2017 the Board of executives, including the Deputy CEO, are subject to six months’ notice Directors consisted of six members, elected by said Annual General by either party without deduction. In case of termination by the company Meeting. The Chairman and other members of the Board receive the executive is entitled to severance pay of a further twelve monthly Directors’ fees in accordance with the resolutions adopted by the salaries, which is off-set against income from new employment. annual general meeting. Remuneration to the Board of Directors are in some cases done through invoicing from their own companies. In Pension addition to the directors fee, social security contributions are then The retirement age for the CEO is 65 years. In addition to ordinary charged as a cost, which is considered to be cost neutral for Gränges. defined-benefit pension in accordance with the ITP-plan, the CEO has a direct pension in form of a company-owned endowment insurCEO and other senior executives ance. The premiums to the endowment insurance amounts to 35 per The remuneration paid to the CEO and other senior executives consists cent of the basic salary, reduced with what is being payed to ITP. For of a basic salary, variable remuneration, other benefits and pension. other senior executives,including the deputy CEO, the retire­ment age Senior executives refer to the members of the Group Management is 60–65 years depending on the country of employment and both team. During 2017 the Group Management team consisted of eight ­premium-based and defined-benefit-based obligations exist. persons, including the CEO and Deputy CEO. The basic salary for the CEO is deliberated in the Remuneration comVariable remuneration mittee and adopted by the Board of Directors. For all other senior execShort-term incentive programme (STI) utives including Deputy CEO the salaries are deliberated and decided The remuneration from STI is determined by a number of parameters by the CEO with the support of the Chairman of the Board. The variable consisting of financial key ratios for the Group, such as adjusted operatremuneration is based on results achieved in relation to the set taring profit and cash conversion, and individual pre-determined targets. gets and is made up of two components, a short-term incentive proRemuneration under STI 2017 may not exceed 60 per cent of the gramme (STI) and a long-term incentive programme (LTI). Several total basic salary paid to all members of the Group Management long-term incentive programmes can run in parallel. team, except for the person holding position as President Americas, whom may obtain 100 per cent of the total basic salary. 78 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration and other benefits in 2017 Short-term Employee Long-term incentive Basic salary/ incentive prostock option programmes Total variable Other Directors’ fee gramme (STI)¹) programme (LTI 2014) (LTI 2016 and 2015) remuneration benefits Pension Total Board of Directors Anders G. Carlberg –0.6 – – – – – – –0.6 Terje Andersen –0.1 – – – – – – –0.1 Ragnhild Wiborg –0.4 – – – – – – –0.4 Hans Porat –0.3 – – – – – – –0.3 Carina Andersson –0.3 – – – – – – –0.3 Peter Carlsson –0.3 – – – – – – –0.3 Katarina Lindström –0.3 – – – – – – –0.3 Group Management CEO Johan Menckel –5.2 –3.2 – –2.4 –5.6 –0.1 –1.8 –12.8 Deputy CEO Oskar Hellström –2.7 –1.6 – –1.3 –2.9 –0.1 –1.3 –7.1 Other senior executives (6 individuals) –13.4 –9.2 – –3.0 –12.1 –0.6 –2.1 –28.2 Total –23.7 –14.0 – –6.7 –20.7 –0.8 –5.2 –50.4 Remuneration and other benefits in 2016 Short-term Employee Long-term incentive Basic salary/ incentive prostock option programmes Total variable Other Directors’ fee gramme (STI)2) programme (LTI 2014) (LTI 2015) remuneration benefits Pension Total Board of Directors Anders G. Carlberg –0.6 – – – – – – –0.6 Terje Andersen –0.3 – – – – – – –0.3 Ragnhild Wiborg –0.4 – – – – – – –0.4 Hans Porat –0.2 – – – – – –0.2 Carina Andersson –0.3 – – – – – – –0.3 Peter Carlsson –0.2 – – – – – – –0.2 Katarina Lindström –0.2 – – – – – – –0.2 Bertil Villard –0.1 – – – – – – –0.1 Group Management CEO Johan Menckel –4.5 –2.7 –0.33) –1.6 –4.6 –0.1 –1.6 –10.8 Other senior executives (7 individuals) –14.4 –6.7 –2.64) –3.5 –12.7 –0.9 –2.7 –30.8 Total –21.1 –9.4 –2.9 –5.0 –17.3 –1.0 –4.3 –43.8 1) The amounts are attributable to 2017 but will be disbursed in 2018. 2) The amounts are attributable to 2016 but were disbursed in 2017. 3) Vested employee stock options were settled with equity (shares). No options were vested for during 2017 but during previous years 200,000 options have been vested for. 100,000 options have been executed during 2017 to a benefit value of SEK 41,98 per option. 100,000 options were executed during 2016 to a benefit value of SEK 38,72 SEK per option. 4) Vested employee stock options for four employees were settled with equity (shares), while vested employee options for one employee was settled with cash. No options were vested for during 2017 but during previous years a total of 305,000 number of equity-settled options and 100,000 number of cash-settled options have been vested. 190,000 options have been executed during 2017 to a benefit value of SEK 41,98 per option. 215,000 options were executed during 2016 to an average benefit value of SEK 38,72 per option. Long-term incentive programmes (LTI 2015 and LTI 2016) stock options had a term of two years from the grantdate (vesting Gränges’ long-term incentive programmes comprise the company’s period) followed by an exercize period of one year. The exercize price senior executives and certain selected key persons. The incentive prowas SEK 51.00 equivalent to 120 per cent of the price in the offering in grammes aim to ­promote and encourage loyalty to the company by connection with the stock market listing less dividends. Employee aligning personal objectives and interests with the shareholders’ stock options settled with equity (shares) was expensed during the interest of strong share price performance and a good dividend. vesting period based on the fair value of the option at grant date, i.e. The programmes are designed so that an amount corresponding to the 10 October 2014 which was SEK 3.82 per option. The expense for outcome from STI for each year and participant is set aside in a ­so-­called cash-settled options was based on fair value of the vested options at LTI bank. The costs are provided for during the performance years and the each reporting period. All employee stock options had been vested for provision for LTI for each year are shown in the table Remuneration and already during 2016 and therefor no significant costs occurred for the other benefits. Provided that the participant is still employed by Gränges, program during 2017. The cost for the employee stock option program one third of the amount for LTI 2015 is paid per year during 2017, 2018 and 2019, and for LTI 2016 during the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. The payments in total, including expenses for social security contributions, are adjusted for total return of Gränges share. The total payment of LTI and amounted to SEK 20.5 million. STI in any one year shall be a maximum of 1.5 times an annual salary. 397,000 employee stock options (516,000) have been exercized ­during 2017. The average share price for exercized options amounted to Employee stock option programme (LTI 2014) SEK 86.84 (86.22) for 2017. The LTI 2014 programme lapsed in November 2017 and thereby can no further stock options be exercized. The program was initiated 10 OctoOther benefits ber 2014 and employee stock options were granted free of charge to Other benefits mainly consist of company cars and medical benefits. senior executives and other key individuals in the Group. The granted GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 79 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS SEK million 2017 2016 Audit engagement refers to the examination of the annual report and accounting records and of the Board of Directors and CEO’s manage­ EY ment of the company, other tasks incumbent on the company’s audit­or Audit engagement –6.4 –6.6 as well as advice and other assistance occasioned by observations Audit services in addition made in the course of such examinations or the performance of such to audit engagement –0.4 –0.5 other tasks. Audit services in addition to audit engagement is mainly Tax advisory services –1.6 –0.8 related to review of interim reports. Other services –0.7 –8.2 Tax advisory services include advice on tax, including transfer pricTotal remuneration to auditors –9.2 –16.1 ing issues, as well as value-added tax. Other services refer to advice that is not attributable to any of the aforementioned categor­ies of services. In 2016 other services consisted mainly of services related to the acquisition activities. 10 PENSIONS Gränges has pension plans in Sweden and the US. Approximately 74 per rights of their employees in Sweden, companies need to take out a cent (74) of the employees in Sweden are covered by defined contribution credit insurance policy with Försäkringsbolaget PRI Pensionsgaranti. pension plans, with the remainder covered by defined benefit plans. All PRI Pensionsgaranti also administers and calculates the Group’s permanent full time employees in the US are eligible for the defined conunfunded pension obligations. The Group’s pensions in Sweden are tribution plan. Approximately 26 per cent (27) of permanent full time regulated by the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act. employees in the US are eligible for the defined benefit pension plan. The Gränges Benefits Committee in the US is responsible for the oversight and management of the plans’ investments. It has a written investDefined contribution plans ment policy. The aim of the investment decisions made by the Committee Employees of Gränges in the Swedish operation are mainly covered by is to achieve optimal returns while taking into account a reasonable level pension plans classified as defined contribution plans. Defined contribuof risk. Investments are diversified, such that the failure of any single tion plans are arrangements in which the company pays annual contribuinvestment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. tions to its employees’ pension plans and where future pensions are An asset liability management assessment is conducted periodically. determined by the amount of contributions paid and the return on the The Group also has a pension obligation, which is covered by transpension assets. In Sweden employees covered by a collective bargaining fer of funds to a pension trust. agreement have defined contribution ­pension plans, as do salaried Special payroll tax has been taken into account in calculating employees born after 1979 under the ITP1 supplementary pension plan. ­pension obligations. Defined benefit plans Assumptions for defined benefit plans The defined benefit pension plan in Sweden applies for salaried The assumptions are defined in consultation with professional actuaremployees covered by the ITP2 supplementary pension plan, based on ies. Assumptions on future salary adjustments and sales are specific to a collective agreement between the Confederation of Swedish Enterthe Group. The discount rate is determined by reference to high-quality prise and the trade unions for salaried employees in the private sector. corporate bonds traded in a well functioning market, which reflect the The pension plan is a net plan under which the pension obligation is not duration of the pension obligation. In Sweden the discount rate is based linked to changes in Swedish social insurance schemes. Under the on secured mortgage bonds. applicable collective agreement, all salaried employees born in 1979 or after are covered by a defined contribution plan. This means that the Assumptions for defined benefit plans scope of the defined benefit plan will be reduced over time. The group Sweden US also operates defined benefit pension plans for hourly union employees 2017 2016 2017 2016 in the US under broadly similar regulatory frameworks. All of the plans are final salary pension plans, which provide benefit to members in the Discount rate, % 2.6 2.5 2.6–3.8 2.5–4.2 form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life. The level of beneFuture salary fits provided depends on members’ length of service and their salary in adjustments , % 3.0 2.6 4.0 4.0 the final years leading up to retirement. In the Swedish plans, pensions Income base amount, % 2.9 2.5 N/A N/A in payment are generally updated in line with the retail price index, Inflation, % 1.9 1.5 N/A N/A whereas in the US plans, pensions generally do not receive inflationary increases once in payment. With the exception of this inflationary risk in Employee turnover, % 5. 4.0 2.0–15.0 3.5–20.0 Sweden, the plans face broadly similar risks, including the risk of Weighted average increased life expectancy and sensitivity to changes in interest rates. remaining duration, years 19.0 19.0 12.0 10.9 Both the Swedish and US defined benefit plans are accounted for The assumptions for life expectancy in Sweden are based on PRI’s life as a provision in the balance sheet. Swedish plans are unfunded and expectancy tables as of 30 June 2011. US plans are partially funded. To secure unfunded accrued pension The mortality assumption in the US is based on the RP-2014 mortality tables. Distribution of pension costs Sweden US Total SEK million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Defined contribution plans –33 –26 – – –33 –26 Current service cost –6 –6 –7 –3 –13 –9 Pension cost recognized as operating expense –39 –32 –7 –3 –47 –35 Interest on net pension liabilities recognized as a financial expense –4 –4 –5 –2 –9 –6 Pensions costs recognized in the income statement –43 –37 –12 –5 –55 –42 Actuarial gains and losses recognized in the statement of comprehensive income –15 –13 –11 41 –26 27 Return on plan assets greater than discount rate – – 33 2 33 2 Total pension costs –58 –50 10 38 –49 –12 80 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Distribution of pension liabilities at 31 December Sweden US Total SEK million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Present value of unfunded pension obligations –177 –157 –99 –131 –276 –288 Present value of funded and partially funded pension obligations 0 –1 –306 –310 –306 –310 Funded plan assets 0 1 306 310 306 310 Total pension liabilities –177 –157 –99 –131 –276 –288 Changes in the present value of pension obligations during the year Sweden US Total SEK million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Pension obligations 1 January –157 –138 –440 – –597 –138 Business combinations – – – –448 – –448 Current service cost –6 –6 –4 –3 –10 –9 Interest on pension provision –4 –4 –16 –5 –20 –9 Actuarial gains and losses recognized in the statement of comprehensive income: – due to changes in financial assumptions –13 –20 –14 32 –27 13 – due to changes in demographic assumptions 1 7 3 8 5 15 – due to experienced-based adjustments –4 0 1 1 –4 1 Benefits paid during the year 5 5 22 8 28 13 Translation differences – – 44 –34 44 –34 Pension obligations 31 December –177 –157 –405 –440 –582 –597 Changes in the present value of plan assets during the year Sweden US Total SEK million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Plan assets 1 January 1 1 310 – 310 1 Business combinations – – – 293 – 293 Administrative expenses 0 0 –3 – –3 0 Interest on plan assets 0 0 11 3 11 3 Return on plan assets greater than discount rate – – 33 2 33 2 Employer contributions 0 0 9 0 9 0 Benefits paid during the year –1 0 –22 –8 –23 –8 Translation differences – – –31 19 –31 19 Plan assets 31 December 0 1 306 310 306 310 Net pension liabilities –177 –157 –99 –131 –276 –288 Distribution of plan assets Defined benefit pension liabilities terms Sweden US Total SEK million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 SEK million Sweden US Total Equity – – 132 204 132 204 Benefits scheduled for disbursement Fixed income – – 121 101 121 101 within 12 months 5 24 29 High yield – – 31 – 31 – Benefits scheduled for disbursement within 1–5 years 18 101 119 Real estate – – 18 – 18 – Benefits scheduled for disbursement Cash – – 4 3 4 3 after 5 years or more 469 129 598 Pension trust 0 0 – – – 0 Total plan assets 0 0 306 310 306 310 Contributions to plans for post-employment remuneration are estimated at SEK 19 million for the financial year 2018. Sensitivity analysis of the effect on the pension liabilities (+increase/-decrease in pension liabilities) SEK million Sweden US Total Discount rate, % +0.5 –14 –21 –35 –0.5 16 23 39 Increased/decreased +1 7 15 22 life expectancy, years –1 –7 –14 –21 The sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an individual actuarial assumption while other assumptions remain unchanged. This method shows the obligation’s sensitivity to a single assumption. This is a simplified method, as actuarial assumptions are normally correlated. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 81 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES 13 FINANCIAL INCOME AND COSTS SEK million 2017 2016 SEK million 2017 2016 Energy expenses –372 –287 Interest income 6 5 Freight expenses –279 –199 Total financial income 6 5 Repair and maintenance expenses –281 –200 Interest expense –91 –44 Consultant fees –147 –95 Interest expense, pensions –9 –6 Consumable material –123 –102 Net foreign exchange losses –11 0 Rental/leasing –38 –26 Other financial expenses –10 –15 Travel expenses –36 –17 Total financial costs –120 –66 Insurance –33 –36 Total financial income and costs –115 –61 Vehicle operating expenses –17 –21 Other –296 –172 Financial income in 2017 mainly consists of interest income from bank Total other operating expenses –1,622 –1,155 deposits in China. Financial expenses primarily refers to interest on borrowings. Other financial expenses mainly can be referred to costs for financing of the acquisition in the US. 12 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY SEK million 2017 2016 14 TAXES Closure costs for US sales company –16 –10 Tax expense Mergers and Acquisition costs – –70 SEK million 2017 2016 Realisation of fair value inventory step-up on acquired business – –48 Profit before taxes 797 500 Total items affecting comparability –16 –128 Current tax –103 –29 Deferred tax –42 27 Items affecting comparability include non-recurring income and expenses. Disclosure is made to improve the comparability between Total tax –145 –2 different periods. Tax as % of profit before taxes 18 0 Following the acquisition in US 2016, Gränges will from 2 January 2018 coordinate the group’s distribution in North America through its Reconciliation of the Group’s tax rate wholly-owned operations instead of as previous via the joint venture The following table shows a reconciliation of reported tax and tax calcompany Norca Heat Transfer LLC. The costs for closing down the culated on Swedish tax rate of 22 per cent. The main tax components sales company Norca are estimated to SEK –16 million and is included are shown below. in items affecting comparability for 2017. Items affecting comparability for 2016 relates to acquisition activiSEK million 2017 2016 ties at a cost of SEK –70 million and a realisation cost of the difference between the inventory valued at fair value and at cost, the so Earnings before tax multiplied by nominal tax called step-up, amounted to SEK –48 million. rate in Sweden –175 –110 Effect of foreign operations with tax rates other than 22 % –25 –8 Non-deductible expenses –4 –3 Non-taxable income 8 2 Tax subsidies abroad 12 15 Other income tax paid abroad –24 –43 Adjustment of tax in respect of prior years 12 3 Changes in tax legislation –3 – Release on tax provision in China 53 139 Total tax –145 –2 Income tax paid abroad mainly consists of paid income tax of SEK –19 million (–38) in China on dividends from the subsidiary in Shanghai to Gränges AB. Gränges’ Chinese subsidiary has obtained a pre-qualification as a High and New-Technology Enterprise for the three years period 2016 to 2018. The pre-qualification means that the company preliminary pays 15 per cent in corporate income tax instead of the ordinary tax of 25 per cent for the period. However, in order to finally obtain the lower tax rate, the company must meet special requirements established by the authorities in China for each one of the three years. In 2016, a positive tax of SEK 139 million was reported due to re­­ lea­se of a provision related to the classification as a High and New-­ Technology Enterprise for the Chinese operation for the three years period 2013–2015. 82 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The tax return for 2016 has during 2017 been approved and thereby The Tax reform in US where the corporate income tax 2018 decrease also the special requirements to finally obtain the lower tax rate of 15 from 35 per cent to 21 per cent has affected change in deferred tax per cent for income year 2016. The provision related to the ordinary assets with –3 MSEK. tax rate for 2016 has thereby been released and effects income tax positive with SEK 53 million for 2017. Deferred tax In view of the difficulties to currently estimate whether these speDeferred tax consists of the Group’s tax items, which are settled in the cial requirements will be met for the financial year 2017, corporate future. The table below specifies deferred tax assets and tax ­liabilities income tax in the Chinese operation has been based on the standard relating to temporary differences between the carrying amounts and rate of 25 per cent for 2017. The provision for the higher tax rate tax bases of assets and liabilities. applied on 2017 years profit for China amount to SEK 53 million (106) per 31 December 2017. Deferred tax on temporary differences 2017 2016 Deferred Deferred Net deferred Deferred Deferred Net deferred SEK million tax asset (+) tax liability (–) tax tax asset (+) tax liability (–) tax Property, plant and equipment – –102 –102 1 –56 –54 Intangible assets – –35 –35 – –13 –13 Hedging reserve in equity – –4 –4 9 – 9 Net pension provision 17 –9 8 14 –14 0 Other non-current items 9 – 9 12 – 12 Total non-current items 26 –151 –125 35 –82 –47 Current receivables 4 – 4 8 – 8 Inventories 6 – 6 6 – 6 Other current items 52 – 52 52 –3 49 Total current items 62 – 62 66 –3 63 Tax losses 47 – 47 24 – 24 Set-off –91 91 0 –61 61 0 Net deferred tax assets (+) / liabilities (–) 44 –60 –16 64 –24 40 Deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses have been taken into account in full since the company is of the opinion that sufficient income will be generated in the future to be utilized against the tax losses. The tax losses amount to SEK 215 million (83) per 31 December 2017, whereof SEK 172 million has no expiration and SEK 43 million is limited to be used within 10 years. Change in deferred tax in the income statement SEK million 2017 2016 15 EARNINGS PER SHARE Change in deferred tax in balance sheet –56 23 Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit for the year Change in deferred tax, hedging reserve in other by the weighted average number of outstanding shares. For further comprehensive income 12 –7 information of Gränges’ shares see Note 27 Share capital. Change in deferred tax, actuarial gains and losses 2017 2016 on pensions in other comprehensive income –4 13 Business combinations –1 – Profit for the year (SEK million) 652 498 Translation effects in other comprehensive income 5 –2 Weighted average number of Change in deferred tax in the income statement –42 27 outstanding shares, basic 75,370,577 74,703,886 Weighted average number of outstanding shares, diluted 75,440,749 74,913,949 Earnings per share, basic, SEK 8.65 6.66 Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 8.64 6.64 In connection with the stock market listing of Gränges an employee stock option programme for senior executives and key individuals of the company was introduced (for more information, see Note 8 Payroll expenses). The employee stock option programme has resulted in a dilution effect of 70,172 (210,063) shares. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 83 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Customer Customer relationrelationSEK million IT Goodwill ships Total SEK million IT Goodwill ships Total Carrying amount, 1 January 2017 17 359 207 584 Carrying amount, 1 January 2016 3 6 – 9 Acquisitions 74 0 0 74 Acquisitions 16 – – 16 Business combinations – 31 – 31 Business combinations – 331 196 527 Amortisation –1 – –10 –11 Amortisation –2 – –3 –6 Translation differences – –18 –20 –38 Translation differences – 22 14 37 Carrying amount, 31 December 2017 91 372 178 640 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 17 359 207 584 Cost, 31 December 2017 116 372 190 679 Cost, 31 December 2016 42 359 210 612 Accumulated amortisation Accumulated amortisation and impairment –26 – –13 –39 and impairment –25 – –3 –29 Carrying amount, 31 December 2017 91 372 178 640 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 17 359 207 584 Impairment test of goodwill No event indicating impairment of the assessed value of acquired Impairment testing for goodwill is made annually or continuously durassets and liabilities has occurred during the fiscal year or after its ing the year if an event that may result in impairment need arises. expiration. The forecast period is five years with an average growth rate of 4.1 per cent. Extrapolated cash flows beyond the forecast period do not Customer relationships contain any assumptions of further growth, which means that cash flow The customer relationships arose in conjunction with the US acquisifrom year six is extrapolated with year five as base and then no growth tion at 22 August 2016. The acquired business has a number of large is considered. customers that they have had long relationships with. The customer Cash flows have been discounted at a present value using a disrelationships are recognized at their fair value at the date of acquisicount rate calculated at 7.9 per cent per annum after tax, correspondtion and are subsequently amortized on a straight-line basis over their ing to 8.7 per cent before tax for the year’s review. Sensitivity analyses estimated useful lives of 20 years. at which the discount rate and the annual growth rate need for impairment have been made, indicate that there are estimated room for Other manoeuvre in the calculated values in use. No reasonable changes to IT mainly refers to implementation of a new ERP system within the assumptions about discount rate or growth rate would lead to impairGroup. ment of goodwill. The Group expensed SEK 82 million (73) during 2017 for re­search and development. 84 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, land improvements Machinery and Fixed assets under Fixtures, SEK million and buildings ­equipment construction vehicles, etc. Total Carrying amount, 1 January 2017 713 2,428 159 46 3,347 Acquisitions 0 25 247 12 284 Business combinations 4 5 0 0 9 Sales – –1 – 0 –1 Transferred assets, fixed assets under construction 19 152 –183 12 0 Impairment – –4 – –1 –4 Depreciation –40 –291 – –24 –355 Translation differences –36 –162 –5 –1 –204 Carrying amount, 31 December 2017 661 2,153 218 44 3,076 Cost, 31 December 2017 1,030 4,498 218 214 5,960 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –369 –2,345 – –169 –2,884 Carrying amount, 31 December 2017 661 2,153 218 44 3,076 Carrying amount, 1 January 2016 451 1,071 105 42 1,669 Acquisitions 0 39 87 12 139 Business combinations 261 1,392 13 7 1,673 Sales – – – – – Transferred assets, fixed assets under construction 12 34 –47 0 0 Impairment – –1 – – –1 Depreciation –31 –212 – –15 –258 Translation differences 19 104 1 1 125 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 713 2,428 159 46 3,347 Cost, 31 December 2016 1,041 4,479 159 192 5,871 Accumulated depreciation and impairment –329 –2,050 – –145 –2,524 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 713 2,428 159 46 3,347 For information on lease costs regarding leased property, plant and equipment, see Note 28. For information on collateral and mortgages related to property, plant and equipment, see Note 30. 18 INVENTORIES SEK million 2017 2016 Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and fair value after deduction of selling costs. Raw materials 499 407 The amount of inventories recognized as an expense is included in Work in progress 547 510 cost of materials and amounted in 2017 to SEK 7,396 million (4,374) Finished goods and merchandise 586 532 including the change in the provision for obsolescence of SEK 1 million Provision for obsolescence –21 –22 (–6). Total inventories 1,611 1,428 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 85 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial ­instruments at Derivatives Financial fair value included in ­liabilities Of which 2017 Measurement through profit hedge ­measured at Loans and interest­ SEK million Note level or loss accounting amortized cost r­ eceivables Total bearing Non-current assets Non-current financial ­receivables 24, 31 – – – – 33 33 33 Non-current derivatives 26 2 – 5 – – 5 – Total – 5 – 33 38 33 Current assets Accounts receivable 20 – – – – 1,599 1,599 – Other current receivables 20 – – – – 91 91 – Current derivatives 20, 24, 26 2 44 24 – – 68 0 Cash and cash equivalents 21 – – – – 742 742 742 Total 44 24 – 2,432 2,500 742 Non-current liabilities Non-current financial ­liabilities 24 – – – 2,215 – 2,215 2,215 Non-current derivatives 26 2 – 3 – – 3 – Total – 3 2,215 – 2,218 2,215 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 24 – – – 576 – 576 576 Accounts payable 22 – – – 986 – 986 – Other current liabilities 22 – – – 2 – 2 – Current derivatives 22, 24, 26 2 57 10 – – 67 – Total 57 10 1,564 – 1,631 576 Total financial instruments (receivables + / liabilities –) –13 16 –3,779 2,465 –1,311 –2,016 Financial ­instruments at Derivatives Financial fair value included in ­liabilities Of which 2016 Measurement through profit hedge ­ easured at m Loans and interest­ SEK million Note level or loss accounting amortized cost ­receivables Total bearing Non-current assets Non-current financial ­receivables 24, 31 – – – – 36 36 36 Non-current derivatives 26 2 – 1 – – 1 – Total – 1 – 36 37 36 Current assets Accounts receivable 20 – – – – 1,392 1,392 – Other current receivables 20 – – – – 103 103 – Current derivatives 20, 24, 26 2 27 4 – – 31 2 Cash and cash equivalents 21 – – – – 851 851 851 Total 27 4 – 2,346 2,377 853 Non-current liabilities Non-current financial ­liabilities 24 – – – 2,888 – 2,888 2,888 Non-current derivatives 26 2 – 8 – – 8 – Total – 8 2,888 – 2,895 2,888 Current liabilities Current financial liabilities 24 – – – 433 – 433 433 Accounts payable 22 – – – 832 – 832 – Other current liabilities 22 – – – 44 – 44 – Current derivatives 22, 24, 26 2 56 35 – – 91 3 Total 56 35 1 ,309 – 1,400 436 Total financial instruments (receivables + / liabilities –) –29 –38 –4,197 2,382 1,881 –2,434 86 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Measurement of financial instruments Interest-bearing receivables and liabilities The Group uses the following hierarchy to determine the fair values of The fair value of interest-bearing assets and liabilities is provided for financial instruments: disclosure purposes and is estimated by discounting the future cash Level 1: Q uoted, unadjusted prices in active markets for identical flows of principal and interest discounted at the current market rate. instruments. In the fair value measurement of borrowings the credit spread has Level 2: I nputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are remained constant unless there is clear evidence that a change in directly or indirectly observable for the instrument. the Group’s creditworthiness has resulted in an observable change Level 3: N on-observable inputs that have significant impact on the fair in the credit spread. The fair value of borrowings amounted in 2017 value of the instrument. to SEK 2,805 million (3,339). Currency forwards Other receivables and liabilities Fair value of currency forward contracts is calculated by discounting For other receivables and liabilities, which are short-term, the the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward ­carrying amount is considered to reflect the fair value. rate that can be contracted on the balance sheet date for the remaining contract period. No transfers from one level to another in the valuation hierarchy were made in 2017 and 2016. Aluminium futures Aluminium futures are measured at observable quoted prices on LME (London Metal Exchange) and SHFE (Shanghai Futures Exchange) for similar assets and liabilities. 20 CURRENT RECEIVABLES 21 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS SEK million 2017 2016 SEK million 2017 2016 Accounts receivable 1,599 1,392 Cash and bank balances 742 851 Derivatives 68 31 Total cash and cash equivalents 742 851 Other current receivables 91 103 Total financial receivables 1,758 1,526 Advances to suppliers/accrued income 28 33 22 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Tax receivables 39 41 Total current receivables 1,826 1,600 SEK million 2017 2016 Accounts payable 986 832 Change in provisions for bad debts Derivatives 67 88 SEK million 2017 2016 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 2 44 Total non-interest-bearing financial liabilities 1 ,055 964 Provisions for bad debts, 1 January –32 –46 Bad debts recognized in income statement 10 15 Value-added tax, employee withholding tax etc. 38 37 Used during the year 1 –1 Accrued expenses 144 113 Translation differences 1 0 Employee-related liabilities 195 186 Provisions for bad debts, 31 December –19 –32 Other current liabilities 42 29 Total other current liabilities 1,474 1,329 Accounts receivables maturity structure SEK million Not yet due 2017 1,105 2016 1,114 23 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Overdue 1–30 days 293 121 Gränges’ capital management is governed by principles adopted by the Overdue 31–60 days 85 63 Board of Directors. The capital structure is also adapted to legal and Overdue 61–90 days 35 45 tax considerations. The company’s financial objective for capital manOverdue more than 90 days 101 80 agement is a net debt of one to two times EBITDA over the past twelve months. A further description of Gränges’ management of financing is Provisions for bad debts, 31 December –19 –32 given in Notes 24 and 25. Gränges does not currently have an official Accounts receivable, carrying amount credit rating. 31 December 1,599 1,392 SEK million 2017 2016 The maturity structure of overdue receivables has been relatively stable over time and reflects the fact that Gränges operates in certain Total interest-bearing liabilities 2,791 3,324 regions and markets where payments from customers are generally Total interest-bearing receivables 33 38 somewhat slow. Overdue accounts receivable are allocated across the Cash and cash equivalents 742 851 whole customer base. Net interest-bearing liabilities 2,017 2,434 Bad debts have historically been relatively small and stable. Five customers accounted for 20 per cent of total outstanding accounts Provision for pensions 276 288 receiv­able at 31 December 2017 (five customers accounted for 34 per Net debt 2,292 2,722 cent of the total in 2016). Adjusted EBITDA 1,303 1,274 A more detailed description of the customer base is given in Note 7. Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA 1.8 2.1 Adjusted EBITDA for 2016 includes estimated adjusted EBITDA for the acquired business in the US as if part of Gränges Group for the full year. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 87 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 FINANCING AND INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES Financing Carrying amount Gränges’ interest bearing debt consists mainly of USD term loans of USD SEK million 2017 2016 220 million and SEK term loans of SEK 670 million. The duration of the interest bearing debt portfolio was approximately three months at 31 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities December 2017. Gränges also has a revolving credit facility of SEK 1,200 Interest-bearing loans 2,215 2,888 million, available in several currencies with a remaining time to maturity Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 2,215 2,888 of three years. At 31 December 2017 SEK 0 million (470) had been drawn. Gränges also has a commercial paper program which was utilized to 300 Current interest-bearing liabilities MSEK at year end. The loan facilities are subject to covenants, which are Interest-bearing loans 576 433 Net Debt/EBITDA and Interest coverage ratio. The covenants were fulInterest-bearing derivatives 0 3 filled at 31 December 2017. Total current interest-bearing liabilities 576 436 Total interest-bearing liabilities 2,791 3,324 Interest-bearing receivables Non-current interest-bearing receivables 33 36 Current interest-bearing derivatives – 2 Cash and cash equivalents 742 851 Total interest-bearing receivables 774 889 Net interest-bearing liabilities 2,017 2,434 Under the current loan agreements Gränges has entered into customary undertakings not to pledge assets or in a similar manner use its property to give creditors a better right than the banks providing the credit facilities. 25 FINANCIAL RISK Financial risk management minium is passed on to the customer through metal price clauses. The Gränges operates on a global basis and is exposed to financial risks aluminium price is generally set in connection with delivery. As both such as market risk in the form of currency risk, commodity price risk purchase and selling price for the metal component in general are and interest rate risk, and also to liquidity risk and credit risk. Gränges based on the London Metal Exchange (LME) price for aluminium, which uses derivatives and other financial instruments to reduce the risks in is expressed in US dollars, no material currency exposures arise on the accordance with the Group’s Financial Management Policy. metal price component. Unlike the metal price, the conversion price is Some of Gränges treasury department’s most important tasks are subject to contracts covering a longer period of time, thus creating a to secure the Group’s shortand long-term financial flexibility and to greater currency risk. monitor and manage financial risks in cooperation with the operating The largest portion of Gränges’ cost base for processing is in USD, companies. CNY and SEK while the conversion price is set primarily in USD, CNY Financial risk refers to risk pertaining to financial instruments. and EUR. The Group’s sensitivity to exchange rate fluctuations before These can either be hedging instruments for the underlying risk or be currency hedges, i.e. excluding the impact of currency derivatives, is viewed as a source of risk in themselves. Gränges manages financial shown in the table below. risks in a non-­speculative manner, which means that all transactions in financial instruments are adapted to limit financial risks in the 2016 Change, % Effect on operating profit, SEK million operations. USD/CNY ±10% ±77 Currency risk USD/SEK ±10% ±26 Transaction exposure EUR/SEK ±10% ±64 Gränges conducts operations globally and is thereby exposed to currency risk. The main exposure derives from the Group’s sales and purThe transaction risk is hedged according to the Financial Management chases in different currencies. The currency risks consist partly of the Policy. The objective for Gränges’ currency hedging activities, is to risk of fluctuations in the value of financial instruments, i.e. debt minimize the exposure to rapid changes in currency rates in the short instruments, accounts receivable and accounts payable, and partly of and medium term by hedging a carefully considered portion of the the ­currency risk in expected and contracted payment flows. In 2016, Group’s foreign currency exposure. Exposures relating to ­customer sales to countries outside Sweden accounted for 97 per cent (98) of orders without firm commitments are hedged up to 24 months out in Gränges’ total sales volume while net revenues in foreign currencies time based on a rolling forecast in which a portion of the forecast curtotalled SEK 11,140 million (6,942). The largest currencies were USD, rency exposure is hedged. In 2017, 50–70 per cent of the forecast curCNY and EUR. rency exposure of the coming 12 months was hedged. The selling price for Gränges’ products is divided into a metal price The Group’s total outstanding currency hedges of future trans­actions component for the raw aluminium and a conversion price component at the balance sheet date are shown in the tables below. covering Gränges’ processing costs and margin. The cost of the alu88 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Currency contracts linked to hedging of future income and expenses1) EUR/SEK USD/SEK USD/CNY Maturity Sold volumes, EUR Sold volumes, USD Sold volumes, USD 31 Dec 2017 million net Price million net Price million net Price Q1 2018 24 9.60 19 8.35 19 6.75 Q2 2018 16 9.58 12 8.38 18 6.80 Q3 2018 16 9.67 6 8.35 10 6.92 Q4 2018 10 9.65 5 8.37 7 6.93 FY 2019 21 9.73 9 8.15 10 6.79 Total 87 9.65 51 8.33 64 6.81 31 Dec 2016 FY 2017 and FY 2018 79 9.45 41 8.51 67 6.74 Metal related currency contracts linked to hedging of future income and expenses1) EUR/SEK USD/SEK USD/CNY Maturity Sold volumes, EUR Sold volumes, USD Sold volumes, USD 31 Dec 2017 million net Price million net Price million net Price Q1–2 2018 –7 9.88 28 7.99 7 6.75 31 Dec 2016 Q1–2 2017 –3 9.61 26 8.55 9 6.72 1) In currency pairs where the net hedged position exceeds SEK 20 million. Gränges applies hedge accounting for most hedges of future trans­ Interest rate risk actions, either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges of firm commitGränges’ interest rate risk is primarily related to the Group’s interest­ ments. The various types of hedging are described in Note 26. bearing liabilities and assets. Gränges’ primary sources of funding allows for borrowing with interest terms of one, two, three or six Translation exposure months. The average matu­rity at 31 December 2017 was three months As SEK is the presentation currency for the Group, Gränges is exposed (two months). Gränges’ loans have variable interest rates. The interest to currency risk upon translation of net investments in foreign operarate risk was not hedged with financial instruments during 2017. tions. This refers mainly to CNY and USD, for which the trans­lation exposure was SEK 2,843 million (2,755) at 31 December 2017. Gränges Liquidity risk does not hedge this exposure. Liquidity risk is the risk that Gränges will be unable to fulfil its pay­ment obligations. Gränges’ Financial Management Policy stipulates measures Commodity price risk that to ensure adequate liquidity in the Group. Cash flow from operating Aluminium is traded mainly on the London Metal Exchange (LME) but activities is managed centrally in Gränges Group and Gränges monitors also on the Shanghai Futures Exchange (SHFE). For Gränges, prices of short­and long-term liquidity flows through reporting. metal purchases are influenced by fluctuations in the market price of The table below shows the maturity structure for the Gränges aluminium on LME and SHFE. The guiding principle is that Gränges Group’s contractual financial liabilities. The amounts refer to non-­ should, where possible, avoid exposures to changes in the LME price discounted future cash flows and may therefore differ from the recor other benchmark prices, such as the SHFE price. Gränges reduces ognized ­figures. All variable interest cash flows have been calculated this risk primarily by linking prices from metal ­suppliers to the prices at the rate prevailing on the balance sheet date and all future cash it offers its customers. In addition, futures contracts for aluminium flows in foreign currency are translated to SEK using the closing rate on LME and SHFE are concluded subject to defined limits in order to at year-end. The table also includes derivatives which are recognized reduce the price risk in connection with orders and the value of unsold as assets at the balance sheet date, as derivatives can include both metal in stock. positive and negative cash flows, and the fair value var­ies over time. Gränges normally has a certain level of stock for which the price to Financial liabilities are managed using operating cash flow, liquid the customers has not been fixed. The part of the stock where the and interest-­bearing assets and, where necessary, available credit price has not been fixed with the customers are hedged using finanfacilities. cial instruments. At 31 December 2017 Gränges had sold a net 11,500 tonnes (15,875) of aluminium for hedging on LME and 7,500 tonnes (7,000) for hedging on SHFE. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 89 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS cont. Note 25 2017 Contractual SEK million Carrying amount cash flows < 1 year 1–2 years 2–4 years > 4 years Other interest-bearing liabilities 2,791 3,034 656 516 1,650 212 Accounts payable 986 986 986 – – – Other current liabilities 2 2 2 – – – Net-settled derivatives1) – aluminium derivatives –12 – – – – – Inflow – –27 –27 – – – Outflow – 39 39 – – – Gross-settled derivatives1) – currency derivatives –15 – – – – – Inflow – –3,534 –3,160 –374 – – Outflow – 3,519 3,147 372 – – Total 3,752 4,019 1,643 514 1,650 212 2016 Contractual SEK million Carrying amount cash flows < 1 year 1–2 years 2–4 years > 4 years Other interest-bearing liabilities 3,321 3,652 535 918 2,200 – Accounts payable 832 832 832 – – – Other current liabilities 44 44 44 – – – Net-settled derivatives1) – aluminium derivatives 0 – – – – – Inflow – –15 –15 – – – Outflow – 15 15 – – – Gross-settled derivatives1) – currency derivatives 66 – – – – – Inflow – –3,356 –3,045 –311 – – Outflow – 3,423 3,105 318 – – Total 4,263 4,595 1,470 924 2,200 – 1) Including derivatives recognized as assets. Credit risk • For currency hedges of concluded contracts changes in the fair The management of credit risks related to accounts receivable and value of the hedging instrument will affect the income statement other current assets is handled as part of the commercial risk and while changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged contract monitored continuously by the operating units. Gränges customers are that is offset by the hedging instrument will not be shown, as this is also spread over various countries and geographic markets. Credit not a financial instrument. losses have historically been low due to the relatively strong financial • If one of the parameters changes the analysis will not take account position of Gränges’ customers as well as strict credit pro­c edures. of any correlations with other parameters. Gränges’ credit risks related to other financial instruments are • Financial instruments issued in the functional currency of individ­managed by choosing counterparties with a good credit rating and ual units do not create a currency risk and are therefore not by minimising the risk per counterparty. Gränges also enters into included in this analysis. For the same reason the currency expocustomary agreements with financial counterparties, as for example sure is not included upon translation of such financial instruments ISDA-agreements. into the presentation currency. Sensitivity analysis Generally, the effect on the income statement and other comprehenFinancial instruments in the Gränges Group are exposed to different sive income of financial instruments shown in the table below is types of market risk which can affect the income statement or equity. expected to offset the effects of the hedged items in cases where the Financial instruments, especially derivatives, are used as a means of financial instruments are included in a hedging relation­ship. hedging financial and operational exposures. Accounting effects of changes in market risk are classified to the The table below shows a partial analysis of the sensitivity of finanincome statement and other comprehensive income depending on cial instruments, where the isolated effect of each type of risk on the where the effect of changes in fair value should be recognized initially. income statement and other comprehensive income is calculated. Effects which are accounted for in the income statement also affect This is done on the basis of a chosen hypothetical change in market other comprehensive income in addition to the figures presented in prices or prices in the balance sheet at 31 December. In accordance the table. with IFRS, the analysis only covers financial instruments and is not intended to provide a full overview of the Group’s market risk, for example: Accounting before tax effects on Income statement Other comprehensive income SEK million 2017 2016 2017 2016 Interest rate risk: 100 bp parallel shift in yield curves, all currencies –/+20 –/+25 – – Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, USD/SEK –/+3 –/+2 –/+31 –/+28 Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, EUR/SEK 0 –/+3 –/+70 –/+60 Currency risk: +/–10 % change in FX rate, CNY/USD 0 0 –/+37 –/+47 Price risk: +/–20 % change in LME prices –/+82 –/+81 +/–11 +/–9 90 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26 DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING The table below shows the fair value of all outstanding derivatives grouped by their treatment in the financial statements. Derivatives and hedging 2017 2016 SEK million Assets (+) Liabilities (–) Assets (+) Liabilities (–) Cash flow hedges Currency forwards, currency swaps 26 –13 4 –43 Aluminium futures 3 0 1 0 Total 29 –13 5 –43 Fair value hedges Currency forwards, currency swaps 6 –7 4 –17 Aluminium futures 22 –39 12 –14 Total 28 –46 15 –31 Other derivatives – changes in fair value recognized in income statement Currency forwards, currency swaps 15 –11 11 –24 Aluminium futures 1 0 1 0 Total 16 –11 12 –24 Total derivatives 73 –70 32 –99 Cash flow hedges Fair value hedging Gränges’ purchases of futures contracts for aluminium on LME as well Gränges sells aluminium futures contracts to hedge the value of as currency forwards are identified as hedging instruments in cash inventory. Where there is also a currency risk exposure related curflow hedges. All derivatives are classified as hedging instruments in rency derivatives are entered into. Metal and currency derivatives are cash flow hedges accounted for at fair value in the balance sheet. then together designated as hedging instrument in fair value hedges. Changes in fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income Gains and losses on hedged items as well as the hedging instrument and accumulated in the hedging reserve in equity and reclassified to are accounted for as cur­rency gains and losses in the income statethe income statement when the hedged cash flows are recognized in ment and the value of inventory is adjusted by changes in the fair value the income statement. of the hedged risk. Losses on the hedging instrument amounted to No gain or loss has been recognized in the income statement as a SEK –2 million in 2017 (–17) and gains on the hedged item attributable result of ineffective hedging in 2017 and 2016. All expected cash flows to the hedged risk amounted to SEK 2 million in 2017 (17). that were hedged in 2017 still qualify for hedge accounting. Offsetting Change in hedging reserve Financial assets and liabilities subject to an enforceable master ­netting arrangement or similar agreement relate only to the Group’s SEK million 2017 2016 derivatives. Gränges has entered into ISDA-agreements with relevant Opening hedging reserve before tax –38 –5 financial counterparties. Reclassified to income statement 31 8 Change in value during the year 22 –41 DerivaNet tives not CollaterClosing hedging reserve before tax 16 –38 amounts in intended als SEK Gross balance to be setreceived/ Net Deferred tax, hedging reserve –4 9 ­million amounts Offset sheet tled net pledged amounts Closing hedging reserve after tax 12 –29 2017 Derivative A positive hedging reserve will result in positive figures in the income assets 73 – 73 50 – 23 statement in the future. Accumulated hedging gains and losses from Derivative cash flow hedges which were recognized in the hedging reserve as at liabilities –70 – –70 –50 – –20 31 December 2017 and are expected to be recognized in the income statement (before tax) are SEK 14 million for 2018 and SEK 2 million 2016 after 2018. Derivative assets 32 – 32 26 – 6 Derivative liabilities –99 – –99 –26 – –72 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 91 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 SHARE CAPITAL 2017 2016 The articles of association for Gränges AB state that the share capital shall be not less than SEK 80,000,000 and not more than SEK Opening numbers of shares 75,155,386 74,639,386 320,000,000. The number of shares shall be not less than 32,000,000 Rights issue 362,000 516,000 and not more than 128,000,000. Closing numbers of shares 75,517,386 75,155,386 Due to the exercize of 362,000 options within the Group’s incentive program LTI 2014 (see Note 8 for more information) new shares SEK million 2017 2016 have been issued during the year. Equity has in total increased by Share capital, opening balance 101 100 SEK 16 million (34), whereof share capital with SEK 0 million (1) and number of shares with 362,000 (516,000) due to the rights issued. Rights issue 0 1 The share capital in Gränges at 31 December 2017 amounts to SEK Share capital, closing balance 101 101 101 million (101), divided into 75,517,386 shares, each with a quota value of SEK 1.339775. The share capital comprises a single class of SEK million 2017 2016 share. Share premium, opening balance 33 – For earnings per share and dilutive effect see Note 15 Earnings Rights issue 16 33 per share. Share premium, closing balance 49 33 28 LEASING The Group has no agreements classified as financial leasing, which is mainly due to the fact that the Group owns in principle all its production facilities and production machinery. Operational leasing is primarily attributable to the business’s normal agreements regarding warehousing, office space and office equipment and rental of industrial premises in Finspång, Sweden. Operating leases – lessees Future minimum lease payments relating to leases and other leases in the capacity of lessees attributable to non-cancellable agreements are distributed on the balance sheet date over the following maturity dates: Land and buildings Machinery and equipment Fixtures and vehicles Other assets Total SEK million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Within 1 year –8 –6 –5 –7 –6 –14 – – –19 –27 Within 2–5 years –31 –19 –18 –19 –18 –26 – – –67 –64 After 5 years –12 –9 – –5 0 –4 – – –13 –17 Total future lease costs –52 –34 –23 –31 –24 –44 – – –99 –108 The expense for lease payments for the period is shown in Note 11. Operating leases – lessor Future minimum lease payments relating to leases and other leases as lessor attributable to non-cancellable agreements are distributed on the balance sheet date over the following maturity dates: Land and buildings Machinery and equipment Fixtures and vehicles Other assets Total SEK million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Within 1 year 20 20 – – – – – – 20 20 Within 2–5 years 19 34 – – – – – – 19 34 After 5 years 0 0 – – – – – – 0 0 Total future lease income 40 54 – – – – – – 40 54 Rental income for 2017 amounts to SEK 21 million (21). 92 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 ACQUISITION Noranda Norca The acquisition balance from the acquisition of Noranda Aluminum Norca Heat Transfer LLC (“Norca”), in which Gränges held a 50 per Holding Corporation’s downstream rolling business in the US, which cent ownership until January 2018, has administered the import and was presented in the annual report for 2016, has been determined distribution of Gränges’ heat exchanger materials to customers in the without adjustments during 2017. Americas, supplied from the production sites in Finspång and Shanghai. 2 January 2018 Gränges acquired the remaining 50 per cent of Getek Norca for a purchase price of USD 4 million. Gränges will from 2018 As part of the strategy to strengthen the company’s leading position in coordinate the Group’s distribution in North America through Gränges the development of brazed heat exchanger materials, Gränges Americas. acquired 51 per cent of the production company Getek Gmbh from Erbslöh Aluminium GmbH, which owns the remaining 49 per cent of Preliminary purchase price allocation Norca the company. Getek has two production sites, one in Germany and one USD million SEK million in France. The company produces aluminium billets using advanced spray-forming technology and that technology is well suited for the Current assets, excluding cash 59.8 482 Gränges next generation of materials for heat exchangers. Cash 7.1 57 The investment is classified as a joint operation and Gränges recogInterest-bearing liabilities 24.5 197 nizes its direct right to jointly owned assets, liabilities, revenues and Other current liabilities 34.5 278 expenses. The investment is recognized in Gränges financial stateNet identifiable assets and liabilities 8.0 64 ments as from 6 October 2017. Purchase price 8.0 64 Purchase price allocation Getek Cash consideration paid for acquisition –4.0 –32 EUR million SEK million Fair value of investment in joint venture –4.0 –32 Non-current assets 0.9 9 Total purchase price –8.0 –64 Current assets, excluding cash 0.7 7 The acquired business will from 2018 be consolidated into Gränges by Cash 0.1 1 using the acquisition method. Norca Heat Transfer was until the Current liabilities 0.2 2 acquisition classified as a joint venture and accounted for by using the Net identifiable assets and liabilities 1.5 14 equity method. Under the equity method, investments in joint venGoodwill 3.2 31 tures are initially carried at cost in the consolidated statement of Purchase price 4.6 44 financial position. The carrying amount is then increased or decreased to take account of the Group’s share of the profit or loss and other Cash consideration paid for acquisition –4.4 –43 comprehensive income from its joint ventures after the date of acquiCash in acquired operation 0.1 1 sition. The Group’s share of the profit or loss is presented in the line Effect on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents –4.3 –42 profit or loss from joint ventures in the income statement and the line Additional purchase price to be paid -0.2 -2 investments in joint ventures in the balance sheet. According to the acquisition method, assets, liabilities, income and expenses are recGross amounts for the acquired receivables do not significantly deviognized in the consolidated accounts in relation to ownership. ate from book value. Goodwill is mainly justified by the advanced Norca only distributes products from Gränges, meaning that the spray-forming technology well suited for the next generation of mateinventory in Norca consists of products only from Gränges. When conrials for heat exchangers. The effect of the acquisition on the Group’s solidating using the equity method, 50 per cent of the intercompany consolidated income statement from 6 October to 31 December 2017 profit was eliminated and accounted for in the line Investments in joint is less then SEK 1 million. If the acquisition had been consolidated as ventures. When using the acquisition method 100 per cent of internal from 1 January 2017, it is also assessed that the effect on profit would profit will be eliminated and accounted for within cost of materials. have been less then SEK 1 million. The acquisition has not led to any Gross amounts for the acquired receivables do not significantly substantial transaction costs for Gränges. deviate from book value. If the acquisition had been consolidated as from 1 January 2017, it is assessed that the Group’s net sales would have increased with SEK 386 million and the profit for the year decreased with SEK –5 million. The acquisition has not led to any substantial transaction costs for Gränges. Recognized gain as a result of remeasuring to fair value is expected to SEK 15 million and will during 2018 be recognized in the line profit from joint ventures in the income statement. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 93 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 30 PLEDGED ASSETS, GUARANTEES AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Pledged assets Environmental issues The Group has conducted industrial production for a long time at facilSEK million 2017 2016 ities in Finspång, Västerås and Upplands Väsby. In light of the public Property mortgages 15 15 review of potentially polluted areas in Sweden that is being conducted by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and country adminOwn liabilities covered by property mortgages 1 1 istrative boards, Gränges may be involved in reviews and investigations relating to facilities where industrial production has historically Contingent liabilities taken place. For instance, industrial production has been conducted SEK million 2017 2016 by various operators at Gränges’ facility in Finspång since the 16th century. There are currently no ongoing cases relating to responsibilGuarantee commitment PRI Pensionsgaranti 2 2 ity in this respect. Guarantee for worker’s compensation 7 7 Guarantee for bank loan at Norca Heat Transfer Joint venture Norca LLC 170 – Gränges has a contractual undertaking to the jointly-owned US comTotal contingent liabilities 178 9 pany Norca Heat Transfer LLC to compensate Norca in the event of inventory obsolescence. In addition, Gränges has an obligation to bear Gränges has, in connection with signing the credit facilities described any bad debt losses in Norca that are not covered by credit insurance. in Note 24, has entered into a customary undertaking to not pledge Historically, Gränges has not incurred significant costs for these assets or in a similar manner use its property to give creditors a better undertakings. In 2017, Gränges had costs amounting to SEK –4 million right than the banks that are providing the credit facilities. (–5) for inventory obsolescence and costs amounting to SEK –3 million (–) for bad debt at Norca. Disputes During 2017 Gränges issued a guarantee for a bank loan at Norca. From time to time disputes with counterparties arise in the ongoing operThe bank loan was repaid 2 January 2018 and the guarantee did at the ations. The Group regularly makes assessments and provisions if necessame time expire. sary in the accounts. Currently, the Group is not involved in any major litigation that is expected to substantially affect the accounts negatively. 31 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Gränges has a share of 50 per cent in two joint ventures, Norca Heat Internal trades in the Group are executed in accordance with ­specific Transfer LLC and Shanghai Gränges Moriyasu Aluminium Co Ltd. Gränges arrangements at arm’s length and shared costs in Gränges are alloreports these two joint ventures based on the equity method (see Note 6) cated among the companies in the Group using allocation formulas and transactions with them are specified in the table below. depending on the types of expenditure. There are no other trans­ actions with related parties. For information on remuneration and SEK million 2017 2016 benefits to key individuals in senior positions, see Note 8. Transactions with joint ventures Sales 751 961 Other income and expenses 3 –53 Interest-bearing receivables (non current) 33 36 Accounts receivable 255 179 Non-interest-bearing liabilities 8 4 32 RECONCILIATION BETWEEN OPENING AND CLOSING BALANCE OF LIABILITIES WHOSE CASH FLOWS ARE RECOGNIZED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES Non-cash items Opening balance, Exchange rate Change in accrual Closing balance, 1 January 2017 Cash flow differences borrowing costs 31 December 2017 Interest-bearing liabilities 3,324 –362 –174 4 2,791 33 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE 2 January 2018 Gränges acquired the remaining 50 per cent of Norca Heat Transfer LLC (“Norca”). See Note 29 for further information. No additional significant events have occurred after the period. 94 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Gränges makes use of the alternative performance measures Return on capital employed, Net debt and Equity to assets ratio. Gränges believes that these performance measures are useful for readers of the financial reports as a complement to other performance measures when assessing the possibility of dividends, the implementation of strategic investments, and the Group’s ability to meet financial commitments. Further, Gränges uses the alternative performance measures Adjusted operating profit and Adjusted EBITDA, which are measures that Gränges considers to be ­relevant for investors who want to understand the profit generation excluding items affecting comparability. For definitions of the measures see page 105. SEK million 2017 2016 Adjusted operating profit Operating profit 917 559 Items affecting comparability 16 128 Adjusted operating profit 933 687 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted operating profit 933 687 Depreciation and amortisation 370 265 Adjusted EBITDA 1,303 952 Return on capital employed Total assets less cash and cash equivalents and interest–bearing receivables, rolling 12 months average 7,111 5,054 Non–interest bearing liabilities, rolling 12 months average –1,810 –1,123 Pensions, rolling 12 months average 280 212 Capital employed 5,581 3,930 Adjusted operating profit 933 687 Return on capital employed, % 16,7 17.5 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA Cash and cash equivalents and interest–bearing receivables –775 –889 Interest bearing liabilities 2,791 3,611 Pensions 276 286 Net debt 2,292 2,722 Adjusted EBITDA 1,303 952 Adjusted EBITDA for the acquired business in the US as if part of the Gränges Group for the full year – 322 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA 1.8 2.1 Equity to assets Equity 3,322 2,942 Total assets 8,005 7,950 Equity to assets, % 41.5 37.0 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 95 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT SEK million Note 2017 2016 Net sales 3 219 119 Payroll expenses 7 –84 –63 Other operating expenses 4, 5, 6 –156 –115 Depreciation, amortization and impairment charges 11, 12 –27 –18 Operating loss –47 –77 Profit/loss from financial items Dividends from subsidiaries 378 757 Financial income 8 117 54 Financial costs 9 –103 –59 Financial items 391 751 Profit after financial items 344 674 Appropriations Change in accelerated depreciation –25 –46 Group contributions 90 132 Tax on profit for the year 10 –23 –42 Profit for the year 385 718 The parent company has no items which are accounted for as other comprehensive income. Total comprehensive income is therefore the same as profit for the year. 96 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET SEK million Note 2017 2016 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 11 217 214 Intangible assets 12 159 170 Participations in Group companies 13 1,160 1,093 Receivables from Group companies 2,344 2,204 Interest-bearing receivables 33 36 Other non-current receivables 10 13 11 Total non-current assets 3,925 3,728 Current receivables Accounts receivable 4 4 Receivables from Group companies 147 573 Other receivables 84 65 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 7 4 Total current receivables 242 647 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and bank balances 106 182 Total cash and cash equivalents 106 182 Total current assets 348 828 TOTAL ASSETS 4,273 4,557 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Restricted equity Share capital 101 101 Statutory reserve 6 5 Total restricted equity 107 106 Non-restricted equity Share premium reserve 16 33 Retained earnings 765 195 Profit for the year 385 718 Total non-restricted equity 1,166 946 Total equity 1,273 1,052 Untaxed reserves Accelerated depreciation 80 55 Total untaxed reserves 80 55 Provisions Provisions for pensions 14 22 22 Total provisions 22 22 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 15 2,215 2,888 Other non-current liabilities 3 5 Total non-current liabilities 2,218 2,893 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 15 548 372 Accounts payable 14 13 Other liabilities 68 86 Accrued expenses and deferred income 16 50 64 Total current liabilities 680 536 Total liabilities 3,000 3,505 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,273 4,557 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 97 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Share Statutory Share premium Retained Profit for Total SEK million capital reserve reserve earnings the year equity Opening balance, 1 January 2016 100 – – 94 254 449 Appropriation of retained earnings: Carried forward – – – 254 –254 – Dividend – – – –149 – –149 Profit for the year – – – 718 – 718 Change in statutory reserve for internally generated intangible assets – 5 – –5 – – Employee stock options – – – 1 – 1 Rights issue 1 – 33 – – 33 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 101 5 33 195 718 1,052 Opening balance, 1 January 2017 101 5 33 195 718 1,052 Appropriation of retained earnings: Carried forward – – –33 751 –718 – Dividend – – – –180 – –180 Profit for the year – – – – 385 385 Change in statutory reserve for internally generated intangible assets – 0 – –0 – – Rights issue 0 – 16 – – 16 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 101 6 16 765 385 1,273 The articles of association for Gränges AB state that the share capital shall be not less than SEK 80,000,000 and not more than SEK 320,000,000. The number of shares shall be not less than 32,000,000 and not more than 128,000,000. Due to the exercize of 362,000 warrants within the Group’s incentive program LTI 2014 (see Note 8 for more information) new shares have been issued during the year. Equity has in total increased by SEK 16 million and number of shares with 362,000 due to the rights issued. The share capital in Gränges at 31 December 2017 amounts to SEK 101 million, divided into 75,517,386 shares, each with a quota value of SEK 1.339775. The share capital comprises a single class of share. Dividend per share amounted to SEK 2.40 (2.00) during 2017. 98 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT SEK million Note 2017 2016 Operating loss –47 –77 Depreciation and impairment charges 27 18 Change in net working capital etc. –55 2 Taxes paid –3 –5 Cash flow from operating activities –79 –63 Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 11, 12 –17 –179 Investments in subsidiaries 13 –67 –671 Cash flow from investing activities –84 –850 Dividend paid to shareholders –180 –149 Rights issue 16 34 Dividend received from subsidiary 359 719 Interest paid/received –1 2 New Loans 831 3,277 Amortization –1,164 –1,224 Financial intra-group transactions 224 –1,670 Cash flow from financing activities 86 989 Cash flow for the year –77 75 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 182 106 Cash flow for the year –77 75 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 106 182 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 99 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 4 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY The Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in SEK million 2017 2016 accordance to the Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Reporting for Legal M&A costs – –22 Entities. Application of RFR 2 entails that the Parent Company is to apply all IFRS and interpretations approved by the EU as far as possiClosure costs for US sales company –8 – ble within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the Total items affecting comparability –8 –22 Pension Obligation Vesting Act and in regard to the connection between accounting and taxation. Changes in RFR 2 has not had material impact on the financial reports of the parent company. An account of the Gränges Group’s accounting policies are described in Note 4 Accounting standards in the consolidated financial state5 OPERATING LEASE PAYMENTS ments. The main deviations between the accounting policies applied Distribution of lease payments by the Gränges Group and the parent company are described below. Future minimum lease payments relating to leases and other leases in Gränges Group applies IAS 19 Employee Benefits in the consolithe capacity of lessees attributable to non-cancellable agreements dated financial statements. The Parent Company applies the princiare distributed on the balance sheet date over the following maturity ples of the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. Consequently there are dates: differences between the Gränges Group and the Parent Company in the accounting of defined benefit pension plans. SEK million 2017 2016 Regarding machinery and equipment, the Parent Company recogWithin one year –4 –2 nizes the difference between depreciation according to plan and tax depreciation as accumulated additional depreciation, included in Later than one year but within five years –15 –3 untaxed reserves. After five years –7 – Group contributions received from subsidiaries are recognized as Total future minimum lease payments –27 –5 appropriations. Leasing costs amount to SEK 2 million (2) during 2017. 2 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Distribution of lease income Future minimum lease payments relating to leases and other leases as leaseholders attributable to non-cancellable agreements are disGränges’ financial risks are monitored centrally in the Group, tributed on the balance sheet date over the following maturity dates: see the notes to the consolidated financial statements, Note 25 Financial risk. SEK million 2017 2016 The Parent Company applies hedge accounting for the risk exposure arising from the derivative transactions with Gränges Sweden AB Within one year 30 29 by entering into offsetting derivatives. As hedge accounting is applied Later than one year but within five years 47 62 and the relationships are expected to be highly effective no unrealized After five years 0 0 gains or losses are recognized on the derivatives. Total future minimum lease payments 77 91 In addition, the Parent Company holds a few derivates to an insignificant value at the closing date. For information about rental income, see Note 3. 3 BOFREAKDOWN OPERATION OF NET SALES BY AREA SEK million 2017 2016 Intra-group service charges 95 73 Rental income 31 30 Research and development 40 16 Licence fees 49 0 Other 5 1 Total breakdown of net sales by area of operation 219 119 100 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6 REMUNERATION TO AUDITORS 10 TAXES SEK million 2017 2016 Tax expense for the year Ernst & Young AB SEK million 2017 2016 Audit engagement –1.3 –1.3 Current tax –23 –42 Audit services in addition to audit engagement –0.4 –0.4 Deferred tax attributable to Tax advisory services –0.9 –0.5 Changes in temporary differences for the year 0 0 Other services –0.7 –8.2 Total tax –23 –42 Total remuneration to auditors –3.4 –10.4 When cash and cash equivalents in China shall be made available for Audit engagement refers to the review of the annual report and the parent company, this is done through dividend payments which accounting records and of the Board of Directors and CEO’s manage­ today is being taxed with 5 per cent. Cash and cash equivalents per 31 ment of the company, other tasks incumbent on the company’s auditor December 2017 for the Chinese subsidiary amounts to SEK 131 million as well as advice and other assistance occasioned by observations (475). made in the course of such examinations or the performance of such other tasks. Audit services in addition to audit engagement consisted Reconciliation of effective tax in 2017 and in 2016 primarily of review of interim reports. Tax advisory SEK million 2017 % 2016 % services include advice on tax, including transfer pricing issues, as well as value-added tax. Other services refer to advice that is not Profit before tax 409 – 760 – attributable to any of the aforementioned categories of services. In Tax at applicable tax 2016 other services consisted mainly of services related to acquisition rate –90 22.0 –167 –22.0 activities. Tax effects of: Non-deductible expenses –1 –0.2 –1 –0.1 7 PAYROLL EXPENSES Non-taxable income Adjustment of tax in 87 21.3 167 22.0 respect of prior Salaries and remuneration totalled –53.3 (–39.5), and social charges years 3 0.8 0 0.0 were –30.4 (–23.9), whereof –12.9 (–7.8) refers to pension costs. Pension Foreign taxes –24 –5.5 –42 –5.5 costs of –1.8 (–1.6) refer to the CEO. The company’s outstanding pension obligations for the CEO are kSEK 66 (53). Total tax –23 –5.8 –42 –5.5 Read more about the average number of employees, salaries and remuneration, including incentive schemes, in Note 8 to the consoliThe company’s effective tax rate of 5.8 per cent (5.5) in 2017 differs dated financial statements. from the nominal tax rate in Sweden, which is primarily an effect of a ­dividends received from Gränges Aluminium (Shanghai) Ltd. This income is also included in the basis for non-taxable income. Foreign 8 FINANCIAL INCOME taxes mainly relates to paid tax in China on the received dividend. Deferred tax SEK million 2017 2016 SEK million 2017 2016 Interest income from Group companies 115 52 Buildings and land improvements –1 –1 External interest income 2 1 Endowment insurance 1 0 Foreign exchange differences – – Tax loss carry forwards 10 10 Total financial income 117 54 Total deferred tax asset (+) / liability (–) 10 10 9 FINANCIAL COSTS SEK million 2017 2016 External interest expense –91 –56 Estimated financial expense related to ­pension liability –1 –1 Foreign exchange differences –11 –1 Total financial costs –103 –59 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 101 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land, land improveMachinery and Fixtures, Assets under Total property, plant SEK million ments and buildings equipment vehicles, etc. ­construction and ­equipment Carrying amount, 1 January 2017 197 4 8 5 214 Acquisitions – – – 16 16 Sales – – – – – Transferred assets, fixed assets under ­construction 7 4 – –11 – Depreciations and impairment charges –11 –1 –2 – –15 Carrying amount, 31 December 2017 192 7 6 11 217 Cost, 31 December 2017 424 120 19 11 574 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges –231 –114 –13 – –358 Carrying amount, 31 December 2017 192 7 6 11 217 Carrying amount, 1 January 2016 204 3 10 7 223 Acquisitions – – – 5 5 Sales – – – – – Transferred assets, fixed assets under ­construction 5 2 – –7 – Depreciations and impairment charges –12 –1 –2 – –15 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 197 4 8 5 214 Cost, 31 December 2016 417 116 19 5 558 Accumulated depreciation and impairment charges –220 –113 –11 – –344 Carrying amount, 31 December 2016 197 4 8 5 214 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Total Intellectual intangible SEK million property IT assets Carrying amount, 1 January 2017 164 6 170 Acquisitions – – – Amortization –11 –1 –12 Carrying amount, 31 December 2017 153 6 159 Cost, 31 December 2017 168 6 174 Accumulated amortization and impairment charges –15 –1 –16 Carrying amount, 31 December 2017 153 6 159 Intellectual property is related to production technic used in Gränges Americas Inc. IT mainly relates to capital development expenses for an ERP implementation. 102 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 PARTICIPATIONS IN GROUP COMPANIES Share of capital Carrying amount, SEK million Reg. no Registered office No. of shares and votes, % SEK million Swedish Group companies Gränges Sweden AB 556002-6113 Finspång 300,000 100/100 164 Gränges Skultuna AB 556913-7358 Skultuna 50,000 100/100 0 Total 164 Foreign Group companies Gränges Americas Inc. – Delaware, USA – 100/100 671 Gränges Aluminium (Shanghai) Ltd – Shanghai, China – 100/100 256 Gränges International Inc. – Delaware, USA – 100/100 67 Gränges Japan Ltd – Tokyo, Japan – 100/100 3 Total 996 Total participations in Group companies 1,160 As of 31 December 2017, carrying amount for participations in Group companies totalled SEK 1,160 million (1,094). This year’s acquisitions amounts to SEK 66 million (667), whereof SEK 66 million (0) consist of shareholders’ contributions. 14 P­OROVISION BLIGATIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR 15 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITES Defined benefit pensions Gränges’ interest bearing debt consists mainly of USD term loans amounting to USD 220 million and SEK term loans of SEK 670 million. SEK million 2017 2016 Gränges amortizes USD 30 million per year. Gränges commercial Provision under Pension Obligations Vesting Act paper program established in the fourth quarter 2017 was utilized to SEK 300 million at 31 December 2017. Gränges also has a revolving – FPG/PRI pensions 22 21 credit facility of SEK 1,200 million, with a remaining time to maturity of Pension obligation secured through three years. The revolving credit facility was unutilized at 31 Decemtransfer of funds to pension trust 0 1 ber 2017. Other current interest-bearing debt amounted to SEK 30 Total provision for pensions and similar million. The loan facilities are subject to covenants, which are Net obligations 22 22 Debt/EBITDA and Interest coverage ratio. Specification of change in pension liability ­recognized in the ­balance 16 ACCRUED sheet. EXPENSES AND DEFERRED INCOME SEK million 2017 2016 SEK million 2017 2016 Liability at beginning of year related to p ­ ension obligations 22 22 Accrued salaries, holiday pay Cost recognized in income statement 2 1 and social-security contributions 34 27 Pension payments –2 –1 Other accrued expenses and deferred income 16 37 Liability at the end of year related Total accrued expenses and deferred income 50 64 to pension obligations 22 22 Actuarial bases for calculating the capital value pursuant to the Pension Obligations Vesting Act are defined by the Swedish Financial Regulatory Authority. Application of the Pension Obligations Vesting Act is 17 PLEDGED ASSETS a condition for the right to make tax deductions. Excluding cost for SEK million 2017 2016 pension premiums, fees paid to PRI and premiums paid to FPG, the For own liabilities and provisions: pension cost for the year is distributed as follows: – Property mortgages 15 15 SEK million 2017 2016 Total pledged assets 15 15 Pensions paid during the year –2 –1 Increase/decrease in capital value 0 0 Gränges has, in connection with signing the new credit facility described in Note 15, entered into a customary undertaking to not Less interest portion in PRI 1 1 pledge assets or in a similar manner use its property to give creditors a Total operating expense –1 0 better right than the banks that are providing the credit facility. Interest expense –1 –1 Total –2 –1 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 103 NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES SEK million 2017 2016 Disputes The company is not a party to any dispute. As long as the company Other contingent liabilities 279 105 does not have any legal or formal obligation as a result of a past event, – of which, for subsidiaries 108 102 and it is uncertain whether an outflow of economic resources will be – of which, for joint venture 170 – required to settle a future obligation, nothing is recognized in the income statement or balance sheet. 19 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Related-party transactions are specified in the table below. Gränges any direct involvement in a business transaction concluded by Gränges AB has a controlling influence over its subsidiaries, see Note 13 ParAB that was or is of an unusual character or subject to ­unusual terms ticipations in Group ­companies. and conditions and that occurred in 2017. For information on remuneraNo board member or senior executive of Gränges AB or its subsid­i­ tion to senior executives see Note 7. aries has independently or through a company or related party had 2017 2016 SEK million Subsidiaries Associates Subsidiaries Associates Sales and purchases during the year: Sales to related parties 197 – 98 1 Purchases from related parties 20 3 7 – Interest income on receivables from related parties 115 1 52 1 Interest expenses on liabilities to related parties – – – – Outstanding intermediary size as of 31 December: Interest-bearing receivables from related parties 1,810 33 1,897 36 Interest-bearing liabilities to related parties – – – – Non-interest-bearing receivables from related parties 681 – 880 – Non-interest-bearing liabilities to related parties – – – – There have been no other significant transactions with related parties. 20 RFLOWS ECONCILIATION BETWEEN OPENING AND CLOSING BALANCE OF LIABILITIES WHOSE CASH ARE RECOGNIZED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES Non-cash items Opening balance, Exchange rate Change in accrual Closing balance, 1 January 2017 Cash flow differences borrowing costs 31 December 2017 Interest-bearing liabilities 3,260 –333 –170 4 2,761 21 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS The Board of Directors proposes that the retained earnings of SEK The proposed dividend amount to SEK 227 million, or SEK 3.00 per ­share. In 1,166,338,762 be appropriated as follows: preparing its dividend p ­ roposal the Board of Directors has taken account of the company’s financial position, cash flow and outlook. SEK Dividend to shareholders 226,552,158 Carried forward 939,786,604 Total 1,166,338,762 104 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DEFINITIONS DEFINITIONS Adjusted EBITDA Equity to Assets Return on capital employed Adjusted operating profit before Equity divided by total assets. Adjusted operating profit divided by ­depreciation and impairment. ­average capital employed ­during the past Items affecting comparability 12-month period. Adjusted operating profit Non-recurring income and expenses. Operating excluding items affecting Return on equity ­comparability. ktonnes Profit for the period divided by average Volume expressed in thousands of metric equity ­during the past 12-month period. Average number of employees tonnes. The average number of employees Sales volume ­converted to full-time positions. Net cash flow before financing activities Volumes sold in metric tonnes. Cash flow from o ­ perating activities plus Capital employed cash flow from investing activities. SEK Total assets less cash and cash equivaSwedish krona. lents and interest-bearing receivables, Net debt minus non-interest bearing ­liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents and interest-­ bearing ­receivables minus interest-bearing Earnings per share liabilities, including pensions. Profit for the period divided by the total ­number of shares. Operating profit Profit before net financial items and tax. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 105 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY SEK million 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Sales volume, ktonnes 373.0 239.1 163.9 160.0 158.6 Income statement Net sales 11,435 7,207 5,494 4,748 4,642 Adjusted EBITDA1) 1,303 952 749 664 558 Adjusted operating profit1) 933 687 541 463 371 Operating profit 917 559 538 422 456 Profit for the year 652 498 379 319 309 Adjusted EBITDA margin 11.4 13.2 13.6 14.0 12.0 Adjusted operating margin 8.2 9.5 9.8 9.7 8.0 Operating margin 8.0 7.8 9.8 8.9 9.8 Net margin 5.7 6.9 6.9 6.7 6.7 Balance sheet Non-current assets 3,827 4,071 1,800 1,829 1,759 Current assets 4,179 3,878 2,601 2,631 2,867 Equity 3,322 2,942 2,499 2,137 3,098 Non-current liabilities 2,555 3,209 989 1,071 400 Current liabilities 2,128 1,799 914 1,253 1,128 Cash flow Operating activities 968 686 725 678 601 Investing activities –396 –2,732 –125 –81 –151 Cash flow before financing activities 572 –2,046 600 597 450 Financing activities –650 2,245 –647 –941 –88 Cash flow for the year –79 198 –47 –344 362 1) Adjusted for items affecting comparability (see Note 12 in the notes to the consolidated accounts). Capital structure, return indicators and employees Capital employed 5,615 5,664 2,775 2,901 2,972 Net debt 2,292 2,722 275 765 –126 Equity/assets ratio, % 41.5 37.0 56.8 47.9 67.0 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA, multiple 1.8x 2.1x2) 0.4x 1.2x –0.2x Capital employed (rolling 12 month average) 5,581 3,930 2,982 2,837 3,082 Return on capital employed, % 16.7 17.5 18.1 16.3 12.0 Equity (rolling 12 month average) 3,093 2,636 2,385 2,755 2,685 Return on equity, % 21.1 18.9 15.9 11.6 11.5 Average number of employees 1,568 1,136 964 952 964 2) Calculated on a rolling 12-month basis, including estimated adjusted EBITDA on a stand alone basis for the acquired business in the US. 106 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Data per share, SEK Earnings per share, basic 8.65 6.66 5.07 4.27 4.14 Earnings per share, diluted 8.64 6.64 5.07 4.27 4.14 Equity1) 44.04 39.27 33.45 28.63 41.51 Cash flow from operating activities1) 12.82 9.15 9.70 9.08 8.05 Dividend 3.002) 2.40 2.00 1.50 – Dividend yield, % 3.56 2.79 2.86 2.94 – Share price at year-end 84.25 86.00 70.00 51.00 – Weighted outstanding ordinary shares, basic in thousands 75,370.6 74,703.9 74,639.4 74,639.4 74,639.4 Weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted in thousands 75,440.7 74,913.9 74,719.4 74,639.4 74,639.4 Sales volume by region, ktonnes Asia 86.3 80.8 75.5 78.3 75.0 Europe 65.6 63.7 62.7 58.6 59.5 Americas 221.1 94.6 25.8 23.1 24.0 Total 373.0 239.1 163.9 160.0 158.6 Net sales by region, SEK million Asia 2,911 2,623 2,637 2,378 2,271 Europe 2,230 1,933 1,978 1,679 1,673 Americas 6,294 2,651 880 691 698 Total 11,435 7,207 5,494 4,748 4,642 1) Calculated on weighted outstanding ordinary shares, diluted. 2) Cash dividend for 2018 as proposed. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 107 PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS PROPOSED APPROPRIATION OF RETAINED EARNINGS The Board of Directors proposes that the retained earnings of The proposed dividend of SEK 227 million, or SEK 3.00 per ­share, SEK 1,166,338,762 be appropriated as follows: represents 35 per cent of the profit for 2017. In preparing its dividend ­proposal the Board of Directors has taken account of the company’s SEK financial position, cash flow and outlook. The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the Dividend to shareholders 226,552,158 annual report have been prepared in accordance with the InternaCarried forward 939,786,604 tional Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as adopted for use in Total 1,166,338,762 the European Union, and generally accepted accounting principles respectively, and give a true and fair view of the financial positions and results of the Group and the Company and describes substantial risks and uncertainties that the Group companies faces. Stockholm 6 March 2018 The Board of Directors of Gränges AB (publ) Anders G. Carlberg Johan Menckel Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer Carina Andersson Peter Carlsson Katarina Lindström Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Hans Porat Ragnhild Wiborg Member of the Board Member of the Board Öystein Larsen Konny Svensson Employee representative Employee representative We submitted our audit report on 9 March 2018 Ernst & Young AB Erik Sandström Authorized Public Accountant This information is such that Gränges must disclose pursuant to the Swedish Securities Market Act and/or the Swedish Financial Instruments Trading Act. The information was submitted for publication on Tuesday, 13 March 2018. 108 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 AUDITOR’S REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders of Gränges AB, corporate identity number 556001-6122 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Basis for Opinions Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in SweGränges AB (publ) except for the corporate governance statement on den. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described pages 55-65 for the year 2017. The annual accounts and consolidated in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the accounts of the company are included on pages 52–108 in this document. parent company and the Group in accordance with professional ethics In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordfor accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical ance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited serDecember 2017 and its financial performance and cash flow for the vices referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the company or its controlled companies within the EU. Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient financial position of the Group as of 31 December 2017 and their and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Key Audit Matters as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesnot cover the corporate governance statement on pages 55–65. The sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent comas a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. pany and the Group. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consolidated matter is provided in that context. accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report that We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s has been submitted to the parent company’s Audit committee in responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying financial statements. Valuation of finished goods and work-in-process products Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter As described in Note 18 for the consolidated financial statements, inventoIn our audit for the financial year we have assessed the Company’s routines ries of finished goods and work-in-process products are recorded at 1 112 for accounting for finished goods and work-in-process products, and MSEK in the consolidated balance sheet per the 31st of December 2017, whether the Company’s accounting principles for inventory is compliant equivalent to 14 per cent of the Company’s total assets. Inventories are valwith applicable standards. ued at the lowest of acquisition cost and net realizable value. We have also performed procedures to verify calculation models and The acquisition cost of inventories is based on the cost of production less assessed the reasonableness of applied prices, consumption rates and obsolescence write-downs, if applicable. The valuation at production cost is assumptions regarding the allocation of indirect production costs. We have performed using inventory valuation models where direct and indirect proalso performed procedures on metal hedging related to inventory. duction-related costs are allocated to products. Incorrect assumptions and Finally, we have also reviewed the disclosures provided in the annual calculations related to direct and indirect production costs affect the valuareport. tion of goods produced which affects recorded inventory and the cost of goods sold. For this reason we have determined that this is a key audit matter. A description of the Company’s inventory valuation method for finished goods and work-in-process products is presented in the accounting principles in Note 4 under the notes to the consolidated financial statements. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 109 AUDITOR’S REPORT Property, plant and equipment Description How our audit addressed this key audit matter The Company’s property, plant and equipment is recorded at 3 076 MSEK in Depreciation the consolidated balance sheet, equivalent to 38 per cent of the Company’s In our audit for the financial year we have assessed the reasonableness of total assets. Property, plant and equipment is recorded at acquisition cost net the changed assumptions which the Company has made during the year. of accumulated depreciation and write-downs, if applicable. Depreciation is These procedures have included an assessment of the Company’s method recorded over the estimated useful life of components. Accounting principles for determining the new useful life periods, comparisons to historical actufor property, plant and equipment is presented in Note 4, significant estimates als and business plans, as well as comparisons with the estimated useful and judgments are presented in Note 5 and disclosures regarding property, lives used by other comparable companies. plant and equipment is presented in Note 17. The valuation and accounting We have also reviewed the accounting treatment of the effects of the treatment of property, plant and equipment is a key audit matter due to the changed assumptions during the year. Finally, we have also reviewed the significance of the recorded amounts in relation to the total assets in the condisclosures provided in the annual report. solidated balance sheet, and because changes in estimates and judgments could have a significant effect on the value. Impairment In our audit for the financial year we have analyzed and assessed the Depreciation assumptions and estimates made by the Company regarding potential Depreciation is recorded over the estimated useful life of components. A indicators of impairment compared to current and expected future cash change in the estimated useful life of components would result in different flows from affected assets. We have also reviewed the disclosures provided recorded values. As described in Note 5 the Company has, during the year, in the annual report. changed the estimated useful life of certain components. Impairment In case an indicator of impairment is identified, the recorded value is tested through comparison to the estimated recoverable amount for the asset. Based on current and expected future financial development the Company has determined that there was no indication of impairment for the financial year 2017. Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated Auditor’s responsibility accounts Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the This document also contains other information than the annual annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–51 and material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 112–126. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a responsible for this other information. high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in does not cover this other information and we do not express any form Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consoli­material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proceAs part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercize professional dure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be We also: materially misstated. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informaor error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to this regard. provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omisThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for sions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordin the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the ion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material mismade by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. statement, whether due to fraud or error. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also assessment of the company’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or condiconcern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going tions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts The Audit committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Direcand consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, tor’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated the company’s financial reporting process. accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence 110 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 AUDITOR’S REPORT obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future Auditor’s responsibility events or conditions may cause a company and a group to cease to Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby continue as a going concern. our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the discloof the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material sures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts respect: represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can achieves fair presentation. give rise to liability to the company, or • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, financial information of the entities or business activities within the the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of group audit. We remain solely responsible for our opinions. the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to • We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of sigin accordance with the Companies Act. nificant audit findings during our audit, including any significant Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a deficiencies in internal control that we identified. guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that we omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the prohave complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding indeposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordpendence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other ance with the Companies Act. matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing and where applicable, related safeguards. standards in Sweden, we exercize professional judgment and mainFrom the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we tain professional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Addiimportant assessed risks for material misstatement, and are theretional audit procedures performed are based on our professional fore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s judgment with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. we focus the examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the operations and where deviations and violaReport on other legal and regulatory requirements tions would have particular importance for the company’s situation. Opinions We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Directors and the Managing Director of Gränges AB (publ) for the year Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or 2017 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether profit be appropriated (loss be dealt with) in accordance with the prothe proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. posal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement liability for the financial year. The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement on pages 55–65 has been prepared in accordance Basis for opinions with the Annual Accounts Act. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing Our examination of the corporate governance statement is constandards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are ducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The audifurther described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indetor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means pendent of the parent company and the Group in accordance with prothat our examination of the corporate governance statement is differfessional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled ent and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordour ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. ance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropria2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second tions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considannual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance ering the requirements which the company’s and the Group’s type of with the Annual Accounts Act. operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s Ernst & Young AB, Jakobsbergsgatan 24, 111 44, Stockholm, was and the Group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and appointed auditor of Gränges AB by the general meeting of the shareposition in general. holders on the 4 May 2017 and has been the company’s auditor since The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organizathe 10 May 2007. tion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and the Group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organizaStockholm 9 Mars 2018 tion is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and Ernst & Young AB the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instrucErik Sandström tions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to Authorized Public Accountant fulfil the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 111 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES SUSTAINABILITY NOTES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Gränges’ sustainability agenda and activities are governed by its Sustainability organization policies and management systems. The company is dedicated to Gränges’ sustainability activities are led by the Group Management developing and implementing these policies to guide employees in team and the VP Sustainability, who was appointed in October 2017 to their everyday work with sustainability and in the communication manage the company’s group-wide sustainability agenda. The VP Suswith the stakeholders. Gränges’ policies include its Code of Conduct, tainability reports to the SVP Communications and IR and the Group Supplier Declaration, Anti-corruption Policy, Environmental Health Management team. The CEO in turn reports to the Board of Directors. and Safety Policy, Energy Policy, Crisis Plan, and Information Policy. Specific sustainability matters are managed by members of the Gränges observes all applicable local and international laws and Group Management team. The General Counsel is responsible for govregulations, and includes the precautionary principle in environmenernance, the SVP Process Engineering & Operational Development for tal risk assessments. Read more about Gränges’ risk management environment, health and safety, and the SVP Human Resources for on pages 46–49. social responsibility. Gränges’ production facilities in Finspång, Shanghai and the US cooperate in developing the sustainability work for the Group and the respective sites. GRÄNGES’ SUSTAINABILITY ORGANIZATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS Chairman of the Board & CEO CEO Report GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM SVP Communications & IR VP Sustainability GOVERNANCE GRÄNGES’ GRÄNGES‘ GRÄNGES’ General Counsel PRODUCTION FACILITY PRODUCTION FACILITY PRODUCTION FACILITIES IN FINSPÅNG IN SHANGHAI IN THE US ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH & SAFETY SVP Process Engineering & Operational Development Local managers Local managers Local managers Production, Quality, Production, Quality, Production, Quality, SOCIAL Purchasing , HR, Purchasing , HR, Purchasing , HR, SVP Human Resources Safety Safety Safety 112 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Gränges seeks to establish long-term and transparent dialogues with frameworks, and issues previously raised by stakeholders. Respondstakeholders. The key issues raised in the stakeholder dialogue constitute ents also had the option of raising additional sustainability issues in the main parts of the company’s materiality assessment and reporting. the survey. The company invited all employees in Sweden and Asia, and selected representatives from the other stakeholder groups, to Stakeholder dialogue respond to the survey. To obtain a more thorough understanding of Stakeholder inclusiveness is a priority for Gränges and the company stakeholders’ expectations of Gränges, the survey was complemented maintains an ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders to ensure that it by interviews with a selection of representatives from respective meets their expectations. Additionally, as part of the sustainability stakeholder group in Sweden. reporting process, Gränges engages selected stakeholders in a strucIn 2017, Gränges invited US employees and selected representatured dialogue to identify key sustainability topics and reporting content. tives from other stakeholder groups in the US to take part in the webBased on the nature of the company’s operations, Gränges has based sustainability survey. In-depth interviews were also carried out identified five main stakeholder groups: customers, suppliers, with representatives from each stakeholder group in Sweden, China, employees, society, and investors. and the US to ensure that the company’s sustainability reporting is in In 2016, Gränges conducted a web-based sustainability survey line with stakeholder expectations. focusing on questions related to relevant industry standards, reporting Stakeholder dialogue Stakeholder group Communication examples Key sustainability topics for the stakeholders Further reading Customers • Customer survey •M  aterial handling and proportion 34, 114 • Ongoing dialogue of recycled aluminium • Customer satisfaction 45 Suppliers • Supplier Declaration • Purchasing processes 32–33 • Ongoing dialogue • Proportion of recycled aluminium 34, 114 Employees • Performance reviews • Emissions 36, 115 • Employee surveys • Gränges as a workplace 38–39 • Intranet • Health and safety 41–43, 118 • Diversity and equality 40, 117 • Code of Conduct 30–31, 39 Investors • Annual General Meeting • Code of Conduct and Supplier Declaration 30–33, 39 • Quarterly reports and annual report • Ethics and anti-corruption 30–31 • Press releases • Emissions and energy use 35–36, 114–115 • Conference calls • Gränges as a workplace 38–39 • Capital markets days Society • Local cooperation • Gränges in the local community 44 •P articipation in networks and working groups • Emissions 36, 115 • Interns and student dissertations Materiality analysis economic, social, and environmental impact were considered. The mateResults from the stakeholder dialogue lay the foundation for Gränges’ riality analysis resulted in Gränges defining eight material topics for its materiality analysis. work on sustainability and communication with stakeholders. In 2016, Gränges carried out its first materiality analysis. It was conThe materiality analysis is reviewed annually to ensure that Gränges ducted by a working group made up of the Gränges management team is focusing on relevant issues and communicates with stakeholders in and other senior executives. Areas that were highlighted in the stakeline with their expectations. Following the 2017 stakeholder dialogue, holder dialogues were evaluated according to a materiality analysis the materiality analysis was revised and water was added to the list of where both stakeholders’ expectations of Gränges as well as Gränges’ material topics while customer satisfaction was removed. Gränges’ material topics and their boundaries Impact occurs in/at Gränges’ Gränges’ material topics Corresponding GRI Standards topics Supply chain Operations Customers Page reference Ethics and anti-corruption Anti-corruption X X X 30–31 Sustainable supply chain Supplier environmental assessment X 32–33 Supplier social assessment X 32–33 Recycled aluminium Materials X X X 34, 114 Energy use Energy X 35, 114 Emissions to air and water Emissions X X X 36, 115 Water use Water X 37, 116 Diversity and equality Diversity and equal opportunity X 40, 117 Health and safety Occupational health and safety X 41–43, 118 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 113 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES ENVIRONMENTAL DATA AND REPORTING PRINCIPLES Environmental data is reported on regional level and consolidated annually on group level using common definitions and principles. Relevant definitions and trends are described under each material topic. The data for 2016 has been updated to include the operations in the US, while data for 2015 comprises Gränges’ operations in Asia and Europe. RECYCLED ALUMINIUM Gränges aims to increase the use of recycled aluminium in its producPercentage of materials used that are recycled input materials tion process. The share of recycled material used as input material has increased % 2017 2016 2015 from 14.8 per cent in 2016 to 15.4 per cent in 2017. The increase in Asia 1.0 4.2 5.6 overall use of recycled materials is driven by the production facilities Europe 16.0 18.1 22.7 in the US where more external scrap was used as input materials. On a group level, this was partly offset by less use of recycled materials in Americas 24.8 19.4 – the production facility in Finspång and a lower level of recycled mateGränges total 15.4 14.8 13.1 rial in externally sourced slabs in the production facility in Shanghai. Definitions Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Sourced recycled aluminium used as input material [tonnes] divided by the total sourced input material [tonnes]. ENERGY USE Gränges has set energy efficiency goals for all production facilities Total energy use and measures to improve efficiency are continuously implemented. Gränges has continuously been implementing energy efficiency GWh 2017 2016 2015 measures in the production facilities in Finspång and Shanghai and Electricity 403.2 394.8 216.7 the energy use per tonne product has, since 2015, been reduced by Natural gas 773.4 747.6 131.2 7 per cent and 9 per cent respectively. For Gränges’ production facilities in the US, energy use per tonne product has increased by Liquefied petroleum gas 48.2 46.1 46.5 1 per cent. Diesel 8.5 9.4 6.5 The overall energy use per tonne product has decreased from 3.4 Petrol 0.1 0.1 – MWh/tonne in 2016 to 3.3 MWh/tonne in 2017. This is mainly due to District heating 2.7 2.8 2.0 energy efficiency measures implemented in the production facilities Gränges total 1,236.0 1,200.8 402.8 in Finspång and Shanghai. Definitions Energy intensity Energy intensity The total energy used at the production facility [MWh] divided by the total packed products [tonnes]. MWh/tonne product 2017 2016 2015 Asia1) 2.3 2.4 2.5 Europe 2.2 2.3 2.3 Americas 4.4 4.3 – Gränges total 3.3 3.4 2.4 1) D  ata for Asia has been recalculated compared to data presented in the Annual report 2016, due to an updated energy conversion factor for natural gas. 114 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES EMISSIONS Gränges’ long-term goal is to reduce its carbon footprint by reducing increased energy efficiency while the reduction of indirect emissions greenhouse gas emissions throughout the value chain, both direct and is due to increased use of recycled material. indirect. Gränges has during 2017 performed a carbon footprint study to Definitions map its carbon emissions along the value chain. The study was made Greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with Greenhouse Gas Protocol and involves both direct Greenhouse gas emissions are presented as carbon dioxide equivalents emissions from Gränges’ operations and indirect emissions from other and are calculated using local emission factors for different fossil fuels. parts of the value chain. The study includes all parts from extraction of bauxite to delivery of Gränges’ products to customers, while prodDust emissions uct use and end-of-life are excluded. Dust emissions are either calculated using local emission factors or The results show that Gränges’ direct and indirect greenhouse based on continuous measurements. gases amount to approximately 4.6 Mtonnes. The majority of the indiOther emissions such as nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, oil and rect emissions emanate from production of primary aluminium. VOC are either not reported throughout the entire organization or are Based on the results from the study, Gränges will continue its curcurrently not reported with sufficient quality to provide reliable data rent focus on reducing climate impact along the value chain. This on annual basis. includes continued focus on improving energy efficiency at Gränges’ production facilities and increasing the use of recycled aluminium. In Definitions GHG Protocol addition, Gränges plans to integrate carbon performance in sourcing Scope 1 of primary aluminium as well as start to investigate how to manage Direct emissions from Gränges’ operations include production faciliimpacts in use and end-of life for its products. ties, office buildings and company owned vehicles. Emissions are calculated based on fuel consumption. Regulations Emissions are regulated by legislation, and compliance is a prerequiScope 2 site for Gränges’ continued license to operate. Local authorities conIndirect emissions from generation of purchased electricity and heat tinually monitor compliance to ensure that emissions are within limits. consumed by Gränges, in production facilities and office buildings. Emission limits in Europe are based on requirements from the Emissions are calculated using specific data from Gränges’ electricity Industry Emissions Directive (IED). In Asia, limits are linked to Regulaand heat suppliers. tions of Shanghai Municipality on the Prevention and Control of Atmospheric Pollution, and in the US the National Ambient Air Quality Scope 3 Standards (NA AQS) provides the relevant legal framework. Emissions Other indirect emissions; include emissions from extraction, producregulated by legislation include nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide, dust, tion and processing of main purchased materials, production of fuels volatile organic compounds (VOC) and, in some parts of the organizaused in Gränges’ operations and for generation of electricity, inbound tion, oil emissions. and outbound goods transportation, and business travel. Emissions from production of primary aluminium are based on Continuous improvements regional industry averages and supplier data are used for purchased Since 2016 direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases per slabs and scrap. Emissions from production of fuels are based on tonne packed product has decreased with 2 per cent and 7 per cent regional industry data. Emissions from transportation and business respectively. The reduction of direct emissions is mainly connected to travel are based on specific data from Gränges’ transportation routes. Total emissions of greenhouse gases Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 ktonnes CO2e 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Asia 1) 28.6 28.5 27.4 63.8 63.5 61.8 2,400 2,300 2,200 Europe 11.2 11.5 11.5 0.004 0.004 0.004 500 500 400 Americas 129.9 124.3 – 68.9 67.2 – 1,300 1,600 – Gränges total 169.7 164.3 38.9 132.7 130.7 61.8 4,300 4,400 2,600 Carbon intensity Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Tonnes CO2e/tonne product 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Asia 1) 0.28 0.30 0.31 0.62 0.67 0.69 23.5 24.3 24.2 Europe 0.13 0.14 0.15 0.00005 0.00005 0.00005 6.1 6.2 5.7 Americas 0.69 0.68 – 0.37 0.37 – 7.1 8.6 – Gränges total 0.45 0.46 0.23 0.35 0.37 0.37 11.4 11.6 7.0 1) D  ata for Asia has been recalculated compared to data presented in the Annual report 2016, due to an updated energy conversion factor for natural gas. Other emissions to air Tonnes 2017 2016 2015 Dust Asia 3.8 3.6 3.5 Europe 0.2 0.3 1.8 Americas 12.4 11.9 – Gränges total 16.4 15.7 5.3 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 115 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES WATER USE The majority of the water used by Gränges is withdrawn from surface Water use, source water and utilized in the production facility in Finspång. To reduce the volume of water withdrawn, Gränges has implemented water reducMillion m3 2017 2016 2015 tion targets at the production facility in Finspång while other producSurface water 2.0 2.1 2.2 tion facilities lack firm targets. Ground water 0.8 0.9 0.0 Since 2015 the water withdrawal per tonne product has continuously been reduced for Gränges’ production facilities in Shanghai and Municipal water 0.5 0.6 0.2 Finspång. The reduction amounts to 25 per cent and 20 per cent Gränges total 3.3 3.5 2.4 respectively. Gränges’ overall water withdrawal has increased by around 50 per cent since acquiring the US operations while the water withdrawal per Water withdrawal, region tonne product has been reduced, from around 14.2 m3/tonne in 2015 to 8.9 m3/tonne in 2017. Million m3 2017 2016 2015 Definitions Asia 0.2 0.2 0.2 Water withdrawal Europe 2.0 2.1 2.2 Water used in the production facility withdrawn from wetlands, rivers, Americas 1.2 1.3 – lakes, own wells, waste water from another organizations, municipal Gränges total 3.3 3.5 2.4 water supplies or from other public or private water utilities [m3]. Water intensity m3/tonne product 2017 2016 2015 Asia 1.5 1.6 1.9 Europe 23.3 25.7 28.4 Americas 6.3 6.9 – Gränges total 8.9 9.7 14.2 116 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES SOCIAL DATA AND REPORTING PRINCIPLES Social data is reported on a regional level and consolidated annually on group level using common definitions and principles. Relevant definitions and trends are described under each material topic. Please note that data from the headquarters, Gränges AB, is included in the social data for Europe, except for the health and safety data. EMPLOYEES The Gränges Group had a total of 1,568 employees (1,136) on average Definitions during 2017. In 2017, the staff turnover rate increased to 7.4 per cent, Employees compared to 3.4 per cent (excluding Gränges’ operations in the US) in Number of employees on the company’s payroll >20 h per week. Tem2016. porary staff is excluded but employees on sick-leave, parental leave, Within Gränges Research & Innovation organization there are 56 vacation and those temporarily laid off are included but not their subspecialists. Gränges has research and innovation centres in Finspång, stitutes. Sweden and in Shanghai, China. Employees who are not employed by Gränges such as interns, Of Gränges’ employees, 34 per cent work in Asia, 29 per cent in self-employed persons and consultants are not included. These are Europe and 37 per cent in the Americas. not a significant part of Gränges’ workforce. Employee numbers are expressed as Full Time Equivalents (FTE). Employees by region and gender, 2017 Data collection Data is collected from Gränges’ internal systems. Men Women Total Asia 475 58 533 Europe 364 93 457 Americas 508 70 578 Gränges total 1,347 221 1,568 DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Gränges has set a gender equality goal for Asia and Europe which Definition states that women, including managers, shall account for 20 per cent Gender balance and age structure are based on the number of of the workforce. In 2017 the share of female employees for the Group employees on December 31, 2017. reached 14 per cent, with 11 per cent in Asia and 20 per cent in Europe. Recruitment is an important tool in ensuring greater workplace Data collection diversity and equality. The ambition is to have 30 per cent women Data is collected from Gränges’ internal systems. among all new recruits in Asia and Europe. In 2017 women accounted for 18 per cent of all new recruits in the Group. Gender balance, 2017 Age structure, 2017 Age structure Gender balance Under 30–50 Over 50 % Women Men % 30 years years years Gränges' Board of Directors 50 50 Gränges' Board of Directors 0 17 83 Gränges' Group Management 13 87 Gränges' Group Management 0 45 55 Senior management (management Senior management (management at subsidiary level) 19 81 at subsidiary level) 0 81 19 Adminstrative staff (white collar) 29 71 Adminstrative staff (white collar) 8 65 28 Employed in production (blue collar) 8 92 Employed in production (blue collar) 14 53 33 Gränges total 14 86 Gränges total 12 56 31 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 117 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES HEALTH AND SAFETY Gränges continuously strives towards an injury-free workplace. To Definitions this purpose the company performs risk analysis on the hazards that Serious injury exist in the workplace and deploy actions to reduce or eliminate these An irreversible injury for example an amputated finger or lost eyesight, risks. or a reversible injury causing prolonged periods of pain or suffering for In 2017 there were nine serious injuries where nine individuals were the employee, or an accident with an absence longer than 15 days. injured. First-aid level injuries are not included. The number of Lost Work Day Cases increased from nine to 14. However, the number of total accumulated days lost as a consequence of Lost Work Day Cases these injuries were reduced from 546 in 2016 to 403 in 2017 as the Number of accidents resulting in absence from work (out of recordable accidents were less severe. accidents). Most of the incidents, in all locations, were related to hand and finger injuries; 13 of 28 cases were related to such injuries. Workers not employed by Gränges (“contracted”) Gränges’ goal for Asia and Europe is to have a sick leave lower than Contracted workers such as maintenance workers managed by 3 per cent. Sick leave for the Group during the year was 2.0 per cent. Gränges are included in the safety data. For Asia and Europe the sick leave in 2017 was 0.7 per cent and 3.3 per cent respectively. Data collection All incidents and accidents are registered and categorized in incident reporting systems. Events reported in the incident reporting systems Sick leave and Lost Work Day Cases are followed up on a weekly and monthly basis. 2017 2016 2015 Sick leave , % 1) 2.0 2.2 2.0 Lost Work Day Cases (Number of accidents resulting in absence from work)2) 14 9 8 1) Excluding Gränges’ operations in the US in 2016 and 2015. 2) Including Gränges’ production facilities in the US 2016 but not 2015. Total Recordable Rate1) Number of recordable accidents per million hours worked 2017 2016 2015 Asia 6.3 3.5 4.8 Europe 11.7 12.3 13.3 Americas 7.2 5.7 Gränges total 7.8 6.2 7.5 Number of fatalities 0 0 0 1) O nly applicable for Gränges’ production facilities. Gränges’ production facilities in the US are included in the figures for 2016 but not in the figures for 2015. 118 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI INDEX GRI INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES Disclosure UNGC GRI Standard number Disclosure title Principles Page reference Omissions GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization 52 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 20–23 102-3 Location of headquarters 52 102-4 Location of operations 4, 52 102-5 Ownership and legal form 50–51, 57 102-6 Markets served 4, 14–17 102-7 Scale of the organization 1, 4, 69, 117 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 117 Data per employment contract and employment type are un­available. Gränges has made efforts to enhance the breakdown of employee data. 102-9 Supply chain 10 29, 32–33 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 24, 32–33, 50–51 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 7 60, 112 102-12 External initiatives 27 102-13 Membership of associations 27 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–7 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 46–49 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 30–31, 38–39 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 55–61, 112 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 113 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 3 39 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 113 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 113 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 113 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 103 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 113 102-47 List of material topics 113 102-48 Restatements of information 28, 39, 114–115, 118 102-49 Changes in reporting 28 102-50 Reporting period 28 102-51 Date of most recent report 28 102-52 Reporting cycle 28 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 28 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 28 102-55 GRI index 119–121 102-56 External assurance 28 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 119 GRI INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS Disclosure UNGC GRI Standard number Disclosure title Principles Page reference Omissions Economic standards ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 30–31, 113 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 30–31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30–31 GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 30-31 Anti-corruption 2016 and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 31 Environmental standards MATERIALS 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 34, 113–114 pproach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 GRI 301: Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 34, 114 2016 ENERGY 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 35, 113–114 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 35, 114 302-3 Energy intensity 35, 114 WATER 7, 8 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 37, 113, 116 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 37 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 37 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 37, 116 EMISSIONS 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 36, 113, 115 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 36, 115 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36, 115 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 36, 115 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 36, 115 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 36, 115 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 36, 115 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant 115 Data only includes dust. air emissions Emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and VOC are either not reported throughout the entire organization or are currently not reported with sufficient quality to provide reliable data on annual basis. SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 7, 8, 9 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32–33, 113 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 32–33 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32–33 GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 32–33 Environmental Assessment 2016 120 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GRI INDEX Disclosure UNGC GRI Standard number Disclosure title Principles Page reference Omissions Social standards OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 41–43, 113, 118 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 41–42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41–42 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 42, 118 Contracted workers such Health and Safety 2016 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities as maintenance workers managed by Gränges are included in the safety data but not sick-leave. The reporting is aligned with Gränges’ internal procedures. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 1, 2, 6 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 40, 113, 117 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 40 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40 GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 40, 117 Equal Opportunity 2016 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 32–33, 113 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 32–33 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 32–33 GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 32–33 Assessment 2016 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to of internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental abuses. responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environLabour mentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Anti-corruption Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its labour; forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of ­employment and occupation. AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE STATUTORY SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT To the general meeting of the shareholders of Gränges AB, corporate identity number 556001-6122 Engagement and responsibility and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainthe examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. ability statement for the year 2017 on pages 26–45 and 112–121 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Opinions A statutory sustainability statement has been prepared. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing Stockholm 9 Mars 2018 standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainaErnst & Young AB bility statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an Erik Sandström audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing Authorized Public Accountant GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 121 GLOSSARY GLOSSARY Active brazing Cladding Rolled aluminium Brazing technology where fluxing agents A layer of metal bonded to a dissimilar Aluminium that has been hot and/or cold are built into the braze alloy. TRILLIUM® metal or alloy. rolled to desired gauge. material is categorized under Active brazing. Flux Scrap A substance used to disrupt surface Aluminium that can be re-melted. Alloy oxides to enable brazing. Material composed of one metal with Sheet additions of other metals and/or elements. Foil A flat rolled product with a thickness A flat rolled product with a thickness less between 0.2 mm and 6 mm cut to length. Aluminium ingot than 0.2 mm. A small block of aluminium, typically used SHFE for re-melting. Heat exchanger Shanghai Futures Exchange. A device for transforming heat from one Aluminium strip medium to another. Slab Rolled aluminium in coil form. Input material to the rolling process that is HVAC produced by casting. Annealing Heat exchangers for Heating, Ventilation Heat treatment to partially or fully remove and Air Conditioning, sometimes used to Spray-forming work hardening in the material after cold define the stationary heat exchanger Deposition of semi solid sprayed droplets rolling. market. on to a substrate. Brazing LME Trillium Joining of metals through melting and London Metal Exchange. A reactive malleable metal matrix solidification. composite material that can be used to Plate produce aluminium brazed joints without Casting A flat rolled product with a thickness the need for adding a fluxing agent. Method to convert molten metal to a above 6 mm. desired solid form. 122 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 Gränges’ Annual General Meeting 2018 will their name, personal ID or company regisbe available on the company’s website. be held on Thursday, 3 May, 2018, at 4 p.m tration number, address and daytime telePrinted information can be ordered via CEST at Näringslivets Hus in Stockholm. phone number and representatives. info@granges.com. Registration begins at 3 p.m CEST. Nominee-registered shares Dividend Participation Shareholders whose shares are registered The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of Shareholders wishing to attend the Annual with a nominee must, to have the right to SEK 3.00 (2.40) per share for the 2017 fiscal General Meeting must be registered as attend the Annual General Meeting, have their year, in total SEK 227 million (180) million. shareholders in the share register mainshares temporarily reregistered with Euroclear The proposed record date for the dividend is tained by Euroclear Sweden AB as of ThursSweden AB. A request for reregistration Monday, 7 May 2018. Íf the Annual General day, 26 April 2018, and notify the company should be submitted to the nominee well in Meeting resolves in accordance with the of their intention to attend no later than advance of the Annual ­General Meeting. proposal, the dividend is expected to be Thursday, 26 April, 2018. ­distributed through Euroclear Sweden AB Registration of participation must be proNotice convening the Annual on Friday, 11 May 2018. vided in writing to Gränges AB, Juridik, Box General Meeting 5505, 114 85 Stockholm, Sweden, or by Gränges’ notice convening the Annual GenFor further information, please contact: telephone at +46 732 07 42 52 on weekdays eral Meeting for 2018 will be published on or Pernilla Grennfelt between 9 a.m and 4 p.m CEST or at the about Tuesday, 27 March 2018 by a press SVP Communications & Investor Relations company’s website, www.granges.com. release and on the company’s website. pernilla.grennfelt@granges.com When registering, shareholders must state Information about other decision points will Tel: +46 702 90 99 55 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT Gränges’ annual report is available on the company’s website, www.granges.com, in Swedish and English. The annual report is also available in printed format and can be ordered at ­reports@granges.com. GRÄNGES FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2018 Interim report, January–March 2018 26 April 2018 Annual General Meeting 2018 3 May 2018 Half-year report, January–June 2018 19 July 2018 Interim report, January–September 2018 25 October 2018 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 123 HISTORY HISTORY The foundation for today’s Gränges was After the Gränges Group was acquired In 2005 Sapa was acquired and delisted laid in 1896 in Grängesberg. Thereafter, by Electrolux in 1980 a number of strucafter Orkla of Norway made a bid for the several different industrial enterprises tural changes were implemented, resulting company. At that time Sapa had two lines became part of the Group, including in the sale of most of Gränges’ businesses. of business: rolled aluminium products Grängesberg mines, the TGOJ rail busiWhat remained was the production of aluand extruded aluminium profiles. In 2013 ness, Oxelösund ironworks and a shipping minium products. the rolled products business took back the business. In 1969 the Group acquired A key milestone came in 1996, when name of Gränges and in 2014 Orkla decided Svenska Metallverken, which included an Gränges established a global presence by to list Gränges on the Nasdaq Stockholm aluminium p ­ roducts business, an operaopening a production plant in Shanghai. In Stock Exchange. tion that would later evolve into Gränges. 1997 Gränges was listed on the Stock In 2016, Gränges acquired Noranda In 1972 work began on the development Exchange in Stockholm and in 2000 downstream operations in the United and ­production of aluminium heat Gränges changed name to Sapa. States. ex­changer strips in Finspång. 1896 1972 1997 2013 2016 The industrial Production of materials Gränges is listed on Gränges becomes a Acquisition of Noranda´s group is formed in for brazed aluminium the stock exchange in stand-alone company downstream operations Grängesberg heat exchangers starts Stockholm and takes back its in the US old name. 1922 1996 2005 2014 Production of Gränges establishes a Orkla buys out Gränges is listed on aluminium products production plant in Sapa (Gränges) through Nasdaq Stockholm starts at the plant in Shanghai a public bid and delists Finspång the company 124 GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 AVSNITT ADDRESSES HEAD OFFICE GRÄNGES EUROPE GRÄNGES ASIA GRÄNGES AMERICAS Gränges AB (publ) Gränges Sweden AB Gränges Aluminium Gränges Americas Inc Box 5505 SE-612 81 Finspång (Shanghai) Ltd 501 Corporate Centre SE-114 85 Stockholm Sweden 1111 Jiatang Highway Drive, Suite 280 Sweden Phone: +46 122 838 00 201807 Shanghai Franklin, Tennessee 37067 Phone: +46 8 459 59 00 China USA Phone: +86 215 954 1111 Phone: +1 615 778 2000 VISITING ADDRESS VISITING ADDRESS Linnégatan 18 Slottsvägen 1 SE-114 47 Stockholm SE-612 31 Finspång Sweden Sweden www.granges.com Corp. identity no. 556001-6122 Concept, text and production: Solberg in cooperation with Gränges. Photographers: Dan Coleman, Satyaki Ghosh, Gränges, Taylor Johnson, Robert Nilsson, Volvo Cars among others. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet. GRÄNGES ANNUAL REPORT 2017 125 A GLOBAL LEADER IN ALUMINIUM ENGINEERING, MANUFACTURING AND INNOVATION
