UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress November 2018 Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer Citizenship, Sustainability and Innovation are central to our Bank’s core business and our commitment to the triple bottom line of responsible financial, environmental and socio-economic development. As an organisation that has existed for more than a century, we are committed to contributing to the growth and sustainability of the communities in which we serve as well as building strong relationships with our employees, customers stakeholders and regulators; an outlook which underpins our sustainability efforts. In this first Communication on Progress report, we highlight the efforts we have made in the past To strengthen and reinforce our commitment to year to integrate the principles of the UNGC in our the United Nations (UN) Sustainable business strategy, culture and daily Development Goals (SDGs), Union Bank of operations. The ten principles of the UNGC under Nigeria Plc (Union Bank) subscribed to the United these headings – Human Rights, Environment, Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2017. Labour and Anti-Corruption – guide our business operations as well as our contribution to community development. We are proud to be a member of the UNGC and we are committed we reaffirm our support and commitment to making the world a better place. to contributing to Yours sincerely, the growth and sustainability of the Emeka Emuwa Chief Executive Officer communities in which Union Bank of Nigeria PLC, Stallion Plaza 36, Marina we serve P.M.B 2027 Lagos, Nigeria COP for 2017 02 Communication on Progress | November 2018 Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights) as well as all International treaties that Nigeria has acceded to and the principles concerning fundamental rights set out in the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Sustainable Banking Principles of 2012. These include, the right to life; right to legal recognition as a person; freedom of thought, conscience and religion; freedom of opinion and expression; freedom from torture; freedom from cruel, inhumane or degrading treatment; freedom from slavery and servitude, and freedom from retroactive penal legislation. • Union Bank is compliant with all relevant international and local legal obligations which support the fundamental principles of human rights across all our lines of business in Nigeria and the United Kingdom which are the countries where we operate. Our relationships with our employees, customers, clients and suppliers, and with the countries and communities in which we operate, are intended to reflect the principles and policies referred to in this Human Rights Statement. Assessment, Policy and Goals • Union Bank’s human rights policy aligns • Union Bank is an active supporter of the with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We Human Rights; the International Labour believe that respect for human rights is central to Organization (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental our sustainable value creation which is at the core Principles and Rights at Work, where applicable to of what we do. This underpins our commitment to business; and other applicable international the triple bottom line of responsible financial, principles. environmental and socio-economic development. Our commitment to upholding the rights of • Our human rights policy, which guides all humans is reflected in our internal processes, from Union Bank’s operations and activities on the our Human Resources (HR) policy to our subject of human rights, prohibit use of child & environmental and social risk policy as well as our forced labour, and discrimination on grounds of Core Values Framework. race, religion, age, gender or economic background. It helps enhance our ability to • Our Human Rights Policy aligns with the identify and manage human rights issues in areas 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration of relevant to our business, to elaborate on our Human Rights (UDHR), the Nigerian Constitution, commitment to support human rights, build various Nigerian State and Federal laws, increased trust with our stakeholders and to International Bill of Human Rights (consisting of demonstrate good business practices, amongst the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the others. International Covenant on Civil and Political Communication on Progress | November 2018 03 Human Rights Implementation • We have a Code of Conduct form, which all employees sign-off to document their acceptance of the bank’s standard of behaviour for its employees. Any form of harassment or bullying is intolerable as Union Bank is committed to ensuring its employees are treated fairly and with respect. • We have an effective grievance mechanism process which includes an independent whistle blowing platform (a dedicated email, phone line and website) where employees can state their grievances and support prompt resolution of identified grievances. Our HR structure helps to facilitate effective interaction between HR business partners and • Our women are allowed to embark on fully employees across the bank’s network. paid maternity leave whether or not they are permanent employees. Maternity leave (12-weeks) • Our retired employees are entitled to is not annual leave consuming i.e. female staff are benefits for their service with the bank. We allowed to take their annual leave and maternity provide free health plans and other benefits to our leave in the same year. Female employees who retired employees. Currently, over 13,000 retired adopt young babies (3 months and below) are employees and their spouses are granted access also allowed to take a maximum of 6 weeks to to free health care. Current employees are not cater for/bond with their new babies; subject to exempt from receiving benefits of their service. providing required documentation from relevant Employees enjoy health care, pension government agencies for adoption. In addition, contributions, leave pay, feeding, transportation for a period of six (6) months from the end of the and housing and education allowances. They also maternity Leave period, a nursing mother is entibenefit from performance bonus based on the tled to two periods of half an hour daily off work bank’s annual profit and employee performance. for the purpose of nursing her child. Alternatively, nursing mothers may elect to finish at work one hour earlier than normal closing time, or start at work one hour later than the normal starting time. Currently, over 13,000 • Our suppliers, contractors and third-party service providers are made to embark on a retired employees and thorough prequalification process (by an external consultant) in order to determine and mitigate their spouses are against possible Environmental & Social and human rights risks. In addition, services and granted access to contracts are awarded to Union Bank’s contractors without discrimination. free health care. A comprehensive screening process is carried out to determine who will be awarded the contract for service. To avoid bias, a couple of internal stakeholders are involved un the screening process. 04 Communication on Progress | November 2018 Human Rights Measurement of Outcomes ICSS We regularly carry out an Internal Customer Satisfaction Survey (ICSS) to obtain necessary feedback and identify areas with gaps, to ensure continuous growth and promote stronger relationships across different units and teams within the bank. NPS We calculate our Net Promoter Score (NPS) to know our customers’ experience of the Union Bank brand and help us to improve our customer experience in order to deliver the best service every time. 38% Employees 38% of our employees are women; 22% of employees in senior 22% Management management position are women, our board of directors 29% Board of Directors comprises of 29% women. All our policies are gender inclusive and non-discriminatory. Union Bank is an equal opportunity employer and encourages very strongly, female participation in our recruitment processes. 75 vendors went through the prequalification process this year. This reflects a 27% increase in our 2017 numbers. zero We recorded zero incidents of human rights violation. Communication on Progress | November 2018 06 in the bank. It encompasses three main phases, which include: training school, job rotation and final posting. Since the commencement of this program, we have had three successful streams who have gone on to become high-flying employees in their various departments. In addition to our MT program, all employees are allowed to embark on training programmes. In the past year, over 90% of our employees participated in the bank’s training scheme. The talent we groom is a reflection of who we are and the results we achieve. Implementation Assessment, Policy and Goals • Non-Discriminatory Policy We operate a non-discriminatory policy in the consideration of • Union Bank respects the Nigerian and applications for employment, including those International Labour Laws in its dealings with received from disabled persons. Our policy is that employees, suppliers and third-party contractors the most qualified and experienced persons are by ensuring that business is done with fairness recruited for appropriate job levels, irrespective of and without discrimination. Our employees’ an applicant’s state of origin, ethnicity, religion or success is our success and we endeavour to physical condition. In the event of any employee demonstrate our commitment by creating an becoming disabled in the course of employment, environment that allows for both their the Bank is in a position to arrange appropriate professional and personal development. training to ensure the continuous employment of such a person without subjecting him/her to any • As Nigeria’s most reliable and trusted disadvantage in his/her career development. banking partner, we focus on quality in all that we do. The talent we groom is a reflection of who we • Robust Retention Framework We have a are and the results we achieve. Our Management robust retention framework to ensure that we Trainee (MT) program is a strategic leadership retain key talent to sustain our business and build pipeline model designed to acquire and train a leadership pipeline for the future. Our talent individuals with abilities to flourish in a diverse management system provides a unique working environment that drives innovation and competitive advantage as our employees are collaborative effort and to position the exposed to training, projects and stretch Management Trainees for future leadership roles assignments, with a strong reward system that 07 Communication on Progress | November 2018 Labour recognizes high performers. This is supported by across Leadership trainings, soft skill trainings, a result driven performance management system. business appreciation, finance and risk We also have leadership development and management, among others. management trainee programmes to develop the next generation of leaders. All these initiatives • Employee Value Proposition For us, our make our employees stand out when compared employees’ success is our success and we with their peers. endeavour to demonstrate our commitment by creating an environment that addresses the rights • Health and Safety Policy The Bank of humans and allows for both professional and maintains business premises designed with a view personal development. We reviewed our existing to guaranteeing the safety and healthy living value proposition and aligned it to our strategy conditions of its employees and customers. and values so that we can build a workforce of Employees are adequately insured against self-fulfilled, highly motivated and productive occupational and other hazards. In addition, the people, who win together. We developed a refined Bank provides medical facilities to its employees Union Bank Employee Value Proposition (EVP), and their immediate families at its expense. Fire based on the outcome of our discussions across prevention and fire-fighting equipment are the network, which is hinged on five critical levers: installed in strategic locations within the Bank’s learning, career opportunities, entrepreneurship, premises. The Bank operates a Group Personal leadership and the work environment. This helps Accident Insurance Scheme in accordance with to provide broad career opportunities, groom the provisions of the Employee Compensation Act ethical leaders, give room for entrepreneurship for the benefit of its employees and also operates development, create a continuous learning a contributory pension plan for the benefit of its environment and foster a work community that employees in line with the Pension Reform Act excels in diversity and thrives on mutual respect. 2014 as amended. • Training As a policy, all employees of the bank are required to undergo a minimum of 60 hours of training for ongoing development and career planning. This usually will comprise of We reviewed our e-learning and classroom training tailored to help all employees realize their full potential. existing value proposition • To support the learning needs and and aligned it to our development of select employees, we partnered with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to develop a strategy and values so leadership development programme. programme is introduced to instil the Union Bank This that we can build a brand of leadership in our present and emerging leaders; equipping them (over a period of 11 workforce of self-fulfilled, months) with the competencies required to help highly motivated and them achieve business objectives. In line with our objective of building an entrepreneurial mind-set productive people, in our employees, we equip our employees with learnings that are applicable beyond the who win together. immediate workplace and can be applied in their work and life beyond Union Bank. These cut Communication on Progress | November 2018 08 Labour • Based on our refined value proposition, we expanded our work policy to include flexible work locations and examination leave. Our employees can work from home or a branch one day per work week and take days off to study and take exams. This shows our commitment to the needs of our employees and reflects our commitment to support their personal and professional aspirations. Excited students of St. Mary’s Private School after our 2018 • Fitfeb In February of each year, we World Environment Day ‘Upcycling Project’ promote the culture of health and fitness healthy diet habits and maintaining a healthy work/ life balance through our flagship employee health awareness programme, FitFeb. In 2017, our FitFeb event was themed “Recession and Wellness: Maintaining Balance in Stressful Times”. In February 2018, our FitFeb campaign was themed “Fit for Productivity”. This is in line with the bank’s theme for the year. So far, this event has helped to promote financially friendly ways of maintaining a health-conscious lifestyle. In addition, it reinforces Union Bank 2018 Management Trainees on a visit to Little Saints our commitment to supporting our employees’ Orphanage good health and wellbeing. Excited students of Fatimah School after our World Savings Day Emeka Emuwa, CEO, Union Bank speaking to students of activity African Church Grammar School during our 2018 Financial Literacy Day activity A Union Bank employee teaching students on financial literacy Employees of Union Bank, helping in the construction of modern toilets in a government-owned school 09 Communication on Progress | November 2018 Labour Measurement of Outcomes Inclusion of volunteering in assessment – over 4500 hours were spent by our employees in voluntary activities to support students and communities. Our key volunteering activities in 2018 were 4500 Financial Literacy Day 2018, World Environment Day, Upcycling Project, Union Leadership Initiative, Union Cares Valentine Project, Management Trainee Volunteering Project as well as the Financial HRS Literacy and Mentoring Programme, etc. Union bank does not discriminate against employees and/or customers with disabilities. Our branches are built in such a way as to allow physically challenged individuals access to transact their banking activities in the bank. 65% of our branches are friendly to 65% physically challenged individuals – they are fitted with key access points to enable easy entrance and exit (elevators, wheel chair ramps, etc.). In the course of the year, we organised over 40 stress management programmes for our employees. In addition, we have 40 a fully functional sports club, open to our employees and their families. Employees are encouraged to utilize the services available in the sports centre for their gymnastic and recreational SRESS MANAGEMENT needs. PROGRAMMES Communication on Progress | November 2018 10 Assessment, Policy and Goals • At Union Bank, we are committed to contributing towards the sustainable development of our host communities, creating long-term value, competitive advantage and sustainability leadership. We recognize that, though minimal, our operations result in some impact on the environment. We continuously aim to reduce the environmental impacts of our business and operate in an environmentally responsible manner. • The global increase in greenhouse Implementation emissions and its consequences has galvanised a • All lending products and services are multi-stakeholder approach to ensure its underpinned by the Board approved reduction. As part of efforts to minimize our Environmental and Social (E&S) Risk policy which environmental footprints, we have made has brought about a cultural shift towards our significant progress in the following areas: E&S responsibility. As a result, our E&S risk assessment reviews the borrower activities and their possible effects on the environment – 100% 1. Energy/ Fuel Consumption of our loans are screened for possible E&S risks. In 2. Paper Use addition, we have increased our lending for 3. Water Use environmentally beneficial purposes by 25% to 4. Solid waste Production over three billion naira (NGN 3bn). We have also 5. Company Fleet deployed innovative financial products to 6. Air travel promote financial inclusion and the empowerment of all Nigerians especially the financially excluded and SMEs (Small and Medium • Our objective is to continuously increase scale Enterprises). our sustainable activities until all aspects of our business operations are fully covered. This will in • To date, 95% of our branches are turn, reduce our environmental footprint in order sustainable. We are constantly reducing energy to fulfil our environmental obligations and consumption by monitoring energy usage and commitments toward being a responsible reducing our dependence on fuel. As a promoter corporate organization. of clean energy, we deployed alternative energy solutions to our branches and ATMS – 79 Union Bank ATMs and 21 branches are powered by solar energy. We are committed to this sustainable 11 Communication on Progress | November 2018 Environment clean energy source and intend to increase the conferred the 2017 Recyclemania Champions. This number of branches and ATMs using solar in the year, in line with our plans and budgetary coming years. In addition, we have commenced allowances, we expanded our recycling activities plans to take advantage of the natural gas to four other states in Nigeria – Abuja, Ogun, Edo pipeline that runs the length of Marina, where our and Kwara state. As a result of this expansion, 80 head office is located, to power our head office. branches will participate in the 2018 This would ensure we cement our brand as a Recyclemania competition. supporter of affordable & clean energy. We employ sustainable building materials (container • In keeping with our improved buildings) in designing a number of our new consciousness on efficient water usage, our Bank infrastructural facilities. We also promote further instigated a water efficiency project at the head energy efficiency with the installation of various office. This strategy involved a complete overhaul energy saving equipment – heat sensor lighting, of existing pipes in the building and the energy efficient air-conditioning systems and installation of new piping systems. Installation of a generators, heat sensor escalators. metering tank to keep track of our water consumption, introduction of water treatment • In adherence to the environmental laws plans, self-closing push button taps, single flush that govern our organization, we obtain the urinals and water closets. In addition to the water necessary Environmental Impact Assessment efficiency project going on at our head office, our licence as well as environmental protection branches have equally been fitted with water permits. We conduct regular Health and Safety meters to measure and control our water use. We training for select employees and our Head of are pleased by the results of this project as we Security & Safety as well as our Head of have experienced a 2.7% reduction in water Occupational Risk who serves as our consumption per employee. Environmental, Health and Safety manager. • We reduced vehicular CO2 emissions by • In a bid to reduce our paper consumption, scheduling movements to reduce mileage. we are developing a platform to automate the Employee air travel has also reduced as we processes that consume paper. We encourage the encourage video conferencing for meetings use of emails and electronic documentation and instead of travels. double-sided printing in order to reduce our paper consumption. We also introduced the use of recycled envelopes. • As part of Union Bank’s commitment to effective waste management, we have adopted ...in line with our plans the 3-R (reduce, reuse and recycle) approach towards prevention of pollution and disposal of and budgetary waste, in line with best practices in environmental allowances, we expanded sustainability. To extend our efforts in this regard, we launched our first in-house recycling our recycling activities competition tagged “Recyclemania”. The competition ran from September to November to four other states 2017 in the twenty-one (21) recycling Union Bank branches. At the close-out ceremony organised to in Nigeria. conclude the competition, the Union Bank Surulere branch emerged the winner and was Communication on Progress | November 2018 12 Environment Janitors of Surulere Branch with the 2017 Recyclemania Trophy Kandolo Kasongo, Executive Director Risk Management, Union Bank; Lola Cardoso, Chief Digital Officer, Union Bank with employees and janitors of Surulere Branch, our 2017 Recyclemania Challenge Winners LASU Branch (Construction in progress) LASU Branch (Completed) QIT Branch (Construction in progress) QIT Branch (Completed) 13 Communication on Progress | November 2018 Environment Measurement of Outcomes Appropriately labelled bins have been placed in the kitchenettes and other strategic locations on each floor. Our janitorial teams have been trained on how to handle recyclable waste. In addition, we regularly release internal communications on the bank’s activities in ensuring a reduced waste production and sustainable waste disposal. 95% branches of our branches are sustainability enabled with different tools to ensure water conservation, energy efficiency and sustainable waste disposal. We employ sustainable building materials (container buildings) in designing a number of our new infrastructural facilities. We have five container buildings at various stages of completion We have expanded our recycling activities to five states in Nigeria 92 – Abuja, Ogun, Edo, Kwara and Lagos states. This makes it a total of 92 branches that are currently recycling in the UBN network. Since the inception of our recycling program, we have recycled a 70k total of 70,928.7kg across the three main areaspaper, plastic, and metal. kg Communication on Progress | November 2018 14 Environment With our increased recycling efforts, we have reduced waste to 30% landfills by 30% in recycling locations. We installed water meters in our bank locations to keep track of our water consumption. We also installed self-closing push button taps, single flush urinals and water closets to control water consumptions. Overall, there has been a 2.7% reduction in water consumption per 2.7% employee. We deployed alternative energy solutions to our branches and ATMs – 79 Union Bank ATMs and 21 branches are powered by solar 79 ATMs energy. Following the shift to solar energy in select branches, Union bank has saved over N4 million in 14 months with a 20% 21 Branches reduction in power usage. We recorded a 30% reduction in the number of business trips 30% taken in 2018 which resulted in a reduction in mileage and CO2 emissions. 15 Communication on Progress | November 2018 standards of openness, integrity, accountability and ethical standards. There is a toll-free hotline, a dedicated e-mail address, web portal and a Mobile App on Android and iOS devices to enable stakeholders, including employees, report all suspected breaches of the Bank’s Code of Corporate Governance. Assessment, Policy and Goals • Union Bank’s Code of Conduct prohibits • Our employee disciplinary process is employees from being involved with bribery, based on principles of integrity, equity and fair corruption and acceptance of gifts. hearing. As such, all employees are given fair hearing. We also use our whistle blowing channels • Our E&S risk policy also prohibits the bank which allow staff to report issues discreetly under from working with companies with corrupt the cover of anonymity. Our policy emphasizes practices, as stipulated in our exclusion list. zero tolerance for bullying and all forms of discrimination. • We conduct annual internal and external audit reviews to monitor the effectiveness of our E&S governance structures and assess our compliance with sustainable banking principles. We also use our whistle blowing channels Implementation which allow staff to • We carry out extensive KYC (Know Your Customer) on clients before beginning banking report issues discreetly relationships. Our relationship management procedure also ensures an ongoing KYC process under the cover to ensure our customers are not contravening the law. of anonymity. • In line with our commitment to instil the best corporate governance practices, we have an anonymous whistle-blowing channel that is independently managed by Deloitte and Touché. This is to uphold our commitment to the highest Communication on Progress | November 2018 16 Anti-Corruption Measurement of Outcomes Union Bank’s financial statements follow strict standards and are assured by external auditors. This serves as an avenue to flag off any false transaction which could be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. We have a Board Audit Committee and a Statutory Audit Committee that ensure full oversight on the bank’s accounting and financial reporting functions, its internal controls and audit processes, the independence of external auditors, review of audited financial statements and overall compliance with necessary legal and regulatory requirements. Over 90% of our employees are trained on our anti-corruption 90% Employees policies and procedures. Our plans for the foreseeable future include the continuous development of training needs for employees and increasingly for the external public. With the use of technology and innovation, we will continue to develop content that is engaging and able to influence diverse audiences and their sustainability behaviours. We are positive that our initiatives and activities position us as a socially responsible financial institution. 17 Communication on Progress | November 2018 ©2018 Union Bank of Nigeria Plc. www.unionbankng.com customerservice@unionbankng.com Towards a simpler, smarter world.
