Healthcare. We Care. Communication on Progress Report 2018 celebrating 20 years Communication on Progress Report in respect of Aspen’s application of the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 Principles for 2018 Group Chief Executive’s statement Section 1 – Human rights principles There have been no reports of human Principle 1: Businesses should support rights abuses or infringements during Aspen’s commitment to the UN and respect the protection the past year (2017: nil). Global Compact of internationally proclaimed Aspen became a signatory of the United human rights There are a number of other human Nations Global Compact (“the UN Global Principle 2: Make sure that they are not resource and ethics-related policy Compact”) with effect from 31 July 2013 complicit in human rights documents, procedures and statements and I am pleased to reaffirm our support abuses. applicable throughout the Group, which of the 10 principles of the UN Global confirm our commitment to protecting Compact in the areas of human rights, Assessment, policy and goals basic human rights. These include, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our adherence to fundamental human among others, the applicable grievance rights is enshrined in our Code of procedures, the Group’s whistle-blower Regional ethics officers, appointed for Conduct, available online, which procedure and respective recruitment each business in terms of our ethics confirms, “Aspen supports and respects and selection policies. management programme, are required the protection of internationally to annually report on the application of proclaimed human and employment Refer to pages 64 and 66 of Aspen’s these 10 principles in their regions and rights”. It further confirms our Integrated Report for the 2018 financial serve as a monitoring resource to commitment to respecting fundamental year for further information regarding ensure these are consistently applied. human rights and treating all employees our commitment to respecting human The regional ethics officers are also and others with fairness, equality and rights and promoting equality, engaged with the key business leaders respect to foster an open, transparent, respectively. in their relevant operations to ensure and trusting environment, which is free that they understand these principles from prejudice, discrimination, bias, Section 2 – Labour principles and recommendations and implement harassment and/or violation. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the processes and controls necessary the freedom of association to support them. The Company Implementation and the effective recognition Secretary & Group Governance Officer The Aspen Code of Conduct, which of the right to collective monitors adherence to the Group’s requires the formal acceptance by every bargaining Code of Conduct and Ethics new Aspen employee, further provides Principle 4: The elimination of all forms management principles and had that all employees are responsible for of forced and compulsory overarching responsibility on reporting ensuring that Aspen upholds its labour on the application of the 10 principles commitments in respect of human Principle 5: The effective abolition of throughout the Group. rights. child labour Principle 6: The elimination of In our capacity as a signatory to the UN All our suppliers and service providers discrimination in respect of Global Compact, we look forward to are required to agree to, or acknowledge, employment and building on our existing reputation for the Aspen Code of Conduct for suppliers occupation. respecting basic human rights, engaging and service providers when entering in fair labour practices, being into new commercial agreements with Assessment, policy and goals environmentally responsible and having us, thereby ensuring that human rights The use of child labour, forced labour a zero-tolerance approach to corruption. are respected within our value chain. and/or compulsory labour is strictly prohibited by the Aspen Code of My thanks must again go to the Social & Measurement of outcomes Conduct. This code also specifically Ethics Committee for providing guidance We encourage employees and external confirms our commitment to the on the implementation of policies and stakeholders to report any breaches or elimination of discrimination in respect procedures applicable to the Group as a suspected breaches of our Code of of employment policies and practices. whole in respect of the application of the Conduct, including any possible human Freedom of association and the effective letter and the spirit of the 10 principles rights abuses or infringements in terms recognition to the right to collective set out in the UN Global Compact and of our whistle-blowers’ standard bargaining is also assured in terms of monitoring the Group’s performance in operating procedure. An independently this code. respect of this application. monitored whistle-blowing hotline, Deloitte’s Tip-Offs Anonymous, is Implementation This Communication on Progress Report operated to ensure that these incidents The Aspen Code of Conduct, which describes our actions to continually are brought to the Company’s attention requires the formal acceptance of every improve the integration of the UN Global and these tip-offs can be made on an new Aspen employee, provides that all Compact and its principles into our anonymous basis. All reported incidents employees are specifically responsible business strategy, culture and daily are formally recorded and reported to for ensuring that we uphold: operations. We also commit to sharing the Social & Ethics Committee for • freedom of association and the this information with our stakeholders consideration. effective recognition to the right to using our primary channels of collective bargaining; communication. 1 Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report 2018 celebrating 20 years Communication on Progress Report in respect of Aspen’s application of the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 Principles for 2018 continued • the elimination of all forms of forced All employees are free to belong to trade Section 3 – Environmental and compulsory labour; unions. Relationships with trade union principles • the effective abolition of child labour; representatives, considered key Principle 7: Businesses should support and stakeholders, are managed in a a precautionary approach to • the elimination of discrimination in proactive and responsible manner by environmental challenges; respect of employment policies and site human resources managers. Formal Principle 8: undertake initiatives to practices. processes are in place to foster a culture promote greater of transparency and constructive environmental responsibility; All Aspen suppliers and service engagement with trade union and providers are required to agree to, or representatives in each territory. Principle 9: encourage the development acknowledge, the Aspen Code of and diffusion of Conduct for suppliers and service Measurement of outcomes environmentally friendly providers when entering into new We encourage our employees and technologies. commercial agreements with us. In external stakeholders to report any terms of this code each Aspen supplier breaches or suspected breaches of our Assessment, policy and goals or service provider warrants, to the best Code of Conduct, including any possible Consistent with our commitment as of its knowledge, that in relation to the human right abuses or infringements in a responsible corporate citizen to performance of its obligations to Aspen: terms of Aspen’s whistle-blowers’ contribute to sustainable development, • it does not employ, engage or standard operating procedure. An Aspen’s Code of Conduct confirms that otherwise use any child labour; independently managed anonymous we exercise a systematic approach to • it does not use forced labour in any tip-offs hotline is also operated to health, safety, quality and environmental form (prison, indentured, bonded or ensure that these incidents are brought management in order to achieve otherwise) and its employees are not to the Company’s attention. All reported continuous performance improvement required to lodge papers or deposits incidents are formally recorded and and compliance to relevant legislation, on starting work; reported to the Social & Ethics regulations and guidelines. • it provides a safe and healthy Committee for consideration. workplace, presenting no hazards to We recognise the importance of its employees. Any housing provided During the year, no incidents of supporting global initiatives aimed at by the supplier to its employees is discrimination, forced labour or protecting the environment and safe for habitation. The supplier compulsory labour were found to exist conserving natural resources. Our provides access to proper sanitation, in the Group (2017: nil). These aspects environmental management philosophy, clean water, food, and emergency are monitored in respect of all business available online, advocates containment healthcare to its employees in the units. In addition, there were no reported of the carbon footprint across the supply event of accidents or incidents at the incidents in the Group where the rights chain in a technically and economically supplier’s workplace; of indigenous people were violated. feasible manner. This is further promoted • it does not discriminate against any Furthermore, no businesses in the Group in the Group’s responsible corporate employees on any ground (including have been considered to be at risk of citizenship philosophy. race, sexual orientation, religion, violating human rights which protect disability or gender); against child labour, forced or Our environmental management • it does not engage in or support the compulsory labour. protocol also acknowledges that the use of corporal punishment, mental, responsible management of the physical, sexual or verbal abuse and Employees across the Group are free to environment is an integral part of the does not use cruel or abusive exercise their rights to belong to trade sustainability of our operations and disciplinary practices in the unions and collective bargaining confirms that environmental workplace; councils – at yearend approximately management, protection and • it pays each employee at least the 27.3%of the Group’s employees were conservation will be incorporated into minimum wage, or a fair members of a trade union and our value chain and be promoted by the representation of the prevailing approximately 38.6% were represented following principles: industry wage (whichever is the by collective bargaining councils. • ensuring compliance with relevant higher) and provides each employee environmental regulations and with all legally mandated benefits; Refer to page 58 of Aspen’s Integrated legislation governing the responsible • it complies with the laws on working Report for the 2018 financial year for manufacture and supply of our hours and employment rights in the further information regarding the products; countries in which it operates; and Group’s commitment to respecting • carrying out of environmental risk • it is respectful of its employees’ rights employee rights. Also refer to pages assessments to identify actual and to join and form independent trade 60 and 61 for further information on our potential environmental impacts unions and freedom of association. efforts around employee health, emanating from our operations; wellness and safety. 2 Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report 2018 celebrating 20 years Communication on Progress Report in respect of Aspen’s application of the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 Principles for 2018 continued • conducting environmental risk waste material by an approved and Measurement of outcomes assessments and/or audits to accredited waste management Refer to the Aspen Integrated Report, evaluate the level of environmental service provider; and specifically pages 70 to 73, for the full compliance and the effectiveness • enhancing environmental training and details in respect of the Group’s efforts of the applied environmental awareness for our employees and to protect the environment and to management system; contractors to encourage responsible conserve natural resources. • promoting the efficient use of environmental practices in the resources such as energy, water, workplace, which, in turn, support the Section 4 – Anti-corruption paper and production materials with preservation of the broader principles due regard to the scarcity of natural environment within which the Principle 10: Businesses should work resources and the environmental Company operates. against corruption in all its impact resulting from the utilisation forms, including extortion and application of such resources in Implementation and bribery. conducting our business activities; Aspen’s Board monitors the status of • containment and reduction of our environmental risks through review of Assessment, policy and goals carbon footprint in our operations and material environmental management We have a zero-tolerance approach to in the broader supply chain in a performance indicators at scheduled unethical behaviour and are committed technically and economically feasible intervals. The Social & Ethics Committee to ensuring that the Group and its manner through structured systems assists the Board in monitoring the employees upholds our laudable of environmental monitoring, adequacy of environmental reputation. The Group Code of Conduct reporting and management; management systems in the Group and governs the conduct of all employees • monitoring and measuring the quality the extent to which these comply with throughout the Group and is aligned of air emissions and waste water relevant legislation. with the Organisation for Economic discharge against benchmarked Cooperation and Development ( OECD ) standards and legal requirements Designated business unit executives are recommendations regarding corruption. through accurate and effective responsible for ensuring compliance systems of measuring, reporting and with all relevant environmental We foster honesty, integrity and fairness controls; legislation and implementation of our in all aspects of our business and • the engagement of external experts environmental management philosophy, expects the same in our relationships or consultants to seek independent as appropriate. Under the direction of with all those with whom we do assurance on the levels of a Group executive, the Group SHE business. environmental compliance and/or Department monitors the alignment for value-added advice on technically of business unit environmental We are committed to the fight against complex matters pertaining to management systems to the Group bribery. As a result, it is unacceptable for environmental management; standards, develops and promotes our any employee or agent of Aspen to • responsible management of waste environmental management protocol, directly or indirectly offer, pay, solicit or through the selection of effective and and monitors environmental legislative accept bribes in any form. feasible methods of waste disposal compliance across the Group’s which are aligned to the waste manufacturing facilities. Implementation hierarchy; A formalised ethics management • implementing robust waste The Aspen Code of Conduct for programme has been implemented at all management control systems to suppliers and service providers also of the Group’s businesses. This safeguard raw materials, packaging requires that our suppliers and service programme is managed by the Company materials and finished goods against providers undertake responsibility for Secretary & Group Governance Officer unauthorised use and to ensure that conducting business in compliance under the direction of the Social & Ethics these waste products are disposed of with applicable environmental laws and Committee and is aimed at: in accordance with required regulations when performing their • assisting the Audit & Risk Committee specifications in a controlled manner; obligations to Aspen and ensuring that and the Social & Ethics Committee in • promoting extended producer they conduct their business in an assessing the Group’s ethics profile, responsibility in a pragmatic manner environmentally conscious manner and, risks and opportunities; and and ensuring compliant waste insofar as is feasible, from renewable • assisting the Social & Ethics management principles and practices resources, while minimising the Committee to monitor implementation are implemented throughout the resources used and waste generated and compliance with the Group’s supply chain until the final disposal of by them. policies, which guide expected ethical behaviour. 3 Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report 2018 celebrating 20 years Communication on Progress Report in respect of Aspen’s application of the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 Principles for 2018 continued Our induction programme educates new writing to the Company Secretary & The Board has adopted a formal policy employees on the ethics, values and the Group Governance Officer. Some types to regulate conflicts of interest and business philosophy of the Group. All of gifts, benefits or entertainment are trading in the Company’s securities. new employees are given a copy of, and prohibited even if the value falls below are required to sign, an acceptance of this threshold. A Group-wide register of Measurement of outcomes the Code of Conduct on commencement gifts is maintained by the Company All logged tip-off calls and internal of their employment with the Group. The Secretary & Group Governance Officer reports with regard to possible incidents Code of Conduct is available to all and is noted by the Social & Ethics of fraud, theft and corruption were employees on the Group’s intranet and Committee on a periodic basis. This reported to the responsible functionaries is also contained in the employee register is also made available for within Aspen. Corrective action has been handbook. inspection by the Board or any member implemented where necessary to of senior management on request. improve controls and to prevent We conduct our business in a highly recurrence of any incidents found to be regulated environment, however, one We do not make payments or other in breach of our stated policies and in which the potential for unethical contributions to political parties, Code of Conduct. marketing and promotional practices organisations or their representatives remains inherent. We endorse the or take part in party politics. Employees Quarterly reports detailing the tip-offs ethical marketing of medicines and are free to participate in the political received, how these tip-offs have been adhere to the principles contained in the process in their private capacity investigated, and the corrective marketing codes to which we subscribe. provided it does not constitute a breach measures taken, are submitted to Our Group Code of Marketing Practice is of the principles set out in the Code of the Audit & Risk Committee and Social aimed at ensuring that any promotional Conduct and/or the relevant employee’s & Ethics Committee as appropriate. activities and interactions with obligations to Aspen under contracts of No material incidents of fraud, theft Healthcare Professionals (“HCPs”), other employment and does not negatively or corruption were reported during healthcare staff, government officials, influence their productivity or the the year. regulatory officials, patient groups, credibility of the Group. media and the general public are carried A review of the effectiveness of the out in a responsible, ethical, professional We endeavour to promote a culture of Group’s ethics management programme and legal manner. openness and transparency throughout was performed during the year and the the Group and employees and other programme was found to be effective in Our stance on bribery and corruption, stakeholders are encouraged to report all material respects. as outlined in our Code of Conduct, is unethical conduct and other underpinned by our Anti-bribery and transgressions of which they become Refer to pages 2 and 3 of Aspen’s Social Anti-corruption Policy, which is aware. & Ethics Committee Report available applicable to all our employees and our online for more information on its suppliers, service providers, consultants, An independently monitored whistleapproach to unethical conduct, including agents or any third parties authorised to blowing hotline, Deloitte’s Tip-Offs corruption, and the Group’s ethics act on our behalf. This policy is aligned Anonymous, has been made available management programme. to the OECD’s recommendations on to employees across the Group’s corruption and prohibits any employee businesses, whereby employees can or agent of Aspen from directly or report suspected fraud and/or activities indirectly offering, paying, soliciting or which are considered to be accepting bribes in any form. Read with transgressions of the Group’s Code of our Gifts and Benefits Policy, it also Conduct. Tip-offs training and awareness prohibits the acceptance or giving gifts sessions are conducted periodically to or hospitality that are not of a nominal promote utilisation of the facility where value or participating in events necessary. The tip-offs service has also sponsored by current or prospective been extended to key customers and customers or suppliers. Any employee suppliers. The details in respect of this who receives a gift or other benefit hotline are available on our website. exceeding the local currency equivalent of USD100 is required to disclose this in 4 Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Limited Communication on Progress Report 2018
