Sadaqat Limited Sahianwala Road, Khurrianwala, Fclsolobod Pakistan UAN:+92 41111010111, Tel: 8507501-6 'Fax: 9241 8507511,8507512, 4362194 E-mail: sadaqat.limited@sadaqatgroup.net ' (~'b '\ J-' '~ ' ..../ . . COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: I 22-11-2016 I To: I 22-11-2017 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company's chief executive zz' November, 2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Sadaqat Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we have mentioned the actions we have taken to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. We support the SDGs 2030 of UNGC. Sincerely yours, ~.(L Khurram Mukhtar Chief Executive Officer cA~~to-E~ ,--www.sadaqatgroup.net M Sadaqat Limited Sahianwala Road, Khurrianwala, Faisalabad Pakistan UAN:+ 92 41 111 010 111, Tel: 8507501-6 Fax: 9241 8507511,8507512, 4362194 E-mail: sadaqat.limited@sadaqatgroup.net ,,, ..•.• G ~~Is:. ' ;:0.;.' ..... aitex' :. 1-Mt!G BCI~ 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include: ./ Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities: So as to ensure that our workplace is safe, we have implemented and complied our facilities to safe workplace certification OHSAS 18001. Supporting the need for a suitable working environment, the company has implemented National Environmental Quality Standard and environment monitoring ensures this implementation. Appropriate washroom facilities adequate to the strength of team members in the corresponding area with proper hygiene and cleaning arrangements are made available through out the facility . ./ Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats: The company has a defined SOP for sexual harassment, which covers (physical, verbal, abusive & threat). The company has also established Worker Management Committee (WMC), Social Performance Team (SPT) with male and female ratio as required to address worker issues . ./ Take measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products: The company has conducted Risk Assessment to eliminate risk level and furthermore for effective engineering and administrative control and implementation. The company has defined SOP for safe waste disposal and conduct employ training regarding hazardous waste handling. Use of Personnel Protective Equipment is mandatory throughout the production. Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include: ./ Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour: The company is certified to social certifications (WRAP, Sedex & SA8000) confirming that there is no possibility of forced and bonded labor. Company has an SOP for that purpose in terms of forced labor and modern slavery . ./ Comply with minimum wage standards: The company follows the minimum wage as defined in Gazette issued by the government of Pakistan. cA~~w-E~ ,--www.sadaqatgroup.net M Sadaqat Limited Sahianwala Road, Khurrianwala, Faisalabad Pakistan UAN:+92 41111 010111, Tel: 8507501-6 Fax: 92 41 8507511,8507512, 4362194 E-mail: sadaqat.limited@sadaqatgroup.net (1= ~ ' ;~; ..•...... • , . I--M'!G BCI~ ./ Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria: We have an independent and capable recruitment team. Every employee is assigned with proper 10. Recruitment is solely done on merit in order to meet business objectives. The HR & Remuneration Committee is involved in all the key aspects of HR management and periodically reviews policies on professional development, compensation and reward management for employees. Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include: ./ Avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.): The company has defined proper process and maintenance schedule to avoid any environmental degradation. The testing related to monitoring is conducted as defined in NEQS (Self-Monitoring and Reporting by Industry) Rule, 2001. Waste is disposed off under contract with EPA approved Global Waste Management (GWM) company . ./ Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health: The company has addressed proper Emergency Response Plan (ERP) in order to response any incident and natural disaster related to safety and environment . .,/ Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances: Company has implemented an SOP for storage and handling of hazardous substances and use minimum quantity as required in limit. Company has also obtained an NOC certificate for safer storage and handling of chemicals by Environment Protection Agency Pakistan and submits compliance status on monthly basis to EPA as required. Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include: ./ Assess the risk of corruption when doing business: The company has dedicated Internal Audit department, which continuously reviews its operations by conducting risk assessment in order to identify incidents of corruption, if any. cA~~~w-E~ r-www.sadaqatgroup.net M Sadaqat Limited Sahianwala Road, Khurrianwala, Faisalabad Pakistan UAN:+92 41111010111, Tel: 8507501-6 Fax: 9241 8507511,8507512, 4362194 E-mail: sadaqat.limited@sadaqatgroup.net : I~!!.'!BBCI~ ,/ Mention anti-corruption and/or ethical behavior in contracts with business partners: Anti-corruption and Ethical standards are mentioned in contracts extended for doing business. ,/ Ensure that internal procedures support the company's anti-corruption commitment: The policy and procedure has been defined and is in full effect in terms of anti-corruption. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include: ,/ Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender, ethnicity, age, etc.): Age 18-60 Years Male: 5235 Female: 308 ,/ Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism: 0% ,/ Percentage of recycled materials: 10% cA~~~w-E~ ,-www.sodoqotgroup.net M
