2017 Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2017 INDEX Chairman’s letter CEO’s letter Business environment 1 Page 01 2 Page 02 3 Page 04 Executive summary Our activity External dimension of 4 Page 07 5 Page 10 6 our activity Page 23 Internal dimension Annex I Annex II 7 of our activity AI Materiality AII About this report Page 39 Page 57 Page 60 Annex III AIII Entities Page 67 Mr. Jon Riberas Mera Chairman A Word from the Chairman Dear readers, up our Company for their commitment and hard work throughout the year. Their dedication has It is my honor to present X-ELIO’s Sustainability enabled us to position ourselves as one of the Report for 2017, which demonstrates our main players in the energy sector, both globally renewed commitment to the values set under and in Spain. the Global Compact. Throughout these pages, we endeavor to address the concerns expressed Regarding corporate social responsibility, by our various stakeholders and offer our our mission is clear: we seek to instill into the view on the issues that affect the industry and communities where we operate the same values especially, our Company. of diversity and equality that we uphold in our daily operations. In this line, we have launched Our primary contribution to the environment in 2017 several aid projects aimed at having a is our business model itself. Renewable energy positive impact on the local community. is one of the most powerful tools in the fight against climate change and to decarbonize the Before I close, I also wish to thank our economy. Thanks to X-ELIO’s power generation shareholders for their commitment and support facilities, we have avoided the emission of to the project we share, a road laden with future 256,000 tons of CO2 into the atmosphere, challenges. We are facing political instability equivalent to the annual volume generated by and legal uncertainty in some countries. On the 41,000 people. other hand, we have already achieved financial independence from state grants, thus becoming In 2017, our revenue has totaled 120 million an efficient, sustainable Company in the long euros and we have expanded our presence in term. United States, Mexico and Japan. By year-end, we own 38 operating solar plants with a total To all those involved in X-ELIO’s business in one installed generation capacity of 385 MW and an way or another, I thank you. energy production of 2,131,051 GJ. The talent of our people is the cornerstone on which we build our business. Therefore, I would Jon Riberas Mera like to thank the 200 professionals that make Chairman Sustainability Report |1 Mr. Jorge Barredo López CEO A Word from the CEO Dear readers, increase the number and size of projects under construction or operation, within a framework of For the third consecutive year, I invite you tougher competition for financing. to read our latest Sustainability Report, now reporting on 2017. It provides information on X-ELIO believes that this new situation means progress, risks, achievements and areas for excellent news but, on the flip-side, it poses a improvement regarding environmental, social, great challenge. Since our inception, we have economic and governance areas. worked to prove that X-ELIO’s activity is, by itself, the most powerful tool in the fight against Throughout the year, we have witnessed climate change. Witnessing now the industry’s the recovery and preservation of the conviction in this regard, is a great satisfaction macroeconomic situation in the home for us. Likewise, the consolidation of our funding country to our Headquarters, as well as in the schemes, which does not depend on any Eurozone, and also the stabilization of political government financial support, encourages us to uncertainties at a global level that resulted from uphold our approach. Thus, the improvement of some significant events of 2016. our competitiveness, together with the market response, allows us to continue endorsing Moreover, 2017 has turned out to be a year our business model as the cleanest and most of great achievements and consolidation for efficient method to provide electricity to homes our industry sector: solar capacity installed and businesses worldwide. reached 98 GW worldwide, the highest record so far. Over these twelve months, renewable We have reached two significant milestones energy investment was higher than nuclear, gas within 2017: firstly, the expansion of our and coal combined. In particular, solar energy operations in Chile and the United States, received 57% of total investment in renewable encompassing the inauguration of Uribe Solar energy. This dynamism, together with the plant in June (57.6 MW) and the execution of the increasing success of photovoltaic technology acquisition of Midway I (67 MW) respectively. in tenders and the remarkable reduction of And secondly, the award of 742 MW in secured manufacturing costs, has paved the way to tariffs: 455 MW in Spain, 250 MW in Mexico 2| Sustainability Report and 37MW in Japan. All above translates into 38 operating solar the local community, promoting open dialogue and making them facilities by year-end, totaling 385 MW of installed capacity and part of the different projects. In 2017, because of this dialogue, we 2,131,051 GJ of annual energy production. supported socio-economic development projects in South Africa and Mexico, in fields such as empowerment, culture or sports. Furthermore, the issuance of a bond in September worth 92.5 million signaled a sign of investors’ confidence in our long-term With these initiatives, together with our own activity of clean project, which allows us to diversify our sources of long-term energy generation, we contribute decisively to the Sustainable financing. Development Goals (SDGs) and the 10 Principles under the Global Compact. Through them, we are contributing to build a more As a result of our commitment to Innovation, during 2017 we sustainable, productive and responsible world. have developed and implemented improved efficiencies in our plant management, with the addition of drones to our daily I invite you to delve into all these initiatives described in maintenance activities and IT developments in our data collection the pages to follow, where you can discover our results for system which will allow for more useful and predictive data 2017 together with our future objectives, which we face with treatment. enthusiasm and with the invaluable support and dedication from our team. To all of them, thanks, once again, for being part of Our positive results in 2017 would not have been achieved X-ELIO. without the constant effort and high quality work carried out by X-ELIO’s team. We aim to offer them all avenues for their professional and personal development. To reward this effort, the Board approved an extraordinary bonus in 2017. Jorge Barredo López CEO In order to strengthen ethics and integrity as inherent attributes of X-ELIO’s activity, we have devoted much of our effort during this year to the creation of tools and the improvement of our Compliance culture. Thus, the Compliance Program has been enhanced by articulating all necessary procedures for its implementation at all levels. We are committed to the career plan of our team, to their safety and wellbeing, as well as to building an equal opportunity environment. Within this context, I’d like to mention the launch of “Healthy X-ELIO”, an initiative aimed at promoting a healthy lifestyle. Due to the nature of our activity, we operate in countries at different levels of development, which presents us with a unique opportunity to provide value beyond the creation of employment and the generation of clean energy: we work hand in hand with Sustainability Report |3 03 Business environment Global New Investment in Renewable energy by sector, 2017, and growth on 2016, $BN Business environment Solar 161 Growth: 18% C Climate change continues to pose an important threat to the future of life on Earth. Its impact is predicted to increase over time. Some of those consequences are related to risks to human health or to the environment, which imply high costs on society. Wind Biomass & w-t-e 5 107 -12% -14% In this perspective, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) have established the objective of taking urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts through Small hydro 3 -36% its integration into national policies, strategies and planning or the development of technologies that contribute and strengthen mitigation and adaptation mechanisms. Biofuels 2 -3% Geothermal 2 -34% Governments and institutions worldwide have been supporting the idea that growth of renewable energy is one of the most Marine 0.2 -14% important tools to tackle climate change and at the same time, provide secure, clean and affordable energy to populations. Source: GLOBAL TRENDS IN RENEWABLE ENERGY INVESTMENT 2018 by UN Environment & Bloomberg New Energy Finance In recent years, solar energy has experienced significant expansion, due to cost structure improvements and efficiency in project development that have steadily grown, and shows no signs of slowing down. In this respect, in 2017, the world installed Global a record 98 gigawatts of new solar capacity, which comprises more than the net Levelized cost combined addition of all other renewables, fossil fuel and nuclear, according to the of electricity Global Trends in Renewable Energy Investment 2018 report 1. Moreover, according to from utilitythis report, solar power represents the technology that attracted the highest investment amount, $160.8 billion, an 18 per cent increase compared with previous year. scale renewable power generation See: Global Trends in Renewable Energy Investment 2018. UN Environment & Bloomberg 1 technologies New Energy Finance Visited 05/04/2018 https://drive.google.com/file/d/1SmhaIWAcmEMqR8R9oL5Fxn0cZ0kfY8Z/view Source: IRENA Renewable Cost Database Sustainability Report |5 03 | Business environment As shown in the latest report conducted by the International Renewable Energy Agency Furthermore, another important challenge in the process of transforming the current (IRENA) 2, the cost of electricity from solar energy has fallen by almost three-quarters in the situation of the sector is the need for advanced financing schemes that offer a more 2010-2017 period. As a result, the global weighted average levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) dynamic pace of implementation to go together with the business development. In this of utility-scale solar energy has dropped by 73 per cent since 2010. sense, some solutions are oriented to projects set in a financing framework that allows the process to be fast and simple through the clustering of related operations, which Some of the reasons that enhanced the competitiveness of solar power are the changes can have similar criteria for financial evaluation purposes. driven by technological breakthroughs, a more competitive procurement setup and an enlarged pool of experienced agents in the global competition structure. Additionally, the outlook for PV energy and other renewable sources is very positive, with estimations that predict that, by 2020, their costs will consistently be cheaper than fossil fuels. X-ELIO dedicates efforts and resources to being This dynamic demonstrates that there has been a significant change in the framework of the an active agent in the changes affecting the renewable energy sector, specifically in the solar energy. Society is now an active contributor sector, especially through in-house developments to the preservation of the environment and it is also moving forward towards energy that that aim at building more sustainable and promotes employment, economic growth and the improvement of the general community efficient processes, that together with a diverse well-being. and skilled team, foster an innovation-oriented Company culture. Room for improvement and challenges Improvements in innovation and technology research and their application to the value chain of solar photovoltaic energy have not yet been deployed to their full capacities. All this activity stimulates and accelerates the great potential of solar photovoltaic The market for renewable power generation needs to find ways to continue with the energy in all markets where X-ELIO operates as well as potential countries within its increase in manufacturing efficiency, the enhancement of panel’s performance and the international development plan. improvement in storage technology. However, we are in the midst of trends that envisage a favorable outlook, mainly with countries leading their bet on renewable energy along with the creation of interesting See: Renewable Power Generation Costs in 2017, IRENA. Visited 05/04/2018 http://www.irena. 2 strategies and policies that encourage continuous R&D+i and an environment of org/-/media/Files/IRENA/Agency/Publication/2018/Jan/IRENA_2017_Power_Costs_2018.pdf awareness and deep understanding of the need for smoother operations regarding solar energy. Also, the photovoltaic market is increasingly more global and international, which poses different levels of maturity vis-à-vis the commercial readiness, comprising subjects such as legal certainty, economic stability or the understanding of specific market policies and their application. 6| Sustainability Report 04 Executive summary 04 | Executive summary During 2017, X-ELIO has been awarded Presence 385 MW with 742 MW through X-ELIO at a in 10 200 Installed public auctions in glance countries Employees generating Spain (455MW), capacity Mexico (250MW) and Japan (37MW). 107.77 MW have been built in facilities in Japan and Chile and 239.7MW 591,958.64 256,000 Tn 120.13M€ are currently under Key figures MWh construction. CO2 Avoided turnover in 2017 produced X-ELIO acquired Midway I, as its first step of an ambitious growth plan in the United States. The financial market has Value demonstrated its confidence 128M€ 89% generation Economic 15.4M€ in X-ELIO’s business for Local model by successful bond Value Taxes paid employees emissions worth €92.5M to stakeholders Generated refinance plants in Spain with a total combined capacity of 33MW 8| Sustainability Report Building a culture of Compliance DDuring 2017, X-ELIO’s comprehensive Compliance Program has been consolidated under the highest standards of integrity in order to ensure ethical business conduct. In fact, during 2017 different actions have been taken towards the establishment of specific procedures in order to complement the Program policies. Policies Code of Compliance (Anti-corruption, Trade Ethics and Committee Sanctions and Antitrust) Conduct (Legal Department) Compliance Program Sustainability Report |9 05 Our activity O One of X-ELIO’s key drivers is to provide affordable electricity to homes and businesses while addressing climate change issues derived from the use of non-renewable energy sources. Thus, responsible business practices are at the cornerstone of our strategy and our value chain. X-ELIO is a global Company specialized in the development, design, construction, maintenance and operation of solar photovoltaic energy plants. It is present in 10 countries, with an installed generating capacity of approximately 385 MW in 38 owned plants, which, in 2017, produced an output of 2,131,051 GJ solar energy. Furthermore, X-ELIO carries out operation and maintenance works in 5 plants not owned. Both fixed-structure panels and solar trackers are installed in these facilities. Apart from identifying opportunities and designing, developing and implementing our own solar facilities, X-ELIO also operates some facilities that have been transferred to third-parties, providing our know-how and expertise throughout the operation and maintenance process. Global presence and main magnitudes 43 plants in operation Italy Spain 11 plants USA and 2 plants O&M 8 plants Puerto Rico 2 plants O&M 23.51 MW 9 plants 62 MW 19.76 MW Kuwait Japan 4 plants 1 plant O&M 106.53 MW Honduras 1 plant 42.38 MW Peru 2 plants 42.43 MW South Africa 2 plants Chile 30 MW 1 plant 57.62 MW Sustainability Report | 11 05 | Our activity Evolution and growth of X-ELIO 2020 Strategic objectives X-ELIO has developed and accomplished an ambitious international development 2020 20% renewable energy plan due to, among other reasons, a flexible and solid business model, Awarding of an ability to achieve strategic cost 244 MW in Mexico reductions and the development of relevant technology that serves to increase efficiency and long-term Participation in the KKR Global l Infrastructure 2017 + Uribe connection sustainability. This position has allowed X-ELIO to evolve and become a global Investor II Fund with an 2016 +A  warding of 455 MW in Spain leader of the industry. 80% share 2015 +R  efinancing 92.56 million Since the beginning of its operations, X-ELIO is born euros through a single bond X-ELIO has gained experience in +A  warding of 250 MW in developing, constructing and operating Mexico solar PV Plants in different countries with different technologies and together with different original equipment Offices in Tokyo 2014 First connection +A  warding of 37 MW in Japan manufacturers. X-ELIO’s participation and Mexico 2013 in Japan +O  ffices opening in Australia in different projects since its inception amounts more than 800 MW of installed capacity projects. + First 2012 + Offices in Italy and USA connection in Peru 2011 + First connection in Italy + Office in 2009 South Africa 2008 First connection: Albanilla, Spain + First connection in USA + Office in Chile Gestamp Asetym 2005 Solar is created 12 | Sustainability Report X-ELIO’s Performance in 2017 10 256,000 385 MW countries 120.13M€ 2GW 200 Tn Installed Present in Turnover In pipeline Employees Avoided CO2 generating (Upcoming 2 capacity years) Likewise, by the end of 2017, X-ELIO has been awarded secured tariffs for projects in Spain (455MW), Mexico (250MW) and Japan (37MW) and acquired a utility-scale solar project in the USA (Midway I, located in California), as its first step of an ambitious growth plan in the United States. In addition, the Company has completed the construction of more than 107 MW that are now in operation and has 239.7 MW under construction. 239.7 MW 107.77 MW 455 MW 250 MW 37 MW 66 MW Awarded in Awarded in Awarded in Acquired in USA Spain Mexico Japan (Midway I) Under construction In operation (Japan and Mexico) (Japan and Chile) Sustainability Report | 13 05 | Our activity Analysis of opportunities X-ELIO’s business activity X-ELIO’s endeavors encompass the overall solar energy cycle: from the opportunities’ exploration passing through construction to the final operation of facilities. The Company’s projects are tailored to specific needs taking into account the Power characteristics of each environment. In this sense, the first step consists of searching, Feed-In Purchase Public identifying and analyzing business opportunities that can derive from three specific Tariffs Agreements Tender sources: Feed-In Tariffs (FITs) 3, Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) 4 and public or private tenders. (PPA) In order to develop a project, we conduct assessments of locations’ conditions as well as regulatory and feasibility evaluations. In parallel, the team specialized in public tenders identifies and analyzes solar energy auctions issued by government bodies. Simultaneously, financial and investment schemes are explored. Upon identification of ideal opportunities and satisfactory evaluation of financial options, the Board decides whether or not to continue with the next steps of the Business development project. After technical and economic viability of a project are verified, financial sources are Financing process obtained and the approval of the Board is confirmed, X-ELIO starts construction of the solar plant. The construction process entails different aspects such as land preparation, modules supply, structure and equipment supply, civil works, assembly processes, cabling and Permitting grid application connection, testing, implementation of monitoring setups, etc. Upon construction, Solar plant and after ensuring that the appropriate conditions are established, the next step is purchase the connection to the grid. Finally, the phase of maintenance and operation starts, which includes overall monitoring of its smooth functioning as well as data generation, required for preventive maintenance and decision-making processes. Solar facility At any stage of this cycle, another path to procuring assets is the strategic purchase of construction plants, which can be under construction or already operational. Besides that, the sale of plants is sometimes an option for X-ELIO as well. Solar plant Grid sale Connection Tariff setting procedure carried out by Governments that ensures the compensation of costs and 3 boosts the use of renewable technologies through certain return. Contract between two parties to regulate the direct sale and purchase of electricity usually from the 4 producer to the final consumer or retailer or any other market participant. Operation and maintenance of facilities 14 | Sustainability Report X-ELIO’s strategy The market in which X-ELIO competes faces increasingly demanding challenges: solar energy production currently has a maturity level that has allowed the reduction of retail energy prices and producers need to adjust to this new scenario. Hence, this drop in sales prices makes access to financing more challenging. In spite of this context, X-ELIO’s continuous growth levels are helping it to adapt and meet its key strategic objectives and transform its challenges into strengths. Challenges Competition Adaptation to Top professionals for financing technology recruitment Strategic Competitiveness Develop in-house Attract and retain to attract Pillars innovations talent investment Construction 2GW from projects Access to financing at and operation of currently in the analysis Main goals any stage of the project 1,500 MW of the phase (greenfield lifecycle portfolio projects and auctions) Sustainability Report | 15 05 | Our activity Solar facilities: construction, operation and maintenance As soon as the development process is concluded, the design of the plants and the subsequent operation and maintenance are addressed. These phases are key to the Company and, for this reason, different plans are undertaken in order to develop a reliable and efficient operation, control risks and maximize profits. Role as project developer: designs plants at the most convenient locations and supervises 1 the EPC (Engineering, Procurement, and Construction) contractor’s work, who carries out Compliance CONSTRUCTION final construction. with the Quality, Oversees correct operational facilities’ activity functioning (facilities provide energy based Environment on climate conditions), and from a financial standpoint (there are no significant operational and Health & 2 O&M deviations which affect budgeted OPEX). Safety Policy It also exercises predictive, preventive, and corrective functions to ensure that solar (Operation and facilities owned by X-ELIO operate correctly. maintenance) X-ELIO as construction supervisor The Company’s role during the plant construction phase ranges from projecting the site to supervising work carried out by the contractor, thanks to the efforts of the Project Manager and other supervisors. In this perspective, X-ELIO mitigates any construction risks by establishing collaboration agreements with external Engineering Procurement and Construction (EPC) contractors. The latter are in charge of the realization of the project while X-ELIO applies its know-how by examining and controlling day-to-day works. Establishment of the Apart from executing the project, the contractor usually oversees the plant’s operation and framework for Selection maintenance over the EPC warranty period, the first years after commissioning. construction of the EPC Beginning of activities contractor the works Construction activity is divided into three phases: the establishment of the framework for the construction activities, the selection of the EPC contractor and, finally, the actual construction work. This process is designed to obtain direct control over every possible project risk and deviation and to gain a wider scope for action. The framework for operations may vary according to the applicable national legislation in each country, but in general, it is structured as of the following steps: 16 | Sustainability Report Establishment of the framework for construction activities Selection of the EPC contractor Beginning of the works Establishment of the framework for construction activities Prior to projecting the X-ELIO confirmation project, an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is prepared with the assistance of a local external consultant. Local competent External local X-ELIO consultants authority on environment Definiton Potential impacts on the area’s Selection environment of the EPC Beginning of contractor the works Design of the Environmental Proposed Approval Impact Mitigating actions Statement This is a legal document in which the promoter (in this case, This document is then submitted to the local competent authority for approval. X-ELIO) identifies any potential effects of the facility on the Demands by the competent authority vary depending on certain legislation, area’s environment and proposes individualized mitigating and therefore, X-ELIO is always in full compliance with and respectful of the actions for each. environment and area biodiversity. One of the key effects of construction works executed by X-ELIO is related to land movement. Depending on the terrain, this phase of the project can be fairly intense. Still, we always try to avoid adding or removing soil overall. In other words, we balance the land, trying to flatten out the uneven terrain. In rare cases where excess of soil is unavoidable, it is taken to an authorized landfill site. Sustainability Report | 17 05 | Our activity Selection of the EPC contractor Establishment of the framework for Selection construction of the EPC Beginning of activities contractor the works ISO 9001 Issuance of Request ISO 14001 Establishment of the For OHSAS 18001 framework for Proposal to construction Beginning of activities contractors X-ELIO’s Selection the works that comply Compliance Code of the EPC and accept and Polices contractor As soon as all bids have been received, solely corresponding to suppliers successfully passing the double audit, X-ELIO contrasts them to decide which it considers most beneficial. In 2017, X-ELIO collaborated on reaching long-term commercial agreements with panel manufacturers to arrange direct supply, rather than through the EPC to achieve greater price stability. Beginning of the works Establishment of the framework for Selection construction of the EPC Beginning of activities contractor the works Considering that legislation differs from X-ELIO designates a Project Manager and Thanks to the combined work one country to another, X-ELIO goes two site managers to oversee requirements performed by X-ELIO’s personnel and beyond regulatory stipulations in safety, established by the Company and the external consultants, weekly reports health, and environmental protection financing entity, such as deadlines, quality are prepared and sent to management matters during the whole project, by and safety standards, as well as the respect featuring comments from the building hiring external observers specializing in for the environment during execution of team on any of the more relevant events these three matters. the project. and project status. After this process has been completed, the grid connection represents the last step before the activities included in the Operation & Maintenance phase can start running. 18 | Sustainability Report X-ELIO as solar facility operator When the plant is connected to the grid and all its components are correctly functioning, X-ELIO starts its role as a facility operator. This phase covers all aspects and activities necessary to run the solar plant with the best performance outcomes. Over the first years of the plant’s life, the EPC contractor is responsible for its operation and maintenance, although X-ELIO continues to oversee the project. Maintenance tasks performed at a solar facility include: monitoring data and production output, cleaning mowing vegetation, visual inspections and services to correct any deviations. Monitoring and control tasks are performed remotely from the Control Centre located at X-ELIO’s Madrid headquarters. Regarding technical maintenance, 2017 represented a year of innovation and process improvement as a consequence of the Company’s needs exposed during its expansion to territories with specific conditions, the advances in technological components or the need to minimize operational costs. Although X-ELIO does not share ownership in the The use of drones has been an area Kuwait plant, it does handle its maintenance work. of research for X-ELIO over recent The idiosyncrasies of its extremely dry climate and months: tests were made on existing landscape causing continuous sandstorms made it technologies, which led to the decision to necessary to develop recurring clean technology create internal designs within the O&M which is not dependent on water. To this end, area to cover the Company’s particular robots which automatically clean off the layer of needs. X-ELIO’s drones take thermal dust accumulated on panels have been designed photographs which facilitate supervising during 2017 and will be in place by 2018 to attain panel performance, as well as production. optimal functioning. Sustainability Report | 19 05 | Our activity The contribution of technology to X-ELIO’s business model The new paradigm based on increased competition for financing and prices during auctions is exerting a huge effect on the operation of X-ELIO’s plants, whose OPEX has dropped over X-ELIO collaborates with Madrid Polytechnic University in recent years to meet the desirable profitability thresholds. To meet these targets, X-ELIO aims the research and implementation of innovation in plants to perfect its tools for forecasting potential events and accurately controlling the daily activity characterization, remote control tools and predictive analysis of our plants. To this end, X-ELIO has implemented a number of different innovation projects which take advantage of data and IT applications enabling increasingly efficient operations and I/V curve plotters. and making it possible to predict outcomes. The maturity of the market is fostering the appetite for solar energy, demonstrated as the most efficient technology. In the short term, it will be necessary to provide clean energy all day, rather than solely during daylight hours. To meet this need, X-ELIO is preparing pilot projects in Puerto Rico for energy storage batteries designed to stabilize Batteries energy supply all day. This is the online platform for reporting operational issues and collecting data on daily operations. This is X-ELIO’s in-house technology which is in continual evolution: since 2017 it has provided reminders to responsible parties within 2 days on unresolved issues. This is a communications network connecting plant operators and the X-ELIO Events Operations and Maintenance area, which ensures that appropriate steps are taken for each case. handling system Since 2017, X-ELIO has been immersed in the development of a new Data Integrity Tool (DIT) to be used as a platform for integrating, storing, using, and reporting operating information. Thanks to the DIT, X-ELIO is able to issue periodic reports to management in a manner which is efficient and safe. DIT For the year ahead, IT and Operation & Maintenance areas will collaborate in two areas of research: BIG DATA processing in order to take advantage of the data recorded by the Control Center; and the standardization of processes and infrastructures as a basis for avoiding risks as well as for restraining costs during its construction and maintenance stages. 20 | Sustainability Report Business Tools During 2017, “SAP Business Planning and Consolidation” was implemented at a corporate level and “SAP Roll outs” were completed in Japan, Chile and Mexico. These developments allow for the harmonization of the processes and information within the administration department and the services internalization, as well as their efficiency improvement. Mercatus, the cloud software for the energy sector launched in 2016, has been adapted for a better and easier utilization at all Company levels. Sustainability Report | 21 05 | Our activity X-ELIO’s integrated management system X-ELIO’s activities are based on its Integrated Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy which is mandatory for all members of the organization. This framework is certified under ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. In 2017, X-ELIO adapted the policy to the newer 2015 versions of ISO 9001 (Quality) and ISO 14001 (Environment). The objectives planned as a result of this revision, as well as their related action plans, are the following: Objective Action Plan Reduce the average time devoted to resolve Improvement of X-ELIO’s Events handling system construction work issues website Decrease of the time to completely install and develop Continuous monitoring of onsite works by X-ELIO’s a solar facility (deadlines) vs. contracted time frame employees supervising construction Reducing consumption in office for 2018 Decrease in office energy consumption vs. 2016 (66 MWh in 2017) Improve the perception of employee’s health Implementation of the “Healthy X-ELIO” program Reduce irrigation water consumption vs. estimation Development of a dry cleaning system 22 | Sustainability Report 06 External dimension of our activity 06 | External dimension of our activity 6.1 X-ELIO’s effort to fight climate change X X-ELIO’s main objective is to provide homes and businesses with affordable electricity while tackling climate change issues with the promotion and development of renewable energy. The source for the generation of this energy is solar radiation, a non-polluting and unlimited resource, harvested in plants whose construction and operation has limited environmental impact. X-ELIO’s activities do not generate emissions or significant waste. Potential effects on biodiversity are foreseen and mitigated prior to construction. X X-ELIO’s business model contributes to leverage our activities to fight against climate change, which is critical in order to comply with the Paris Agreement and the 2020 Strategy designed to reduce emissions and to increase the proportion of renewable energy in the energy mix. 24 | Sustainability Report Energy efficiency: output and consumption X-ELIO’s 38 facilities produced a total of 591,958.64 MWh in 2017, with total consumption of 5,694.06 (just 1% of production). This ratio is also known as energy intensity and demonstrates that solar energy is the most efficient and clean energy source. 2017 MW * 2017 output (MWh) 2017 consumption (MWh) 2016 Energy intensity ** 2017 Energy intensity ** Spain 62.026 107,203.740 1,303.185 0.013 0.012 Italy 23.515 39,454.281 695.070 0.018 0.018 United States 19.765 19,178.944 129.809 0.005 0.007 Peru 42.434 95,446.308 664.263 0.006 0.007 South Africa 30.967 62,703.040 748.553 0.012 0.012 Honduras 42.382 82,594.856 589.686 0.007 0.007 Japan 106.535 67,066.988 845.630 0.014 0.013 Chile 57.623 109,012.300 680.766 .. 0.006 * It does not include plants in which X-ELIO does not hold ownership ** Energy intensity = MW consumed/MW produced X-ELIO’s energy output in Spain in 2017 is equivalent to the total energy consumption of 20,000 persons in Spain over the full year 5. The total output of all X-ELIO plants around the world is equivalent to the energy consumed by 189,700 persons 6. Calculated from electric power consumption (kWh Spain average per capita). World Bank Data. Last updated 2014. 5 Calculated from electric power consumption (kWh World average per capita). World Bank Data. Last updated 2014. 6 Sustainability Report | 25 06 | External dimension of our activity Avoided emissions According to the International Energy Agency 7, global energy-related CO2 emissions grew by 1.4% in 2017 (32.5 gigatonnes). In this scenario, as two-thirds of the total greenhouse emissions are produced by the energy industry, the fight against climate change involves all the players in the sector in order to achieve long-term goals in our path to a sustainable future. As energy generation in X-ELIO produces no direct release of CO2 to the atmosphere, our activity is in itself a path to reduce greenhouse emissions. In total, the generation of 2,131,051.10 GJ of renewable energy in 2017 prevented the emission of 256,424 tons of CO2 as shown in the chart below: Avoided tons of CO2 Spain Italy United States Peru South Africa Honduras Japan Chile TOTAL 31,196 16,018 14,324 28,348 54,489 30,643 33,332 48,074 256,425 See: International Energy Agency http://www.iea.org/topics/climatechange/ 7 The Integrated Policy’s key objective is to Environmental management minimize the environmental impact caused by the Company’s activities, based on reduced The Company’s Integrated Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy represents our central framework determining the activities performed over all our stages, ranging consumption and waste. In addition, another from identifying potential projects to their maintenance and operation. This policy is widely important goal is to regulate the performance implemented and encompasses activities performed in offices and solar facilities. of activities in the most efficient way and to contribute to the fight against climate change, The Quality, Health, Safety and Environmental corporate area (QHSE) is in charge of overseeing compliance with regulatory framework requirements and provides technical assurance to thereby protecting biodiversity and ecosystems, adapt each project to the environmental standards. Besides, Project Managers detect the which could potentially be affected by the construction environmental demands inherent to each project and design any necessary measures to and installation of the solar facilities. mitigate potential impacts within the applicable national legislation framework. In 2017, X-ELIO achieved the renewal of the certification of environmental management (UNE EN ISO 14001), with zero non-conformities. In total, 49 environmental audits were carried out in Spain, Japan and South Africa. Moreover, an investment of €266,700 was allocated in 2017 for Thanks to compliance with the Integrated Policy and supervising construction works in Japan, audit activities at operating plants in South Africa and international standards, in 2017 X-ELIO did not face any the renewal process for the certification. penalty or monetary sanctions for environmental legislation or regulation breach. 26 | Sustainability Report Consumptions and waste In 2017, X-ELIO consumed the following materials, intended both for construction activities and office work: Construction in Japan Offices Steel: Aggregates: Silicon: Aluminium: Paper: 6,100 tons 69,500 tons 433.63 tons 1,734.52 tons 1.5 tons Water consumption is mainly concentrated in the construction phase, when the roads need to be irrigated frequently in order to minimize dust inconvenience. In this context, water use during 2017 is distributed as follows: During the phase of O&M, X-ELIO tries to find and implement water saving schemes in order to minimize Construction Operations & Offices consumption, especially in countries in Japan Maintenance that are affected by water scarcity, as 194.12 m3 2,157.60 m3 2,157.60 m3 demonstrated in the Kuwait project. Sustainability Report | 27 06 | External dimension of our activity Forestry operations during the construction phase is the main source of waste for X-ELIO. In this sense, it is important to note that one of the most significant procedures contemplated in the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) is the action plan for the management of this impact. Thus, the management system includes guidelines to follow for production, segregation, tracking and measurement of the waste produced Non-hazardous waste 11% In 2017, 15,656.76 tons of waste were generated from which only 0.15 were hazardous (0.000010%). In relation to forestry waste, it should be noted that the percentage representing this category is very high, mainly due to the construction of Japan´s solar facility located within a forest zone. In any case, X-ELIO’s management is committed to continuous improvement and sets specific goals around minimizing waste. 89% Forestry waste 28 | Sustainability Report Greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 X-ELIO avoids GHG emissions since its activity is the generation of clean energy. These emissions occur from This accounts for These are a sources that are owned or GHG emissions consequence of controlled by the Company derived from the the activities of the or emissions from chemical generation of Company, but occur production in owned purchased electricity from sources not or controlled process consumed by the owned or controlled equipment. Company. by the Company. Business trip, plane: 1,448.9 t CO2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Commute: 131.5 t CO2 0 2,549.84 1,615.35 Rent cars: t CO2 t CO2 t CO2 33.1 t CO2 Business trip, train: 1.9 t CO2 Furthermore, in order to help developed countries fulfill their commitments to reduce emissions and to assist developing countries in achieving sustainable development, the Kyoto Protocol defined the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). This mechanism represents the main source of income for the UNFCCC Adaptation Fund, established in 2001 to finance specific adaptation projects and programs in developing countries that are particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change. X-ELIO takes part in four solar facilities projects under CDM requirements located in Peru and South Africa. Sustainability Report | 29 06 | External dimension of our activity Impact on the landscape and biodiversity Each and every X-ELIO project falls under the Integrated Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy framework, which is the basis for all our activities. From the start of the construction of a new The EIS is a diagnostic and mitigation document in which plant, its environmental impact is individually managed based on the Environmental Impact Statement X-ELIO identifies any potential effects that its projects may (EIS). have on the environment. The document serves as a plan The impact of a photovoltaic generation plant on a plant’s surroundings varies greatly depending that includes diverse mechanisms to tackle those impacts, on the location. In certain cases, such as Fukuroda, installations are not visible thanks to previouslywith an integral approach, both preventive and corrective. conducted land studies designed to completely block their visibility. In general, the most likely impacts arising from the construction and implementation of plants are: . Selection of locations with reduced visibility Impact on surroundings . Integration of photovoltaic installations in surroundings based on re-vegetation of plant limits . Control of particles and dust through land watering Noise and dust generation . Organizing the use of heavy machinery during the daytime to reduce inconveniences Soil impact . Conservation and subsequent use of top soil during land movement and hydration .C  onservation measures involving natural soil draining and work during periods of intense rainfall to reduce conditions sediment dragging and erosio . Select locations in areas with low biological value to reduce the impact on protected species or those of special Impact on flora interest and fauna . Reforestation and monitoring fauna based on local administration guidelines . Establish an open dialogue with the local community at all development locations Social and archaeological . Preparation of social studies in necessary areas impact . Background studies to verify the existence of archaeological remains 30 | Sustainability Report 6.2 G  eneration of value for local communities X X-ELIO operates in some developing countries and we are committed to their development and improvement. One of the ways to do so is through direct and indirect employment resulting from local procurement practices that are guided by the strict principles established by our Code of Ethics and Conduct, ensuring responsibility and integrity in our value chain. 128M€ 15.4M€ 170M€ 89% 3 Economic Value Taxes paid Invested in Local New initiatives with Generated local providers Employees local communities Sustainability Report | 31 06 | External dimension of our activity In addition to being a signatory to the Global Compact, X-ELIO exercises direct control over our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals and complies with the Equator Principles in a large number of our projects, as we are mainly financed by The Equator UN Global Principles SDGs financial entities that are members of the World Bank. In this triple way, we control our Compact social and environmental risks, as well as promotes the socioeconomic well-being within its area of influence, both internally and externally. Sustainable Development Goals Global Compact Principles Initiatives implemented by X-ELIO 3 – Good health and well-being Healthy X-ELIO 5 – Gender equality 20% female directors Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Signatory to the Global Compact Effective abolition of child labor Signatory to the Global Compact 8 – Decent work and economic growth Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Code of Ethics and Conduct 10 – Reduced inequalities Rights recognition and protection Respect of freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Acceptance of any initiative undertaken by employees in this area Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environmental Impact Statements (EIS) 7 – Affordable and clean energy Encouragement of initiatives to promote greater environmental 13 – Climate change Generation of clean energy as business model responsibility Generation of clean energy as business model 9 – Industry, innovation and infrastructure Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Dry cleaning technology in Kuwait Anti-corruption policy Fight against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Reputational Screening Process 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions Protection of Human Rights in the organization Code of Ethics and Conduct Protection of Human Rights among providers Providers signatories to the Global Compact 32 | Sustainability Report T The Equator Principles constitute a risk management framework, adopted by financial institutions to ensure a responsible management of the Project Finance, which is the main financing formula used by X-ELIO for our projects. Currently, 92 financial entities of 32 different nationalities have adopted the principles, used for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk associated to potential financed projects and therefore, to the operations that X-ELIO implements. The Equator Principles Application The financial institution will, as part of its internal environmental and social review and due diligence, categorize it based on the magnitude Review and categorization of projects of its potential environmental and social risks and impacts. The financial institution will require the client to conduct an assessment process to address, to the financial institution’s satisfaction, the Environmental and Social Assessment relevant environmental and social risks and impacts of the proposed project (for example, the Environmental Impact Statement). Applicable Environmental and Social Standards The financial institution will require that the assessment process evaluates compliance with the applicable national Standards. Environmental and Social Management System An Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) will be prepared by the client to address issues raised in the assessment process and and Equator Principles Action Plan incorporate actions required to comply with the applicable standards (for example, the Environmental Impact Statement). The financial institution will require the client to demonstrate effective Stakeholder Engagement as an ongoing process in a structured and Stakeholder Engagement culturally appropriate manner with Affected communities and, where relevant, other stakeholders. The EPFI will require the client, as part of the ESMS, to establish a grievance mechanism designed to receive and facilitate resolution of Grievance Mechanism concerns and grievances about the project’s environmental and social performance (for example, X-ELIO’s Whistleblower Channel). Only for projects with high environmental impact, the financial institution will require the hiring of external consultants for the documentary Independent Review review (X-ELIO hires for all its projects, an external consultant for environment related matters and another for Health and Safety subjects). For all projects, the client will covenant in the financing documentation to comply with all relevant host country environmental and social Covenants laws, regulations and permits in all material respects. Only for projects with high environmental impact, the financial institution will require the appointment of an independent environmental and social consultant, or require that the client retain qualified and experienced external experts to verify its monitoring information which Independent Monitoring and Reporting would be shared with the financial institution (X-ELIO hire for all its projects, an external consultant for environment related matters and another for Health and Safety subjects). Reporting and Transparency The financial institution will require a periodic report of the Environmental Impact evaluation. Sustainability Report | 33 06 | External dimension of our activity Proactive dialogue with communities Requirements derived from the Equator Principles From the early stages of any project, X-ELIO considers and incorporates economic, social and environmental impacts depending on the location and characteristics of each eventuality. The mechanisms needed to monitor, control and mitigate impacts vary depending on the country regulations where the project is being developed or if the financing entity is a signatory to the Dialogue and active listening to the local community Equator Principles. In general terms, all procedures should follow the provisions established in the Environmental Impact Statement, the requirements of financial entities and the obligations derived from the energy plans of each country and/or the different mechanisms established by local regulations. National Laws Beyond the above-explained structure, X-ELIO carries out consultation procedures with the local community, through which its members, both institutional and individuals, have the opportunity to be duly informed and participate in the decision-making process. Evaluation of socio-economic impact In 2017, three meetings were held with the communities in Guanajato and Xoxocotla, Mexico. Guanajato Xoxocotla Around 20 people living nearby the project attended the meetings. The most Ejido is a small town located near Xoxocotla, where as solar facility is currently commonly answered questions were on potential local employment, environmental being built. A meeting with the community was held in December with the main risks and community aids. In this context, as a result of these consultation processes, objective of informing the population on the project plans and responding to X-ELIO decided to undertake three specific actions in favor of the community: their doubts. The outcome of the meeting was the Company’s decision to donate several sets of home appliances. + Donation of 87,241 kgs of wood for Guanajato community + Fencing around a football ground at Las Clavellinas (Guanajato, Mexico) + Guided tours to the plant for school boys in order to show the operating and management tasks at the facility 34 | Sustainability Report Collaboration agreements Thanks to the meetings held, X-ELIO can identify the needs and demands of community members near the plants. In this way, X-ELIO designs and executes long-term development and engagement programs that can respond to the concerns of the community. The actions implemented during the year have been the following: Charity Tournament “Lo que de Verdad Importa”, in collaboration with Lo que de Verdad Importa Foundation. Mexico The collaboration of X-ELIO with this Foundation began in Spain and aims to foster positive values and to motivate young Mexicans through gatherings and events, in this case, sports oriented. In this country, X-ELIO has carried out sports initiatives, such as Dream Fields Sports Recreation, which promotes the practice of football among children; educational activities, such as the annual Return to School South initiative, through which basic materials are provided to the selected Africa school; and of local development, such as the one launched this year named Mamma Mimi’s Bakery, through which training and materials are provided to locals so they can start their bakeries. Sustainability Report | 35 06 | External dimension of our activity Dialogue with stakeholders X-ELIO aims to be close to all our stakeholders (shareholders, employees, contractors, public administration, electricity companies, consumers, financial institutions and local community) by informing on its current activity, projects and future plans. To achieve a better and more fluent dialogue with them, in 2017, X-ELIO’s corporate web got several improvements thanks to which the new site is far more informational and interactive compared to the previous site. As highlighted innovations, users may now apply for positions directly through the website, all documents under the Compliance Program are displayed and may be downloaded and also any concerns may be voiced through the Whistleblower Channel. 1 2 36 | Sustainability Report Local Employment In the execution of our projects, X-ELIO gives priority to materials, services and employment sourced from the local community. The main supplier of services is the contractor that hires and trains local personnel, supervised by X-ELIO staff. In summary, at all stages of the construction lifecycle and the operation and maintenance activity of a solar plant, local employees are hired and play a relevant role in X-ELIO’s business activity. In addition to the personnel working on the solar facility, the proportion of national employees in offices is of 89%. Total suppliers Local suppliers % Local Suppliers expenditure * expenditure ** Chile 11,350 11,350 100% Spain 49,901 15,941 32% ** Costa Rica 7 7 100% Italy 4,201 4201 100% South Africa 2,455 2,455 100% Japan 123,246 123,246 100% Honduras 667 667 100% Mexico 4,347 4,347 100% EEUU 7,169 7,169 100% Peru 63 63 100% Australia 924 924 100% Egypt 4 4 100% Argentina 266 266 100% TOTAL 204,600 170,640 * Thousand Euros ** The largest supply item for X-ELIO is solar panels, whose management and billing is centralized in Spain. Sustainability Report | 37 06 | External dimension of our activity Economic and tax contribution X-ELIO contributes directly to the economy through the payment of salaries and wages, Total tax contribution summed up to 15,4 million euros, distributed as follows: the contracting of suppliers and the payment of tax obligations in all countries where we operate. Since the establishment of our presence in a country, X-ELIO is already adding value to the local communities and contributing to their growth and development. In this 2017 * context, one of the most important contributions is the payment of taxes directly to the local administration upon start of operations. Spain 10,565,433.65 The trend towards the maturity of the sector has implied a double effect: the application Egypt 5,985.11 of technology to operate with greater efficiency and, consequently, the competitiveness increase of solar energy without access to public support or subsidies. X-ELIO is, Costa Rica 2.52 therefore, financed without accessing government incentives, leaving those amounts to be used for other public needs. Chile 203,997.81 Australia 15,891.83 2016 * 2017 * USA 24,633.24 Economic Value Generated Dominican Republic 748.41 Turnover 117,659 120,134 Honduras 11,350.04 Financial income 1,422 1,604 Italy 286,612.65 Other income 7,869 6,965 Mexico 95,070.31 TOTAL 126,95 128,703 Kuwait 347,688.98 Economic Value Distributed Japan 1,137,226.30 CAPEX 137,216 164,883 South Africa 2,694,469.22 Payment to capital providers 36,148 45,73 Puerto Rico 3,711.13 Taxes 8,542 12,017 Personnel 9,872 10,859 * Euros TOTAL 191,778 233,489 Economic Value Retained TOTAL 26,072 30,264 * Thousand Euros 38 | Sustainability Report 07 Internal dimension of our activity 07 | Internal dimension of our activity 7.1 Human Resources OOne of the most important levers of growth for X-ELIO is the attraction and retention of the best talent as the only way to become a reference in the solar energy market. In order to be an attractive Company for the most qualified professionals and to build a shared corporate culture, X-ELIO bases its activity on five values: X-ELIO’s professionals develop their work with the highest quality standards, endorsing a continuous Excellence improvement attitude in the Company. The team offers their best to the organization, sharing a common goal and advancing towards achieving Commitment growth. Integrity The Compliance Program fosters transparency and ethical behavior at all levels of the organization. Diversity and X-ELIO’s professionals work together to achieve common objectives. They are a team with different teamwork experiences, perspectives and insights. This mix of talents makes a stronger and more effective X-ELIO. The team is in a constant process of development that allows them to generate new ideas and offer Innovation solutions to appropriately respond to the needs of the market. 40 | Sustainability Report Staff The staff of X-ELIO is composed of 200 professionals from around the world: 133 men and 67 women. At the end of 2017, the staff was distributed as follows: Average age is 40 years: 156 Spain 110 Japan 30 21 23 15 30 years old or 30 50 50 years Italy younger years old old or older 10 35 Mexico Distribution of type of Other worker is described 30 Peru as follows: South Africa 5 4 23 Chile 4 5 Honduras Kuwait 2 1 Taiwan 5 1 Directors Australia Puerto Rico 8 Middle management 157 USA Office personnel Sustainability Report | 41 07 | Internal dimension of our activity International Staff X-ELIO has deployed operations in 10 countries with a fully diverse team made up of local staff and employees from corporate headquarters that are assigned to specific projects. There are two mobility systems within the Company depending on the length of their stay. These groups are divided as follows: expatriate workers that will have long-term assignments and workers with short temporary overseas assignments linked to specific projects. For both of these types, a series of benefits are established, including a comprehensive expatriation package. X-ELIO, operates globally and is committed to provide a safe work environment to all of their employees, in order to achieve this goal in areas of the world where there are higher security threats, XELIO collaborates with a specialized service provider that delivers permanent advice on the subject. Some of those services include: Permanent country security risks Security advisory in high-risk locations, including among others, the following services: The security consultant supports advisory consisting on information X-ELIO on specific crisis on the characteristics and security management and resolution level of the destination before travel. + Risk analysis of cases, either from an operational This data is updated on a daily + Security escort + Security Audits + Staff training or informational perspective. relevant locations basis through the monitoring and intelligence research made by the provider. + Development of security + Monitoring of the local + Employee’s protocols security situation geolocation 42 | Sustainability Report Diversity and Equality X-ELIO considers the creation of equal opportunities for all its employees, current and potential, of paramount importance. In the area of gender equality, it is worth noting the incorporation in 2017 of the first female Board Director, that makes a 20% of women presence in the boardroom. XELIO strives to support and accompany employees along all of the stages of their lives, trying whenever possible to accommodate their life circumstances. During 2017, 11 people, 6 women and 5 men, were on parental leave and 100% returned back to work after the break. X-ELIO hires mostly local employees as the following breakdown shows: Proportion of local employees 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 97% 93% 88% 75% 60% 60% 40% 16 out of 20 (80%) area directors are hired from the local community. Ta iw u pa ly n A ile lia ico t ai H on n a Pe r n Ita ai US Ch st ex w So ut du ra s Ja Sp ra Ku h Af ric Au M Pu er to a Ri co Sustainability Report | 43 07 | Internal dimension of our activity X-ELIO Career Plan: Assessment, retribution, benefits and training The compensation system of X-ELIO values the effort of the team through the distribution of a variable complement. The Company has developed a policy that serves to set the objectives and components of this bonus which is applicable to employees of X-ELIO, In 2017, a performance evaluation was carried out depending on their category and responsibility. In 2017, the Board approved the distribution for the first time for all professional categories, of a bonus higher tan established in the Policy, as a result of the good results achieved developed by the Human Resources area. during the term. X-ELIO offers its employees both short and long term incentives. First of both formulas is linked to personal and Company achievement during the year, while the second, corresponds to long term value creation in the organization, striving to find a balance between short term execution and long term Company strategy. Q Quality employment is one of the milestones X-ELIO may offer to its employees: out of the 200 total collaborators, 182 have indefinite contracts and 198 full time contracts. X-ELIO works to offer its employees the right conditions for growth both, personally and professionally. For this reason, it studies the particular needs of each work unit, derived among other things from the local market practices and makes available to the staff a series of perks and benefits that complement their monetary Life, accident Sick and Meal Extra vacation compensation. and inability parental leave insurance Allowances days complement To attract, empower and retain the best talent, it is necessary to establish solid motivation channels. For this reason, the training is a vehicle of double benefit: on the one hand it builds competitive advantage for the Company, on the other, it creates an attractive value proposition. During 2017 X-ELIO has provided training in a wide range of fields at most levels in the Company. Transport Retirement Plan Flexible Nursery Allowances and Pension Remuneration Transport In 2017, a total of 2,210 hours of training were taught in the fields Company car Funds Plan Healthcare of languages, occupational risk prevention, drones management and project management amongst others, which means that, in average, every employee has received 11.05 training hours. * Benefits may vary from country to country, according to market practice. 44 | Sustainability Report Freedom of association and collective bargaining Throughout its years of activity, X-ELIO has promoted the freedom of association among its employees. For the moment there has been no formalization of works committees, neither in offices nor among maintenance personnel. Employee Handbooks are made available to workers, functioning as a guide that lists the working conditions for each position and containing behavioral guidelines adapted to the local context and legal requirements. It also indicates the rights and duties of employees in aspects related to selection processes, schedules, salaries, social benefits, vacations, etc. Internal Communication In 2017, the recently renewed Intranet has been fed with content on X-ELIO’s main contributions to communities and the ongoing activities supporting Healthy X-ELIO. This Intranet includes an inbox for suggestions where employees may place ideas for improvements on any matter. During 2017, the Intranet had 66,099 visits. Moreover, during 2017 the new X-ELIO app was launched; a new tool intended to ease the access to corporate information wherever the employee is, enhancing and promoting constant mobility of employees around the world. The app also has direct access to all the functions of the INFO ZONA PRIVADA Intranet. X-ELIO is in touch with its current and potential employees through Linkedin, where we have more than 9,000 followers. This is a relevant tool to access new talent and communicate the benefits of being a member of the organization and share our vision and goals. OFICINAS VIDEO Sustainability Report | 45 07 | Internal dimension of our activity X X-ELIO’s “Leadership Annual Convention” Since 2011, X-ELIO has been organizing our “Leadership Annual Convention”, a space where all members of the organization have been presented with first-hand knowledge about the results of the previous year, the current situation and future goals of the organization. This meeting works as an internal communication tool that fosters engagement and open dialogue to make a stronger and more efficient X-ELIO. In the upcoming years, along with the development of the internal communication plan, the Convention will continue taking place with the permanent goal of building a Company that responds to the demands of its stakeholders, sharing its evolution and creating together the strategy to face new challenges. Health and Safety The Integrated Quality, Environment and Health and Safety Policy is the general framework that determines the Company’s activities in all its phases: from the selection of projects to be The main objectives of the policy are to promote developed, through the construction phase, to the operation and maintenance. the training and awareness of employees for The Integrated Policy has a wide field of application that covers all activities related to the the efficient performance of their duties and to design, construction and commissioning of photovoltaic solar power facilities. The corporate comply with legal and regulatory requirements, area of Quality, Safety and Health and Environment monitors the compliance with the requirements of the framework regulations and provides technical advice to adjust each as well as all commitments voluntarily signed by project to the necessary standards and requirements. X-ELIO on Health and Safety. Furthermore, each country delegation of X-ELIO has autonomy for the application of the Integrated Policy, which will be adapted to the current local regulations, as well as to the phases of development of each project. 46 | Sustainability Report In 2017 X-ELIO achieved the renewal of the Quality Certification (UNE EN ISO 9001) and Occupational Safety and Health Certification (OHSAS 18001), both of them passed with zero non-conformities. Moreover, to achieve the objective of zero accidents, X-ELIO believes that a strong training program is key. To this purpose, the Company has developed a procedure for all new employees that include informative dossiers on occupational risk prevention with on-line training courses to prevent commuting accidents and security in different areas of the world, among others. In addition, the Company values the enrollment of the worker in other trainings deemed necessary for the safe performance of their work. For example, in 2017 several courses were held in relation to controlling and extinguishing a fire, first aid, electrical safety and legal responsibility in the field of occupational risk prevention. The area of Health and Corporate Safety, based in Madrid, is responsible for selecting the Health and Safety Coordinator. In X-ELIO has various mechanisms to promote addition, it is in charge of monitoring the correct development of the coordinator’s work, in line with the Health and Safety the health of its employees and prevent Plan created for each project. occupational risks. Hence, the Company identifies and evaluates the risks associated In matters of Health and Safety, as well as in all those with its activity and establishes adequate related to the environment, X-ELIO goes beyond the simple compliance with the legal requirements. Accordingly, the preventive and corrective measures. In addition, Company hires an independent external consultant on X-ELIO complies with the European regulations on Occupational Safety during the development of the work. The Personal Protective Equipment and has specific Company staff supervises the contractor compliance on safety procedures for its correct use. matters and, at the same time, an external auditor oversees the work being carried out during the construction phase. Also, when an accident occurs during work execution, the procedure requires immediate direct communication with the Health and Safety areas and due notification to all concerned Year 2016 2017 parties. Incidence Index 0.22 0.42 During 2017, X-ELIO workforce has increased by 10% compared to 2016 and the construction activity was also higher Frequency Index 1.2 1.78 than the previous year due to new projects undertaken during the year. These two circumstances explain why the indexes are slightly Severity Index 0.05 0.05 higher than those recorded in 2016. Likewise, in 2017 X-ELIO evaluated the current and potential risks associated to each position within the Company with the aim of estimating and assessing the scale and nature of such risks to the safety and health of workers, as well as proposing the necessary control measures to reduce or eliminate them. Consequently, X-ELIO has more information for decision-making processes in these matters as well as for adopting mitigation plans. From this evaluation, the conclusion was that at current time, positions at X-ELIO do not carry significant risks in terms of occupational safety. Sustainability Report | 47 07 | Internal dimension of our activity Healthy X-ELIO During the past year, X-ELIO launched the “Healthy Pillars of Healthy X-ELIO X-ELIO: 12 months, 12 changes” program for its employees with the objectives of addressing different matters related to healthy lifestyles and as a guide for good habits in this field. The program started with several coaching sessions on nutrition and health led by an expert on the subject. These informative talks focused primarily on preconceived ideas regarding some food types, habits changes for the whole family as well as guidelines to comprehend the nutritional information in labels of specific products. Other actions that will start running in Mental 2018 within the organization are related to the change Nutrition Sports of products offered by vending machines in the office spaces, or the distribution of water bottles to foster its well-being consumption. Healthy X-ELIO has been highly welcomed by employees who are starting to use the knowledge as well as the tools provided by the program for their own personal change. The formative sessions have been used as a space to The program is expected to continue the final stages of promote, learn and discuss healthy nutrition habits as well as implementation during 2018, with the development of teambuilding experiences through the organization of lunch more initiatives related to sporting habits. Also, X-ELIO gatherings for all employees. will evaluate the performance of the program through effective feedback from employees to adapt it to their needs. 48 | Sustainability Report 7.2 Compliance XX-ELIO is committed to meeting the highest standards of integrity and to ensure ethical business conduct. As a result of this commitment, a comprehensive Compliance Program has been implemented at all levels in the organization. In fact, efforts are geared towards ensuring that the entire Company and business partners share the same ethical corporate culture. The Program encompasses the Compliance Committee and the Code of Ethics and Conduct under which, thus far, three policies set the framework of the Company’s activities. Compliance Program Body Tools Code of Ethics and Conduct: Compliance It reflects X-ELIO’s commitment to ethics, integrity, and compliance with legislation, and establishes the behavior Committee which should guide Company employees, as well as its relationships with clients, suppliers, agents, distributors, and external collaborators. It is accessible through website. T The Compliance Committee is the internal team in charge of fostering Company values and ethical conduct, as well as supervising, monitoring, communicating, disseminating and overseeing these Compliance policies. Its composition is diverse, allowing the Anti-corruption Policy Trade Sanctions Policy Antitrust Code participation of the following members: Chief Establish Zero-Tolerance policies Avoids irregular conduct and establishes Prohibits conduct which hinders free and Financial Officer, General Counsel and Human for bribery, kick-backs, facilitation mechanisms so that X-ELIO minimizes the open competition, such as price-setting, Resources Director with the support of the payments and any other form of risk of contracting with blocked persons manipulating bids, assigning clients or legal department, which has delegated a Legal corruption. It is accessible through or countries. It is accessible through markets or the exchange of sensitive Counsel acting as a Compliance Manager. website. website. information. It is accessible through website. Sustainability Report | 49 07 | Internal dimension of our activity The Committee maintains continuous and fluid contact with its KKR counterpart, thereby fostering a perfect alignment with the most demanding standards imposed by US practice and those in charge of their implementation in X-ELIO. In December 2017, the Committee met to approve all the advances that took place during the year. From that meeting, quarterly meetings will be held starting in 2018. T The main vehicles by which X-ELIO regulates its commitment to ethics, integrity and legislative compliance are the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Policies on Anti-Corruption, Trade Sanctions and Anti-Trust, which are complemented with specific procedures. Throughout 2017, the Committee worked on establishing specific procedures in order to facilitate the daily practical implementation of the Compliance Policies. The Compliance Program serves as a guideline for the personnel’s behavior in the execution of their functions. The Company has also created a whistleblowing channel through which doubts or infringements of the Company’s Compliance Program may be communicated. In 2017, four consultations were received, all related to gift requirements under the Anti-Corruption Policy. The hotline is open to the public, although no external complaints were received during 2017. In 2017, the Company decided to implement Compliance training programs for X-ELIO personnel. The Compliance Training Program will be implemented in 2018. Risk management X-ELIO has established the three lines of defense model to identify and manage risk. Both business areas and corporate departments act as observers of the Company’s day-to-day activities and may detect any action or activity that A new proceeding has been represents a potential risk. Beyond this, the Compliance Area together with implemented during 2017 in the the Legal Department, play a key role as a line of defense, implementing and framework of the Compliance monitoring the above-mentioned policies. Program which ensures that X-ELIO decided in 2017 to start a Risk Assessment process to allow the specific compliance regulations identification of potential Company corruption risks and developing the correct are included in every contract with prevention process for criminal offenses. The outcome of this Risk Assessment third parties. will be delivered in 2018 and will lead to an update to Anti-Corruption Policy and procedures, if needed, based on specific actions adapted to the identified risks. 50 | Sustainability Report Third-party reputational risks X-ELIO has designed an anti-corruption tool it applies to all the individuals or corporate entities with which it enters into agreements in order to mitigate Compliance and reputational risks. The process is divided in two phases: Reputational Screening Process Research into an online database is With the assistance of a specialized 1 conducted to facilitate all detailed 2 consultancy firm, reputational due public information associated to diligence is conducted. the companies and individuals involved in the contract. T Thanks to the above process consolidated in 2017, it was possible to identify certain suspicious risks that have been immediately investigated and neutralized. Sustainability Report | 51 07 | Internal dimension of our activity Operational risks Although there are no significant risks inherent to the development of X-ELIO’s activities, beyond those derived from the construction of the plants, risks related to Compliance and Ethics matters may arise, which are mitigated by the Compliance Program and the supervision of the Legal Department. Moreover, the execution of projects encompasses a series of factors that can lead to risks that are not foreseen and therefore, cannot be neutralized in advance. These risks are related to legal, financial, environmental and occupational safety matters. Legal Risks Environmental risks Occupational safety Financial risks risks Legislative instability can lead to The negative impacts on Fluctuations in the price involuntary non-compliance with the the environment derived The inherent risks of the of raw materials and regulations if they are not previously from construction work. construction industry. exchange rates. planned. X-ELIO assumes the risks of changes in The drafting and approval The same collaboration X-ELIO signs collaboration regulations that may affect work execution of the Environmental Impact agreements with the EPC agreements with the EPC plans such as the Environmental Impact Statement is in itself the contractor that mitigate contractor through which it is Statement or the safety and prevention plan. process of identifying the financial risk, include protected against this type of For this reason, the Company has a powerful and mitigating risks to the responsibility clauses for the situation, which is assumed in legal team that monitors these possible environment. For all the EPC contractor on the safety its entirety by the construction changes and foresees the different ways markets where X-ELIO of its workforce. company. that X-ELIO can face them. operates and deems it necessary, an insurance policy against natural disasters has been contracted. 52 | Sustainability Report Personal data protection Information Security entails a very broad scope of work. For this reason, a working group has been set up with representatives from the Human Resources, Legal and IT departments. During 2017, a screening of X-ELIO’s compliance with the new European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) was conducted. The first step was the compliance assessment of the Company’s procedures with the current Spanish regulation and the gaps in relation to the new GDPR. This process generated a list of recommendations that will be implemented during the first months of 2018. Cibersecurity The main risk that a company like X-ELIO can face is the interruption of communications between its plants and the headquarters where operations are centralized. To mitigate this risk, the “Total Availability” project has been launched, wich will allow X-ELIO’s computer systems to be duplicated, both in the business and the corporate areas, so that if any component of the system is affected or malfunctioning, the backup system can continue running effectively until the primary element is restored. Sustainability Report | 53 07 | Internal dimension of our activity 7.3 Corporate Governance X X-ELIO has adapted its governance structure and standards to the strictest international ethical and anti-corruption standards. To ensure compliance with commitments agreed upon with the shareholders and general good governance standards, X-ELIO has designated the appropriate bodies and tools that form the Company’s Good Governance System. Good Governance System Governing bodies Tools The Compliance Program is the cornerstone of this system and is embedded Board of General Compliance in all operations and Directors Meetings Program processes carried out by X-ELIO. Accordingly, the governing bodies are committed to the highest standards of integrity and ethical business conduct Code of Ethics and promoted by the Code of Conduct Ethics and Conduct. Policies Procedures 54 | Sustainability Report Governing bodies and decision-making X-ELIO’s two main governing bodies are the Shareholders’ General Meeting and the Board of Directors, in charge of managing the most relevant business decisions or delegating their execution to specific employees and/or advisors. In general, the Board of Directors’ key functions are to foster interest in the Company and manage the smooth flow of business activities and commercial opportunities. Board composition Juan María Riberas Mera Jorge Barredo Chairman and Board CEO and Board member member Representation Gestamp 20% KKR Tara Davis Guido Lucio Mitrani 80% Board member Board member Jaime de la Serna Gould Oleg Shamovsky Secretary Non-Board Board member member Sustainability Report | 55 07 | Internal dimension of our activity Due to its business model, X-ELIO’s corporate transactions are capital intensive and the majority of corporate activities require special powers, which are beyond the responsibilities of the area’s heads, hence the Board approval is needed. During 2017, the Board of Directors met 23 times and approved significant decisions such as the purchase of the US Midway Facility, as well as the bond issued by the Company in September in order to refinance plants in Spain. In 2017, Mr. Jesús Olmos Clavijo resigned as Board member and was replaced by Mrs. Tara Davis. The shareholders appoint the Board members. Moreover in 2017, Board Members did not receive any retribution for their attendance to Board meetings and no performance evaluations were carried out. Shareholders’ General Meetings Among many other responsibilities, Shareholders’ General Meetings are in charge of controlling and monitoring the overall management of the Company and making decisions related to the increase or reduction of shared capital. Furthermore, when the Board cannot approve due to strategic or price circumstances, the final decision on investment agreements needs to be approved within a General Meeting. A minimum of one General Meeting per year is mandatory, although the Shareholders held six General Meetings in 2017. One of the main resolutions approved was the acquisition of two new solar plants in Japan. Due to its nature and characteristics, X-ELIO has not formally established an Audit Committee or Management. In order to ensure correct communication between functional areas, a series of meetings and de facto committees are held, permitting to reach a consensus on activities and developing specific action plans. Conflict of interest management The Corporations Law, as amended by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010 of June, is the main legal body regulating the structure and functioning of companies in Spain. This regulation stipulates, as a general rule, that members may not exercise the right to vote corresponding to their shares when there are certain types of the conflict of interest. At X-ELIO, we apply this legislation to our activity. 56 | Sustainability Report AI Annex I: Materiality AI | Annex I: Materiality Annex I: Materiality IIn order to prepare this Sustainability Report, X-ELIO developed an update of its materiality analysis involving internal stakeholders and documents produced by industry leaders and opinion makers. This analysis updates the research conducted in previous years and identifies the key issues in which the Company’s strategy must be based on. Once those 14 material issues were prioritized, they were categorized according to the relevant dimension: external, internal and contextual. High Relevance Critical relevance The materiality matrix underpinning the content of this report was created in two stages: 7 Analysis of the state of the solar energy sector, through examination of 1 1 relevant documents, future trends and peers’ reporting information and methods. These initial steps are intended to flag relevant issues that are 8 External relevance already affecting the sector in which X-ELIO conducts its operations. 9 5 4 32 22 sources of information were screened and a full-year press 10 analysis was conducted 12 11 The outcome of this stage was the identification of 27 topics 13 6 14 These initial issues were then prioritized internally according to their 2 impact on X-ELIO’s business activity. Internal relevance 19 employees from middle and top management answered the questionnaire The outcome of this stage was the prioritization of 14 material issues 58 | Sustainability Report Item Dimension Issue Content of the report 1 External Climate change and carbon footprint 6.1 X-ELIO’s work to fight climate change Company’s Compliance Programe and 2 Internal & Contextual 7.2 Compliance Regulatory compliance 3. Business environment 3 Contextual Regulatory Framework 7.2 Compliance 4 External Technology and digitalization 5. Our activity People’s education on renewable 5 External 5. Our activity energies 6 Internal Good Governance 7.3 Corporate Governance Local community impact, dialogue and 6.2 Generation of value for local 7 External collaboration communities 8 External Environment impact and management 6.1 X-ELIO’s work to fight climate change 9 Internal Ethics, Antibribery, Integrity 7.2 Compliance 10 Internal Risk management 7.2 Compliance 11 Internal Stakeholders 7.2 Compliance 12 External Preserving biodiversity and landscape 6.1 X-ELIO’s work to fight climate change 13 Internal Health and Safety 7.1 Human Resources 14 External Diversity and equality 7.1 Human Resources Sustainability Report | 59 AII Annex II: About this report Annex II: About this report TThis is now X-ELIO’s third Sustainability Report, providing key information on the Company’s results and performance on matters relating to sustainability from a financial, social and environmental standpoint. This Sustainability Report has been drawn up in accordance with prevailing reporting requirements and practices, following the new standards contained in the guidelines on preparing integrated reports of the Global Reporting Initiative. Coverage and scope: for the first time in 2017, the report follows the new standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) released in the 1 year. The report covers the period running from 1 January 2017 through to 31 December 2017 and covers the business activities of the different companies that compose X-ELIO and is presented in accordance with the consolidation principles applied in the financial statements. Any departures from the scope and coverage of the information are duly noted under the corresponding section of the report. Likewise, any changes to the formulas used to calculate the data included in the report have been duly reported. Materiality: the information contained in the report has been obtained from a materiality assessment of the Group and no material content has 2 been deliberately omitted. The materiality of the content of this report has been determined from the in-house and external consultation process described under “Materiality Annex”. All relevant material aspects have been analyzed to identify how they relate to the specific content and indicators included in the new GRI Standards. X-ELIO has selected those disclosures that truly respond to the interests of stakeholders and its own strategy. Sustainability Report | 61 AII | Annex II: About this report Standard Chapter Chapter Material Topic GRI 102: General disclosures 2016 Organization profile 102-1 Name of the organization Our activity 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our activity 102-3 Location of headquarters Our activity 102-4 Location of operations Our activity 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporate Governance 102-6 Markets served Our activity 102-7 Scale of the organization Executive summary 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Human Resources 102-9 Supply chain Our activity 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain About this report 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Compliance Generation of value for 102-12 External initiatives local communities Generation of value for 102-13 Membership of associations local communities Organization profile 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Chairman’s and CEO’s letter 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Compliance Risk management Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Compliance Company’s Compliance Program and Regulatory 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Compliance compliance 62 | Sustainability Report Standard Chapter Chapter Material Topic Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Corporate Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance and Shareholders 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy Corporate Governance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Corporate Governance 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Corporate Governance Stakeholder engagement Generation of value for 102-40 List of stakeholder groups local communities 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Human Resources Generation of value for 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement local communities 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Entities 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Materiality 102-47 List of material topics Materiality 102-48 Restatements of information About this report 102-49 Changes in reporting About this report 102-50 Reporting period About this report Sustainability Report | 63 AII | Annex II: About this report Standard Chapter Chapter Material Topic 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this report 102-55 GRI content index About this report Economic GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 Local community Generation of value for 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed impact, dialogue and local communities collaboration GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Human Resources Diversity and equality GRI 203: Indirect economic impact2016 Local community Generation of value for 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported impact, dialogue and local communities collaboration GRI 205: Anticorruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Compliance Ethics, Anti bribery, 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Compliance Integrity 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Compliance GRI 206: Anticompetitve behavior 2016 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Ethics, Anti bribery, 206-1 Compliance practices Integrity 64 | Sustainability Report Standard Chapter Chapter Material Topic Environment GRI 304: Biodivesity 2016 Preserving biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Environment and landscape GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment Climate Change and 305-3 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment Carbon Footprint 305-5 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment GRI 307: Environmental compliance 2016 There have not been significant fines Environment impact neither sanctions for 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations and management and non-compliance with Regulatory framework environmental laws and/or regulations Social GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 403-2 Human Resources Health & Safety absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 2016 Coporate Governance 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity and equality Human Resources Sustainability Report | 65 AII | Annex II: About this report Standard Chapter Chapter Material Topic GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Local community Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and Generation of value for 413-1 impact, dialogue and development programs local communities collaboration GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016 There have not been significant fines Company's Compliance neither sanctions for 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Program and Regulatory non-compliance with framework environmental laws and/or regulations (*) For material issues Technology and digitalization and People’s education on renewable energies, X-ELIO has reported specific information on chapter 5. Our activity. 66 | Sustainability Report AIII Annex III: Entities AIII | Annex III: Entities Annex III: Entities T The scope considered by X-ELIO for the elaboration of this Sustainability Report 2017 matches the financial consolidation scope, which includes the following companies: Spain Parque Solar La Robla, S.L. Mursolar 14, S.L. Tequi Solar 2, S.L. Mursolar 17, S.L. Parque Solar Paramo, S.L. Mursolar 19, S.L. Calaspasol 1, S.L.U. Mursolar 24, S.L. Fuente Alamo Energia Solar 1, S.L. Vostock Solar Proyects, S.L. Fuente Alamo Energia Solar 2, S.L. Tahoe Solar Investments, S.L. X-ELIO Mantenimientos, S.L. Pacific Desarrollos Solares, S.L. Calaspasol Energia 2, S.L. Exelio Energy Salvador, S.L. Exelio Energy Trading, S.L. X-ELIO Andaltia Murcia, S.L. X-ELIO Real Estate Energy, S.L. Mursolar 28, S.L. X-ELIO Zener, S.L. Mursolar 29, S.L. Saelices El Chico Solar, S.L. Mursolar 30, S.L. Muelas Del Pan Solar, S.L. Tejeda Solar, S.L. Photosolar Medina 3, S.L. Garnock Spain, S.L. Photosolar Medina 4, S.L. Glenavon Spain, S.L. Calasparra Sol De Murcia, S.L. Planning Business Green, S.L. Huerto Solar La Mudarra, S.A. X-ELIO Eos, S.L. Mursolar 6, S.L. X-ELIO Energy Finance, S.A. 68 | Sustainability Report Spain Huerto Solar La Alcardeteña, S.A. Termosolar Mayorga, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 1, S.L. XXI Constsolar, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 2, S.L. Solarges Perú, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 3, S.L. Solfuture Gestión, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 4, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S1, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 5, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S2 S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 6, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S3, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 7, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S4, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 8, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S5, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 9, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S6, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 10, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S7, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 11, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S8, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 12, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S9, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 12, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S10, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 13, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S11, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 14, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S12, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 15, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S13, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 16, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S14, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 17, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S15, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 18, S.L. Solfuture Gestión S16, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 19, S.L. Planta Solar Villardete 20, S.L. Sustainability Report | 69 AIII | Annex III: Entities USA ARGENTINA X-ELIO North America, Inc. Sepv 1, LLC Clean Energy, S.A. Gasna 5, LLC Sepv 2, LLC Gasna 5P, LLC (Red Bluff) Gasna 58, LLC Gasna 7P, LLC Svep Solar Project Company LLC CHILE Gasna 8, LLC X-ELIO Development Puerto Rico, LLC X-ELIO Chile, S.P.A Paso Robles Solar LLC (Meridian) X-ELIO Energy Usa, Inc. X-ELIO Chile I, S.P.A Gasna 12, LLC 83Wi Acquisition Holdco, LLC Fotovoltaica Norte Grande I SPA Gasna 12P, LLC X-ELIO Energy Ba Holdco, LLC Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 4 SPA Gasna 14, LLC X-ELIO Energy Boomerang I Holdco, LLC Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 5 SPA Gasna 14P, LLC (Williamstown Solar) X-ELIO Energy Midway I, LLC Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 6 SPA Gasna 16, LLC Midway I Solar Holding, LLC Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 2 SPA Gasna 16P, LLC (Joya Del Sol) Boomerang I, LLC Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 3 SPA Gasna 18, LLC Imperial Boomerang I, LLC Fotovoltaica Norte Grande 7 SPA Prcc Solar Holding, LLC 83Wi 8Me LLC Gasna 18P, LLC (Convention Center) Gasna USA Procurement LLC Gasna 19, LLC DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Morovis Solar, LLC (Greenfield) San Cristobal Solar FV, S.A.S. TGU City of Escondido Solar, LLC Gasna 40P, LLC (City Of Escondido) Gasna 51, LLC Gasna 51P, LLC Palm Valley Solar California I, LLC 70 | Sustainability Report ITALY INDIA JAPAN X-ELIO Italia S.R.L. Gestamp Solar India, Plc X-ELIO Japan, K.K. Gasi 7, S.R.L. Gasja 1, G.K. Gasi 8, S.R.L. Gasja 2, G.K. SOUTHAFRICA Gasi 11, S.R.L. Gasja 3, G.K. X-ELIO South Africa, (Pty) Ltd Gasi 22, S.R.L. Gasja 4, G.K. X-ELIO Contracting, (Pty) Ltd Gasi 41, S.R.L. Gasja 5, G.K. Mulilo Renewable Energy Solar Pv Prieska Gasi 53, S.R.L. (Pty) Ltd Gasja 8, G.K. Gasi 54, S.R.L. Mulilo Renewable Energy Solar Pv de Aar X-ELIO 10 G.K. Gasi 57, S.R.L. (Pty) Ltd X-ELIO 11 G.K. Gasi 59, S.R.L. X-ELIO 12 G.K. X-ELIO Emena, S.R.L X-ELIO 9, G.K BRAZIL Gasi 52, S.R.L X-ELIO 13, G.K. Lagoa Energia Solar S.A. Gasi 56, S.R.L X-ELIO 14, G.K. ISIS, S.R.L. X-ELIO 15, G.K. Gesi 1, S.R.L. COSTA RICA Amateras Solar, G.K. Gesi 2, S.R.L. Renocaste Solar FV, SA Hayato Holdco, K.K. Gesi 3, S.R.L. Guanacaste Fotovoltaica Renovable Solar FV, X-ELIO 18 G.K. (Shiroishi Holdco G.K.) SA Gesi 10, S.R.L. X-ELIO 17, G.K. (Trususu Holdco G.K.) X-ELIO ASI REE 1, S.R.L. S-13 Holdco, G.K. (Holdco Sol G.K.) X-ELIO Bonassissi Solar, S.R.L. EL SALVADOR X-ELIO 16, G.K. (Holdco Sun G.K.) Tencoluca Solar S.A. de C.V. San Nicolas Solar S.A. de C.V. Sustainability Report | 71 AIII | Annex III: Entities MEXICO HONDURAS X-ELIO Mexico, SA De Cv Constructora Solar Centroamericana S.A. de C.V. Fv Mexsolar I, SAPI de CV Fv Mexsolar II, SAPI de CV EGYPT Fv Mexsolar III, SAPI de CV X-ELIO, S.A.E. Fv Mexsolar IV, SAPI de CV Fv Mexsolar V, SAPI de CV PERU Fv Mexsolar VI, SAPI de CV Energía FV Perú S.A.C Gestora De Energia Renovable De Mexico Gestión Solar Perú S.A.C. Fv Mexsolar VII, SAPI de CV Fv Mexsolar VIII, SAPI de CV Fv Mexsolar IX, SAPI de CV AUSTRALIA Fv Mexsolar X, SAPI de CV X-ELIO Australia PTY, LTD Fv Mexsolar XI, SAPI de CV X-ELIO Aus 1 PTY, LTD Sol De Los Manzanos, S. de R.L. de C.V. X-ELIO Fv Conejos Medanos, SAPI de C.V. X-ELIO Fv Xoxocotla, SAPI de C.V. 72 | Sustainability Report 2017 Sustainability Report
