UN Global Compact Communicating on progress Contents Introduction 3 Our values 4 Human rights 5 Labour 8 Environment 11 Anti-corruption 14 Sustainable Development Goals 16 2 Introduction As a global legal business, we see our purpose as Safeguarding our long term future is about profit with purpose, transforming legal services through our people for our clients recognising the more successful we become, the greater and remaining true to our purpose is a strategic imperative. impact we can have as a force for good. The way we do business is based on our values and reflects It is our ambition to better use our expertise and motivation to the behaviours that we want to be known for. In this, our second align the way we do business to the UN Sustainable annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to Development Goals (SDG's). As a set of global goals to end integrate the UN Global Compact and its principles into our poverty and protect the planet, they are going to change the business strategy, culture and daily operations. world. By doing so, DWF reaffirms its support of the ten principles of Continuing to evolve our response to responsible business in the Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, this way demonstrates a strong, well-informed management Environment and Anti-Corruption. attitude that is both alert and responsive to the challenges and opportunities of doing business in a global context. Andrew Leaitherland Ty Jones CEO & Managing Partner Director CSR & Engagement 3 Our values We genuinely believe in the power of our people to make a difference. Together, we created our values and together we created a blue print for responsible business. These shared values define and reinforce our culture and the way we do things. They underpin not only our culture, but also set the future course that we want to take as a business. Always aim higher Keep all promises By refusing to do only the minimum and reaching further every A promise is a promise, no matter how large or small. By keeping time, we expand the realm of what's possible. promises, we build trust, loyalty and commitment. – Strive to beat expectations – Listen carefully, promise accordingly – Deliver service excellence – Take ownership – Immerse yourself in your field – Be transparent and genuine – Be a role model for best practice – Do what you say you will – Drive development in yourself and others. – Have a ‘can do’ attitude. Be better together Attend to details By supporting each other and working as a team we can achieve Paying attention to every last detail is the right way to ensure that more for our clients and ourselves. clients experience the very best of DWF. – Connect across the business – Communicate effectively and professionally – Recognise, respect and value each other – Deliver on your objectives and targets – Be visible and accessible – Give and encourage constructive feedback – Promote knowledge sharing – Understand your impact on our commercial and financial – Encourage, enable and empower others. achievement – Say thank you. Disrupt to progress Just because there's an established way of doing things, it doesn't mean things always have to be that way. – Champion new ideas – Embrace and promote change – Seek opportunities for improvement and growth – Have an opinion and get involved – Pause. Think differently. 4 Human rights Principle1: businesses should support and respect the – Provide a safe and healthy workplace protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. – Adopt a zero tolerance to slavery, forced labour and human trafficking Principle 2: businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. – Minimise our environmental footprint resulting from our business operations and promoting greater environmental Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of responsibility association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. – Maintain our position as a Living Wage employer As a responsible business and employer, upholding human rights – Embed anti-corruption and ethical standards in our business is fundamental to who we are and what we stand for. The practices. publication of our Human Rights Policy is an important milestone As an international legal business, we have a responsibility to go in ensuring this principle remains at the heart of how we do beyond stating our commitment to respect Human Rights. We business. must demonstrate what we do to implement them in practice across our day to day business operations, simply because it is Operating in different countries means responding to different the right thing to do. cultural and social norms, different employment law and different commercial considerations in terms of how you do business. As a responsible business, we will build on work done so far and However, regardless of where our people work or the job they do, continue to affirm our values, raise awareness among our people we want everyone at DWF to be treated with dignity and respect and suppliers and take action where necessary. and have pride in our brand. Our human rights policy DWF supports the principles of Human Rights set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) core labour standards and is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. In conducting our business activities, DWF respects these rights and seeks to uphold and promote them as part of the way we do Andrew Leaitherland, business, working and collaborating with our people, Managing Partner & CEO communities, suppliers, charities and other appropriate stakeholders. The way we do business is based on our values and reflects the behaviours that we want to be known for internally and externally. We run our business with integrity and want our culture and values to be at the heart of everything we do, recognising that our people not only want a great place to work, but take pride in being part of a principled business. Statement of principles DWF respects and values the dignity, wellbeing and rights of our people and the wider community, taking action to: – Support and promote the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights – Ensure we are not complicit in human rights abuses through our business relationships and supply chain management – Eliminate all forms of discrimination and promote a diverse and inclusive workplace – Recognise the freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 5 A responsible business In supporting the goals of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act and the UN Women's Empowerment Principles, we have a zero tolerance approach to forced labour of any kind within our operations and supply chain. However, the evolving nature of the business and human rights agenda means we still have much to do and are still learning on this complex subject. Our responsible business framework is designed to: – Support and strengthen society, taking action to engage locally where we have a presence – Demonstrate visible commitment at the highest level – Embed sustainable business principles within our business as part of the DWF way – Ensure that our business is a force for good – Make DWF a great place to work and do business. 2nd published slavery and human trafficking statement As an international legal business, we consider the risk of modern slavery existing within our business to be low. However, we continue to take steps, through our policies and governance, to ensure we remain alert to any potential risks of modern slavery within our business operations and our supply chain. Since the publication of our first Modern Slavery Statement, we have not identified any examples of modern slavery within our business or our supply chain. In addition to our Anti-slavery policy, we have a number of policies which state how we do business and the steps taken to ensure we are responsible, fair, transparent and inclusive. These include: – Human rights – CSR – Anti-bribery – Whistleblowing – Diversity & inclusion – Dignity at work. We remain a Living Wage Employer and comply with all applicable employment legislation relating to employee terms and conditions, including pay, and invest heavily in supporting the development, health and wellbeing of our people. Mindful of our growing international presence, we are now reviewing our recruitment procedures to ensure we are not complicit in behaviour that contravenes our approach of fairness and transparency. Issues we will be looking for include excessive fees and passport holding. 6 In 2018, we will launch a Supplier Code of Conduct which will set Supply chain management out the sustainability & ethical requirements that we expect of all We have implemented a new Procurement strategy, policy and our suppliers. framework to determine the risk profile concerning human rights Where we suspect a breach or become aware of a case of and other sustainability issues, including environmental and modern slavery, we will work with the supplier to implement diversity & inclusion. This ensures that all suppliers are remedial action. DWF will terminate a relationship with a supplier appropriately and fairly assessed whilst providing re-assurance or third party that are unable to demonstrate compliance or that risks are identified and managed. progress towards the removal of modern slavery from their – All suppliers sign a statement of compliance, undertaking that business and/or supply chain. they have reviewed their business operations and their supply To assess the effectiveness of our measures in ensuring that chains for evidence of any instances of slavery, forced labour or slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in any suppliers human trafficking. business or supply chain, we are further developing procedures – We expect that all suppliers/contractors and their suppliers and for monitoring compliance and will implement appropriate sub-contractors ensure that working conditions and performance indicators. remuneration of workers preserve human dignity and are consistent with fundamental principles defined and protected by Commitment 2018: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will continue the process of embedding human rights across – Any supplier that we identify as high risk will be subject to audit our business, raising awareness of the requirements of the and we will work with them to implement improvements in their Modern Slavery Act through a Supplier Code of Conduct, training systems and controls as part of a corrective Action Plan. and our communication channels. – Any DWF individual involved in the procurement of goods and services must also demonstrate an awareness and understanding of our Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement, Anti-Slavery Policy and have completed our on line training, via The DWF Academy, providing guidance to assess the human rights and labour performance of suppliers. – DWF is also a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code and recognises that certainty of payment enables businesses to plan for their short and longer term futures. 7 Labour Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Our Partner led Diversity Steering Group oversees and monitors compulsory labour. the implementation of the strategy and champion inclusion across the business. As a leadership group, they inform the strategic Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour. direction and provide high level input and thought leadership on Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of key issues, as well as actively challenge the business and help employment. remove barriers to progress. DWF’s approach to labour rights continues to be informed by the Our diversity objectives: Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code, the UNGC principles and our continued commitment to sustainable business practices. – Create and maintain a more diverse and inclusive workplace We meet the requirements of the ETI Base Code with no and culture breaches in Labour Standards as defined in the Code or any – Operate within best practice frameworks convictions or investigations in relation to Human Rights. – Meet the needs and expectations of our people and our clients Mutual respect and dignity at work underpin the way we do – Encourage our people, clients and suppliers to demonstrate business and we don't tolerate any form of discrimination, ownership harassment, victimisation or bullying. – Ensure dignity and respect is seen and valued. – At DWF, inclusion is an integral part of our values and culture. It's visible from what we display, through the way we think and We are continuing to accelerate progress behave. by: – It's shaped by doing the right thing which is enabling us to – Ensuring key diversity activity is data driven (recruitment, deliver on our purpose of transforming legal services through progression, attrition) our people for our clients. – Engaging men to understand why gender diversity matters to – We encourage and support all our people to take ownership them and responsibility for our inclusion agenda, ensuring mutual respect and dignity is seen and valued as an integral part of the – Consciously building diversity capability and confidence in way we do business. leaders & line managers – Targeting key influencers who are active sponsors of diversity & Our people survey showed: inclusion – 73% of people at DWF believed that our leaders supported – Focusing on a diverse talent pipeline to address the commercial diversity and inclusion. realities of a global business. – 80% felt they were treated with dignity and respect at work. – 80% felt their line manager considered their life outside of work. In October 2017, we launched a new Global Diversity & Inclusion Strategy. In today’s global environment it's vital that our people and our clients experience a culture of inclusion and that we have senior leaders who are strong and credible role models for diversity, showing active sponsorship of our diversity commitments. This includes ensuring our senior leader population is progressively more diverse and can translate the diversity strategy into actions that respect and harness the potential from the blend of nationalities, culture and heritage that now make up our global presence. 8 – Female representation on our Strategic Board has increased UN Women's Empowerment Principles from 10% to 30%, which is not only positive progress in its own (WEP's) right but provides our aspiring talent with visible role models; 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender – We have improved our parental leave policies and internal equality support, through more visible and encouraged agile working practices, to make it easier for our people to balance family and 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work respect and childcare commitments support human rights and nondiscrimination – Female mentoring, personal branding and speed networking 3. Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all women sessions to improve confidence and self esteem and men workers – A sustained commitment to 5 Star Futures, our flagship 4. Promote education, training and professional Education programme designed to build confidence and development for women resilience, enabling young people to make the most of their 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain and potential – essentially to be the best version of themselves. We marketing practices that empower women focus our efforts on developing business skills and confidence to stand out rather than fit in – to aim higher and achieve more 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy – This year, we also created a 5 Star Early Years programme for primary schools, recognising that many youngsters with 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve potential, but who live in a socially deprived area, start falling gender equality. behind their peers from more affluent areas from the age of 7. International Women's Day 2017 – is recognised on 8th March Managing Partner & CEO as a global day to celebrate the social, economic, cultural and Andrew Leaitherland, joins over political achievements of women. #BeBoldforChange marked a 1,000 CEOs from around the call to action to accelerate gender parity. We marked this event world who have signed the CEO with a week long programme of activity to raise awareness, Statement of Support for the educate, inform and engage across our business. WEPs, signalling their support for gender equality. International Men's Day 2017 – we celebrated this for the first time at DWF on 19th November. We engaged our people on men's health and mental wellbeing through a series of blogs, posters and discussion forums. Our Annual Diversity Week 2017 – 325 people attended events covering topics as diverse as generational attitudes, mental health and wellbeing, gender equality & LGBT Allies. Many of the events focused on the Some of the things we have done include: theme Talking about my Generation which sought views from people across 5 generations at DWF on all aspects of inclusion – A Board-endorsed Diversity and Inclusion strategy, launched in October 2017, which recognises that equal gender – 50 people attended the Family Friendly Working Scotland representation at senior levels will help close the current pay Annual Conference which we hosted in Glasgow gap at DWF; – 24 blogs were posted on our Intranet throughout the week – Our Partner-led Diversity Steering Group is delivering against a – 42 articles and hundreds of updates on our internal networking published Gender Action Plan; platform – Yammer! – Our portfolio of diversity training has been increased to include – Business wide webinar on flexible and agile working. diversity awareness and unconscious bias training; – We are partnered with Everywoman, an organisation which Building a fairer workplace: offers networks, development opportunities and leadership – Living Wage employer status since February 2014 programmes to help develop our female talent pipeline and – 1st law firm in the UK to be re-accredited as Clear Assured, a provide access to mentors; Standard awarded for inclusive recruitment of disabled talent – 1st law firm in the UK to achieve Disability Confident Leadership Status 9 – Awarded Top 100 Employer status by Stonewall for LGBT inclusion in 2017 – Awarded Top 30 Employer for Working Families in 2017 – Gold Standard in Diversity Best Practice, ENEI Awards – Winner Advancing Social Mobility in the Workplace Award, ENEI Awards – Winner Equality & Inclusion Senior Champion Award, ENEI Awards – Finalist Diversity & Inclusion Excellence Award category at the Insurance Times Awards. We continue to be in full support of identifying and removing any barriers that prevent capable, talented people from achieving their full potential, and welcome gender pay gap reporting as a further opportunity for us to review our ways of working, ensuring we are transparent, fair and inclusive, diverse and equitable. Commitment 2018: We recognise it will take time to address the disparity in gender representation at senior levels will take time, but it continues to be a priority within our business. 10 Environment Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We continue to be guided by our values to inform what we do and this includes a visible determination to continually improve our environmental performance. In supporting the principles of sustainable development, we have in place an environmental management system to identify and control the impacts of our business and enhance current working practices. Our focus is to reduce our energy, re-use and recycle, as well as controlling and minimising our travel by using environmentally efficient technologies, whilst undertaking our business activities. Where travel is unavoidable we seek to use the most environmentally friendly method insofar as is possible. We are also determined to reduce waste and increase recycling across our business. Our guiding principles: – We actively manage our carbon emissions – We take action to ensure efficient use of resources – We invest in technology to help drive our sustainability agenda – We externally audit our sustainability performance – We collaborate to develop, apply and promote environmental best practice. Our environmental management system is accredited in the UK to the new Standard ISO14001: 2015 and is firmly established to help create, monitor, maintain and develop a sustainable and eco-friendly environment. We are also a member of the Legal Sustainability Alliance. Our carbon footprint is independently verified and we have a suite of environmental KPIs to support our continuing ISO 14001 certification. CO2 emissions for our UK offices: – 2015 – 2.6 tonnes per person per year (TPPPY) – 2016 – 2.3 TPPPY – 2017 – 2.25 TPPPY. 11 Our environmental targets: To maintain a target of under 3 tonnes per person per year CO2. Waste Management: Re-use and Recycle: – Maintain a target of recycling at 85% per site (94% in 2017); – Recycle all suitable office furniture and equipment (i.e. chairs, desks, photocopiers); – Continually seeking to reduce energy use; – Encouraging staff to place all waste paper in the confidential waste paper bins; – Increasing the range of disposable catering containers made from recycled materials; – Expanding the range of recycled stationery products; – Encourage the reduction of plastic bottles/single use plastics; – Continuing to raise awareness of the importance of reducing, re-using and recycling on a global basis Responsible Procurement – Suppliers to sign up to sustainable procurement; – Categorise the suppliers and develop strategic targets – Ensure all suppliers complete the procurement questionnaire Comply with Stage 2 ESOS (Mandatory) We maintain Legal Compliance and “Aspects and Impacts” Registers. Reviewed every 6 months, areas covered are: – Air pollution – Waste Management – Energy Management, Construction and Buildings – Water – Nuisance – Hazardous materials. Our London office, excellent BREEAM rated and on a green lease, has won a Clean City Award in relation to our environmental practices every year since 2015, achieving Gold in 2015, Platinum in 2016 and Gold award with Special Commendation in 2017. We have also signed up to the: – Bristol Green Business Pledge – Manchester's Green City Pledge 12 We have also pledged to reduce all single use plastic by 2020 Our approach to the workspace involves an ambitious paper and have already removed all plastic cutlery from every Bistro. reduction programme, as well as a focus on space efficiency and We are currently looking at ways to reduce the single-use coffee effectiveness. We take a very progressive approach to integrating cups and the impact of replacing plastic bottles with glass ones. new, merged and acquired teams, emphasising ‘space-neutral’ Headcount growth and international expansion resulted in travel expansion by embracing collaborative technologies, new ways of miles increasing in 2017 to 8,297,093. The commercial reality is working, smart and connected working to ensure responsible use that international expansion, whilst predominantly client-led and of premises, environmental responsibility, work-life balance and consistent with our culture, needs to also embrace the staff wellbeing. opportunistic. Enabling a fully agile workforce in London has resulted in both environment and financial benefits. We have also seen how this Agile working positively impacts our culture, diversity, performance and As a global legal business, we have been named by the Financial retention. As we continue to future proof our business, it is Times as one of Europe's most innovative legal advisers, known important that we design our offices to support business growth for doing things differently and going beyond expectations for our without needing to move to new premises or splitting staff clients and our people. between locations. Our vision for agile working is helping to sustainably support our Commitment 2018: growth and is something we view as a strategic commercial solution. DWF was one of the first UK firms to champion flexible Meet the challenge of reducing emissions we will continue to workstyles and the first with an agile city office (London). implement environmentally efficient technologies in our operations at every opportunity. Formalise our agile working practices in our Manchester HQ, with a view to rolling out agile working to our other UK and international offices. 13 Anti-corruption Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in including all the regulated and non-regulated entities which deliver all its forms, including extortion and bribery. legal and other services in the UK and twelve international jurisdictions. The register identifies and assesses strategic risks Good corporate governance enables us to create sustainable including political, economic, operational, reputational and value for the benefit of our clients, our people and the regulatory risks. communities in which we live and work. The group wide risk register is overseen by our Strategic Board. Our changing approach Each risk is assigned to and owned by senior managers within the business. They are responsible for reporting on the management Over the last 12 months, we have seen further growth and and mitigation of their risks to the DWF Compliance and Risk diversification. Management Committee, a sub-committee of the Strategic Board As the international footprint has grown, so has the purpose of our to which it is directly accountable. Risk and Business Excellence teams, enhancing the governance Our risk management and governance strategy enables us to across our business. International compliance has become ever anticipate and identify regulatory outcomes and ensure more important and includes advising on local regulations, compliance. Business improvement to achieve business embedding diversity and introducing appropriate systems for excellence is central to our approach. business assurance across the various jurisdictions. The reality is that any business, regardless of how well designed This year saw the addition of an International Compliance Officer and led, is only as good as the people who work in it. We are all to our Risk team. human and there will be times when we get it wrong. When this We have evolved our risk management approach to develop a happens, we acknowledge it and don't ignore it, but aim to put group wide strategic risk register to cover the whole DWF group, things right quickly and fairly. 14 Following our Self-Assessment undertaken in February 2017 – bribery or corruption (e.g. accepting incentives in return for against the EFQM Excellence model, an Excellence Strategy was giving business, or receiving benefit); formulated. This is underpinned by our continuing compliance to – the endangering of an individual’s health and safety; ISO 9001:2015, which was achieved within 6 months of the new – damage to the environment; standard being launched, and is testament to the risk focussed approach embedded within DWF. – the deliberate concealment of information relating to any of the above. UK anti-bribery legislation is the most comprehensive in the world, enhancing our reputation as one of the safest commercial Commitment 2018: environments in which to do business. We continue to take a We will articulate the principles and standards of personal zero-tolerance approach to bribery. Our group wide Anti-Bribery responsibility expected across our business through the Policy includes gifts and hospitality and helps us to protect the publication of The DWF Way to ensure we are delivering on our integrity, independence and objectivity of our business and to purpose and values. clarify the position of Partners and employees in giving or receiving gifts, invitations or hospitality to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act and the Solicitors Regulation Authority Code of Conduct. DWF also has Whistleblowing, Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing procedures in place and procedures to follow the reporting of suspicions. The new Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017 came into force in June 2017. They impose greater obligations than ever on those in the regulated sector, including law firms, and at the same time make designated Supervisory Authorities such as the Solicitors Regulation Authority increasingly accountable for supervising and inspecting what we do. We appointed a member of our Strategic Board as the senior person responsible for DWF's compliance with the 2017 Regulations. That role is in addition to the Nominated Officer ( Money Laundering Reporting Officer ) appointed under Part 3 of the Terrorism Act 2000 and Part 7 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002. The DWF group consists of over 35 separate entities providing regulated and some non-regulated services in fourteen separate jurisdictions. In respect of those services that are regulated, DWF LLP as the 'parent' is not subject to the new requirement to ensure that its anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing policies, controls and procedures apply to all its subsidiaries and branches, including those established outside the United Kingdom. We continue to provide guidance and training on an on-going basis to provide mandatory ways of working, underpinned by our values which provide a sense of common direction for our people, guiding their day to day behaviours. Our Whistleblowing Principles: We expect all of our people to report the following: – criminal activity including fraud or theft; – a failure to comply with a legal obligation or regulatory requirement; – a miscarriage of justice; 15 Sustainable Development Goals By being a UN Global Compact signatory, DWF is already contributing to the implementation of the SDG's but as an international business, we are evaluating how best to play our part and contribute to the global effort to achieve these goals between now and 2030. Initial assessment of how we are contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals Living wage, Elimination and prevention of Modern Living wage Slavery, Scottish Business Pledge, North West Regional Advisory Board member (Business in the Community), Scottish National Action Plan for Responsible Business Leadership Group Fit4Life & Healthy Minds wellbeing programmes, DWF's 5 STAR Futures School Engagement DWF Charitable Foundation, Volunteering, Agile & Programme, Business in the Community Business flexible working, DWF's The Lorry Lawyer Class Partnership, UN Women's Empowerment Principles, Mentoring, Education sector expertise UN Women's Empowerment Principles, Gender Pay DWF's Environment Management System, Gap Reporting, Gender Action Plan, Mentoring, Application of sector expertise Everywoman partnership, DWF's 5 Star Futures programme DWF's Environmental Management System, Living wage, Apprenticeships, Prompt Payment Code, Renewable Energy sector expertise EFQM Business Excellence implementation, DWF's The Future of Retail Report Energy, Industrials & Transport sector expertise, Living Wage, UN Women's Empowerment Principles DWF's Transport Report activity, Business Action on Homelessness, Advancing Social Mobility Application of sector expertise, Business continuity Application of sector expertise, Environmental planning, Environmental Management System, Agile Management System, supply chain management, Working, DWF's Transport Report DWF's The Future of Food Manufacturing Report Environmental Management System, KPIs, Application of sector expertise ISO14001certification, Agile working, workplace design, investment in technology, Energy Sector expertise 16 Application of sector expertise Modern Slavery Act implementation & engagement, pro bono Application of sector expertise Commitment 2018: To better use our expertise to align the way we do business to the SDG's. About us We are a global legal business, transforming legal services through our people for our clients. Like us, our clients recognise that the world is changing fast and the old rules no longer apply. That’s why we’re always finding agile ways to tackle new challenges together. But we don’t simply claim to be different. We prove it through every detail of our work, across every level. Join us on our shared journey to redefine legal services and you’ll benefit from the most innovative thinkers, technical experts and outstanding sector specialists. 17 Beyond borders, sectors and expectations DWF is a global legal business, connecting expert services with innovative thinkers across diverse sectors. Like us, our clients recognise that the world is changing fast and the old rules no longer apply. That’s why we’re always finding agile ways to tackle new challenges together. But we don’t simply claim to be different. We prove it through every detail of our work, across every level. We go beyond conventions and expectations. Join us on the journey. © DWF 2018. DWF is a legal business operating through various separate and distinct legal entities. Our lawyers are subject to the rules of the regulatory body with whom they are admitted. For further information about these entities and DWF’s structure, please refer to the Legal Notices page on our website. All rights reserved. www.dwf.law
