2018 OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2018 2/6 In accordance with our investigation perimeter and our international development, we have analysed all the principles and we have concluded that we can justify of future actions for 6 principles. The 4 others are, for the moment, out of our perimeter of intervention (cf. Table under). OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2018 3/6 HUMAN RIGHTS Principles Actions Status/Deadline Insert this principle in our Company Terms & Conditions. Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights We will manage to convince one partner that has not already signed the UNGC but have already undertaken 07/2019 others similar commitments regarding principle 1, to become signatory of the UNGC, by a letter. Principle 2 In our current perimeter of intervention, Make sure that they are not complicit in / we are not concerned by this principle. human rights abuses. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2018 4/6 LABOUR Principles Actions Status/ Deadline Organize new election of staff representatives. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Set a meeting with staff representatives, for displaying the Oct. 2018 internal employees survey results Principle 4 In our current perimeter of intervention, The elimination of all forms of forced and / we are not concerned by this principle. compulsory labour Principle 5 In our current perimeter of intervention, / The effective abolition of child labour we are not concerned by this principle. Principle 6 Complete the chapter in the The elimination of discrimination in respect Nov. 2018 employment contracts. of employment and occupation. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2018 5/6 ENVIRONMENT Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 7 We will remind always to our employees Businesses should support a precautionary the importance of this precautionary Avr. 2019 approach to environmental challenges approach in their work Principle 8 Organize a brain storming with staff, to Undertake initiatives to promote greater bring out ideas about applicability of Dec. 2018 environmental responsibility principle 8 in our company Principle 9 In our current perimeter of intervention, Encourage the development and diffusion / we are not concerned by this principle. of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principles Actions Status/Deadline Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption Update this article in our templates of Feb. 2019 in all its forms, including extortion and Proposals bribery. OAKRIDGE UNGC COP 2018 6/6
