RICE A/S Social Accountability Report for the UN Global Compact 1st of April 2018 As managing director of RICE A/S I hereby confirm our continued support to the Global Compact. Our management manual is based on the principles of SA8000, and in addition to this we find the Global Compact a valuable tool in our social responsibility as well as environmental work. Odense, April 2017 Philippe Gueniau Managing Director RICE A/S Contents “People Care – We Care”................................................................... 3 Company Facts ....................................................................................... 3 Management Tools .............................................................................. 3 Suppliers ...................................................................................................... 4 Audit process Suppliers ................................................................ 5 Audit Process Denmark ................................................................6 SA8000 Recertification ......................................................................7 Communication ..................................................................................... 8 Anti-corruption ....................................................................................... 8 CSR-collaborations ..............................................................................9 HOPE IS BRIGHT...............................................................................10 “People Care – We Care” Company Facts Founded: 1998 Headquarters in Denmark: 30 employees European sales offices: 14 employees Sourcing office Thailand: 7 employees Happy Cooking kitchen: 3 employees RICETERIA: 10 employees Management Tools RICE A/S supports the Global Compact and uses it as a In 2002 we obtained the SA8000 certification as the first guideline for doing business responsibly. The objective Scandinavian company, and we have used it as both a checkof the UN initiative, Global Compact, is to promote good list as well as a way of dealing with the developmental probusiness behavior, and the management tool is centered on cess of our suppliers ever since. the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. The Central Areas of SA8000 are: Back in 2001 RICE decided to formalize the different • Child Labor initiatives within social accountability in an overall manage• Forced or Compulsory Labor ment tool. We decided to use the standard SA8000 – the international standardized code of conduct for improving • Health & Safety working conditions around the world. The spirit of this • Freedom of Association standard is close to our core business values. & Right to Collective Bargaining Furthermore, there is an audit system connected to the tool • Discrimination just as the system is based on human as well as labor rights. • Disciplinary Practices • Working Hours Since 2006 RICE has committed to apply to the Global • Remuneration Compact principles as a management tool, and as it will appear in the principles, SA8000 and Global Compact are to • Management Systems some extend quite close. 3 Suppliers The nature of our business is to launch two major and two connected to our suppliers. The aim is to continuously work minor collections each year. When developing these colon building a socially responsible business all over the lections we are working with a substantial number of perworld. The fully operational sourcing office has the responmanent suppliers with whom we engage in a long lasting sibility of coordinating with our suppliers, the sampling and cooperation. handling of purchased orders, the follow-up on production, quality control processes, shipping and finally but not least Additional to this we have seasonal suppliers or one-time the audit in connection with social compliance. suppliers who contribute only in the current collection. The audit is mandatory for all long-term suppliers, and the To ensure a strong cooperation, we have established our own follow-up focuses on permanent suppliers with whom we sourcing office in Thailand. The sourcing office is staffed engage in long lasting cooperations. with RICE employees, which enables us to be very close DK UK NL PL DE CZ PT CN IT TR IN TW TH MG 4 Suppliers Audit Process Suppliers The audit process with our suppliers is of great importance The audit is conducted at least every second year in order to to us. When we choose new suppliers, we make sure that maintain the obligations of the factory. We always strive to they uphold ethical standards. Where improvements are make the audit process the most efficient, and therefore our needed, we engage in cooperations with the supplier and audit in China is in most cases carried out by a third party (70% use the SA8000 standard as a tool in the developmental proExternal, 30% Internal). cess. We have developed standard tools for our auditors to use We start by taking a commitment from the new supplier in during the audits. With a standard form the results are more relation to the SA8000 standard. The managing director of reliable, and it is easier for the RICE headquarter to streamthe supplier must sign this commitment, which relates to line the results from the audits around the world. SA8000 as well as environmental protection. When our auditor finds topics not meeting the expectaOnce the production is initiated, and the first order is comtions in accordance to the SA8000 standard, we issue a nonpleted from the supplier, we have our own staff visiting the conformity report. During the next visit we will then follow supplier in order to make the quality control of products. up to control that the non-conformity has been solved. 5 Denmark Audit Process Denmark In order to make sure that we comply with our own standards we made an agreement with Bureau Veritas Certification. Bureau Veritas Certification carries out an audit of RICE twice a year according to the SA8000 standard. The auditor goes through the following program: • Opening meeting • Walk around in the premises • Personal interviews with the staff • Review of records • Control of suppliers • Internal monitoring • Outside communication • Management review • Closing meeting During the audit the auditor will check our audit reports We believe that taking good care of our employees is an from the factory visits as well. These reports will also investment, which both pleases the individual employee and contain a description of fields where there are room for imat the same time prevents physical problems and keep provement. absence of employees due to illness at a low level. We also offer the staff a healthy lunch once a week – cooked Working Environment at the Headquarters by ‘Happy Cooking by RICE’ located at the headquarters. The working environment in our Danish headquarters is In the beginning of 2018 a container with disinfectant was controlled by the APV – workplace assessment. The assessinstalled in the staff kitchen in order to keep infectious ment is updated at least every three years with inputs from bacteria at a low level. A defibrillator has been installed as the staff. At RICE we are aware of the importance of good well. working conditions among our employees. We are continuously rearranging the workstations in order to ensure We have a health and safety committee to take care of any efficient dialogue as well as peace to work. possible issues that might be brought up by the staff. The staff select among themselves a representative and likewise Our employees at the headquarters have the opportunity to there is an appointed management representative in this join a fitness program once a week during working hours. group. A mail box has been installed for anonymous enquirFurthermore, they are able to book a personal massage from ies. Once a year we conduct a fire drill for all employees, just a licensed massage therapist, giving them the opportunity as all employees must attend a mandatory guided safty tour. to releif tensions related to office work. Employees at BangFinally, a SA8000 headquarters worker representative has kok office and headquarters are invited to join a yoga class. been selected by the employees. 6 SA8000 SA8000 Recertification The recertification takes place every three years and consists In November 2017 RICE achieved a SA8000 recertification of two and a half days of audit at the RICE headquarters. and was thereby found to be in accordance with the requirements of the management system standard. In order to stay on top of the standard the French consultant company, Acta Verba, guides us on the SA8000 certifications. 7 Communication Communication Communicating about social responsibility is important for customers about the campaign and the great progress RICE, and we use both our website and our social media taking place in the developing countries. Furthermore, RICE channels to talk about current CSR projects and the imporcommitted to raise awareness on social media. tance of taking action. Anti-corruption RICE participated once again in the campaign “World’s Best At RICE we aim to be close to our suppliers, and with audits, News” a Danish news campaign working to raise awarequality control, product testing and strong external cooperaness about the great progress taking place in the developing tion we strive to avoid any kinds of corruption. countries, especially focusing on tracking and reporting the Anti-corruption is of great importance to us, and we always outcome of the UN Millennium Development Goals. The consider the risks when engaging with new suppliers. campaign is based on a unique cooperation between the UN, the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ development Obviously, we have a no-tolerance policy towards corrupagency (Danida), over 100 Danish development organization, and we believe that it raises transaction costs, undertions and 100 corporate partners. mines fair competition, distorts development and impedes long lasting foreign and domestic investment. At the national campaign day our retail shop RICETERIA launched an event to heighten knowledge by informing 8 CSR Collaborations RICE CSR Projects and Donations CUPS OF HOPE At RICE we firmly believe that No one can help everyUNICEF and RICE entered a three year long collaboration with a strong focus on children at risk. The first one, but everyone can help someone! project CUPS OF HOPE supported children in desperate need of emergency relief like clean water. For every CUPS OF HOPE (set of 2 tall melamine Corporate Social Responsibility is a part of the RICE cups) sold we donated 1.5 EUR. DNA, and working actively with CSR is a big part of our ethical values. DANISH RED CROSS LITTLE BOX OF HOPE PROJECT In 2016 we supported the Red Cross and the work they do for refugees worldwide. The aim of As a Club 10 ambassador in 2009 the LITTLE BOX OF HOPE food kit was to give Charlotte and RICE made an all-day hope to people in need. Our wish was to create event with über-banko, book cafe, hairdressing, palm reading, masawareness and encourage people to take action sage, concerts and delicious food and help the refugees. stalls etc. For every food kit (6 funky foodboxes and 6 The purpose was to raise as much colorful spoons) sold, we donated 1.5 EUR to the money as possible for Danish Red Red Cross.) Cross. SAFE CHILDHOOD IN VIETNAM JHEEL JAIPUR Every child has the right to play... We have RICE entered a three year project, in helped sponsor an educational program that cooperation with Danida to improve teaches children how to tackle and avoid conditions for the workers in the facexplosives still remaining in the ground tory. Now the conditions comply with SEND ME after the Vietnam War. The project was run by SA8000 standards. TO SCHOOL The Danish Refugee Council. Environmental responsibility has In 2008 the cyclone Nargis hit the Giving children in Vietnam a safe childhood also been of concern to the supsouth west part of Myanmar – leavwas our way of celebrating the 25th. Anniverplier and they have constructed ing a trail of destruction in its wake. sary of Convention on the Rights of the Child a wastewater cleaning system reducBy making a range of kids proin 2014. ing the environmental impact. ducts we raised enough money to DANISH HOSPITAL build a school so kids could get back CLOWNS PROJECT in the classrooms – improving their By designing a special cup and plate, RICE provides a financial contribufuture chances of education. The school also functions as a shelter SPOON FULL OF HOPE II We redesigned the Spoon full of Hope and tion to the Danish Hospital Clowns. for the entire community in case of this time the sale of one spoon equaled 24 Their task is to make the hospitalinatural disasters. servings of soup. zation for kids a little easier to get through. Humor and close personal presence make room for hapiness and allow the kids to be “just kids”, in spite SPOON FULL OF HOPE III of being seriously ill. We also donated The latest cooperation with the Danish LAKSHYA Refugee Council is yet another spoon. Our cooperation with our supplier RICE play kits for 27 pediatric wards With this spoon we helped provide clean Lakshya, started out as a three years in Danish Hospitals. water for 10 refugees in Africa for 28 days! development project for street children. The goal was to build a production supporting an orphanage for street children. SPOON FULL SUSBIZ INDIA During the project RICE donated a OF HOPE CUPS FULL During 2007 – 2009 RICE participated in monthly amount of financial support RICE launched the gift idea, OF HOPE the Susbiz project along with one of our and placed orders regularly. The es“Spoon Full of Hope” in co4 melamine drinking cups, specially suppliers in New Delhi, India. The goal of tablishment of Lakshya secured an operation with the Danish Refugee designed by RICE for this project. the project was to develop and implement education for the New Delhi street Council. Each spoon sold donated a Every time a pack of these cups was social and environmental initiatives in children, as well as housing and the cooking set to a family on the run in sold, a refugee family in Africa rethe supplier’s company and share knowopportunity to remain in Lakshya as Darfur and Somalia. ceived a Water and Washing Kit. ledge about the process. employees. 9 CSR Collaborations HOPE IS BRIGHT UNICEF and RICE: Hope for a Bright and Better Future! For every Hope is Bright product sold, together we donate We are proud to launch our second collaboration with 1.5 EUR – these 1.5 EUR can provide 1800 L of clean water or UNICEF! The new Hope is Bright collection supports provide 1 days ration of therapeutic food to a child in need. UNICEF’s work with providing clean water and therapeutic food rations to children in need. Every year UNICEF helps The Hope is Bright collection consists of some of our millions of children to survive and thrive, and we are proud favorite products, carefully selected to bring Everyday Magic to support their work in emergencies. into homes all over the world. current project 2018 UNICEF PROUDLY SUPPORTS Hope IS BRIGHT 10 Contents Experience the universe of RICE www.ricebyrice.com Meet us at: facebook.com/ricebyrice instagram.com/ricedk #ricedk #eatdrinkboogierepeat #everydaymagic #itsaricelife RICE A/S Global Headquarters Havnegade 100 E 5000 Odense C Denmark 11
