C o m m u n i c at i o n on progress 2017/2018 c o m m u n i c at i o n on progress 2017/2018 Published by Epsilon Publishers Limited © 2018 Epsilon Publishers Limited is proud of our commitment in embodying the spirit of the United Nations Global Compact. We pledge to align our business operations to the United Nations Global Compact’s fundamental pillars of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. To this end, we have signed the letter of commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, pledging to align our efforts to operate responsibly and to advance societal goals in tandem with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. TRACE has completed a TRACEcertification due diligence review of Epsilon Publishers Limited. Certification by TRACE signifies that Epsilon Publishers Limited has completed internationally accepted due diligence procedures and has been forthcoming and cooperative during the review process. TRACEcertification underscores Epsilon Publishers Limited’s commitment to transparency in international commercial transactions. C ontents 6 Le t t e r of co m m i t m e nt 9 Aligning brand strategy 10 W h a t w e d o 12 T h e p u b l i s h i n g p r o c e s s 14 C o r p o r a t e g o v e r n a n c e 16 To w a r d s o p e r a t i o n e x c e l l e n c e 18 C O P r e p o r t i n g : h u m a n r i g h t s 22 C O P r e p o r t i n g : l a b o u r 24 C O P r e p o r t i n g : e n v i r o n m e n t 26 C O P r e p o r t i n g : a n t i c o r r u p t i o n 30 D i s s e m i n a t i o n un i ted nat i ons glo b al co m pact the 1 0 pr i nc i ples L E T T E R O F C O MMI T M E N T H u m an r i ghts T his Communication on Progress report P r i nc i ple 1 Businesses should support and respect the provides a detailed account of how we protection of internationally proclaimed human have implemented the ten principles of the rights; and United Nations Global Compact in each of its four issue areas of human rights, labour, environment PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human and anti-corruption for the period 2017-2018. rights abuses. The report further considers our engagement in realising the Sustainable Development Goals la b our (SDGs) that concern our business and our undertaking of strategic actions towards the PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of realisation of SDGs. association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Our organisation theme during this period was operation excellence. As such, this reporting year, PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory we focused on the company’s brand strategy, labour; setting up corporate governance systems, and the completion of the TRACEcertification. PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and TRACE is the world’s leading anti-bribery standard setting organisation. Certification PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of by TRACE signifies that we have completed internationally accepted due diligence employment and occupation. procedures and that we have been forthcoming and cooperative during the review process. TRACEcertification underscores our commitment to transparency in en v i ron m ent international commercial transactions. PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach We know that much remains to be done in emerging sustainability issues and to environment challenges; therefore, we reiterate our commitment to advance societal goals and embed sustainability deeper into our business. PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Yours sincerely PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technology. ant i corrupt i on PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its R. Mumbi Gichuhi (Mrs.) forms, including extortion and bribery. Managing Director Epsilon Publishers Limited 6 | | 7 HIGHLIGHT aligning brand strategy I n 2017, we contracted a brand advisory firm to help us develop our brand strategy in alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This process was aimed at creating a compelling brand promise that would help us to align our operations to be more deliberate in creating value to all our stakeholders. Furthermore, creating a strong brand would help to maximise our the full potential as well us to provide us with opportunities for product and service innovation. This reporting year, our aim has been implementing brand business brand promise levers from the brand strategy We sieve through your manuscript and which are: adapting a more to unearth the kernel at the heart customer-centric culture that of your message because we invests in interactive relations understand that communication is between ourselves and our more than just sharing information. clients; communicating our brand more deliberately and initiating We nurture your publication from its conversations that drive the brand inception through to its completion, and its values; and, simplifying our so that your publication message processes to hasten project output. resonates with its intended audience. This will ensure we remain deliberate We create publications that drive in delivering on our brand promise. impactful conversation. 8 | | 9 what we do we continue to diversify We continue to diversify our We provide editorial, translation, products and solutions across publishing and printing services the publishing and production to help you to communicate spectrum. This ensures that we your message succinctly with continue to anticipate the future your audience. We oﬀer editorial, trends in publishing so that we translation, graphic design and align our operations and strategies printing services. These include accordingly. imaging (photography, illustrations, and infographics); content (curating content and content management); and publications (newsletters, reports, brochures, online publishing, coffee table books, electronic and print newsletters and magazines, and blogs). our work our values our philosophy our approach We work hard to bring your Our values lie at the core of We aim to nurture and We nurture your publication to life. Good what we do. We measure personalise publications publication and treat it publishing means work our work by our three so that we ensure that like our own. We ensure that attracts and retains non-negotiable values: we the intended message that your message is attention because it has act with integrity; we take is communicated in a communicated in a concise communicated congruently responsibility for quality; concise and consistent and consistent manner so to its intended audience. we deliver excellence. manner, with a credible and it sends out a credible that compelling message. relays your core message. 10 | | 11 the pu b l i sh i ng process the work flow S tage O ne S tage T hree editorial publishing At Epsilon Publishers, we know that publishing is an art and a science; it is the culmination of the editorial and design & translation & print processes. The overall design and appearance of a publication Our editorial sevices We never lose sight of the must appeal to the heart and its content to the mind. Our include copywriting, copyfact that a design has to detailed work-flow ensures that your publication is planned in editing and proofreading. communicate effectively minute detail so that it communicates succinctly for the audience We do this for both print on all fronts. We like to for which it is intended. and online content. think of design as a visual language. The publishing process culminates in the production of the book, report, newsletter or any other form of written material. We provide an S tage T wo array of printing solutions, h i ghl i ght depending on your target The photos that you use photography, in your publication should audience. We have no understanding the illustrations evoke powerful imagery. minimum print run. project & infographics We provide you with Printing is an intricate carefully selected and process that requires We create publications curated photography to meticulous preparation that deliver results for your We introduce enhance your different and attention to detail. intended audience. We publications. create content that delivers visual elements to We strive to ensure that our publications your key message in a way your publication We develop illustrations for meet international print that it is easily understood your publication to make by your target audience. so that it is both your message compelling. standards. We oversee every step of production visually appealing, to ensure that we deliver We develop infograpics and easily to make your publications a sterling publication. We deliver all our publications understood by more accessible and easy to anywhere that you are in to understand. Infographics the end reader. synthesise information in a the world. visually appealing manner. 12 | | 13 corporate go v ernance the advisory board HIGHLIGHT establishing a board board charter After the brand strategy Further to this, we developed exercise was complete, it was a board charter to set the right clear that the establishment tone for corporate governance. of an advisory board would be This provided concise instrumental in implementing overview of the respective the brand strategy. The board roles, responsibilities and members are drawn from authorities of the board diverse industries and this members and management has lent a lot of richness and as well as the practices of the experience to the board. board. b oard i nduct i on training for effective board meetings Finally, we contracted a leadership consultant to take the board members through a structured, comprehensive and practical induction which helped us to identify our management styles, approaches to work, leadership, self-assessment and conflict management. This would enable the board to be more effective and deliberate in executing its mandate. Three out of the five board members are women. The femaleled advisory board constitutes 60% 60% women and this is in line with our strategy for affirmative action. The advisory board during the brand induction training (L-R) Mrs. Mumbi Gichuhi (managing director), Mr. Peter Mugendi (board member), Dr. Mbithe Anzaya (board chair), Mr. Philip Gichuhi (director), Ms. Rose Wahome (board member), Dr. Patricia Murugami (CEO and lead consultant, Breakthrough Consulting Solutions) 14 | | 15 HIGHLIGHT towards operat i on e x cellence Epsilon Publishers cooperative agreement with Phoenix Design Aid ISO finalisation We are proud to announce the signing of we act with integrity; we take responsibility for our partnership with Phoenix Design Aid. quality; we deliver excellence. These are shared I n order to achieve credibility as Our staff developed and implemented Phoenix Design Aid is a first-class design and values in both our organisations. Moreover, we are an ISO certified business, Epsilon a quality management system communication agency. The company, which is committed to operate responsibly and to advance Publishers Limited undertook the (QMS), which uses ISO 9001:2015 based in Denmark, and has an office in Nairobi, societal goals in tandem with the UN Sustainable ISO certification journey in the second as a framework that allowed us and reprsentative offices around the world, delivers Development Goals. quarter of 2017. to document and improve our contemporary and innovative designs by focusing practices in order to better satisfy on the needs of the client and delivering on them Our partnership will see us collaborate on doing Towards the submission of our first the needs and expectations of our expeditiously. different publications for our respective clients, Communication on Progress (COP), clients, the advisory board, suppliers, thereby adding value to the whole process in terms each department had developed its management and other stakeholders. The basis for our partnership is that we are always of expertise and experience. The partnership will own standard operating procedures looking for innovative ways to serve our clients also contribute to the long-term sustainability of (SOPs), guiding policies and strategies The quality management system better. This as we strive to deliver on our promise the two businesses by way of indentifying different in line with the ISO 9001:2015 and manual was also aimed at to our clients as envisaged in our core values, that: areas for partnership. requirements. The departments familiarising our clients, stakeholders had also established and defined and interested parties with the responsibilities for each function. controls that had been implemented and to assure them that the integrity The standard operating procedures, of the quality management system policies and strategies were was maintained and was focused on then integrated to develop the continual improvement. organisational work flow that established what Epsilon does from To ensure that all processes and point of contact with our clients to departments were in synchrony, post delivery of any work carried out. management further organised an This year has seen us steer forward inter-departmental internal audit to the journey of ISO certification establish best practises and determine completion as the main goal for 2018. whether the quality systems were being effectively implemented and maintained. HIGHLIGHT UK based MEA Markets launched an inaugural award, The Dennis Lundo Nielsen, CEO, Phoenix Design Aid and Mumbi Gichuhi, Managing Director, Epsilon Publishers Limited sign a African Excellence Awards. This award aims to recognise cooperative agreement at the Embassy of Denmark in Nairobi. mEA the achievements of businesses within a variety of sectors m arkets and industries. It measures businesses that have attained award noticeable results in their varied endeavours. Epsilon Publishers Limited was awarded the best corporate publishing company in Nairobi. 16 | | 17 co m m un i cat i on on progress human rights P r i nc i ple 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and P r i nc i ple 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We know that the responsibility to respect human rights is a global standard In the organisational context, our human E m plo y ee safet y resource procedure and policies continue We do not undertake any work from clients of expected conduct to be guided by the following principles: that compromises the safety and integrity for all businesses of our staﬀ. In light of the recent rise in sexual and gender based violence (SGBV) H i r i ng procedures and enterprises. cases in Kenya, we were deliberate in our involvement in several Recruitment, promotion and development O pen co m m un i cat i on Furthermore, commitments and activities focused on the promotion of human rights of employees based on each individual’s One of our key values is open as provided for by the International Bill of Human Rights. It states in competencies, abilities and skills. communication. Unless something is businesses can part that, depending on circumstances, business enterprises may need confidential, it can be communicated in a only have a long to consider higher standards in respect of human rights of individuals D i v ers i t y complete, unambiguous and timely manner. belonging to specific groups or populations that require attention, where We strive to create an inclusive term future if the they may have adverse human impacts on them. Such individuals and environment with particular attention on C l i ent relat i ons management is populations include: indigenous people; women; children; persons with gender diversity in order to support the We uphold strong and respectful relations disability; national or ethnic, religious and linguistic minorities; and, development of all. with our stakeholders. We believe it is running a decent migrant workers and their families. essential to cultivate positive relations with business which is N on d i scr i m i nat i on our partners and clients. As a result, we forged partnerships with external stakeholders such as We do not discriminate our staff on the socially responsible Equality Now and FEMNET. These are organisations that work toward basis of gender, religion, race, political S uppl i er relat i ons and is taking care of (primarily) safe guarding the rights of women and children. affiliation or other opinion. Our focus We work with recognised suppliers who remains to create equal opportunities for uphold labour policies to ensure that we its people and the all our staff. are not complicit in human rights abuses. planet. 18 | | 19 co m m un i cat i on on progress HIGHLIGHT taking a stand on the sound of silence sexual gender based violence Our biggest achievement in 2017 was developing the sound of silence gallery. This was a mobile gallery aimed at starting conversations around child rights in Africa while creating a platform for dialogue on the protection of children against sexual and gender based violence (SGBV). We developed illustrations to create visually impactful posters with actual quotes from children who had suffered in the hands of their abusers. We presented it in the format of an art gallery. We then translated the posters from English to French and Swahili so that the message could reach a wider audience. This gallery was presented first (L-R) Patrick Waswani, head of production, Mary Wagura, head of operations and Mark Muthiora, presented in Mauritius to the African head of editorial pledge their support to stop the silence of sexual and gender based violence. Union Committee of Experts on the Rights and Welfare of the Child. The With the alarming rise in the number of We attended the National Dialogue on managing director flew to Mauritius gender based violence cases, we chose the Protection of Children against Sexual to support the cause. The travelling to be part of the activism activities and Gender Based Violence held on the gallery was subsequently presented surrounding this. The only way to reduce 7th of December 2017 at the Kenyatta in Mauritania, the Gambia, Kenya and sexual and gender based violence (SGBV) International Convention Centre in Tanzania. is to speak out about it, create awareness Nairobi. The dialogue was on how children about it and condemn the vice. This are suffering silently at the hands of their These forums brought together nonhas seen us support and commit to the would be caregivers. This forum brought governmental organisations, policy initiatives as publishers and as individuals. together various stakeholders for practical makers and leaders from both the As publishers, our core strength lies in commitments, interventions and solutions government and the private sector for creating impactful conversations through on all forms of SGBV: sexual violence, practical commitments, interventions publications and other media such as child marriage, female genital mutilation and solutions on all forms of SGBV: posters, postcards and banners with a (FGM) and sex trafficking. rape, defilement, child marriages, message. female genital mutilation (FGM) and sex trafficking. 20 | | 21 co m m un i cat i on on progress labour An ideal culture ought to focus on competency, GOAL empowerment, incentives and accountability. Epsilon continues to foster an employee centric culture which is We will organise a conflict management selfhighly energised and professional. assessment/training that will allow our employees to identify their preferred conflict styles. The primary value of this activity will P r i nc i ple 3 be to generate discussion The businesses should uphold the freedom on conflict styles and the possible impact each style of association and the effective recognition might have on how people of the right to collective bargaining; address conflict situations. P r i nc i ple 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; P r i nc i ple 5 equal hu m an resource the effective abolition of child labour; and health & safet y opportun i t i es procedures Epsilon ensures that it We continue to be Staff turnover level this P r i nc i ple 6 provides a safe and healthy an equal-opportunity reporting year has been the elimination of discrimination in respect of work environment for its employer. We recognise at 0. All our human employees. The objective employment and occupation. of observing a healthy and that women continue to resource procedures and be discriminated against processes are periodically safe work environment is to in terms of employment audited to ensure that reduce workplace hazards opportunities and when they are implemented while ensuring the wellemployed, in terms of and maintained. The being of both employers career advancement, audit also ensures that and employees and leadership roles and they conform to ISO improved performance. compensation. Towards this 9001:2015 requirements end, we practice affirmative and the United Nations action and we have an Global Compact (UNGC) equal-work-for-equal-pay principles. policy. 22 | | 23 co m m un i cat i on on progress environment We recognise that protection of the environment is an integral part of our business as publishers. We are thus committed to executing our mandate and activities in a manner that contributes to environmental sustainability. ENVIRONMENT TREE PLANTING S U S TA I N A B L E P R I N T I N G P r i nc i ple 7 In the period 2017-2018, we We envision Epsilon engaging in sustainable printing in our next Businesses should support a precautionary planted 100 indigenous trees COP reporting cycle. Also, the organisation aims at pursuing approach to environmental challenges; in Nanyuki, Kenya. We pledge environmental certification under ISO 14001:2015 in 2019. to double that number to 200 for the COP reporting cycle for This will help us to manage its environmental responsibilities P r i nc i ple 8 2018-2019. in a systematic manner that contributes to the environmental undertake initiatives to promote greater pillar of sustainability and achieve the intended outcomes of its environmental management system, which provide value for the environmental responsibility; and environment, the organisation itself and interested parties. P r i nc i ple 9 encourage the development and diffusion GOAL of environmentally friendly technology. We remain committed to be the benchmark in the publishing industry for environmental and sustainability initiatives in Kenya 24 | | 25 Notable issues raised by participants co m m un i cat i on on progress Challenges faced by SMEs in setting up Proposal to enhance protection for internal compliance systems. whistle-blowers. Section 21 may be in conflict with section 9 as whistleanti-corruption Lack of political will in the war against blowers can still be penalised for corruption. reporting after 24 hours. P r i nc i ple 1 0 The requirement to report within 24 Difficulties in establishing intent of the hours being too ambitious person receiving a bribe. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, and not taking into account standard including extortion and bribery. escalation processes within companies. Proposal to define comprehensively all parties affected by the Bribery Act Need for a defined threshold to outside of the parties already distinguish between a “gift” and mentioned. a “bribe”. Proposal to elaborate terminologies Guidance on where offences such as used in the Bribery Act such as “intent”, sexual harassment lie in the Bribery Act. “suspicious”, “advantage”, “senior officer”. goal Opportunities for collective action identified Pursuing joint amendment to the legislation and For the next communication establishment of guidelines. on progress reporting cycle, we intend to develop Continued awareness creation on the Bribery Act; and publish a code of highlighting corruption high-risk processes and sectors. conduct which shall outline our business ethos and Pursue certification of companies upon compliance. practices. This publication A shall be available as a t Epsilon, we remain committed to conducting our business Harmonise the Bribery Act requirements with companies’ downloadable PDF on our with integrity, fighting corruption in all its forms. We codes of conduct. website and as a printed continue to promote integrity among our employees and document. It shall be shared external stakeholders to ensure that we are accountable for our To enhance private sector ownership of the process,the with our partners, suppliers, business and transparent in all our dealings. sector should consider funding capacity building of the clients and stakeholders. implementation process. One of our anti-corruption goals for 2016–2017 was providing quality employee training on anti-corruption. Two (2) employees Professional bodies should incorporate anti-corruption from different departments attended the Bribery Act, 2016 clauses in their codes of conducts aligned to the Bribery Act. workshop organised by Global Compact Network Kenya as a framework for joint collective action efforts. Exploring the option of having the Bribery Act as an East African community legislation because of the prevalence of We were taken through the provisions of the Bribery Act, lessons cross-border corruption. from other jurisdictions, actors in implementation, legislative gaps, challenges, implementation and proposed solutions. Explore partnerships with the media to create awareness on the importance of addressing corruption as well as highlighting progress made by stakeholders. 26 | | 27 collect i v e act i on co m m un i cat i on on progress To scale collective action, maintaining energy and implement the code our staff was part of the synergy throughout the of ethics for business training on anti-corruption incubation lab which was project implementation operations. the second phase of the period. Siemens project. The team analysed I m ple m entat i on From the proposed tasks, variables around The project was aimed at: the team worked on the the agenda such as Participants were advised on the need to put in place internal compliance maintaining continuity second track that was the threats to the mechanisms while recognising that the fight against corruption begins at a on an existing path raising standards of SMEs implementation of the personal level. We have integrated this knowledge into the company’s decision towards Anti-Corruption in terms of compliance by project, the strengths making processes. Issues raised from the workshop would further be analysed by Collective Action (ACCA); developing an SME tool SMEs have, weaknesses the Siemens project advisory committee and prioritised for collective action. providing context for the kit inspired by ISO 37001 experienced in the proposed ACCA; building to comply with the sector and opportunities the case for the potential Bribery Act. The toolkit SMEs can tap in the funders and providing will go a long way in implementation process. detailed project plan; and, helping SMEs practically SMEs constitute 97% of the Further, the team put together all these variables with mitigation businesses operating in Kenya principles for the threats and weaknesses. All this would be and are therefore exposed to substantial in the development of the SME tool kit. In the long the highest risk of corruption. run this would: Often, SMEs have been forced 1. Increase transparency in operations and processes. to operate in an unfair playing field and business environment 2. Reduce the cost of operating businesses in Kenya. with the government and large H IG H L IG H T corporates. 3. Level the playing field for SMEs, large corporate and We successfully completed government parastatals. TRACEcertification, an internationally However, being the bedrock recognised due diligence review of the Kenyan economy, SMEs 4. Create trust and credibility among businesses and administered by TRACE, the world’s can collectively work together institutions. leading anti-bribery standard setting and push for reforms and a organisation. level playing field if they took 5. Businesses can pursue long term government incentive advantage of their strength initiatives such as tax incentives for compliant businesses. Certification by TRACE signifies that Epsilon Publishers has which is in their numbers and completed internationally accepted due diligence procedures and influence on the economy. 6. The network would provide resources and resource has been forthcoming during the review process. TRACEcertified They could also lobby for persons such as compliance auditors to help members companies are pre-vetted partners for multi-national companies implementation of compliance in the compliance implementation processes and seeking to do business with suppliers and consultants who share to anti-corruption and the sustainability of standards. their commitment to commercial transparency. code of ethics for businesses operating in Kenya. 7. Increase the level of credit extensions to compliant businesses. 28 | | 29 co m m un i cat i on on progress dissemination We shall distribute this communication on progress (COP) through various channels. These shall include; providing a link of our COP on the United Nations Global Compact page, as a downloadable PDF on our website, on our email signatures, on our social media channels and on all our communication materials. Scenes h i ghl i ght Behind the Youth programme We pledge to continue with our youth membership programme for this reporting cycle. This year, we 1st EDITION JUNE 2018 hosted two students from Hillcrest who was said to be the most beautiful girl in the tribe at the time, having a Secondary School in Nairobi Kenya dowry of 250 goats and a pot of honey. She further painted a man by the name of Farah Aden, who worked for her on who did work experience with us the farm. for one week. A teacher from their Sadly, Blixen and the Baron’s marriage failed after eight years and the Baron left Karen to run the farm by school came to our office to check herself. As if to trail onto this series of unfortunate events, the coffee farmed on their progress. During this time, we exposed them to all aspects failed, having the factory burn down and continuous bad harvest. Shortly after, she fell in love with Englishman Denis Finch Hatton in 1926, who later moved in with Karen into the house, of publishing; editing, design and KAREN BLIXEN printing. They visited a printing press which she dubbed “Bogani”. He slept in the Baron’s quarters. It was around MUSEUM this time the Baron returned and finalised his divorce with Karen. Her lover unfortunately died in a plane and a museum, after which they were expected to write and edit a report crash in Voi and he was buried on the foot of Ngong Hills. Heartbroken and bankrupt, Karen was forced to move Born 17th April 1885, Karen Blixen quarters, Karen’s library, and her back to Denmark where she then wrote two of her most renowned on their visit. They also interviewed our head of production and wrote a was a Danish baroness who moved sleeping quarters, a dining room, a literary pieces: Seven Gothic Tales and to Kenya upon accepting a marriage single bathroom and a kitchen. The Out of Africa, which has now been proposal from her half cousin, kitchen however was separate from translated into several languages such Bror von Blixen-Finecke. They got married in Mombasa in 1914 then the rest of the house as the cooker would remain lit all day and night. as Chinese, Russian and French but also has become an Oscar-winning piece on him. We then published a 4 page newsletter for them. We are honeymooned on Lake Naivasha, Karen would write in her study to film. Karen died on her family estate in succeeded by them settling down her mother in Denmark telling her 1962, aged 77. and residing in Mbagathi. They later she had good relations with the local bought a 4500-acre plot in 1917 where they used 600 acres for their people in the area, as well as she wore Somali attire to symbolise their The Danish government gained possession of what used to her pleased to report that one of the coffee plantation which they had been convinced to do by relatives and unity. She also had multiple elaborate clocks in her house, a cuckoo clock land in 1964 and gave the house to the Kenyan government as an students who did interned with us got close friends. Karen and the Baron being extremely popular amongst independence gift. The Kenyan resided in a house that has already been built. The coffee plantation the local children, who could go to the house every hour of the day, government then set up a college of nutrition which was originally intended the Work Year Experience Award at was self-contained, employing locals to work on it, as well as having 200 anticipating its chime. for Kenyan women. The school neighbours the museum. Her house her school. This gives us the impetus houses built for the workers. Alongside being a well-known author, was declared a museum in 1985. The house was very quaint having six Karen Blixen was also a renowned artist. Karen did many paintings such to continue to provide mentorship rooms: the Baron’s study, his sleeping as one of a Kikuyu girl named Njeri By Christie Gichuhi opportunities for the youth. 30 | E ps i lon P u b l i shers L i m i ted G e m i na C ourt G eorge P ad m ore R oad P. O . Bo x 1 1 7 5 0 0 6 0 6 N a i ro b i K en y a T elephone + 2 5 4 ( 0 ) 7 3 3 3 3 3 6 0 0 pu b l i sh @ eps i lon . co . ke www . eps i lon . co . ke soc i al m ed i a www . face b ook . co m / eps i lon P u b l i shers www . l i nked i n . co m / co m pan y / eps i lon pu b l i shers T w i tter @ pu b l i sherken y a
