Coal Ferrous Wind energy Titanium dioxide and pigment POWERING POSSIBILITY Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 CEO STATEMENT OF SUPPORT Exxaro Resources (Exxaro) is one of the largest South African-based diversified resources companies, with interests in the coal, titanium dioxide, ferrous, zinc and renewable energy commodities. Exxaro became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2007. As one of the foremost black-owned diversified resources companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, the signing of the UNGC marked our foundational commitment to sustainability. The commitment and focus is ongoing and we are once again proud to reaffirm our support of the 10 principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this Communication on Progress for 2017, we draw on Exxaro’s integrated and supplementary reports for 2017 to describe how the 10 UNGC principles are incorporated into our business. The integrated report and supplementary report are both products of the company’s strategic objectives, legislative and regulatory requirements, including the Companies Act of South Africa No 71 of 2008, as amended (Companies Act), the Mining Charter and the JSE Limited Listings Requirements, as well as global best practice standards as reflected in the International Integrated Reporting Council’s framework for integrated reporting, the Global Reporting Initiative GRI, UNGC principles and the King Report on Governance™* for South Africa 2016 (King IV™) and AccountAbility 1000SES. Exxaro remains an active member of the National Business Initiative (NBI) in South Africa. The NBI has aligned the South African National Development Plan (NDP) and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and awareness has been created in business on the need to support the SDGs. From the basis of moral and economic imperatives, Exxaro is addressing many of the SDGs in our sustainability drive. Details of sustainability successes can be found in both the integrated and supplementary reports and are available online under the following link: http://www.exxaro.com/investors/investor-reports. Sincerely, Mxolisi Mgojo Chief executive officer Exxaro Resources For enquiries Contact: Hanno Olinger, Manager Sustainability Email: hanno.olinger@exxaro.com Fixed: +27 12 307 3359 Fax: +27 12 307 5327 * Copyright and trademarks are owned by the Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC and all of its rights are reserved. HUMAN RIGHTS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 1 Businesses Exxaro has a labour and human rights policy Exxaro has complied with this policy at all times should support (policy) enforced in which the intent under paragraph during 2017 and no transgressions have been and respect the 4 is stated as follows: recorded at any operations or subsidiaries of Exxaro protection of “The company, as a responsible employer, will at all both in South Africa and internationally. internationally times comply with all labour legislation in South Africa, proclaimed including the Constitution of the Republic of South human rights Africa, the Labour Relations Act, the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, the Employment Equity Act, the Skills Development Act, Unemployment Insurance Act, the Mine Health and Safety Act and the Occupational Health and Safety Act. The company will also comply with all International Labour Organization codes and guidelines as ratified by the Republic of South Africa.” Under paragraph 5.1 of the policy it states: “The company unreservedly supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.” Under paragraph 5.2 of the policy it states: “The company unreservedly supports the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.” 2 Make sure that As reported under UNGC principle 1, the policy also Exxaro’s employees are aware of their human rights they are not covers human rights abuses. and to date Exxaro has not been complicit in the complicit in violation of any human rights. Under paragraph 6 of the policy it states: human rights “The company will ensure that all employees are abuses trained in the principles of human rights on an ongoing basis.” Induction programmes educate all employees and contractors on human rights. Refresher courses are available to all employees and contractors also cover human rights issues. Furthermore, policies on discrimination, harassment and racism are in place, as are structures to protect employees’ human rights in the workplace. Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 2 LABOUR GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 3 Businesses Paragraph 4.3 of the policy states the following: Some 87% of our employees are represented by should uphold “The company supports an employee’s right to affiliated unions recognised by Exxaro subsidiaries, the freedom of freedom of association and to join a trade union of primarily National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), association their choice.” Solidarity, Association of Mineworkers and and the Construction Union (AMCU), UASA (formerly United Paragraph 4.4 of the policy states the following: effective Association of South Africa) and the Food and Allied “The company supports the principle of collective recognition of Workers Union (FAWU). bargaining. In this regard the company has entered the right to into formal recognition agreements with various We concentrate on maintaining sound relations with collective trade unions.” employees in bargaining units by engaging with their bargaining representatives. This is based on a pluralist approach to trade union recognition through formal agreements. Negotiations for wages and conditions of employment are conducted through in-house forums and the Chamber of Mines. In 2017, we concluded multi-year wage agreements for a number of subsidiaries without any negative labour implications, except Exxaro Coal where we had a strike that lasted for eight days. Confirming the commitment from all parties to build solid relationships, no grievances about labour practices were filed in the reporting period. 4 The Paragraph 4.2 of the policy states the following: To date Exxaro has not been complicit in the violation elimination of “Subject to the provisions of the Constitution of of the policy. all forms of South Africa, the company will not cause, demand or forced and impose forced labour on any other person.” compulsory labour 5 The effective Paragraph 4.1 of the policy states the following: No children are in the employ of Exxaro. Below is the abolition of “The company will not employ child labour in breakdown of employees by age: child labour contravention of the Basic Conditions of Employment Age Bargaining Management Grand Act and the Occupational Health and Safety Act.” range unit and specialist total Exxaro complies with labour legislation in South 18 – 25 280 46 326 Africa and International Labour Organization 26 – 30 842 127 969 guidelines and, as a signatory of the UNGC, ensures 31 – 35 1 041 195 1 236 child labour is not tolerated. 36 – 40 837 201 1 038 41 – 45 624 192 816 46 – 50 539 175 714 51 – 55 544 142 686 56 – 65 584 111 695 Total 5 291 1 189 6 480 6 The Paragraph 4.5 of the policy states the following: There is no discrimination between the salaries of elimination of “The company promotes the principles of equal men and women in the bargaining unit category as discrimination opportunities and prohibits unfair discrimination and collective agreements determine specific guaranteed in respect of has established policies, namely the employment minimum salaries. employment equity policy and policies prohibiting racial In the management and specialist category, and occupation harassment, sexual harassment, and unfair individual salaries are strictly based on contracted discrimination to promote these principles.” performance. As an employer, Exxaro is firmly committed to the concept and practice of equal opportunity, irrespective of race, religion, gender, health status, sexual preference or nationality. Our corporate values guide the way we do business, and discrimination on any grounds is not acceptable. A comprehensive suite of policies covers employment, labour relations, occupational health and safety, training and education, diversity and equal opportunity. Our aim is to provide working conditions that are safe and healthy, opportunities that are enriching and an environment conducive to performance. Exxaro Resources Limited 3 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 ENVIRONMENT GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 7 Businesses Exxaro adopts the precautionary principle, which All Exxaro’s business units have ISO 14001 should support is entrenched in the National Environmental accreditation, reflecting the global industry a precautionary Management Act (NEMA), when evaluating the standards in place to minimise environmental approach to environmental impacts of business opportunities. impacts. environmental We focus on responsible use by conserving natural All our South African operations have challenges resources and reducing the burden of pollutants environmental management programmes (EMPs) on the environment through: as required under the Mineral and Petroleum ›› Ensuring all activities are properly authorised Resources Development Act (MPRDA) and ›› Complying with all statutory environmental National Environmental Management Act (NEMA). requirements as a minimum ›› Using energy and water as efficiently as These are key compliance indicators in ensuring that Exxaro remains a legally authorised possible ›› Conducting activities responsibly from the twin sustainable business. perspectives of compliance and natural resource use ›› Actively participating in voluntary benchmarks, such as the global Carbon and Water Disclosure Projects ›› Developing innovative policies and programmes to address environmental impacts and use of natural resources. Comprehensive group standards have enhanced the implementation of legal requirements and sustainable use of natural resources. These include management standards for air quality, water, energy, rehabilitation and mine closure, and environmental incident management and reporting. Legal compliance Legal compliance South African mining companies are heavily In 2017, as applications for various projects are at regulated, with compliance centred on receiving, different stages of regulatory assessment, we converting and retaining all mining rights. To have continuously engaged with the relevant ensure we continue to meet legal requirements as authorities, agencies and other stakeholders to a minimum, compliance across Exxaro is expedite these licences. monitored by two board-mandated entities: the sustainability, risk and compliance committee as well as the social and ethics committee. Running all our operations with approved EMPs is Exxaro received no environmental stoppage fundamental to our sustainability and legal directives and no fines were issued during the compliance. review period. Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 4 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8 Undertake Key continuous environmental risks at Exxaro’s These risks have been determined with the initiatives to operations have been identified and are listed commensurate impacts and the required promote below: mitigation actions required to minimise or avoid greater ›› Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions these risks. environmental ›› Air quality management responsibility ›› Water quality management, security of supply continued ›› Hazardous waste management ›› Biodiversity management ›› Ongoing rehabilitation ›› Cost of, and provision for, environmental liabilities ›› Improving compliance to granted environmental licences ›› Increasing statutory and non-statutory environmental requirements ›› Environmental incidents (level 3). Carbon footprint Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions, measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e) from sources owned or controlled by Exxaro, eg emissions from diesel, petrol, gas and anthracite combusted in day-to-day mining operations. Scope 2: GHG emissions from electricity generation by Eskom (South Africa’s largest power utility), purchased by Exxaro. Scope 3: Emissions outside our control but emanating from our products or activities, eg customer burning coal sold by Exxaro. The scope 1, 2 and 3 emission protocol provides a common measurement platform to compare firms, aggregate data to national level and compare countries. South Africa has set arguably the most aggressive carbon abatement targets of any developing country: to reduce emissions by 34% below business as usual by 2020, and 42% by 2025. Operational activities are guided by our climate change response strategy. A steering committee oversees related improvement projects and activities, and ensures these are aligned with Exxaro’s climate change position statement. This supports a clear understanding of the risks and opportunities presented by energy and emissions in the broader sense, and enables operations to focus on managing energy, emissions and other climate change-related issues. Exxaro Resources Limited 5 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8 Undertake Carbon disclosure CDP initiatives to Exxaro participates in two programmes: Carbon Exxaro has submitted an audited CDP report in promote Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate Change (since 2017. greater 2008) and CDP Water. The CDP is a UK-based environmental global climate change reporting system. Our responsibility carbon performance is externally assured continued annually. Energy management Energy management Exxaro considers the consumption of electricity Diesel and electricity are the primary sources of and diesel as a proxy for GHG emissions. energy for all our business units, at 57% and 43% respectively. Total energy consumed As part of Exxaro’s energy and carbon increased by 9% in 2017 to 4 584 170 gigajoules management programme, our coal operations (GJ). This reflects increased diesel consumption have focused on reducing energy consumption, for concurrent rehabilitation at operating mines including projects to specifically increase the and higher production at Grootegeluk and North efficiency of diesel and electricity use. Block Complex (NBC), as well as more haul roads The head office technology department has at Leeuwpan. For Leeuwpan and NBC the increase initiated a project to reduce diesel consumption at in production or change in mining has a direct all our operations. To facilitate energy-saving impact on diesel consumption since this initiatives, energy-intensity targets are set annually respectively accounts for 87% and 93% of total based to the prior two-year performance for each energy consumed. operation, and monitored monthly. These targets Although the electricity and diesel consumption were reviewed at the end of 2017 and long-term figure increased in 2017, the trend was not (five years) targets have been proposed. These will necessarily the same for electricity intensity and be implemented in the second half of 2018. diesel intensity. Based on production tonnes in 2017, electricity intensity of 13,8MWh/kt was up 7,5% while diesel intensity was 1 655/kt, a decline of 11,6%. Air quality Air quality As a mining group, air quality is a risk to Exxaro on Comparing Exxaro’s dust-fallout rate against the several levels, particularly dust and other regulated non-residential limit (1 200mg/m2/day), pollutants (eg PM10 and PM2,5) from opencast no operation exceeded the two allowable annual operations. Accordingly, we focus on: limits in 2017. ›› Minimising impact on the receiving environment ›› Full legislative compliance ›› Air quality management planning ›› Risk management ›› Monitoring, measurement and reporting. Daily measures ensure we address the challenges of Exxaro’s dust-generating activities (blasting, drilling, crushing and screening, vehicle entrainment, materials handling and wind erosion of exposed operational areas). These include applying dust-suppressant agents on haul roads, watering secondary unpaved operational roads, vegetating topsoil stockpiles and overburden material. All mining operations monitor daily dust fallout rates and results are assessed against national regulations. We track our compliance against the stringent residential limit (600mg/m2/day) instead of the non-residential limit (1 200mg/m2/day) to minimise the impact on residents. This will ensure fallout dust is reduced to the residential limit. Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 6 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8 Undertake Water management Water management initiatives to Water is a strategic natural resource for South Water management is integral to our licence to promote Africa. It is also key to our business. The Exxaro operate. The group water strategy was approved greater water management policy therefore defines our towards the end of 2017 and identifies the environmental commitment to the sustainable use of water, with following focus areas: responsibility a strong focus on efficiency through reuse and ›› Excellence in compliance continued recycling. This policy is aligned to the legislative ›› Excellence in operational water efficiency environmental framework governed mainly by the ›› Excellence in policies, standards and processes National Water Act No 36 of 1998. In support of ›› Excellence in water technologies the Act, the Department of Water Affairs has ›› Excellence in stakeholder partnerships. issued an integrated water resource management A comprehensive programme is entrenching hierarchy that prioritises mine and waste responsible and sustainable water management management decisions and actions. This hierarchy across Exxaro. It concentrates on relevant informs both our policy and strategy on mine and water-use and related risk issues – from security wastewater management as: ›› Pollution prevention of supply to water efficiency and water-cost ›› Minimise environmental impacts management – and manages these within current ›› Maximise water reuse and reclamation and anticipated regulatory compliance ›› Responsible water discharge and disposal requirements. This is supported by continually ›› Water treatment. enhancing our competence in water-management issues through company-wide research and skills Translating policy into action, our management development. We also reinforce awareness of standard on water for mining and industrial use water issues through ongoing communication and articulates our commitment to develop and training. implement an effective integrated water and waste Our strategy also articulates aspirational goals management plan across the lifecycle of a mine. that include becoming self-sufficient in our This includes planning, construction, operation, operational water requirements and becoming a decommissioning, closure and rehabilitation leader in water technology solutions. phases. The standard reflects management’s vision to: We are managing water-related risks, minimising ›› Ensure a cost-effective integrated approach to impacts, and operating efficiently through water management reduction, reuse and recycling. Most of our ›› Be environmentally responsible operations have water conservation plans that ›› Be ecologically sustainable. support the national strategy to ensure equitable distribution of water resources that allows for These management standards are enacted by business growth and protection (sustainable use). adhering to the Department of Water and Sanitation’s best practice guidelines on: We are also committed to protecting and ›› The integrated water and waste management improving water quality by ensuring the water we plan discharge is the same or better than the original. ›› Storm water management planning Central to this are the three water treatment ›› Water and salt balances plants planned for our Mpumalanga region as part ›› Water monitoring systems of our long-term water management strategy. ›› Water reuse and reclamation These plants have total capacity to treat ›› Pollution control dams 17,5 megalitres per day. ›› Environmental performance indicators. Water withdrawal performance Exxaro decreased water withdrawals by 2% in 2017. Matla and NBC are now using potable water from their water-treatment plant, reducing their withdrawals. The corporate office reduced its water use by about 11% in 2017. Refer to the Exxaro supplementary report for details on the NBC zero-waste mine-water treatment plant. Exxaro Resources Limited 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8 Undertake Hazardous waste management Hazardous waste initiatives to Waste management is a key compliance indicator The total weight of hazardous waste generated at promote in Exxaro’s social licence to operate. Our our managed coal operations in 2017 dropped greater group-wide standard enforces use of the waste 25% to 3 058 tonnes (2016: 4 101 tonnes). There environmental management hierarchy, which in turn promotes were no unplanned clean-up projects, normally responsibility waste prevention or minimisation, reuse, recycling, due to oil spillages and soil contamination which continued recovering energy and ensuring safe disposal of ultimately need to be removed to registered waste in line with the National Environmental hazardous waste facilities. Management: Waste Act No 59 of 2008 and supporting legislation. Exxaro is developing abatement plans for waste-tyre stockpiles as per requirements issued by the Department of Environmental Affairs (effective date: September 2017). Responsible conservation of Biodiversity management biodiversity Approximately R7 million was spent in 2016 on Biodiversity means species diversity and species biodiversity. Some R12 million was spent in 2017 richness in an ecological environment. In Exxaro, on biodiversity management, including wetland our goal is to conserve biodiversity for future offsets, delineation and wetland studies, as well as generations by sustainably using the resources of biomonitoring. our mining operations and South Africa’s natural resources. To reach this goal, we have developed biodiversity The principles of these guidelines are already action plans for our business units. In addition, our incorporated into our planning and execution comprehensive biodiversity management standard phases. As an example, the principles of bestwas revised in 2017 and will be approved in 2018. practice standard were used in several projects to The guiding principles include the best-practice avoid constructing infrastructure in a sensitive standard on wetland offsets (wetland offsets: a wetland area. best practical guideline for South Africa 2014), as well as the mining and biodiversity guideline mainstreaming biodiversity into the mining sector (DEA, DMR, Chamber of Mines, SA Mining and Biodiversity Forum and SANBI, 2013). In addition to complying with legislation and best practice, we aim to develop a competitive advantage through conservation and reestablishing resilient ecosystems that underscore our commitment to duty-of-care principles. Risk-based external reviews Risk management In the first quarter each year, our sustainability The risk analyses and external audits were done in department and each business unit perform a risk 2017 and most findings have been addressed. analysis based on the group environment and risk assurance process, with risks reported to appropriate management in terms of Exxaro’s governance process. Where mines are eligible for an external review, these are conducted under commercial agreements with competent third parties. Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 8 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8 Undertake Concurrent rehabilitation plan Concurrent rehabilitation initiatives to All business units have a five-year concurrent At 31 December 2017, total land disturbed was promote rehabilitation schedule and associated budget: 10 745ha and total land rehabilitated 2 260ha. greater ›› The schedules set measurable targets for each environmental mine responsibility ›› Schedules prevent backlogs building up, continued increasing liabilities ›› Budgets enable managers to implement plans without cash flow constraints. Environmental liabilities and rehabilitation Liabilities All business units annually review their financial Refer to the Exxaro supplementary report for provisions. They also consider amendments to detailed figures on liabilities per operation. rehabilitation plans and closure objectives based on regular EMP performance assessments. The cost estimates of activities in the concurrent and final-closure rehabilitation programme are reviewed and adjusted where necessary. Waterrelated liabilities are calculated as per the Exxaro excess water risks and liability management standard. The Exxaro Environmental Rehabilitation Fund (EERF) EERF The Exxaro EERF and the ECC trust funds provide The trust funds earned R588 million in 2017, for a portion of these liabilities, while additional including cash contributions, interest earned on bank guarantees are taken out to provide for new investments and fair-value adjustments. The fund developments and cover any shortfalls in financial has recorded 36% growth from an opening provisions. Environmental rehabilitation liabilities balance of R1 059 million in January 2017 to are updated biannually for internal reporting at R1 647 million in December 2017. In addition, the interim and financial year end, and submitted group had bank guarantees of R2 917 million in annually to the DMR. place at year end. Updating these provisions biannually highlights potential rehabilitation alternatives that could decrease the long-term closure liabilities of mines. Mine closure All closure activities are executed against Mine closure risk-based principles. As several Exxaro mines are Exxaro had six operations in active closure in nearing their end of life, mine-closure planning is 2017 – Arnot, Tshikondeni, Durnacol, Hlobane, already in place to ensure the closure process Strathrae and Gravelotte. complies with the latest legislative requirements. Case study: Tshikondeni mine Understanding that operational closure, closure concurrent rehabilitation and land management The Tshikondeni mine stopped operating in late activities directly link employees, community, 2014 when the coal resources were exhausted. environment, government and infrastructure, we are committed to: As required by law, each mine with a legal mining ›› Ensure the operational closure process is right must implement social and labour plans in conducted inclusively and within the legal their surrounding communities. This allows the framework mine to contribute to the long-term sustainability ›› Proactively manage environmental impacts to of its communities. minimise residual liabilities In 2017, Tshikondeni appointed Southern African ›› Leave behind a positive legacy for our Wildlife College (SAWC) in 2017 to conduct a employees and local communities situational analysis of surrounding communities. ›› Allocate required financial resources to ensure Access to water was ranked as the most critical this process is concluded need in all three villages (Mukomawabani, Mutele ›› Manage Exxaro land according to an agreed B and Sanari). strategy. Tshikondeni’s social and labour plans (SLPs) include building: ›› 56 SLP houses: 20 houses in Mukomawabani village, 18 houses in Sanari village, 18 houses in Mutele B village ›› Three crèches: one in each village ›› One hall in Mukomawabani village. Exxaro Resources Limited 9 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 ENVIRONMENT (CONTINUED) GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 8 Undertake Environmental incidents Environmental incidents initiatives to Exxaro places all the necessary mitigation and Exxaro had no level 3 environmental incidents promote preventative mechanisms in place to avoid the during the review period. greater occurrence of level 3 environmental incidents. An environmental environmental incident is considered as a level 3 responsibility when the consequences cost more than R500 000 continued to rehabilitate. 9 Encourage the Academic chairs Academic chairs development Exxaro sponsors academic chair positions at Between 2013 and 2017 Exxaro had spent over and diffusion of universities to broaden the body of knowledge on R24 275 464 on the three university chairs. environmentally sustainable development initiatives. friendly The chairs each had notable successes and have technologies The three university chairs that Exxaro sponsors delivered productive outputs. are: ›› The global change and sustainability chair at Refer to the Exxaro supplementary report for more details on the case studies of the university the University of the Witwatersrand which chairs. focuses on water, sustainability and social interventions ›› The chair in business and climate change at the University of South Africa ›› The Exxaro chair in energy efficiency at the University of Pretoria. Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 10 ANTICORRUPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SUMMARY OF ACTIONS AND RESULTS 10 Businesses The social and ethics committee of the board An anonymous reporting line has been in place for should work approved a comprehensive anti-fraud and antiover a decade in terms whereof reported cases of against all bribery programme that runs continuously and alleged irregularities are investigated by an in-house forms of involves among others: dedicated forensic team. For the 2017 financial year, corruption, ›› Awareness training and assessment for employees the outcome of forensic investigations translated into including as well as part of new employee induction the following: extortion and ›› Data analytics on the employee and vendor ›› 492 investigations bribery database to proactively detect potential declared ›› 214 disciplinary cases or undeclared conflicts of interest ›› 42 criminal cases registered ›› Anti-bribery and corruption due diligence checks ›› 55 arrests on high-risk suppliers and third-party ›› 38 cases of copper cable theft amounting to over intermediaries R800 000. ›› Anti-bribery and corruption checks on any The total monetary amount of all investigations and potential equity investment, joint venture, or incidents of copper cable theft amounted to similar association ›› Independent assessment of the robustness of all R5,2 million of which R1,6 million was recovered. anti-fraud and anti-bribery initiatives in terms of ISO 370001 as well as an internal assessment of compliance with all relevant local and global legislation and regulations including but not limited to the South African Companies Act, King IV™, the OECD guidelines, the South African Prevention and Combatting of Corrupt Activities Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of the USA, the UK Bribery Act and the UNGC. Exxaro Resources Limited 11 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Exxaro has participated with the NBI and with industry to create an alignment between the South African NDP and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Exxaro is committed to support the country in the execution of the NDP, and the most material SDGs. At an executive level there is an awareness of how important the commitment and implementation of the SDGs are. The most material of the SDGs related to our core mining operations are already being addressed and thus have a connection to the respective SDGs. Exxaro will continue embedding the implementation of the most material SDGs with a more formalised approach. RELATED MEASURABLE UN SDG EXXARO’S RESPONSE OR CONTRIBUTION OUTCOMES 1 End poverty in all its South Africa’s national strategy is to address poverty, 79% of procurement is sourced forms everywhere unemployment and inequality because of the legacy of from businesses owned by apartheid. In response to this, Exxaro has a comprehensive historically disadvantaged enterprise and supplier development (ESD) programme South Africans. that seeks to foster job creation in the local communities where we have a footprint. The ESD programme supports the establishment of entrepreneurs and small businesses through grants and loans, investment and training. 2 End hunger, achieve food Our business of tomorrow (BoT) division is seeking Exxaro is partnering with a security and improved opportunities in the agri sector as part of the food-energycompany to provide waterpipe nutrition, and promote water nexus strategy of Exxaro. Our focus for the future is leakage technology to reduce sustainable agriculture specifically on agricultural and land management water losses from the opportunities to supply food and enable small enterprises municipal supply side to the to produce and sell agricultural produce. Furthermore, our consumer. future focus is on renewable energy projects. For our water projects, refer to SDG 6. 3 Ensure healthy lives and Our health and hygiene strategy aims to reduce all forms Lost-time injury frequency rate promote wellbeing for all of occupational and lifestyle diseases. Furthermore, we of 0,12 at all ages have a comprehensive safety improvement programme in place to reduce occupation-related injuries and fatalities. We measure the number of injuries and fatalities per 200 000 man-hours worked. We measure the health and hygiene of our employees identifying and monitoring the occurrence of: ›› Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) 57 cases reported ›› Pneumoconiosis Occupational health injury ›› Silicosis frequency rate of 0,33 ›› Chronic obstructive airways disease (COAD) ›› Occupational tuberculosis (TB). We have started monitoring the lifestyle diseases in the Patient confidentiality limits company and have identified three major causes of deaths: accuracy ›› Diabetes ›› Hypertension ›› Heart disease. We actively run HIV/Aids awareness campaigns and supply HIV/Aids prevalence estimated anti-retroviral drugs to sustain and improve the health of at 4,2% our HIV-positive employees. Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 12 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (CONTINUED) RELATED MEASURABLE UN SDG EXXARO’S RESPONSE OR CONTRIBUTION OUTCOMES 4 Ensure inclusive and We have focused education initiatives through the Exxaro 48% of social spend directed equitable quality People Development Initiative (EPDI) trust. The primary towards education initiatives education and promote education strategy focuses on early childhood life-long learning development, primary school education and school opportunities for all infrastructure. Education will provide social mobility, employment opportunities and reduce poverty. Exxaro is also supporting university chairs in global R24 million sustainability (including agriculture) and energy efficiency. We actively provide bursaries to the youth to further their 58 bursars tertiary studies. R5,6 million per annum 62% black South Africans 29% women 5 Achieve gender equality Our human resources employment equity, women-in21% of workforce are women and empower all women mining and diversity policies support this goal. We have an 36% of interns are women and girls annual bring a girl to work day to support opportunities for women in the workplace. 6 Ensure availability and Our business of tomorrow focuses on water initiatives in Water intensity 0,18kl/TTM sustainable management communities and preserving water as a scarce commodity (2016: 0,22) of water and sanitation in South Africa. As part of our comprehensive water for all strategy, our policy is to reduce, reuse and recycle water. We measure our water intensity usage in kilotonnes per total tonnes mined (kl/TTM) Our water treatment plants at Matla and NBC are 1,5 million litres of water producing potable, drinkable water, and the innovative treated daily processes used are reducing the energy required to Specific energy per litre of achieve this. water treated down by 40% 7 Ensure access to Exxaro owns 50% of a clean-energy company (with two Amakhala Emoyeni windfarm affordable, reliable, operating wind farms producing electricity) and is installed capacity of 134MW sustainable and modern investigating opportunities to become an independent energy for all power producer. Tsitsikamma community The local communities benefit from the windfarms through windfarm installed capacity employment opportunities, and in some cases, local power of 95MW supply. 8 Promote sustained, Exxaro’s focus on enterprise and supplier development will Target – to spend 3% of annual inclusive and sustainable create small businesses and foster entrepreneurship and earnings before interest and economic growth, full and employability. The focus is to make the poor, underprivileged, tax (EBIT) productive employment and host community members more employable. and decent work for all We have constituted the necessary governance and processes to identity the beneficiaries that require funding, upskilling and development. Exxaro Resources Limited 13 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (CONTINUED) RELATED MEASURABLE UN SDG EXXARO’S RESPONSE OR CONTRIBUTION OUTCOMES 9 Build resilient Efficient capital allocation for sustaining and expanding Mining infrastructure spend infrastructure, promote operations will ensure that our infrastructure remains R13 billion inclusive and sustainable resilient and environment-friendly. industrialisation and We have established an innovation department dedicated foster innovation solely to explore all opportunities in the fourth industrial revolution. 10 Reduce inequality Exxaro operates primarily in South Africa. Our focus on Pay differential between within and among transformation is reflected in a representative workforce, executives and employees countries and we have prioritised reducing income inequality. reduced by 30% 11 Make cities and human Exxaro’s socio-economic development, community 10% of socio-economic settlements inclusive, development, and enterprise and supplier development are development focused on safe, resilient and contributing to employment and poverty reduction, while infrastructure sustainable improving quality of life. Our social and labour plans focus on building infrastructure to support our host municipalities and communities. 12 Ensure sustainable Exxaro measures intensity ratios (particularly energy and Energy intensity increased by consumption and water use, as well as emissions) to minimise our impact on 7,5% during 2017 production patterns the environment while improving productivity. Increased energy consumption caused by longer haul distances between pit and plant. 13 Take urgent action to Exxaro fully supports climate-change initiatives in South Scope 1: 324,9 (kt CO2e) combat climate change Africa with a global view. Our comprehensive climateScope 2: 539,0 (kt CO2e) and its impacts change strategy measures our GHG emissions (scope 1, 2 Scope 3: 76 462 (kt CO2e) and 3). We report annually to the CDP and Exxaro is a signatory to COP21 commitments. Exxaro Resources Limited United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 14 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (CONTINUED) RELATED MEASURABLE UN SDG EXXARO’S RESPONSE OR CONTRIBUTION OUTCOMES 14 Conserve and Exxaro has a comprehensive water-management strategy, Currently not a focus area sustainably use the but is not located near marine resources. oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development 15 Protect, restore and Exxaro aims to minimise its impact on biodiversity and the Disturbed land: 10 745 (ha) promote sustainable environment where we mine. use of terrestrial Rehabilitated land: 2 260 (ha) We perform concurrent rehabilitation and execute final ecosystems, rehabilitation on all operational sites post-mine closure. sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 16 Promote peaceful and Our socio-economic and community development goals Diverse inclusive societies for support this goal. Exxaro specifically focuses on sustainable maintaining educational institutions in our communities, development, provide and community infrastructure such as clinics, training access to justice for all facilities and roads. and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 17 Strengthen the means Exxaro supports this goal through South Africa’s NBI, the Enhanced national reputation of implementation and Minerals Council of South Africa, and engaging with mining revitalise the global regulatory bodies. partnership for sustainable development Exxaro Resources Limited 15 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017
