UN Global Compact Communication on Progress October 20162017 Statement of continued support to Global Compact To whom it may concern, I am pleased to confirm that Emco Marine Ltd. Reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we promise to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also continue to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Avi Sayag Managing Director Emco Marine Ltd. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress October 20162017 Emco Marine's Implementation of the Ten Principles Human Rights Emco Marine Ltd. Continues to fully respect and support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We have policies within our business vision which support the Declaration of Human Rights regarding: ➢ Grievance ➢ Health ➢ Safety ➢ Flexible hours ➢ Harassment in the workplace The management at Emco Marine is constantly monitoring to ensure that all aspects of the Human Rights are implemented daily. As a result, the company receives zero complaints from employees, customers, and suppliers regarding any violations of The Human Rights policies, risks, and violations. Labor Emco Marine eliminates discrimination in the workplace. The company doesn’t accept any forced labor and upholds the abolition of child labor like all companies should uphold. The company employs people from all religions and backgrounds. The company has ZERO TOLERENCE for racism and discrimination whatsoever. Emco Marine's standards and policies are regularly monitored by the company's Human Resources Department and the supply chain is monitored by the company's quality control management. Environment Emco Marine Ltd. Is committed to ensure that all the employees are aware of their environmental responsibilities. The company is always researching ways to reduce our carbon footprints and put our best efforts in pollution control. Emco Marine has implemented computerized transmissions for containers leaving our ports. Emco Marine management team is committed to fulfill the guidelines regarding this subject and have a day-to-day responsibility in doing so. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress October 20162017 AntiCorruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Emco Marine maintains a ZERO TOLERENCE policy against all forms of corruption and any corruption proven on any employee will result in immediate and direct actions. All employees know to address the Deputy Managing Director and the Human Resource Department in regards to any corruption and unethical behavior. Any report of corruption or unethical cases will be reviewed and dealt with to avoid such in the future.
