LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 |2 Contents 4 About the Report 10 Economic Responsibility 3 8 Foreword by the CEO 5 About the Organisation 14 20 Principles and Responsibility Responsibility in Priorities of in Social Area Environmental Corporate Area Responsibility LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 |3 Foreword by the CEO The present Corporate Being one of the largest energy sector the cooperation and responsibility-based groups in the Baltic States we have drafted organisational culture were properly Responsibility Report of rewarded. Quite apparently the customer the present report with a view to demonLietuvos Energija Group strating how the responsible business satisfaction rating, as well as the employee provides an overview of attitude and corporate management prinengagement level has been consistently ciples are reflected in our daily operations, increasing. the main developments in plans for the future and the ever changing the Company‘s operations environment in view of the mounting The contribution of the Lietuvos Energija during 2017. challenges in the energy sector. Group in the increasing of the national competitiveness was reflected in the “DoDuring 2017, Lietuvos Energija Group was ing Business 2018“ rating published by the continuing its responsible operations, and World Bank. According to the getting elecis in the process of introducing a number tricity connection in 2017 Lithuania moved of changes facilitating the progress of to the 33rd position, i.e., by 22 positions the entire organisation and the relevant higher than a year ago. business environment: the Group supports equal opportunities, promotes innovaDuring 2018, the development of renewations, energy efficiency, the wellness and ble energy production capacities, developengagement of its employees, and the ment of organisational culture and investdevelopment of responsible business ing in talents will remain the priority areas Dalius Maikštėnas practice in the energy sector, as well as the of responsible activities. At the same time entire country. enhanced attention will be paid to the deChair of the Board and the CEO velopment of innovations, improvement of of Lietuvos Energija The efforts of Lietuvos Energija Group to customer service, shortening of terms for continue improving customer servicing, obtaining electricity and gas connection, develop and offer new services, seek enand the excellence in daily operations. hancing the operational efficiency, cherish LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 |4 About the Report The present Corporate Responsibility distribution, energy services and customer Report of Lietuvos Energija was drawn up servicing operations. The Report is drawn having regard to the principles of the UN up in the Lithuanian and English languages Global Compact initiative and assessing and published on the website www.le.lt, our own performance in the context of the as well as on the internet websites of the Sustainable Development Goals. Group’s internet websites to make it readily accessible for any stakeholders. The Report Energijos Skirstymo Operatorius (ESO) has not been audited or reviewed by any and Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba (LEG), the third parties. Nasdaq Stock Exchange listed companies, draw up and submit separate Social We consistently seek to improve our Responsibility Reports, which, as a part of reporting practices; therefore, your the UN Global Compact membership oblisuggestions or comments will be highly gations, are published on www.unglobalappreciated. Please send your comments compact.org. The report of ESO is drawn to komunikacija@le.lt. up following the guidelines of the “Global Reporting Initiative“ (GRI), and LEG follows The group companies ESO and Lietuvos the principles of the UN Global Compact. Energijos Gamyba are members of the UN Global Compact. ESO is a member of the In this second Report of Lietuvos Energija Responsible Business Association of Lithuwe are presenting the activities that the ania, LAVA, and participates in the activities energy company group is engaged in of its Board. LAVA is the representative of covering its production, trade and supply, the UN Global Compact. LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 |5 In its activities Lietuvos Energija Group • The Group’s return on assets is insponsible activity underlying the creation follows the principles of the UN Globcreased by supporting development: of the culture and the practice of a socially al Compact defining the fundamental diversifying the operations, developresponsible and sustainably developed responsibilities for business in the areas of ing new economically viable projects business of the Group. The Policy applies human rights, employee rights, environand activities, ensuring efficiency in to all entities of the Group. mental protection and the fight against daily operations. corruption, and seeks to reduce the effect of its operations on the environment, • The Group contributes to boosting the society, other businesses, and join the competitiveness by ensuring a efforts in addressing economic, social and stable supply of electric energy and environmental issues, and thus contribute natural gas, developing new products, to the development of the society and the and supporting efficient consumption economic growth. of electric energy and natural gas. Lietuvos Energija voluntarily aims to ensure • The Group assumes responsibility with a long-term progress in business and the respect to the society and its staff and society, also to contribute to the social is proactive in implementing environdevelopment of the society and wealth mental protection requirements, and creation. The key objective of the Lietuvos ensures the continuity and growth of Energija Group until 2020 is to double the competences. value of the Group, and to develop into the most valuable energy company in the In its responsible activities the Lietuvos EnBaltic States. ergija Group follows the social responsibility policy of the company group approved The value is understood as a sustainable by the Board, the zero-tolerance policy balance between three elements: return against corruption, health and safety at on assets, enhancement of competitivework, and the Support allocation policy. ness and the responsibility with respect to the Company’s employees, the society and The present document defines the most the environment. general directions and provisions of reLIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 |6 Principles and Priorities of Corporate Responsibility Key Environmental protection Safety Citizenship and market responsibility challenges In its operations the Group seeks using Ensuring safety in the Company’s operaAn important priority of responsible operamost advanced means, best accessible tions is one of the key priorities of the Litions in the eyes of Lietuvos Energija is the technologies and processes minimising enetuvos Energija Group. For the purpose of social-economic impact of the Group’s entivironmental impact, promote rational use ensuring occupational safety in the energy ties, also a responsible performance in the and management of resources, minimise sector, the Group has adopted its “Policy market, transparency, and synergy with the costs and waste, and plan its operations on Health and Safety at Work”. The senior communities in which the entities operate. taking into consideration the possible envimanagers are responsible for a safe and seronmental aspect. The Group’s entities also cure working environment, and significant engage in public education initiatives proattention is being paid to the operating moting a responsible, rational and sustainstandards of the contractors. Efforts are takable energy consumption, and enhanceen to educate the customers of the Compament of energy efficiency. ny about responsible behaviour with electricity and gas. LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 |7 Areas of responsibility of Social area – Environmental protection – Economy – Lietuvos Energija, and their through the relations with the employees by implementing progressive and environthrough our transparent activities, while links to the Sustainable and the society, seeking to ensure the promentally-friendly technologies, increasing ensuring the profitability of the operations Development goals: tection of human rights, the quality and the energy production from renewable and and the financial return to the shareholder, security of the working place, equal opporlocal energy sources, promoting and acand promoting ethical and fair cooperation tunities while promoting citizenship, voluntively participating in numerous preventive with the customers, suppliers, investors and teering, supporting relations and communiprogrammes ensuring environmental propartners, and actively opposing any forms cations with the local communities, science tection, and developing energy efficiency of corruption by providing a high quality, and business cooperation, education of the services and products. In hydro-energy prosafe and reliable services, improving our society on energy efficiency and safe enerduction the Company makes efforts to prooperations, by operating and introducing gy consumption, also supporting activities tect fish, and while maintaining distribution smart and safe digital solutions. Being acand projects beneficial to Lithuania. Being grids specific measures are taken to protect tive in this area we directly contribute to the active in this area we directly contribute to the population of wild bird. Being active in United Nations Sustainable Development the United Nations Sustainable Developthis area we directly contribute to the Unitgoals: ment goals: ed Nations Sustainable Development goals: HIGH QUALITY DECENT WORK COHESIVE CITIES TO MITIGATE AFFORDABLE AND INDUSTRY, EDUCATION AND ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITIES IMPACT OF CLIMATE CLEAN ENERGY INNOVATIONS AND GROWTH CHANGE INFRASTRUCTURE RESPONSIBLE LIFE BELOW LIFE ON LAND CONSUMPTION WATER AND PRODUCTION LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 |8 Examples of the UN Sustainable Development goal 2030 Measures implemented by the Lietuvos Energija Group measures designed • We have considerably invested in the development of employees, their professional development by hostto achieve the ing external and internal training Sustainable • We have been consistently implementing the key principles of the human resources policy, also ensuring 4. Ensure inclusive and quality education for all the freedom of association, the right to unionise, and ensuring human rights at all entities of the Group Development goals and promote lifelong learning • By consistently improving the processes and enhancing the efficiency we have created preconditions to implemented 8. Promote inclusive and sustainable economic reduce operating costs and achieve sustainable financial results • We increased the volumes of electric energy from renewable sources in 2017: growth, employment and decent work for all • We have been improving customer servicing by remote channels and were creating new customer servic12. Ensure sustainable consumption and proing tools duction patterns • Training on corruption prevention for managers and employees of the Group entities • We provided financial support to numerous initiatives in the public interest, and value-building community projects 11. Make cities and human settlements inclu• We have been supplying to the market a certified Green Lithuanian energy generated in Lithuania from sive, safe, resilient and sustainable renewable energy sources • We have been implementing the projects of new power plants designed to generate energy from waste, 13. Take urgent action to combat climate making it possible to reduce the CO2 emissions in cities, and the volume of waste in all national landfills change and its impacts • We have been providing energy servicing facilitating our customers in seeking enhanced energy efficiency 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, • We have invested in the modernisation of the electric energy and natural gas distribution grid, and in supseas and marine resources ply reliability enhancement projects 15. Conserve, restore and promote sustainable • We have completed a smart accounting pilot project the purpose of which was to facilitate our customers use of land ecosystems, sustainably manage in more efficiently saving electric energy and time; forests, combat desertification, halt soil • With respect of hydro-energy production the Company makes efforts to protect fish, and while maintaining degradation, or loss of biodiversity. distribution grids specific measures are taken to protect the population of wild birds. • By implementing a range of social and educational projects we were encouraging our business customers, residents and children to show an interest in efficient energy use, and safely use electricity and gas equipment • We placed an issue of Green bonds, and invested the proceeds in the acquisition and the development of 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainenergy facilities mitigating climate change able and modern energy for all • We are in the process of installing electric vehicle charging stations thus contributing to promoting the use 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote of electric vehicles throughout the country sustainable industrialization and foster • We have shortened the getting electricity connection time for our customers. innovation • We were providing education modernisation, solar power plant installation services for municipalities and business companies LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 |9 About the Organisation gas pipes of 8,100 km, thus servicing more Mission, vision and values Principal activities than 1.6 million of electricity users, and nearly 570,000 gas customers throughout MISSION – sustainable value building in the The key area of activity of Lietuvos Energija Lithuania. The subsidiary companies of the energy sector by promoting the developGroup is production and supply of elecGroup carry out their operations also in ment of the country’s economy and the tricity and heat, trade in and distribution Latvia, Estonia and Poland. society. VISION – to become an energy of electric energy, trade in natural gas, The Lietuvos Energija group company with the highest value in Baltic distribution of natural gas, servicing and In 2017, the Group consisted of Lietuvos provides services to almost States. VALUES – responsibility, cooperation development of the electric energy sector. Energija, UAB and 21 directly or indirect1.6 million of consumers and result. ly controlled subsidiaries (including the A parent company of the Group, Lietuvos Group’s support foundation). across Lithuania. Energy company Group in brief Energija, UAB is responsible for the governance and coordination of the Group’s Group governance Lietuvos Energija Group is one of the largest operations, increasing efficiency, provides state-controlled energy company groups operating guidelines and regulations, The bodies of management of Lietuvos in the Baltic States. 100 % of the Group’s and coordinates the activities in the areas Energija are the general meeting of shareshares are held by the State of Lithuania. The of finance, commerce, production, legal holders, and the Board, and an oversight rights and obligations of the shareholder matters, strategy and development, human body – the Supervisory Board. The Suare exercised by the Ministry of Finance of resources, risk management, audit, technolpervisory Board is a collegial Group-wide the Republic of Lithuania, which in 2013 ogies, communication, etc. supervisory body, elected for a term of Operates gas distribution approved the energy Group management office of our years by the general meeting pipelines in the length of model – cooperative management guideLietuvos Energija Group implements proof shareholders. 8.1 thousand km, supplies lines that became the basis of the operation jects of strategic significance and contribof the Lietuvos Energija Group. Cooperative utes to attaining the relevant objectives On 1 June 2017, the Minister of Finance gas to 570 thousand management objective is to achieve a of the National Energy Strategy. Lietuvos approved new Corporate governance consumers. synergy effect by coordinating activities of Energija Group, currently with a staff of guidelines that amended the previous prodifferent entities of the group and redirectabout 4,500 employees, operates the main cedure for setting up the Supervisory Board. ing such activities towards the common electric energy production capacities in According to the Corporate Governance objectives of the Group. Lithuania, including a nation-wide distriGuidelines effective before the amendment bution grid, in addition to the distribution the Supervisory Board consisted of seven LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 | 10 members, of which three members were independent, and four members were delegated by the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, and the Ministry of Energy. „Lietuvos energija“, UAB According to the new Corporate Governance Guidelines the Supervisory Board is a collegial supervisory body provided for in the Articles of Association of the Company „Energijos skirstymo „Lietuvos energijos operatorius“, AB gamyba“, AB elected for a term of office of four years by the general meeting of shareholders. The Supervisory Board of Lietuvos Energija consists of five members: two members represent Energetikos „Lietuvos Technologijų paslaugų Elektroninių Energijos Vilniaus the Ministry of Finance and three members „Energijos Verslo „NT Duomenų dujų tiekimas“, „Litgas“, aptarnavimo ir inovacijų valdos“, ir rangos organizacija mokėjimų sprendimų kogeneraci„Eurakras“, logistikos are independent members. The Supervisory tiekimas“, UAB centras, agentūra, centras, UAB nė jėgainė, UAB UAB centras, UAB UAB UAB centras, UAB UAB (EnePRO), UAB UAB Board elects its Chairman from among its UAB members. This model for the formation of the Supervisory Board fully complies with Kauno ko„TuulueeEnergetikų the corporate governance principles. „Geton „Geton „Geton Energy“, generacinė nergia“, mokymo Energy“, SIA Energy“, OU Sp.z o.o jėgainė, UAB OU centras, VšĮ To ensure an efficient performance of its functions and the obligations the Supervisory Board sets up its committees. Acting „VAE SPB“, within the limits of their competence the UAB committees of the Supervisory Board submit their conclusions, opinions and proposals to the Supervisory Board. A committee consists of not less than three members, of The Supervisory Board The Board The Manager The Board The Manager * The structure of the Board may be different: in special which at least one member is a member consists of 5 members, of which three are consists of five members (working of the Company is the Chair of consists of three memof the Company is not bers (two shareholders the Chair of the Board purpose vehicles no Board is set up until the beginning of active operations. The Board in service companies is set up of the Supervisory Board and at least one independent at the company) the Board and one independent*) ensuring the representation of all shareholders, also taking member is an independent member. Meminto account the provisions of individual shareholder contracts, and the implementation of specific legal acts. bers of the committees shall be elected for The Supervisory Board consists of three The Supervisory Board The Manager of the Company Manager of the Company. No Board is set up. a term of office of four years. members, of which one consists of 5 memis the Chair of is independent bers (working at the the Board Company) The Board is a collegial governance body provided for in the Company’s Articles of Association. At the motion of the Appointment and Remuneration Committee (ARC) LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 | 11 the members of the Board shall be for a period of four years elected or removed by the Supervisory Board. The Board consisting of five members elects the Chairman – the CEO of the Company – from among its members. The members of the Board shall, within the limits of their competence, ensure the proper performance of the Company and a supervision of respective areas at the Group’s level. MISSION VISION Group strategy Sustainable increase in the value The most valuable energy in energy sector by promoting company in the Baltics The key objective of the Lietuvos Energija the development of the Group until 2020 is to double the value of VALUE national economy and society the Group, and develop into the highest value energy company in the Baltic States. Formation QUALITY SERVICES TO Realisation The value is understood as a sustainable THE CUSTOMERS balance between three elements: return on assets, enhancement of competitiveness and the responsibility with respect to emDEVELOPMENT AND DIVERSIFICATION ployees, the society and the environment. STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS OF OPERATIONS The Group’s return on assets is increased by supporting development: diversifying the TOOLS BUILDING OF NEW ORGANISATIONAL CULTURE activities, developing new economically viable projects and activities, ensuring efficiency in daily operations. The Group contributes to boosting the competitiveness of the naCORPORATE MEASURE PORTFOLIO tional economy by ensuring a stable supply Corporate Corporate strategic measure of electric energy and natural gas, developdirections portfolio ing new products, and supporting efficient RESPONSIBILITY COOPERATION RESULT consumption of electric energy and natural gas. The Group assumes responsibility with respect to the society and its staff and is proactive in implementing environmental protection requirements, and ensures the continuity and growth of competences. LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 | 12 Key strategic areas of activities of the Group: 01 02 03 04 Ensuring the provision of high Diversification of operations entails Enhancement of energy efficiency. Building of a new organisational quality services to the customers. the implementation of investment culture. projects in the electric energy, heal The Group is seeking enhancing efficiency Efforts are made to ensure better servicin the key areas of its operations, also by The Lietuvos Energija Group is making ing of the customers, development of and natural gas sectors. carrying out the servicing functions, manconsistent efforts to become an organielectronic (saving customer time) services aging the corporate property and other sation, in which operations are based on fully meeting new needs, development of The projects implemented by the Group facilities and resources at all entities of the common values, the required competenccustomer options, as well as reliability of enhances the competitiveness of the Group. With a view to enhancing efficiency es and the replacement for key employees distribution and supply, also natural gas Group and of the entire national econmeasures are being put in place to inteis built up in a consistent and coordinated distribution and supply operations. omy, strengthens the country’s energy grate the Group’s entities’ governance and manner with the internal environment beindependence, as well as the optimisacontrol system, in addition to the approved ing conducive to employee engagement. tion of the production and commercial common principles for operating governportfolio, development of new activities ance, responsibility sharing, coordination when appreciating the value chain of the and control. The Group continues the Lietuvos Energija Group. The Group seeks implementation of the measures enhancthe objectives using the resources and the ing efficiency and covering all the cominfrastructure by investing in building a panies or the Group, and identical or very new infrastructure, efficient governance similar operations in each company. The and carrying out acquisitions. Group has been promoting and inviting its entities to be active in sharing the best practice. LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY | 13 Economic Responsibility During 2017, the State-controlled energy company group Lietuvos Energija ensured stable financial results. Despite the recent downward trend in electricity and gas transmission prices to the customers, the Group’s revenues and adjusted profit remained stable. LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY | 14 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICAKEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2017 2016 ∆, +/∆, % TORS OF THE COMPANY GROUP Electric energy Electric energy produced TWh 1,28 1,49 -0,21 -14,1% During 2017, the Group genPart of the electric energy produced from RES TWh 0,59 0,49 0,10 21,2% erated 1.28 TWh, and distribElectric energy amount distributed by medium and low TWh 9,22 8,98 0,24 2,7% Public and guaranteed supply TWh 3,22 3,15 0,07 2,3% uted to customers 9.22 TWh Distributed to customers to independent suppliers TWh 6,00 5,83 0,17 2,9% of electric energy, in addition Sales in the retail market TWh 2,12 1,78 -0,34 19,2% to 7.37 TWh of natural gas Total newly connected customers thous., units 29,64 29,36 0,28 1,0% Term for connecting new customers calendar days 49 66 -17 -26,5% distributed by gas pipelines. Electricity supply quality indicators SAIDI, min. (with force majeure) min. 137,83 172,92 -35,09 -20,3% SAIFI, units (with force majeure) vnt. 1,32 1,25 0,07 5,6% Technological costs in the distribution network % 6,14% 6,49% -5,5% Gas Total gas distributed TWh 7,37 7,39 -0,02 -0,3% Total gas sold TWh 11,47 11,31 0,16 1,4% Total gas acquired: TWh 11,88 11,77 1,11 1,0% Total LNG acquired TWh 6,35 7,55 -1,20 -15,9% Total natural gas acquired TWh 5,53 4,22 1,31 31,0% Total newly connected customers thous., units 12,53 5,29 7,24 137,0% Term for connecting new customers calendar days 166 160 6 3,7% Gas supply quality indicators SAIDI, min. (with force majeure) min. 1,161 0,529 0,63 119,5% SAIFI, units (with force majeure) pcs. 0,007 0,006 0,001 16,7% Technological costs in the distribution grid % 2,13% 2,25% -5,1% LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY | 15 Energy distribution quality. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OF THE COMPANY GROUP During the reference period the SAIDI FINANCIAL DATA 2017 M. 2016 M. indicator (excl. force majeure impact) increased and was recorded at 137.83 min Revenues EUR m 1 100,8 1 101,6 (2016 –72.03 min), and the SAIFI indicator in 2017 was equal to 0.91 times (0.91 in Cost of purchase of electricity, gas, fuel EUR m 740,5 727,5 For 2017 Lietuvos energija 2016). The SAIDI and SAIFI indicators were and related services paid more than EUR 100 lower in view of significant change in the Operational expenses EUR m 132,0 136,2 weather during H1 2016 that caused more million dividends. frequent faults of the system as compared EBITDA EUR m 227,2 232,8 to the previous periods. Excluding the impact of force majeure the SAIDI indicator EBITDA margin % 20,6% 21,1% Investment in the gas distribution network increased during 2017 and was recorded at 1.16 min Adjusted EBITDA EUR m 238,7 234,6 The Group’s investment for 2017 account(0.53 min. in 2016), and the SAIFI indicaed for EUR 253.4 million, representing an tor was around 0.007 units (0.006 units in Adjusted EBITDA margin % 21,7% 21,3% increase by 5.4 per cent as compared with 2016). the respective period last year. With the Net profit EUR m 93,5 118,4 acquisition of the wind farm excluded, on a year-on-year basis the investment Net profit margin % 8,5% 10,7% increased by 42.5 per cent or EUR 75.6 million. Major part of the investment was Normalized net profit EUR m 130,1 117,7 allocated to maintaining the electricity distribution network (51 per cent), and Adjusted net profit margin % 11,8% 10,7% development (21 per cent). The investment in construction and reconstruction of the Investment EUR m 253,4 240,5 gas system accounted for 14 per cent of the total investment during 2017. Dividends disbursed to the Company’s EUR m 100,8 100,7 The Group’s investments shareholders (accrual principle) amounted to EUR 253.4 Return to the shareholder – Lithuania million in 2017 For 2017, Lietuvos Energija intends to disburse in excess of EUR 100 million in dividends to the State budget. LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY | 16 Faster connection of new to remember the password, and it takes just customers one click to log-in to the website. Currently at the self-service website of www.manogDuring 2017, Lietuvos Energija Group ile users can pay for electricity, gas, settle ac29,640 provided connection to total 29,640 new electricity customers. As compared with counts for other household services, file an application for connection to electricity and gas grids, manage their contracts, declare the same period in the previous year, the IN 2017 NEW ELECTRICITY CUSTOMERS indicator remained at a similar level. Total meter readings, monitor the consumption WERE CONNECTED. 12,531 new customers were connected and payment history, submit applications or to the natural gas distribution grid – a consult by remote means. The Group curnumber twice bigger than during the rently has in excess of 1.6 million customers same period last year. As compared to the and encourage them to stop using paper previous year, in 2017 the getting electricinvoices or payment booklets by shifting ity connection indicator improved signifto remote service channels. In 2017, ESO, icantly, on average 17.5 days faster; the a Group company developed an interacgas connection term, however, was longer tive fault map that in real-time shows any by six days, because 2017 was the year of disruptions in electricity supply, or registers connecting more remote customers. new faults. Significant improvements were introduced in the information of customers by SMS messages, in addition to the introMore convenient servicing and duced toll-free electricity supply disruption informing customers registration telephone number 1852. In 2017, the self-service website www. High customer satisfaction manogile.lt run by Lietuvos Energija Group registered its 500 thousandth customer. The GCSI surveys carried out by Lietuvos The Mano Gilė website achieved this Energija Group companies – Energijos number of customers within less than two Skirstymo Operatorius (ESO), Lietuvos Dujų years, i.e., since 1 January 2016. All those Tiekimas, Energijos Tiekimas, and LITGAS customers have added in their accounts concluded that the customer satisfaction 12,531 more than one million contracts. Any customer holding an email account may with the services being provided and servicing remained fairly high and higher than sign up to the www.manogile.lt website. the average respective indicators reported IN 2017 NEW CUSTOMERS WERE The signing up to the website has been for European and global utility companies. CONNECTED TO THE NATURAL made even simpler after the account was The level of satisfaction on the part of an GAS DISTRIBUTION NETWORK linked to the social network account (e.g. electricity and gas distributing company Facebook) – that saves from the necessity ESO was 78 points (77 points in 2016). The LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY | 17 result is by seven points higher than the ees. The Operational Excellence integrates and in particular, ensuring zero tolerance to European (71), and by five points higher the best and most advanced operations corruption. The Board of Lietuvos Energija than the global average (73). The customer management practices (LEAN, Six Sigma, has approved the Zero-Tolerance Policy satisfaction with the performance of Lietuetc.), that encourage the employees to against Corruption (2014), and has publicly vos Dujų Tiekimas, a Group company supchange the ordinary operational practice, committed to comply with all the legal plying natural gas to entities, organisations and eliminate certain aspects that are not norms related to the activity, including and residents, during 2017 increased up to necessary for the operations. The employanti-corruption, measures, also to fight cor81 points from 100 possible (80 points in ees of all entities of the Group have joined ruption and implement the anti-corruption 2016). The overall satisfaction with the perthe programme with a view to working measures. The Policy applies to all employformance of Lietuvos Dujų Tiekimas scored faster, better and at lower costs. One of the ees, contractors, suppliers, consultants and at 83 points. The respective indicator for major monitored indicators – improvement other intermediaries. LITGAS, a liquefied natural gas supply (KAIZEN), and during the first year of the company engaged in the dedicated supply programme implementation, more than The company Group does not support or activities increased to 83 from 100 possi3,692 such improvements proposed by the sponsor any politicians or political parties, ble in 2017. The overall score of customer satisfaction with the performance of the employees were implemented throughout the Lietuvos Energija Group. Such improve3,692 and refrains from any direct or indirect forms of influence upon them. The Group Company was fairly high (84 points), and ments generated savings of more than has a clearly defined procedure regarding readily met the customer expectations (83 EUR 1.7 million, and in excess of 400,000 SUCH permitted / not permitted gifts, or other points). When comparing LITGAS with an working hours that were used for the IMPROVEMENTS benefits, the employees are consistently imaginary ideal company, the customers improvement of the current services and PROPOSED BY THE educated on the benefit and the signifiscored LITGAS at 81 points. The satisfaction creation of new ones. During 2017, 3,000 EMPLOYEES WERE cance of fighting corruption. All the new index of the customers of an energy supply employees of the Group attended different IMPLEMENTED employees of the Group are required to company Energijos Tiekimas this year training arranged within the Operational read and familiarise themselves the Zepicked up to 87 points (86 points in 2016). Excellence programme. THROUGHOUT THE ro-Tolerance Policy against Corruption, and LIETUVOS ENERGIJA attend the mandatory training on fighting Operational excellence Anti-corruption activities GROUP corruption and business ethics. During 2016, the company Group launched The Group maintains a zero-tolerance poliDuring 2017, the Group was continuing the Operational Excellence programme, cy with respect to any manifestation of coreducating its employees in the area of undesigned to facilitate all the entities of ruption, and supports high ethical, integrity derstanding of corruption, invited the emthe Lietuvos Energija Group in creating and transparency standards. It is important ployees to inquire regarding the damage enhanced value for their customers and to us to work in good faith, transparently caused by corruption, be able to recognise shareholders. The projects and activities and build reliable relations with our cusits manifestations, and be responsive. implemented within the framework of the tomers, partners, suppliers and institutions. Each employee attended on average a 39 programme are instrumental in increasTherefore, we will continue making efforts hours’ anti-corruption training course. On ing the daily activity efficiency, support to ensure, that both our activities, and the average, each manager attended a training developing new products and enhance market in which we operate, comply with course of 27 hours. the competence of the Group’s employthe principle of ethics and transparency, LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY | 18 Enhancement of transparency in to corruption, bribery, fraud, tax avoidance Energija intends to use the proceeds from public procurement. and money laundering (as indicated in the issue to finance its investment in wind Article 45(1) of Directive 2004/18/EC ). energy, enhancement of efficiency of the The procurement function of the Group power distribution grid, as well as the is performed in a centralised manner by Information about possible projects of energy production from waste one of the companies of the group, Verslo anti-corruption infringements and biomass. Lietuvos Energija undertook Aptarnavimo Centras (VAC). VAC conducts to use the funds raised through the green procurement operations and provides The Group invites its employees to report bonds issue to fund only the investment the services of planning and execution of any possible corruption cases by electronic related to green energy projects. This public procurement of goods, services or mail pasitikėjimolinija@le.lt or by calling will be the Company’s contribution to works. All the public procurement opera+370 640 88889. The contacts are availathe development of sustainable energy, tions of the Group are conducted in a cenble both to the employees, and any other and the implementation of sustainable tralised procedure, and the procurement stakeholders, as the telephone No., and the development goals defined by the United processes are standardised and focused at email address are published on the internet Nations. In 2017 June, an international rat274 CALLS a single online platform. With a view to ensuring a transparent and open public prowebsite. The Group undertakes to respect the confidentiality of such reports by the ings agency Standard & Poor’s assigned to Lietuvos Energija a BBB+ credit rating with a stable outlook. In 2017 reports curement process, and an open dialogue, VAC every year invites the Company’s suppliers. In 2017, total 362 reports were received, and 17 of them were related to were received employees to attend information meetings, allegedly illegal behaviour of the employat which the attendants are introduced to ees. In response to such reports, the Group the plans, news, and changes, as well as undertook respective actions with a view higher value procurements planned by the to ensuring that any suspicions regarding contracting authorities of the Group. the corruption-related infringements are property investigated, and any possibilities The contracting authorities of the Group for them to reoccur in the future are elimpublish draft technical specifications of all inated. Having completed the investigaprocurements by the means of the Central tions in that respect eight employees were Public Procurement Information System dismissed, and seven staff members were (CPP IS), except the low value procuresubjected to disciplinary penalties. ments; in addition, they inform about such publication on their respective websites, where they also publish reports on proGreen bonds curement procedures, and the procurement in progress. In addition, the suppliers With a view to diversifying the debt participating in the procurement shall conportfolio Lietuvos Energija announced its firm that the supplier has for at least 5 years intention to place to the market its bonds not been involved in any activities related up to EUR 300 million in value. Lietuvos LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY | 19 Lietuvos Energija has developed a green bonds programme During 2017, the proceeds from the providing for the use of raised funds to fund the following green bond issues were used to finance green energy projects: or refinance the following projects: PURCHASE OF 25 PER CENT OF THE SHARES OF A WIND FARM IN JURBARKAS – ALLOCATION OF EUR 4,283,197; Renewable energy covering Pollution prevention and wind, water, biogas, solar control projects including RENEWAL OF THE ESO DISTRIBUTION POWER GRID – ALLOCATION and geothermal production production of energy from OF EUR 100,000,000; capacities, and the related waste; infrastructure; VILNIUS CHP – ALLOCATION OF EUR 36,600,000; KAUNAS CHP – ALLOCATION OF EUR 20,000,000; The energy efficiency solutions Clean transport not using any encompassing the distribution fossil fuel that also includes REFINANCING OF THE LOANS TO WIND FARMS IN ESTONIA AND grid development and renewal technical transport, as well as LITHUANIA – ALLOCATION OF EUR 66,662,657. projects seeking to reduce in infrastructure projects required grid loss and /or facilitate confor such transport means. necting to renewable resources, as well as the smart grid or ESCO projects; “The Green Bond Framework” programme implemented by the Lietuvos Energija Group was awarded the highest “shade of green” by the independent Nordic Environmental institute “Cicero” and the Swedish Environmental Research Institute. LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY IN SOCIAL AREA | 20 Responsibility in social area LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY IN SOCIAL AREA | 21 Employees and corporate culture Lietuvos Energija Group supports and As of 31 December 2017, there were 104 „Lietuvos energija“, UAB 16 UAB LITGAS respects the international protection of human rights in the area of influence, and ensures that the Group does not contribute to human rights violations, and strong4513 2503 AB „Energijos skirstymo operatorius“ 3 UAB VAE SPB ly objects to any such infringements. The employees Group implements an honest and transparent remuneration policy, complies with the laws and regulations governing overtime working at the Group. 393 „Lietuvos energijos gamyba“, AB 480 UAB Verslo aptarnavimo centras and working hours, objects to any discrimination (with respect to employees, or recruitment), forced or child labour, respects the rights of the employees to rest, and 552 UAB Energetikos paslaugų ir rangos 32 UAB „Lietuvos dujų tiekimas“ promotes work and family reconciliation. organizacija The Lietuvos Energija Group human resources management policy is heavily oriented towards professional development 167 UAB Technologijų ir inovacijų centras 22 UAB Vilniaus kogeneracinė jėgainė of its employees, building up of a corporate culture ensuring a creation of higher value for customers, partners and the society. 14 UAB Duomenų logistikos centras 3 UAB Kauno kogeneracinė jėgainė As of 31 December 2017, there were 4,513 employees working at the Group. 31 Energijos tiekimas UAB 11 UAB Energijos sprendimų centras 6 UAB „Elektroninių mokėjimų agentūra” 1 UAB Eurakras 175 NT Valdos, UAB LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY IN SOCIAL AREA | 22 Equal opportunities and non-disikos Paslaugų Ir Rangos Organizacija). The Education of the employees crimination Lietuvos Energija Group has also concluded collective agreements. Currently the In 2017, the Board of Lietuvos Energija apoperating trade unions within the Group proved a Group-wide equal opportunities unite 865 employees. policy establishing the equal opportunities 9% principles to be put in place and estabEducation of the employees lished in the entire Group; the policy also secondary provided a description of implementation 60 per cent of the employees at the Group education measures and a procedure for submission have higher education, among them there and examination of reports on infringeare 20 doctors of science, 31 per cent of ments of equal opportunities principle. the employees have post-secondary, and 9 per cent of the employees have secondary The reports on infringements of the equal education. 31% opportunities principle may be furnished directly to the Head of the Human ResourcHigher es Management Department of Lietuvos Number of men and women education Energija by email at pasitikejimolinija@le.lt, or by leaving a recording on an answering Because of the peculiarity of activities in machine, tel. +370 640 88889. the sector, technological nature of the operations, the predominant members During 2017, no infringements or other of the staff are men, while women are incidents related to discrimination, human working mostly in administration or cusrights or other similar occurrences were tomer service divisions. The possibilities to recorded at the company Group. select the nature of work at the Group are equally available to both genders, and that 60 % is specifically noted at recruiting employAdvanced vocational Trade union and collective ees. Most of the employees at the Group education agreements are men, total 76 per cent, and women represent 24 per cent of the staff. Similar There are 12 trade unions operating distribution regarding gender is among the within the Lietuvos Energija Group, and employees holding leadership positions: 77 established by the employees of the three per cent of senior managers in the Group largest Group companies ESO, Lietuvos are men, and 23 per cent are women. Energijos Gamyba and ENEPRO (EnergetLIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY IN SOCIAL AREA | 23 Remuneration The total wage bill of the group in Januprocess management, etc. During 2017, ary-December 2016 was equal to EUR 58.14 every employee of the Group attended The companies of the Group have implemillion. There is also an additional Grouptraining lasting, on average, 12 hours. mented an advanced employee remunerwide budget for benefits, amounting to ation system placing the Company on an EUR 499,200. In 2017 the Lietuvos Energija Group was equal footing with other leading compacontinuing its managers’ training pronies of the country remunerating their gramme “League of strong leaders“ that employees according to their performance, Development of corporate culture became a forum for developing their manthe value created for the organisation and agerial and leadership skills for more than the team. The remuneration system was During 2017, the Lietuvos Energija Group 100 managers; such training will enable the developed on the basis of “Hay Group” was continuing its strategic initiatives managers to perform much more efficientmethodology ensuring objective evalundertaken to ensure a wellcoordinated ly in directing, motivating and empowering uation of the employee’s job positions development of the organisation, manthe employees to pursue their objectives. according to the required qualification, agement of human resources, formation complexity of the problems, and the level of a new corporate culture, enhancement of responsibility assigned to a specific job of operational efficiency, training of new position. employees, strengthening and maintaining of competences. Average wages of Group employees and In 2017, the Group updated its remunerathe total wage bill tion policy laying down the key principles underlying the management of remunerDevelopment of competences ation – clarity, transparency, and internal fairness ensuring that all companies of Lietuvos energija Group consistently the Group ensure equal remuneration for dedicates efforts to the enhancement to Categories of the Group’s Average monthly wages, EUR the same type of work, competence and the qualification of its employees, while employees performance. The updated Remuneration ensuring that its employees hold all 2017 m. 2016 m. 2015 m. policy put in place an active dialogue and the certificates required for the work as communication with a view to ensuring required by law, and continue improving Manager of the Company 4 902 4244 4736 that each employee of the Group could their work-related competences. During well understand what constitutes the the reference period individual companies Top-level managers 4 281 4004 4004 remuneration, the circumstances and the within the Group organised and hosted reasons for the remuneration to change, training in general, professional, leaderMedium-level managers 2 144 2107 2079 and for what the employee may be grantship competences, e.g. leadership, team ed additional incentive. building, change management, commuExperts, specialists 1 185 1066 984 nications, project management, business Total wage bill (millions) 58,14 mln. 65,6 mln. 72, 8 mln LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY IN SOCIAL AREA | 24 Integration of new employees in which operations are based on common Among the factors affecting the values, the required competences and the replacement for key employees are built in employee engagement the highest With a view to ensuring smooth and appropriate adaptation of new employees, a consistent and coordinated manner, and weight was assigned to direct they are invited to attend “Days of new emthe internal environment is conducive to employee engagement. At the end of 2017, ployees“, and appropriate training sessions, managers (80 per cent), cooperation at which the employees are introduced to the Group carried out its annual employee engagement survey. The overall employee (76 per cent) and operations the corporate strategy, other managers and operations of individual divisions. The new engagement index measured according governance (73 per cent). employees are briefed on the structure of to the methodology of an international consulting company AON reached 58 per the energy sector, the strategic directions of the Company, its mission, vision, values, cent (+2 per cent if compared to 2016); the the main operational principles in the indicator by 9 per cent exceeds the Baltic energy sector, the foundations of electrical average, and is by 18 per cent higher than engineering. Mentors are appointed to asthe EU energy company average. Among sist the new employees and be responsible the factors affecting the employee engagefor the most diversified assistance to new ment the highest weight was assigned to employees during their probation period. direct managers (80 per cent), cooperation (76 per cent) and operations governance (73 per cent). Practical training opportunities Companies of the Group welcome and Health and safety at work allow students of higher schools and vocational training facilities to acquire required Lietuvos Energija Group has been dedicattheoretical knowledge and practical skills. ing significant attention to developing the During 2017, total 59 trainees complethealth and safety culture at the working ed their practical training periods at the places, and strengthening the responsibility Group. of the employees. The Group has approved its “Policy on health and safety at work“ (PHSW) designed to build safety culture in Employee engagement the Company based on personal responsibility and cooperation. The highest level Lietuvos Energija Group is making conmanagers are responsible for a safe and sistent efforts to become an organisation, LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY IN SOCIAL AREA | 25 healthy working environment, and safety culture is perceived as a component of the Due to the mandatory and organisational culture. PHSW specialists are responsible for proper working tools, they additional measures in the assess the risk related to the working place, areas of health and safety, and organise health checks, vaccination (for employees working in field conditions). the provision of the employees with personal protection Companies of the Group facilitate an active dialogue related to the implementation means, the number of incidents of healthcare, monitoring, safe and clean at work has decreased. working environment, and improvement of health and safety at work. Due to the mandatory and additional measures in the areas of health and safety, and the provision of the employees with personal of contractor performance, considering a failure to comply with the occupational protection means, the number of incidents not only the compliance with the terms health and safety instructions. Three fatal Public initiatives and support at work has decreased. set forth in contracts, but also examining and one minor accidents were reported as whether or not the works were completed having injured residents, and occurred due With respect to infringement of safety at in accordance with the occupational safety to the failure to maintain safe distance from Support to public initiatives work requirements the Group follows a requirements, and taking into account the electricity facilities. zero-tolerance policy. number of violations of safety regulations. Acting in accordance with the relevant Order of the Minister of Finance of the Regular checks and inspections are The energy production, distribution and Republic of Lithuania Lietuvos Energija conducted at contractor sites, if necesnetwork maintenance companies of the established the Support Foundation that sary, all the infringements are recorded, Group have implemented the occupationon behalf of the entire Group supports or the operations may be suspended. al health and safety system according to initiatives and projects that are significant Such inspections of the contractor sites, standard OHSAS 18001:2007. and valuable for the State and the society. or training or safety days are organised, In 2017, the Board of the Foundation specor other measures are implemented by In 2017, total one serious and 12 minor ified a new area for support allocation of Group companies at their own initiative, as incidents were recorded in the companies national level – promotion of employment no such requirements are provided in any of the Lietuvos Energija Group. Among of children and the youth. The remaining legal acts. the contractors total seven accidents were two areas, support to children suffering recorded during the reference year, of from oncology diseases and the promotion In 2017, ESO approved and started applythem two accidents were rated as severe, of innovations by supporting the ideas of ing a contractor rating procedure accordone was fatal and four minor accidents. young researchers, remained unchanged. ing to which the Group assesses the quality The fatal accident took place because of LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY IN SOCIAL AREA | 26 Priority areas in 2017: During the reporting year the Lietuvos Lietuvos Energija support foundation Energija support foundation contributed contributed to total 41 initiatives • Employment of children and the youth to total 41 initiatives: 19 national and 22 reby supporting organisations and movegional projects. That was a record number ments with expertise in implementing of supported projects and initiatives since social projects, whose activities and the outset of the Foundation’s operations. 19 national projects are implemented and creating The total amount allocated to support exbenefit for the society, and contribute to reducing social inclusion. ceeded EUR 800,000; total 128 applications projects were filed for support during the reported • support to children suffering from cancer year. The priority areas in allocating support by promoting public organisations and in the reporting year were promotion of movements whose activities and projects employment among children and the are implemented and create benefit at the level of the country, having experience in the implementation of international social youth, support to children suffering from oncological diseases, and promotion of research and innovations. 22 regional projects projects, and spreading in their activities the best practice in implementing such projects, providing knowledge and cooperating with healthcare institutions The total amount allocated to and families of children suffering from support exceeded cancer, and maintaining family and social relations of such children; EUR 800,000 • promotion of research and innovations, by supporting the ideas, research and papers whose implementation would strengthen Lithuania’s position on the international innovations market, would 128 applications were filed for support during the reported year. help strengthening the Lithuanian education and science system, increase the interest of the society in science, and would establish long-term traditions of cooperation between research institutions, academic community, business and public organizations, and would help young researchers; LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY IN ENVIRONMENTAL AREA | 27 Responsibility in Environmental Area In its daily operations Lietuvos Energija Group seeks to efficiently use natural resources, to mitigate the impact of energy objects to people and the environment, and for that purpose introduce in the production process the most advanced and efficient technologies, mitigate pollution, and support environmentally friendly innovations and solutions. The Group consistently follows the requirements of international, European and national legal acts governing environmental protection, and professionally apply measures mitigating environmental impact. LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY IN ENVIRONMENTAL AREA | 28 Most relevant areas at Kaunas HE – all comply with the strict international environmental protection Energy production companies have been requirements. consistently implementing all the effective environmental protection requirements, ESO uses an environment management and at own initiate seek construction of system standard ISO 14001. After the last new facilities or upgrading of the existrecertification, the standard is valid until 7 ing ones, so that their impact upon the April 2018. The Company’s goal to ensure environment is minimal. Relevant environminimal environmental impact is specimental issues: energy deficiency, reduction fied in the annual updated environmental in the use of fossil fuel, safe use of ecologgoals. The Company also implements ically hazardous materials, safe operation the requirements regarding monitoring of equipment, responsible treatment of and protection of pollution of air, surface generated waste, reduction of atmospheric waters, groundwater and soil as indicated pollution, etc. in the integrated pollution prevention and control permits. 46 % Environmental management sys(589,2 GWh) tem standards Development of energy production energy produced from from renewable sources Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba supports the renewable sources environmental management system Diversification of energy sources is one of was consistently standard ISO 14001:2005. The international the strategic objectives of Lietuvos Energija increasing and was certificate indicates that in the activities Group in is pursuit to increase energy the Company follows the most important independence, thus promoting renewable reported at 46 per requirements for the identification, monenergy production, mitigating climate cent (589.2 GWh) itoring, management and improvement change and contributing to the implemenof environmental protection aspects. The tation of the global sustainable developcertificate is valid for all the operations ment goals. In 2017, the share of energy carried out by the power plants: electricity produced from renewable sources was and heat production at the Elektrėnai plant, consistently increasing and was reported at operation of electricity, heat, turbines, 46 per cent (589.2 GWh) of the total electric natural gas, oil and oil product equipment, energy produced (33 per cent in 2016). electricity production at Kruonis HAE, In 2017, the Kaunas Algirdas Brazauskas’ supply, equipment operation and power Hydroelectric Power Plant generated more reservation, production, supply of electric electric energy (458.7 TWh) than in 2016 energy, as well as equipment operation (363 TWh). LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY IN ENVIRONMENTAL AREA | 29 Green Lithuanian energy the two old and inefficient units of 150 MW in reserve capacity and built in 1962-1965. Lietuvos Energija Group is the only in the As part of the project the heat insulation Decrease of the CO2 emissions market offering the “Green Lithuanian enof the units were removed and utilised, the brickwork of the boilers was demolished, in energy production ergy” a certified energy product produced from renewable resources at Kaunas Hythe equipment and facilities removed, part droelectric Power Plant. This type of energy of it were sold as scrap, or on the market was introduced to the market on 22 March if the equipment was still fit for use. The 2012, when celebrating the World Water project on the dismantling the decomDay. To purchasers of the green energy missioned Units 5 and 6 of the reserve (both entities and household customers) power plant of the Elektrėnai Complex a Group company Energijos Tiekimas (ET) was launched in January 2017. The units issues energy origin guarantee certificates. were decommissioned at the beginning During 2017, Energijos Tiekimas supplied of 2016, having concluded that the power to its customers 541 GWh electricity from generated thereby is not competitive in renewable sources. the market, and divesting of the units will contribute to lowering the electricity rates Produced electric on the customer’s end. The units, each of energy, total, MWh Termination of polluting production 300 MW in capacity, will be dismantled by the end of 2020. Carbon dioxide „In March 2017, LEG completed the project emissions (Lietuvos elektrinė and combined on the dismantling the decommissioned Protection of the landscape cycle plant), t CO2 Units 1 and 2 of the reserve power plant of the Elektrėnai Complex. Once the project ESO, as the electricity distribution network for the expansion of the heat generation operator, is replacing the old overhead facilities in Elektrėnai was completed in power lines by new cables in locations 2015, the operation of Units 1 and 2 until where the wiring of the former overhead that time used for the production of heat lines was thin and have dangerously for residents of Elektrėnai and for industry approached the surrounding greenery, in cold seasons became economically inthe obsolete infrastructure would cause efficient. Therefore, having concluded that frequent malfunctioning instances. Cable the price of the electricity produced by the lines ensure more reliable supply of electwo Units is not competitive in the market, tricity to residents, and produce less impact and their divestment will reduce the need upon the environment and the landscape. for the funds for the public interest obligaDuring 2017, more than 2,000 km of tion services, and the final electricity rate underground electricity cables were laid, in for customers, it was decided to demolish addition to other smart network measures. LIETUVOS ENERGIJA GROUPS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 RESPONSIBILITY IN ENVIRONMENTAL AREA | 30 Enhancement of energy efficiency are estimated to serve for 20 years. For part or comparison with previous periods. The of the 20 years period, the municipality will functionality was retained as available to The companies operating as a part of the channel the savings from energy costs to the customers also after the completion of Lietuvos Energija Group provide services investment to the modernisation project. the pilot project. As compared to the conto the development of energy efficiency For the remaining share of the period the ventional electricity accounting arrangeprojects and renewable energy resources savings will be retained in the municipality ment, project participants consumed by 7 initiatives in Lithuania and abroad. The budget. Ultimately, the project is estimated per cent less electricity than in the current During 2017, the companies to generate savings of about EUR 700,000. year. activities of the new company is based on Similar modernisation projects will be of the Lietuvos Energija Group the ESCO model (Energy Service Company) – an energy saving service company implemented in the corporate customer Protection of biological diversity transferred to waste procesinvesting in energy efficiency measures, segment. By providing energy efficiency sors total 2,056 t hazardous and energy facilities modernisation servicand ensuring a pay-back of the investment es to customers, we helped our customers With respect of hydro-energy production waste, 4,623 t of non-hazardfrom the future energy savings within the the Company makes efforts to protect fish, contract duration. The operations of the to save about 2,330 MWH of electric energy and while maintaining distribution grids ous waste, 1,736 t of ferrous company will facilitate achieving the largin 2017. specific measures are taken to protect metal, and nearly 114 t of est savings effect for owners and managers the population of wild bird. In 2017, the non-ferrous metals. or buildings and facilities without incurring Smart accounting area was high on the ESO’s priority list, significant initial investment. The Lazdijai and started placing on the poles of the region municipality became the first in In 2017, a Group company ESO completed distribution network specific protection The production waste water is treated in Lithuania using in all streets and territories a pilot project in smart accounting, wheremeans severely restricting the possibility the in-house treatment plant equipped most modern energy-efficient LED lighting. by we were seeking to facilitate our cusfor birds to build their nests. This prevents with alarm lamps to identify oil product This was the first in Lithuania region-wide tomers in efficient time, and electric energy accidents where nests, having become traces. Special measures are being imstreet lighting modernisation project based management: both we and the customers heavier due to humidity would simply fall plemented according to the recourse on the ESCO model. The new modern techwere released from the obligation to check on the electric wires. Such incidents are savings plan approved by the Company, nologies are estimated to enable the Lazdithe meter readings, as they can be recordnearly unexceptionally fatal for the birds, and designed to reduce the need for jai region municipality to save up to 60 per ed by remote means. Having installed the and specifically storks. own resources. The Company concludes cent in street lighting costs. Nearly 2,000 new meters ESO employees could monitor agreements with specialised companies for street lamps were replaced by modern LED also a number of other technical paramsafe treatment and handling of the waste installations, also their control system was eters (e.g. voltage variation); therefore; Waste treatment generated from the production operations. upgraded and modernised, in addition to they could more expediently address any replaced obsolete elements on the poles. failures in power supply without disturbing Special waste baskets for sorting houseDuring 2017, the companies of the LietuSavings in power consumption in Lazdithe customers. The new electricity meters hold waste are installed on the sites of vos Energija Group transferred to waste jai are estimated to reach 356 Megawatt enabled the customers to monitor their the Group’s companies, in addition to the processors total 2,056 t hazardous waste, hours (MWh) per year, and the municipality electricity consumption and the trends in special containers for no longer used small 4,623 t of non-hazardous waste, 1,736 t of will save its expenses for repairs of old greater detail: on the self-service website electric and electronic equipment and ferrous metal, and nearly 114 t of non-ferlamps. As a result, the town will save about www.manogile.lt the customers could see batteries. rous metals. The companies disposed of 62 EUR 70,000 per year. The new LED lamps the data updated every hour, their analysis t of household waste.
