Communication on Progress 2018 CONTENTS CEO’s statement 2 Human Rights Principles 3 Labour Principles 5 Environmental Principles 7 Anti-Corruption Principles 9 1 CEO’S STATEMENT November 20, 2018 To our stakeholders and the general public: I am pleased to confirm that ES-KO reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our efforts to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Michael Anthony Masters Chief Executive Officer ES-KO SAM 2 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and job roles is governed by their competence and attitude, regardless of their ethnicity gender, or respect the protection of internationally religion. proclaimed human rights; and The policies ensure that the Company does not Principle 2: Make sure that they are not employ minors, that no one is forced to remain complicit in human rights abuses. under employment with Company against their will, that they have the right to participate in the organization of their work making suggestions to improve productivity and health and safety Assessment, policy and goals conditions, that their voices will be heard if they have cause for complaint in respect of their working ES-KO’s activities providing logistics support conditions and the way they are treated. services around the globe bring us into contact with a myriad of cultures making it especially important Perhaps the most important control measure we for us to provide leadership in the respect of human have put in place is that of adopting the SA 8000 rights both within the organization and externally Social Responsibility Standard which requires a towards suppliers and service providers that we qualified third party to audit our practices and assist deal with. with identifying areas of potential nonconformance. With this in mind, our Integrated Management System Policy (IMSP) reflects the principles Externally, ES-KO’s procedures seek to ensure that expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human suppliers share our respect for the Universal Rights to which we unreservedly subscribe. We Declaration of Human Rights and adopt similar believe these principles are fundamental to the measures to assure the declaration’s principles are Company’s success as respect for them not only adhered to within their own organizations and makes ES-KO a better employer but they make those of their sub-suppliers. ES-KO’s procedures are better individuals of every ES-KO employee. designed to shape our supply chain to exclude subjects unwilling to support our values in this Application of ES-KO’s IMSP to its everyday respect. activities has been subjected to a careful risk assessment leading to procedures and control ES-KO’s goals are to remain a first-class employer measures to ensure those procedures are adhered and promote respect for the rights of all individuals to. employed in any connection to the services we provide. We hope that by demonstrating our Of particular importance is the training that we virtuousness and the positive outcome of our provide on an on-going basis to all our staff and policies, we can influence others and contribute in induction training provided to newcomers. a tangible way to better working conditions for everyone. The effectiveness of those control measures is evaluated continually and corrections are made if these appear necessary. Implementation ES-KO’s internal procedures ensure that all ES-KO’s objectives are to provide services that meet employees enjoy the right to association, to the expectations of our Customers while organize and bargain collectively, to receive equal performing activities in complete compliance with pay for equal work and that their access to specific 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES mandatory requirements and the requirements of ES-KO takes particular pride in the training provided the standards that we have voluntarily adopted. to employees, training that not only teaches them Our Integrated Management System (IMS) how to perform their duties but how to act in the combines standards for Quality Management (ISO workplace in respect of their own dignity and that 9001), Environmental Management (ISO 14001), of their co-workers and superiors, customers, subFood Safety (ISO 22000), Health and Safety (OHSAS contractors working on site, suppliers and the 18001) and Social Responsibility (SA 8000). environment. The IMS includes procedures designed to ensure Disciplinary practices always aim to correct an compliance with the above requirements. individual’s behaviour before applying sanctions in Control measures and methods of measuring respect of irregularities. compliance assure us that this is the case and Team-building activities are encouraged and corrective actions are swiftly implemented funded so that employees form bonds that increase whenever non-compliance is detected. mutual respect and reduce the risk of irregularities. The procedures, control measures and methods of Externally, ES-KO assesses its suppliers and partners measurement are reviewed not only when nonto evaluate their practices. Our preferred suppliers compliance happens but also whenever there are those that have adopted voluntary standards appears to be the potential for non-compliance or similar to the above and whose certification when changes to requirements happen. demonstrates compliance. The IMS and all of its elements are available to staff ES-KO’s internal auditors are trained to observe through ES-KO’s Intranet site. application of appropriate practices in all areas when visiting suppliers or performing audits of their Staff are trained from the beginning of and facilities. throughout their careers in the Company to assure awareness, conscientiousness and knowledge of our objectives and the methodology employed to reach them. Measurement of outcomes Staff are informed through email alerts whenever a In matters of compliance with mandatory change is made to the IMS procedures and requirements, ES-KO has not been subjected to any documentation and re-training is performed investigations or legal actions. whenever necessary. All our operating licenses and permits are current Staff participation in the organization of their work and valid. is encouraged and mechanisms exist to allow them to put forward their suggestions or report Statutory inspections by competent authorities irregularities that affect their performance and have not produced any observations or revealed well-being. any non-conformities. These mechanisms rely on suggestion boxes and an Staff have not reported any irregularities in respect email address that staff can write to in full of the requirements of SA 8000 either through the discretion. – to report their grievances. suggestion boxes or the dedicated email address or directly to the Human Resources Office. The Human Resources Office is also available to all employees for a more direct contact. 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the address this possibility and ensure that only those suppliers whose entire workforce is composed of freedom of association and the effective workers above the legal age for employment are recognition of the right to collective selected for inclusion in our list of Qualified bargaining; Suppliers. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of ES-KO does not tolerate discrimination on any basis, whether race or gender, religion, sexual forced and compulsory labour; orientation, views on Trade Unions, age or physical disabilities. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Our assessment of the related risks concludes that ES-KO as an organization does not afford any room for discriminating behaviour. Principle 6: the elimination of However, in a multi-ethnical workforce, where discrimination in respect of employment people of many different cultures come together, and occupation Assessment, Policy and the potential for discrimination certainly exists Goals among the workers themselves. This risk is included in our assessment and appropriate measures are in place to prevent it. Assessment ES-KO operates in many countries worldwide Policy including some where trade unions are uncommon or even discouraged. As a result, it is necessary to ES-KO’s Integrated Policy – at the heart of our ensure workers are aware of their rights as set out Integrated Management System has clear in the International Labour Organization’s statements concerning our commitment to respect Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at the work rights of our employees, upholding their Work and reassure them of the Company’s support freedom of association, their right to establish their for these principles. own organizations and carry out related activities without interference, to receive fair compensation While there are no cases of forced labour in ES-KO’s and benefits and to ensure that they are not organization, we do realise that this may not always discriminated against and have equal opportunities be the case externally. This makes it essential to to access positions within the organization. assess the practices of our suppliers with care, selecting only those whose workforce is free of any The Integrated Policy also reaffirms ES-KO’s such constraints. Internally, it is appropriate to commitment to ensure the absence of child labour ensure workers are suited to the tasks assigned to and forced labour practices in the organization. them and motivated to perform well so that they do not feel compelled to work against their will. Goals Suitable control measures at the time of hiring ES-KO’s goals in matters of labour rights are to eliminate the risk of employing people under the maintain our position of leadership as a fair working age by mistake. Again, this may not be the employer, to continue providing our employees case externally especially in small family-run with a work environment in which their rights are businesses. Supplier assessment must therefore upheld and protected and their hard work and 5 LABOUR PRINCIPLES to perform audits and inspections and report dedication rewarded, and to demonstrate possible irregularities to the Risk Manager who externally that the Company’s practices lead to a satisfied, motivated and productive workforce in would ensure appropriate action is taken either to order to influence others and contribute to the persuade the supplier to correct the irregularity or promotion of worker rights and the adoption of amend the list of Qualified Suppliers if necessary. similar practices throughout our supply chain. Suppliers are provided with a questionnaire to be compiled during the Supplier assessment process A further – and constant goal is to follow and and the information is verified whenever it is where possible remain ahead of developments in practical for us to do this. the field of labour rights for the benefit of all our employees who are ultimately responsible for ESThe questionnaire will be updated should there be KO’s success. any changes to the expectations in respect of workers’ rights and re-submitted to suppliers so Implementation that the information available to continual assessment of suppliers is correct and up-to-date. ES-KO’s Policy is supported by procedures, control measures and methods of measurement that Measurement of Outcomes represent the tools needed for its implementation and to ensure compliance with our stated aims. Internal audits are performed at least annually and The Integrated Policy is distributed to all employees with greater frequency if warranted by the results by email and is made available in a printed format of monitoring the performance of our Integrated in all places of work and is freely available for Management System. consultation on the company’s intranet. The results of internal and external audits, workers’ Properly informed of their rights, employees are input received through the suggestion encouraged to report any irregularities that they box/email/Human Resources Office and may encounter, whether they affect them or their information related to the continual assessment of co-workers, and three tools are provided to this suppliers are collated and presented to ES-KO’s end. Senior Management at the time of the annual Management Review during which objectives are Firstly, employees can use suggestion boxes to modified if necessary, to ensure continual provide reports, suggestions and comments. improvement in all areas of the organization Reports can be provided anonymously. including those covered in this chapter. Secondly, ES-KO provides a dedicated email address through which a super partes figure receives employees’ inputs. Thirdly, ES-KO’s Human Resources Office is available at all times to receive reports and employees know they are welcome to use this channel if they so prefer. Externally, ES-KO’s trained auditors observe practices being followed at the suppliers they visit 6 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a Policy precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Our environment-related policy is contained in our Integrated Management System Policy and it sets out our commitment to orientate the Principle 8: undertake initiatives to Company’s processes towards solutions of promote greater environmental greater respect for the environment, limiting the responsibility; and consumption of energy and natural resources. Principle 9: encourage the development Our policy is also to develop control systems that measure negative impacts on the environment, so and diffusion of environmentally friendly that mitigation measures can be studied and technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals implemented, and to promote the professional growth of our collaborators through training programs. Assessment ES-KO performs a careful assessment of all risks Goals posed by every aspect of our activities and risks to the environment are no exception. ES-KO’s objectives are: While we do not perform any heavy industrial  to reduce as far as possible the impacts that type of activity, we recognize that the very our activities have when it is not possible to presence of an operation such as the ones ES-KO eliminate them altogether; manages (food supply, catering, camp  to train staff not just in working practices construction and services) has impacts on the that achieve this but to educate them so that they environment in which it is located. are conscious of the need to protect the environment in and around the places where they ES-KO is certified to the ISO 14001 Standard for its work and live; Headquarters where support to the operations  to develop sustainable models for the design takes place. and provision of our services;  to develop and update risk assessment Risks associated to day-to-day operations are criteria to augment the effectiveness of assessed with particular focus on transport environmental safeguards. activities and waste management as areas of greater risk at the operations level. Office type activities can also create risks for the Implementation environment and these too are assessed both in project operations and at Headquarters. Implementation of our Environmental policy is achieved through appropriate procedures Risk assessment includes not just the impacts included in our Integrated Management System deriving from operations but also those from and begins at the service design stage when human behaviour, the way employees interact correctly orientated processes and appropriate with the environment. control measures are established. 7 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Periodical audits of our projects are carried out by Our Technical Staff monitor advances in our qualified internal auditors using the technology and evaluate the effectiveness environmental Management Section of our provided by new materials, innovative Integrated Management System. This provides construction techniques and ways of re-cycling internal auditors with the tools needed to waste. Innovations are applied to existing projects perform a thorough verification of compliance where practical and incorporated into future with its requirements. designs of projects and services together with the As mentioned at the beginning of this section, ESresults of an assessment of the effectiveness of KO’s headquarters, where service design takes existing mitigation measures. place, are certified to the ISO 14001 Standard and we are therefore subjected to annual audits by an Convinced that ‘every little bit counts’, we Accredited Third-Party Certification Body. encourage staff to ‘go green’ and provide them with the information they need to do this. We Internal and external audits have not revealed any minimize paper usage in the office, for example non-conformities concerning Environmental by establishing communication groups which Management. ES-KO has not had any reduces the need to distribute printed environmental incidents within the last year and information and we encourage employees to has not been subject to any statutory notices or correspond and communicate via email. We prosecutions. operate waste separation and re-cycling schemes, encourage turning lights off when vacating a Once a year, statistics are extracted from the room and setting air conditioning and heating Incident Report Log together with the results of equipment to work only during working hours and audits and presented to Senior Management for at appropriate levels. the annual Management Review. Senior Management uses this process to verify the The Human Resources Office and the Social effectiveness of the Integrated Management Responsibility Team – established in accordance System and to make any changes to it or to the with our SA 8000 certification – issue frequent Company’s objectives in line with their findings. emails reminding staff of their responsibilities towards the environment and providing helpful tips to ‘go even greener’. Measurement of outcomes ES-KO maintains an efficient procedure through which all workplace incidents, including those that have impacts on the environment, are reported. Each incident is investigated to establish root causes and effective control measures and a periodical analysis of statistics is performed to identify trends and take appropriate steps to reinforce control measures and improve the overall system. 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work Our Integrated Management System includes against corruption in all its forms, several policies concerning the ethical conduct of including extortion and bribery our activities: Assessment  Authority Levels;  Employee Code of Conduct and Ethics; Corruption is certainly a potential problem  ES-KO Code of Business Conduct; affecting the geographical areas in which ES-KO  Local Procurement; and, operates.  Procurement Ethical Code. According to Transparency International, the average 2017 Corruption Perceptions Index score Authority Levels determine limits within which of the countries in which ES-KO’s major each employee may bind the Company to an operations are located was less than 30 (where 0 obligation, whether payments (purchases, signifies highly corrupt and 100 is very clean). funding, advances, personal expenses etc.), execution of contracts (RFPs, bids, performance A careful assessment of the potential risk involved bonds, contracts and contract amendments) or in working in these countries is therefore of great other obligations (letters of intent, importance as are a robust anti-corruption policy, memorandums of understanding, provision of anti-bribery management and fostering an antiservices not covered by a proper contract). bribery culture within the organization. The Employee Code of Conduct and Ethics, to Assessment looks at opportunities for bribes which every employee subscribes, ensures that being sought by officials, by customers, by business conduct is free from conflicts of interest suppliers and contractors and by the Company’s whether real or perceived and that assets, own staff. whether ES-KO’s or the Customer’s, are not used inappropriately. Opportunities may arise in several areas such as trading influence, abuse of powers, It requires employees to avoid illegal conduct in their business and private lives and to protect the Company’s reputation in all their dealings. Policy It makes clear that money, gifts of more than ES-KO has a zero-tolerance policy in respect of nominal value and hospitality beyond what would corruption in any form and we are committed to be normal may not be given to customers, upholding all relevant laws and supporting competitors or suppliers to favour either ES-KO or regional and international anti-corruption legal the employees themselves. It ensures that frameworks, such as the United Nations company files, records and other information are Convention Against Corruption, the OECD Antikept confidential and protected from Bribery Convention inter alia. unauthorized access. 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES The ES-KO Code of Business Conduct binds all record-keeping and internal and external employees to complying with the spirit of oversight. applicable laws and regulations governing the conduct of ES-KO’s business. It makes clear that ES-KO will never pay or Measurement of outcomes condone the payment of bribes or other improper payments. There have been no reported cases of attempted It leads employees to promote a culture in which bribery or conflict of interest and no disciplinary ethical conduct is recognised, valued and actions taken have been taken against any of our exemplified. employees. Local Procurement and Procurement Ethical Code govern the way in which employees participate in the purchase process for goods and services necessary for the Company’s activities. They ensure procurement follows ethical lines and is done in the best interests of ES-KO and the Customer with no personal benefits or involvement. Goals To continue support for the UN convention and other legal frameworks in their fight against corruption. To ensure that transparency is maintained in order to demonstrate the Company's commitment to excluding corrupt practices from our business dealings Implementation ES-KO’s policies are implemented through appropriate procedures contained in the Integrated Management System, accurate 10 ES-KO SAM Tel. +377 97 97 76 76 I commercial@es-ko.com www.es-ko.com 11
