Annual and Sustainability Report 2017/18 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 3 We are very proud of our history at Clas Ohlson and that we have worked for 100 years on helping and inspiring people to improve their everyday life by offering smart, simple and practical solutions at attractive prices. In May 2018, we presented our 100 more years growth strategy – our plan for taking problem solving in the home to the next level. We build on our strong position in the Nordic market with a unique customer offering of products, advice and supplementary services. It will all be found on our new digital platform, C/O, to be launched in the 2018/19 financial year. Read more about our new strategy for sustainable profitable growth on pages 14–17. Contents 2 100 years of Clas Ohlson 4 The year in review 10 CEO’s statement STRATEGIC DIRECTION 14 New strategy BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 18 Drivers and trends 20 Stakeholder expectations OUR WAY OF WORKING 22 Business model 24 Governance and responsibility 28 Co-workers OPERATIONS 34 Customer offering 42 Customer interaction 48 Purchasing 54 Distribution 60 Growth 62 Markets 64 Sustainability ANNUAL REPORT 68 Directors’ Report 73 Appropriation of earnings 74 Risks and uncertainties 78 Chairman’s statement 79 Corporate governance 88 Board of Directors 90 Group management 92 Consolidated financial statements 95 Parent Company financial statements 98 Notes 116 Certification of the Annual Report 117 Auditor’s report 120 Sustainability report 121 Supplementary sustainability information 122 Our value chain 124 Eight prioritised areas 128 Materiality analysis 130 Sustainability risks 132 GRI index 136 The share 140 Quarterly data 141 Key ratio definitions and glossary 142 Alternative performance measures 144 Ten-year overview 146 Store network 148 History 152 Annual General Meeting and reporting calendar ABOUT THE ANNUAL REPORT Clas Ohlson presents financial and non-financial information integrated in a single report. The report includes standard and specific disclosures based on the GRI guidelines, Standard. The scope of the statutory sustainability report is stated on page 120. The statutory annual report encompasses the Directors’ Report and the financial statements on pages 68–116. Clas Ohlson AB (publ) is a Swedish company and is subject to Swedish law. All values are stated in Swedish kronor (SEK). Values in millions of SEK are abbreviated MSEK and thousands of SEK as SEK 000. Unless otherwise specified, figures in parenthesis pertain to 2016/17. Data regarding markets and competition reflect Clas Ohlson’s own assessments if a specific source is not quoted. These assessments are based on the best and most recent factual data from published sources in the public sector and the consumer goods industry. This Annual Report has been prepared in Swedish and translated into English. In the event of any discrepancies between the Swedish and the English version, the former shall have precedence. OUR MISSION To help and inspire people to improve their everyday life by offering smart, simple and practical solutions at attractive prices. 6 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 Read more about Clas Ohlson’s new strategic direction on pages 14–17. Clas Ohlson was founded in 1918 as a mail order to help and inspire people to improve their everybusiness based in Insjön, Dalarna, Sweden. As day life by offering smart, simple and practical we now celebrate 100 years as a company, Clas solutions at attractive prices. We also urge our Ohlson serves five markets – Sweden, Norway, value chain to become more resource-efficient Finland, the UK and Germany. The Group sales and we respect people and the environment in amount to slightly more than 8 billion SEK with all parts of our operations. just over 5,000 employees. The Clas Ohlson share has been listed on Nasdaq A lot has happened since the beginning, but one Stockholm since 1999. thing has been the same all these years: we want CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 7 1 THE YEAR IN REVIEW | 100 YEARS OF SMART SOLUTIONS Clas Ohlson turns 100 this year – a century of each day making everyday life a little bit easier for our customers. Read more about Clas Ohlson’s history on pages 148–151. 100 years of smart solutions Our history began 100 years ago when Clas Ohlson, a young, enterprising entrepreneur with a keen interest in technology founded a mail order company in Insjön in Dalarna, Sweden. He assumed that there must be other people like him who were living in the countryside and did not have access to the range of items found in the big cities – and there were. The first catalogue was a rounding success and Naturally, we want to honour our founder, tell eventually the very first store was opened in our exciting history and celebrate with everyone Insjön. The store gradually grew and with 3,200 who has made our 100-year journey as a compasquare metres is our largest Clas Ohlson store ny possible – all our fantastic employees and all today. Over the years, we added new sales chanof our customers. nels and expanded into new markets, and today we meet 75 million customers at more than 230 We are celebrating throughout the year with stores in five countries and online. attractive offers, fun events and other surprises. 8 2 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 100 YEARS OF CLAS OHLSON COME AND VISIT THE MUSEUM IN INSJÖN! THE PODCAST Beloved gadgets was launched in autumn 2017 and over 11 episodes – one for each decade – podcasters Malin and Ulf Åkersten guided us through the world of gadgets and modern history. The book BELOVED GADGETS offers a real nostalgia trip of pictures from Clas Ohlson catalogues. It not only shows how gadgets have evolved but also society as reflected in DIY, cleaning and storage, cooking, entertainment and gardening, and much more. Read more about Clas Ohlson’s history and browse the catalogue at clasohlson100.com. CELEBRATING with customers Our birthday celebrations kicked off at the start of March and we are continuing to celebrate with our customers throughout the year. On the big day itself in June, we will have extra special offers and many surprises in store and online in every country. Anniversary collection LIMITED EDITION The first collection in our anniversary series was launched in June. A carefully selected range of popular products and customer favourites in a brand new design with an exclusive twist. And all in limited edition. FESTIVAL in Tällberg All of our employees will meet in Sweden in Tällberg, close to Insjön, in August to celebrate our history together and to look ahead to the next 100 years. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 3 9 Online sales increased by 33% in the 2017/18 financial year. 2 10 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 THE YEAR IN REVIEW We are preparing for the next step THE 2017/18 FINANCIAL YEAR ended with sales growth of 3 per cent to just over 8.2 billion SEK – a stable performance given the change in the industry that dominated the year. Online sales performed particularly well, increasing 33 per cent during the year. Sales rose in all markets and all sales channels New growth strategy during the year and totalled 8,211 MSEK. Sales We began our transition to our new strategy in local currencies increased by 3 per cent, while over the past year and we leveraged our financial sales in comparable units and local currency strength and our underlying earnings to invest in remained unchanged. the future. Operating profit for the year amounted to 468 MSEK (610), impacted by non-recurExpanding store network and online ring costs and the allocation of costs of 70 MSEK We continued to develop our sales channels associated with implementing the strategy. The during the year and net openings amounted operating margin amounted to 5.7 per cent and to 13 stores (11). Five of these were our Clas earnings per share to 5.66 SEK. Ohlson Compact Stores, our new smaller format store. Online sales increased by 33 per cent to A growing team 295 MSEK (222). Our team was strengthened during the year and the number of employees increased to a total of just over 5,000. Sales, MSEK Operating profit, MSEK No. of employees 8,211 5,021 468 7,602 7,990 596 610 4,743 4,848 7,330 4,504 4,612 6,808 531 506* 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 * Including non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 11 5 THE YEAR IN REVIEW Significant events QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER 01 02 03 04 • Launched Workwear by Clas • Clas Ohlson became the • A strategy partnership was • Kicked off the 100th Ohlson, a brand new collection launch partner for Nest Labs’ commenced with MatHem birthday celebrations of workwear with the right home security products in and 10% of the shares in this by launching design, quality and fit for all the Nordic market. Swedish e-commerce player clasohlson100.com, types of DIY projects. were acquired. a website with all our • The 100 more years strategic catalogues, stories, images • Announced winner of Clas overview is initiated. • Clas Ohlson and Telenor and facts about the history Ohlson Product Innovation initiated a partnership of Clas Ohlson. Challenge. The winner, the • Launched a new lighting in selected Swedish stores. Altered:Nozzle, is a tap nozzle range. Clas Ohlson Premium • Launched Clas Ohlson that reduces water consumption Classic is the LED light that • Won the international award Smart Plug – a simple by up to 98%. looks like a classic light bulb. for training programme in way of remote controlling supply chain at the Sedex a power point from a • Lotta Lyrå joins Clas Ohlson and • 1,400 people attended the Awards in London. smartphone or tablet using took office as the new President Clas Ohlson Annual General the brand new Clas and CEO as of 1 August. Meeting at the distribution • Opened three new stores in Ohlson Home app. centre in Insjön. Norway, in Stjørdal, Stathelle • Launched the new knife sharpand Bergen, and the fourth • Opened a new store in ening and robotic lawnmower • The Clas Ohlson store in Hamburg in Germany. Bodø, Husnes and Bærum installation services. Foundation was formed. in Norway, Tampere in Finland and Gothenburg • Opened a new store in Farsund • New stores were opened in and Märsta in Sweden. in Norway and an additional Kempele in Finland, Varberg store in Helsinki in Finland, our in Sweden and Leira and • The new growth strategy first Compact Store in the Askim in Norway. 100 more years and the Finnish market. revised financial targets were presented and implementation started. BEST NEW PROGRAMME at Sedex Awards China is our largest purchasing market and Clas Ohlson has an in-house sales force in the country in close dialogue with key suppliers. We work closely with training solutions company QuizRR to offer courses on employee rights, health and safety. These training activities, which to date have engaged more than 4,000 employees in 26 factories, won the “Best new programme implemented” at the Sedex Awards in London. 12 6 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 THE YEAR IN REVIEW STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP with MatHem A new partnership with e-commerce company MatHem means that we can use MatHem’s digital platform to deliver Clas Ohlson products to the customer’s door. Following a pilot in the Malmö area, this offering will be gradually rolled out in Stockholm and Gothenburg in summer 2018. The range of products mainly includes consumables, as well as kitchen equipment, cleaning products and other essentials for the home. The partnership also means that customers shopping on our website can opt for home delivery direct to their door by MatHem. Clas Ohlson acquired 10 per cent of the shares in MatHem as part of the collaboration. CLICK & COLLECT at any store Many customers shop online and want to decide when and where they collect their purchases themselves. Clas Ohlson Click & Collect is already a massive success in the UK and the service was launched in our Norwegian store network in February. In summer 2018, customers in Sweden, Finland and Germany will be able to shop from the comfort of their homes and collect their purchases in any store they like. RENTING TOOLS is popular We are expanding and continuously adding new services to our customer offering. Clas Ohlson has long offered help with repairs and spare parts. Customers can now choose to rent tools for DIY projects instead of buying them. The new service has quickly become popular since it saves space and money and many people see it as a more sustainable alternative. The concept was rolled out in the spring after a successful test period and is now available in about 30 stores in Sweden and in pilot stores in Norway and Finland. FOURTH STORE opened in Hamburg Clas Ohlson’s fourth store was opened on the centrally located shopping street Spitalerstraße in Hamburg in November. We now have a solid base in the Hamburg region and a loyal customer base that recommends Clas Ohlson to family and friends. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 13 7 THE YEAR IN REVIEW | TARGET FULFILMENT Target fulfilment Read more about Clas Ohlson’s new targets on page 17. The targets and target fulfilment for the 2017/18 financial year are presented below. The Board of Clas Ohlson has adopted new financial targets for the Group to support the new growth strategy. These new targets apply from the 2018/19 financial year. Sales will increase organically an average of 5 per cent within a five-year period, the operating margin is to amount to 6–8 per cent and net debt/EBITDA is to be below two times. The dividend target is unchanged. FINANCIAL TARGET 2017/18 TARGET TARGET TARGET TARGET Annual sales growth in Establishment of 10–15 An operating margin of at The dividend is to comprise at comparable units of at least new stores net during the least 10 per cent. least 50 per cent of earnings 2 per cent. 2017/18 financial year. per share after tax, with consideration for the company’s financial position. This is our dividend policy. TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT Sales in comparable We opened a net 13 new The operating margin The proposed dividend for units in local currency were stores in Sweden, Norway, amounted to 5.7 per cent for the financial year of 6.25 SEK unchanged year-on-year. Finland and Germany during the financial year. per share corresponds to 110 the year. per cent of earnings per share before dilution, which is in line with the dividend policy. Sales growth Number of new stores Operating margin, % Payout ratio, % in comparable units, % 13 110* 3 10 13 8.1 96 11 9 2 11 7.6 82 2 10 6.7* 74 72 0 7.8 5.7 8 1 7 6 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 Target 50% Target 2% Target, interval Target 10% * Excluding non-recurring items * Proposed dividend 8 14 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 THE YEAR IN REVIEW | TARGET FULFILMENT Sales remains at stable levels. SUSTAINABILITY TARGET TARGET TARGET TARGET The percentage of products Our CO2 emissions from 98 per cent of supplier are for a more sustainable lifetransportation is to reduce in to comply with the restyle is to represent at least relation to our net sales. quirements of our Code of 25 per cent of sales by 2020. Conduct as regards working conditions, human rights and environment, with no serious deviations. TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT The percentage of prodOur CO2 emissions from We focus on efficient monucts for a more sustainable transportation reduced by itoring processes, training lifestyle amounted to 16 per 23 per cent in relation to our and proactive development cent of total sales for the finet sales during the financial activities with strategic nancial year, up 2 percentage year. Part of the reduction is suppliers. 97 per cent of points year-on-year. attributable to the fact that suppliers complied with the measurement methods have requirements in 2017/18. changed between the years. Sales of products for CO2 emissions, grams of CO2 Percentage of suppliers a more sustainable lifestyle, % relative to our sales meeting the requirements of the Code of Conduct with no serious deviations, % 97 1.73 96 98 98 16 2.25 14 10 6 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 Target 25% 2020 Target: Reduce emissions in relation Target 98% to net sales CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 15 9 CEO’S STATEMENT We will play a more important and greater role in every home. 10 16 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 CEO’S STATEMENT We are now taking the next step Almost all Swedes, Norwegians and Finns are Expectations are constantly mounting about what familiar with Clas Ohlson, and many of them we as a company can offer in terms of availability, have a sentimental connection with the company. security and convenience, a unique and attractive We have 75 million visits to our stores and 83 offering, how we are to provide something extra to million visits online, and our Club Clas loyalty our customers and offer a close and open relationclub has 2.8 million members. The company ship. Something that had the “wow” factor before that entrepreneur Clas Ohlson started in Insjön might be just a hygiene factor only a year later. exactly 100 years ago means something to a great many people and has captured their hearts. We This trend is creating tremendous opportunities are incredibly pleased and proud of this success. for companies that have the desire and ability to change, but it also presents huge challenges for But why do people like Clas Ohlson? There are what established retail companies need to do to of course many answers to that question, yet develop and progress. part of the answer can be found in the self-evident nature of our mission. We help and inspire Fierce competition from both new and established people to improve their everyday life by offering companies means that we need to work smarter smart, simple and practical solutions at attractive and more cost-efficiently across the chain from prices. It was the idea of our founder and is just product development and purchasing to interas relevant today as it was then. acting with customers and delivery, in order to provide customers with attractive offerings at good Another important part of the answer lies in our prices. In today’s climate, retailers cannot afford renowned, excellent customer service. We are inefficiency or unnecessary costs that result in well-known for being helpful and our willingness their prices being higher than those of a store just to go the extra mile. It makes us unique and is two clicks away. something that I want to keep prioritising going forward. How will Clas Ohlson remain relevant to customers? How will we grow profitability in a new Demands from new conditions landscape? This is the question that I have been The conditions for Clas Ohlson and many other working on together with the management team retail companies are changing radically – and and many colleagues since September 2017. This rapidly. New technology is altering behaviour work has engaged many employees at different patterns and how we consume. It ranges from levels and in all countries where we operate. We how you as a customer seek out information to have interviewed many customers, analysed custhe type of delivery you choose. You have access tomers’ baskets and receipts, compiled internal to an enormous range of goods and services in insight and opinions and analysed developments a matter of seconds at the press of just a few in our business environment. This work has been buttons on your mobile or computer. It is easy to intense and engaging and has resulted in new and compare prices and quality and you can quickly valuable input. change your mind about what you want to buy. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 11 17 CEO’S STATEMENT Through the 100 more years strategy, we when their habits, needs and patterns of accessible to customers. But we can also are taking the initiative and leveraging consumption change. This is an opporsee that we can develop and strengthen the possibilities arising from the ongoing tunity we will seize. We will play a more the store network even further, both by retail changes. The path forward is mainimportant and greater role in all types of using the stores in a new way and by ly about having the right attitude and homes, primarily in the Nordic region, adapting the size and offering to customthe willingness to try new paths, as well which is a growing market and where we er demand in that specific location. We as maintaining a high pace of change. have a significantly lower market share have already seen how service and advice than what we believe we could capture. are becoming more and more important. I have seen great enthusiasm and dedication across the company from Focus on service and new Rapid online growth employees who have tirelessly answered services It is incredibly important for us to all of our questions, and posed some We see a potential in the market for the expand our availability and to strengthnew ones. Your willingness to always do types of jobs that are too minor for you en our online offering. We are lagging things a little better and a little smarter to hire a builder but too big, difficult behind in this area but we are concenis amazing. or time-consuming to do yourself. This trating on rapidly catching up. is where Clas Ohlson has a unique Everything hinges on relationopportunity to enhance customer value During the financial year, we invested in ships with customers by adding new services. We have already online improvements and have already Our analyses, our conclusions and the introduced Hire from Clas and in the noted very rapid growth. Traffic has inplan ahead were presented at a Capital autumn we will introduce Clas Fix it, creased strongly and sales are up 33 per Markets Day in Stockholm at the start our new home project service. cent. We now aim to at least double our of May together with new financial online sales every second year. targets for the company. We present the We also see an opportunity to develnew strategy in a separate section of the op our renowned excellent customer The next stage will be to provide a joint annual report but I would like to highservice into a more customary advice platform called C/O, where we will light a few points here. service. You will soon be able to consult group together our product and service with Clas Ohlson in store and via your offering in one place to make it as easy One of the conclusions is, not surprismobile no matter whether you need tips as possible for customers to access Clas ingly, that the most important factor for safely putting up a shelf on a plaster Ohlson and our future offering. of all is the relationship we have with wall or a smarter way of organising your our customers. Clas Ohlson’s position storage. Increased sales and in and confidence from the market and strengthened position our large, loyal customer base represent The stores are a strength Our change in strategy – and I have a fantastic strength. This gives us the Our stores are a strength for us and the only highlighted a few elements of it possibility to develop the operations network of slightly more than 230 cen– is crucial for us to meet the changed to simplify people’s lives in new ways trally located stores mean we are easily conditions that we can already see and to leverage the major opportunities that we envisage for Clas Ohlson. We have stable operations coupled with a We will develop our availability fantastic customer base, which will allow us to implement rapid and far-reaching change – without delay. and convenience online, and double The past year sales every other year. Sales in the 2017/18 financial year increased by 3 per cent to 8,211 MSEK. 12 18 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 CEO’S STATEMENT Operating profit amounted to 468 ers and increasing our availability and Many of us have good reason to rememMSEK. In our fourth quarter, we began convenience for customers. MatHem is ber and give special thanks to entreprethe change to this strategy, in which Sweden’s leading online supermarket and neur Clas Ohlson, who with both feet we leverage our financial strength and deliverers direct to door. We have develon the ground, great inventiveness and our underlying earnings to invest in the oped a joint offering whereby MatHem strong values laid the foundation for future. customers can order a specific range of what is Clas Ohlson today. We follow consumables. The first pilot phase of the this heritage and borrow entrepreWe have strengthened our position in offering was launched in March and was neurship and courage, and reinterpret it our home markets and added a net 13 rolled out to the metropolitan regions to write the next chapter at the start of a stores to our network, five in our new of Sweden in June to include about 700 new era for the company. Clas Ohlson Compact Store format. We products. can already see how popular these stores Finally I would like to sincerely thank are with customers and will test the new Click & Collect is already a great success all of our employees whose work every format at other locations. in the UK. The service was launched in day means that customers return to our Norwegian store network in Febus and who so clearly show a desire to We closed six stores in the UK last year ruary and will be available in Sweden, contribute to new ways of thinking and and another store will be closed a few Finland and Germany in summer 2018. becoming smarter and better in a time months in to the new financial year. We Customers can order products online that requires rapid change. Many thanks opened our fourth store in Hamburg, and pick up their entire order at their also to all of our customers and owners supplementing the first phase of our esnearest store. for your confidence in us. tablishment in the German market, and we are happy to report that our German A more sustainable lifestyle New times require new solutions. Clas customers appreciate our offering. It is It is important for us at Clas Ohlson to Ohlson will take smart, simple and gratifying that we can report a highly also contribute to a resource-efficient practical to a new level. We are an eager favourable trend in online sales in both value chain and a more sustainable team, full of drive, and we have already the UK and Germany during the year. lifestyle. It is part of our sustainability started implementing our new strategy. agenda that we follow in many different But of course we will have time to have a The franchise partnership in Dubai was ways. great 100th birthday celebration both in concluded during the year and the two stores and online. franchise stores were closed. Looking at the past year, I would like to particularly showcase the Hire from Welcome! A major and important step for our deClas service, where customers can hire velopment is the new sCORE business high-quality tools at a number of locasystem (Systems for Clas Ohlson Retail tions. The sharing economy enhances Efficiency), which we have been working ecothinking and making sensible use of on for many years and which is now beour shared resources. We are also pursing ing rolled out across the operations. This our work on increasing the percentage of business system will help us to develop products for a more sustainable lifestyle our abilities in several key areas, such as in our range. The share increased to supply chain, production planning and 16 per cent in the financial year, with range adjustment. the target of 25 per cent by 2020. Lotta Lyrå Closer to customers 100 more years President and CEO The partnership with MatHem that Stepping into the role of CEO of a Insjön, Sweden, June 2018 started in spring 2018 is very important company celebrating its 100th birthday to our aim of coming closer to customengenders great humility and respect. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 13 19 STRATEGIC DIRECTION | NEW STRATEGY We will play a greater role in every home CLAS OHLSON WILL GROW on the Nordic market, focusing on simplifying people’s everyday lives at home through a combination of products, guidance and supplementary services. A developed online business model, unique offering, outstanding customer service and simplified, streamlined operations are critical parts of our new strategy for growth. Leveraging the strength of our large, loyal customer base, we will now play a greater and more important role in every home. Strong base for growth Our new strategy is based on comprehensive work on We see that Clas Ohlson has a analysis and strategy that has been ongoing during the strong base for growth: the autumn and winter. We surveyed our customers • A loyal customer base with very high brand and employees, arranged workshops and focus groups, awareness and interviewed experts and representatives from • A strong, customer-centric culture the capital market. We gained new insight into our • A financial position that enables offensive initiatives customers’ behaviour patterns and how they view us, as well as sound understanding of what this means We see many opportunities for for how we need to govern operations as we move strengthening our position in the forward. growing market for products and services in the home by: Our work has consolidated the view of Clas Ohlson’s • Streamlining the product range unique market position, our strong brand and large, • Adding guidance and services loyal customer base. We have studied what is import• Developing online operations • Optimising the store network ant to our customers and potential customers, and • Simplifying and enhancing the efficiency how they act in a new competitive situation, and the of the operations and our way of working company’s opportunities and challenges in a rapidly changing world. 14 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 STRATEGIC DIRECTION | NEW STRATEGY We are passionate about simplifying life in all kinds of homes. Focus on Nordics to capture a greater share of customers’ to choose Clas Ohlson. We will also be Our strategy ahead, as presented at the spending linked to the home – what we breaking new ground to show what a Capital Markets Day on 3 May 2018, call share of home*. This market generates traditional retail company like Clas Ohlentails new strategic focus areas, parsales of approximately 90 billion SEK in son can be and do in a new landscape ticularly concentrated to Clas Ohlson’s the Nordic region today, and is expected with new consumer patterns and new home market in the Nordic region, to continue growing during the coming technology. while we are continuing to develop our years. Clas Ohlson’s ambition is to grow operations in the UK and Germany. faster than the market and to increase In addition, we will be adding new The new plan for sustainable, profitable its market share in this area, by focusing related services to our offering, which growth is now being rolled out across on simplifying people’s everyday lives means we are entering the market for the organisation. As always, the plan at home with smart, simple, practical home services. All in all, Clas Ohlson starts with our passion for simplifying solutions at attractive prices. will operate in a market that currently our customers’ everyday lives. generates approximately 105 billion SEK By developing our offering, we will in the Nordic region. Our arena is the home come closer to our customers in the Our unique market position gives us the home and become even more relevant opportunity to broaden our offering and and accessible. It should always be easy * The share of what the Nordic consumer spends on products for the home that Clas Ohlson can offer, or wishes to offer. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 15 STRATEGIC DIRECTION | NEW STRATEGY Strategic FRAMEWORK Our strategic plan includes a large number of initiatives that, in the short and long term, will develop our large, loyal customer base and strengthen Clas Ohlson’s position in the market. WE HAVE TWO OVERALL TARGETS FOR OUR OPERATIONS: 1 We will be a meaningful and trusted brand and company recognized for being We will achieve this by focusing on three strategic areas: passionate about simplifying life in all kinds of homes. • A unique customer offering • Outstanding customer service 2 We will deliver sustainable profitable growth. • Smartness and simplicity A unique customer offering We will become even more relevant to the customer by offering a more focused product offering where we clearly define the home as our arena while adding a supplementary range of smart services for practical problem solving. Smartness and simplicity – we are simplifying We will also increase the share of proprietary brands by strengthening design and product development and adding and streamlining our operations speed, sustainability and uniqueness. Read more about proWe are investing in change, building better systems and streamlining prietary brands on page 40. the operations throughout the chain, by focusing on product development, purchasing and distribution to enhance cost efficiency and enable even quicker delivery to customers. A unique factor in this is the roll-out of our new sCORE business system (Systems for Clas Ohlson Retail Efficiency) that will be fully implemented in the entire organisation at the start of the 2018/19 financial year and that allow us to, for example, steer the range in each store towards what customers are purchasing in that specific area. Read more about sCORE on page 27. Enhanced availability and outstanding customer service We are strengthening our customer relationships and increasing added value by offering even better availability and personalised guidance both in stores and online. The store is the hub of our operations and online shoppers will be able to choose to collect their purchases in their local store or have the product delivered home to their door. We will optimally leverage our store network and ensure flexible leases so that we can reassess location, size and range when circumstances change. In the financial year, we opened five stores with the new Compact Store format, and more are in the pipeline. Collaboration between stores will increase and some stores have been assigned the role of “feeder store” and will deliver products to other stores and home to customers. 16 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 STRATEGIC DIRECTION | NEW STRATEGY Our omni-channel CUSTOMER JOURNEY strategy will be centred on a new digital platform, C/O, which • One point of contact will bring together • Access to all of Clas Ohlson product offering, • Unique loyalty programme guidance and service, and all of our stores, employees, partners We are passionate Product Service Store Online and customers. about simplifying offering offering experience experience life in all kinds of homes. 1. Target: A meaningful and TRUSTED BRAND and company Clas Ohlson has adopted new overall operational targets to support the new growth strategy. The sustainability agenda is a key component in achieving these targets. The targets will be quantified and monitored during the 2018/19 financial year. Our customers Our people 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Band preference Number of active Brand position Skills development Brand position customers The target is that our The target is to be perThe target is for our The target is for our emcustomers spontaneously The target is to build a ceived as a meaningful employees to develop ployees to perceive that prefer and choose Clas large and loyal customer and trusted brand and the right skills to realise we live up to our position Ohlson ahead of other base in the countries we company recognized for our new strategy. both externally and interalternatives. serve. being passionate about nally. We will advance in: simplifying life in all kinds • commitment of homes. • efficiency • diversity. 2. Target: Sustainable profitable GROWTH Clas Ohlson’s financial targets and financial framework were revised to support the new growth strategy. These new targets apply from the 2018/19 financial year. 1. 2. 3. 4. Sales will increase organically Operating margin will amount to Net debt in relation to EBITDA to The dividend is to comprise at an average of 5 per cent an6-8 per cent within a five-year be below two (2) times least 50 per cent of earnings per nually over a five-year period period share after tax, considering the • investments are being planned as company’s financial position • sales per customer increase • proprietary brands will increase regards financial position, cash • sales per square as a share of sales flow and strategic activities • Over the first two years, the metre increase • the organisation and retail space dividend will be maintained at • sales online to at least double will be streamlined the level for the 2016/17 finanevery other year • development of product range, cial year, in absolute terms. purchasing and logistics will be systematised Over the first two years, we expect to invest approximately 1–2 per cent of the underlying operating margin in strategic initiatives. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 17 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | DRIVERS AND TRENDS Rapidly changing business environment UNDERSTANDING HOW THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT CHANGES is fundamental to developing a relevant offering as well as evolving the company in the right way to maintain its competitiveness in the long term. There are numerous drivers that influence society and the retail industry, but we have decided to describe the most important trends for the company at the current time. These are trends that we must approach and use to define our opportunities. Sustainable WAY OF LIVING An urban lifestyle with long working days and business travel means it is difficult to find enough time in the day and many people are on the look out for products and services that can simplify everyday life. On top of this, more and more people want solutions that are compatible with a sustainable lifestyle. We see growing demand for green products, a desire to use the planet’s resources sparingly and to live a simpler life. More and more people want to hire, borrow or share products with others rather than own them. Products must be recyclable and reusable. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS we will continue to develop a smart, affordable and attractive offering that solves small practical problems, that helps make our customers’ everyday lives easier and that supports a more sustainable lifestyle. For example, our range of more than 10,000 spare parts is very popular. INFLUENTIAL consumers Nowadays, it is easy for consumers to find all the information that they want about companies, brands and products, and to influence others via social media. It is increasingly important to stimulate loyalty and commitment by improving the relevance of communication, service and product range. Robust demands are also made by many for transparency and for companies to assume their responsibility across the value chain and to serve as good members of society. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS being honest and transparent in our communication, and providing relevant smart solutions, inspiration, tips, good advice and clear product information. Both the offering and all communication must be based on our brand and values, while also being customised according to data and insight into what customers want and how they shop. 18 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | DRIVERS AND TRENDS Demographic CHANGES The continued population rise in northern Europe is mainly concentrated to the large cities where an urban lifestyle influences purchasing habits and patterns. Population growth is driven by increased immigration and we see a diversity of people with different cultural backgrounds who want a more customised offering. In families where parents are struggling to juggle the different elements of everyday life, children often greatly influence purchases and consumption patterns. The number of single-person households is rising worldwide, many of whom live in small, central apartments. We also see that older consumers are becoming an influential group, setting new demands for service and convenience. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS we seek to gain deep understanding of the individual customer’s circumstances and needs regardless of where they live or the type of home they have. Clas Ohlson’s offering is to be relevant and accessible by people in all kinds of homes. Quick, flexible and DIGITAL Mobile, digital technology is playing an increasingly important role in the lives of consumers and has revolutionised purchasing and behaviour patterns in the retail sector. Constantly connected consumers want to buy when, where and how they want, and regardless of the sales channel they use, they expect a simple and consistent shopping experience tailored to their needs. Many also take an active role in marketing and product development. The rising trend of online shopping means that the physical store is increasingly becoming a meeting place and an arena for experiences. Customers expect quick, reliable and convenient deliveries, and want to choose the best option for them at that specific time. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS a continued focus on integrating and developing our various sales channels and delivery options, and on our capacity to interact with our customers through digital channels to further improve our availability and service level. Digitalisation provides us with tools to enhance understanding of customer behaviour, drive sales, build loyalty and easily serve and support customers throughout the entire decision-making and purchasing process. All with respect for customer integrity. COMPLEX competitive environment Competition in the retail market is fiercer than ever before. Local, traditional retailers are meeting global e-retailers such as Amazon and Alibaba, while other digital players, such as Google and Facebook, are always expanding their business and challenging existing business models. Many companies have a similar range that competes for the same customers and it is easier than ever before to compare offerings. Price is important, but making a purchase must be easy, secure and inspiring. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS that we develop the business and test new offers to be more unique in our range. We focus on strengthening our digital platform, and developing our omni-channel strategy, our product range and our service offering. We work together with others and engage our customers to offer relevant and affordable solutions that inspire and help them in their everyday lives. Battle for TALENT Attracting and retaining highly skilled employees is a strong competitive advantage, while lacking the right skills is one of the greatest threats to a company’s success and growth. The young, digital generation knows exactly what type of workplace environment they want – one that they can contribute to and evolve in without losing their work-life balance. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS that we strive to increase flexibility and we are clear in what we offer to our employees. Clas Ohlson aims to be an attractive workplace in which to grow and we support our employees on their journey forward. Our leadership, skills development and belief in our employees equips us for the future and cultivates an organisation prepared to shoulder new challenges. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 19 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS In close dialogue with our stakeholders A PROFITABLE AND SUSTAINABLE COMPANY in the long term must be one step ahead of stakeholder requirements and expectations. We maintain a close dialogue with our customers, employees, suppliers, owners and various players in society to understand their view of the future, which helps us set our strategy. CUSTOMERS Understanding our customers and their needs and expectations is vital to success in an increasingly competitive market. We interact with our customers every day in our stores, through our customer service centre, on our chat function and in social media. The 2.8 million members of our Club Clas loyalty club also provide valuable information and important insight into how we can improve our offering. Our regular customer survey shows that we have very high customer satisfaction in all markets and that customers are very likely to recommend us to their friends and acquaintances. Over the past year, we carried out an extensive analysis as part of the strategic review and primarily looked at existing customers’ perception of Clas Ohlson and our offering, as well as those customers who do not shop with us. We performed both qualitative and quantitative studies, as well as studies in people’s homes, put together focus groups and conducted exit interviews. We analysed customer baskets and receipts, and studied purchasing patterns. All in a bid to obtain in-depth know-how about our customers and what is needed to become even more relevant and available. LOOKING FORWARD, we can see that customers want relevant, innovative products and services with superior environmental performance. We also see that availability is increasingly critical to making a purchase, both in stores and online. EMPLOYEES Slightly more than 5,000 employees in six countries work hard to give our customers the very best service and the best offering. Committed and goal-oriented employees are fundamental to our growth and development. We carry out a comprehensive survey every other year and ask employees about their opinion of Clas Ohlson, our strengths and areas for improvement. The most recent employee survey from autumn 2016 also shows a healthy work climate and good leadership. More than 80 per cent of employees are proud of working for Clas Ohlson, and the majority would recommend us to others as an employer. The next employee survey is scheduled to be carried out in autumn 2018. We also perform regular employee surveys on specific matters. LOOKING FORWARD, values-driven companies will attract the right skills. The importance of leadership, diversity, skills development, flexibility and focus on health and well-being is expected to rise. 20 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 We shaped our strategy on deep understanding of our stakeholders. Clas Ohlson presented the company’s new strategy and revised financial targets to analysts, investors and journalists at a Capital Markets Day held on 3 May 2018 in Stockholm. SHAREHOLDERS Clas Ohlson Series B shares have been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 1999 and the company now has about 35,000 shareholders. Many shareholders have been with us for many years. Stable, engaged owners are pivotal for long-term profitability and sustainable development. We meet our shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, at shareholders and investor meetings, and at Capital Markets Days. Important information about shareholder value is obtained via the Nomination Committee and the Board. LOOKING FORWARD, sustainable, profitable growth and shareholder value remain key issues. SUPPLIERS We have close and trusting working relationships with about 650 suppliers in Europe and 600 manufacturers in Asia. A strong supplier network is a prerequisite for an affordable, innovative and sustainable offering. We are constantly moving towards products under our proprietary brands and suppliers expect a long-term partnership and scope in return for meeting the robust requirements that we impose. Important issues are discussed during regular contact with suppliers, on various training courses and as part of audits. LOOKING FORWARD, suppliers want to move away from only supplying goods, and to move towards entering into strategic partnerships based on jointly established targets. SOCIETY We influence, and are influenced by players in society at global, national and local levels that encourage companies to assume a broader responsibility. The launch of the UN 17 Sustainable Development Goals gives businesses a more prominent role in solving the challenges faced by society. It increases expectations that we understand our impact along the value chain, manage it accordingly and follow the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. LOOKING FORWARD, we will be expected to assume increasing responsibility for the company’s indirect impact and make use of innovation to drive a shift towards more sustainable development. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 21 OUR WAY OF WORKING | BUSINESS MODEL How we create value for our stakeholders OUR MISSION IS TO HELP AND INSPIRE people to improve their everyday life by offering smart, simple, practical solutions at attractive prices. RESOURCES OPERATIONS ty STRUCTURAL CAPITAL bili a i na • More than 230 stores and online shopping in five countries st Su al u e s • Distribution centre in Insjön as a hub for efficient distribution o dv t an re re He l tu cu m F ro te FINANCIAL CAPITAL ora Customer Customer • 2,264 MSEK in equity interaction offering C orp The customer HUMAN CAPITAL • A strong corporate culture • 5,000 competent and passionate employees Distribution Purchasing RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL • A strong brand • 75 million visitors to our physical stores and 83 million visitors to our online store • 2.8 million members of our Club Clas loyalty programme • Close partnership with about 650 suppliers in Europe and 600 manufacturers in Asia THE CUSTOMER IS THE FOCUS of our business model. We base everything on our customers and their needs, and offer smart, simple and practical solutions at attractive prices that help make and inspire a simpler everyday NATURAL RESOURCES life and a more sustainable lifestyle. Our operations are based on clear and • Efficient use of natural resources for production and efficient processes for the customer offering, customer interaction, purchasing and distribution, and we work to integrate sustainability aspects throughout distribution our value chain. Our values and our strong corporate culture feature in all that we do. FROM HERE TO SUSTAINABILITY is our concept that describes our sustainability journey and puts the focus on our most sustainable offering. Products for a more sustainable lifestyle are our most important contribution to a long-term sustainable society. 22 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OUR WAY OF WORKING | BUSINESS MODEL CREATED VALUE CUSTOMERS Economic value by stakeholder group 2017/18 • High availability of an affordable and attractive offering • Confidence that products purchased meet high quality, safety and environmental requirements • Products and services for a more sustainable lifestyle EMPLOYEES • A reliable and long-term employer who offers a stimulating, developing and safe work environment • Our recruitment process seeks to increase diversity at every workplace We create value for our customers, but also for other stakeholders SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS such as employees in the form of salaries, suppliers for purchases • Long-term and beneficial business relationships of products and services, owners in the form of dividends and • Training in responsible business society in general by taxes and fees. Suppliers and business partners, 77% SOCIETY Society, 11% • Contribution to economic development • Job opportunities Employees, 7% • Involvement in the local community • Contribution to higher resource efficiency Shareholders, 5% • Contribution to reducing environmental and climate impact SHAREHOLDERS • A long-term, sustainable investment that yields solid returns and value growth CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 23 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY Effective governance of operations ROBUST CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND A VALUES-DRIVEN CORPORATE CULTURE help us to optimise the efficiency of our processes and integrate ethics, the environment and social issues in our strategic decisions and our way of working. Clas Ohlson will continue to grow and develop Business Ethics and our Code of Conduct are and add value for our customers, employees included in all purchase agreements and we strive and other stakeholders, and make positive conto include them in all major contracts. We are tributions to the communities in which we clear that violation of the Code of Business Ethoperate. Our culture and our values define our ics could, in addition to the termination of the way of working. We often talk about the Clas partnership, lead to consequences under labour Ohlson spirit. For us, this is an approach based law and criminal law. on salesmanship and its cornerstones: drive, warmth, innovation and commitment. These Our most significant risk of corruption exist in values have existed since our start in 1918 and the purchasing process and when entering into have always been fundamental to all work underlarger contracts. Therefore, we conduct reguLONG-TERM taken in the company. lar training for all employees who work with AMBITION purchasing and high-value contracts and for our We enhance efficiency Strong governance agents in Asia. and simplify our way of working by: impleThe governance of Clas Ohlson is based upon menting new business Swedish legislation, primarily the Companies Three violations of the Code of Conduct were systems, developing Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book and the reported during the year. One case involved processes and organSwedish Corporate Governance Code. All busibusiness connections with closely related parties isation, and ensuring the integration of ness activities are to be conducted in accordance and resulted in termination of employment. Two sustainability issues. with the applicable legislation of the countries in cases involved attempted bribery in conjuncwhich we operate. tion with factory audits of potential supplier PRIORITIES FOR and these resulted in a partnership not being 2017/18 • Implementing Read more about the governance of Clas Ohlson established. sCORE and related in the Corporate Governance Report on pages processes 79-87. • Adapting and developing the Reporting An ethical approach organisation based Our Code of Conduct and Code of Business DEVIATIONS on legislation Any suspected deviations from the Code of and rules Ethics describe Clas Ohlson’s commitment to Business Ethics and Code of Conduct can be • Ensuing focus maintaining a high standard of ethics when we reported by e-mail, to an immediate superior or on sustainability to an immediate manager, Head of Sustainability in the strategic do business and our expectations of each employor General Counsel. Such reports can be made planning ee and partner. We have a zero tolerance policy anonymously. regarding corruption and bribery. Our Code of 24 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OUR WAY OF WORKING | OUR RESPONSIBILITY Employee INTERVIEW Hello! Transparent, reliable and secure Chief Security Officer LINUS SANDGREN The new EU General Data Protection Regulato provide their consent again to remain as tion (GDPR), places entirely new demands on members based on the new membership the processing of personal data by compaterms. nies. We have conducted comprehensive work to adapt our processing and live up to GDPR also involves extended rights for the new legislation. GDPR represents, for customers. For example, they are entitled to example, increased transparency, reliability be informed about all of the data we saved and security, and applies in all EU countries in relation to them, and to have their data as of May 2018. corrected, erased, digitally transferred to another party or to “pause” processing. Our How have we worked with this over the employees have received new digital tools past year? to be able to assist customers with this in a We continued the work we started already simple and effective manner. two years ago by adapting our entire business to GDPR. This has entailed comprehenHow does GDPR correspond to Clas sive work to clarify responsibility, introduce Ohlson’s view of integrity and customer new work procedures, training, systems relations? development, signing contracts and so on for GDPR represents, for example, transpareneveryone that processes personal data. cy, reliability and security for the customer’s personal data, which is entirely in line with What does this mean for our customers? how we view relations with our customers Customers who visit us and shop as usual and the extensive confidence they already will probably not notice any difference. But for have in us. Understanding how and knowing customers who hand in something for repair why personal data are processed as they are or a refund, and for those who are members and knowing that this processing is correct is of our loyalty clubs, it means in practical becoming increasingly important to our custerms that we will inform them more clearly tomers. Our customers should feel confident and in accordance with GDPR about how we in submitting their data to us and that they process their personal data. It also means can trust that we will process their personal that existing members of Club Clas will need data in accordance with applicable legislation. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 25 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY Governance for sustainability function is responsible for monitoring POLICIES We integrate key sustainability issues into our strategy, business model and goverand managing existing risks and identifies new risks. The Group’s Risk Committee AND GUIDELINES nance. It is the responsibility of each compiles, coordinates and develops risk approved by our Board function to drive and pursue this work management, and reports to Group Manbased on our values, our Code of Conduct agement and the Board. • Code of Conduct • Code of Business Ethics and our sustainability targets. We believe • Financial policy this is the way to achieve the best results, a Strategic risks primarily comprise risks as• Information policy business that is sustainable in all areas and sociated with changes in the business envi• Information Security policy strong commitment from our employees. ronment and increased competition, shifts • Insider policy • IT policy in technology and in customers’ purchas• Diversity policy The responsibility for overall strategies, ing habits, as well as market positioning, • Security policy targets and follow-up rests with Group product range and offering. Operational Management and the head of sustainrisks are associated with product sourcing, Our most important policies, guidelines, instructions and manuals are ability. The Board of Directors is updated sustainability, IT systems, logistics, key regularly updated and communiregularly regarding sustainability work employees and leases. Risks of a financial cated. General guidelines and being conducted in the company and the nature consist primarily of changes in instructions are published on our insustainability risks are reported not less the economy, currency exposure, transtranet and policies that include partners are available on the website. than twice a year within the framework port costs, raw material prices and wage of risk reviews. inflation. CODE OF CONDUCT Supplier audits Read more about risks and uncertainties in Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct We have in-house audit teams stationed in the Directors’ Report on pages 74-77. Read applies to all parts of our operaChina, our largest purchasing market, and more about sustainability tions and contains guidelines for employees, suppliers and business perform regular audits to ensure complirisks on pages 130-131. partners with regard to human ance with our high expectations regarding rights, labour standards, health working conditions, human rights and the and safety, the environment and anti-corruption. environment as defined in the Code of LONGSTANDING Conduct. There was 97 per cent supplier The Code is based on international compliance with our requirements, with no PARTNERSHIP conventions and national legisserious deviations, during the financial year. with Save the Children lation and regulations, including Read more about the requirements we place Clas Ohlson has been working with Save the UN Declaration on Human the Children in China for many years to Rights, the UN’s Children’s Rights on suppliers on pages 50-53. and Business Principles, the ILO improve conditions for migrant workers core conventions and the OECD Focus on risk management and their children. “Better business for guidelines. Risk management is a high priority and children and migrant parents” is a threewe are continuing to develop our tools year initiative to engage our suppliers in CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS Our Code of Business Ethics defor identifying and managing risks. When China in improving the rights and well-bescribes Clas Ohlson’s commitment handled correctly, risks may lead to opporing of migrant workers and their children. to maintaining a high standard of tunities and add value to the business. We Read more about Clas Ohlson’s prioritised ethics, making sound business sustainability areas on pages 124-127. decisions without consideration for continuously update the Group’s risk situpersonal or third party gains, not ation by conducting a documented process accepting, offering or paying bribes, in which risks are identified, measured, and complying with applicable laws managed and reported to Group Manageand regulations. ment and the Board twice a year, or more Clas Ohlson also follows the Swedfrequently if required. ish Anti-corruption Institute’s (IMM) Code on Gifts, Rewards and Other The risks are compiled in risk charts that Benefits (the “Code of Business Conduct”). provide a clear overview of the total risk exposure and priority action to take. Each 26 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY Employee INTERVIEW Futureproof business system Hello! Head of Business Development ÅSA HAMBERG How has sCORE been steered? and through positive dialogue and dissemWe have a clear and well-defined structure ination of information within the projects. sCORE – contributes to to steer the programme in the right direcEach month, we have presented the “High DEVELOPING OUR tion. The steering group comprises members of Group Management and we have a sCORE award” to the employee or employees who have made the most extraordinary RESOURCES programme management team that ensures contributions. sCORE, Systems for Clas Ohlson Retail that the various projects are coordinated Efficiency, is our new business system. We efficiently. What will the largest change be for have invested approximately 500 MSEK in Clas Ohlson as a result of sCORE? sCORE to create the preconditions for better Additionally, we have project managers and The greatest change is that we have forecasts and planning, and to simplify and sub-project managers who focus on their enhanced our ability to adapt and optimise enhance the efficiency of processes and respective deliveries. We have also worked our range based on demand, geography, working methods. We are gaining a modern, with a number of reference groups from demography and a number of other paramscalable and flexible business system. various areas of the business to ensure that eters. decisions and solutions are well-established sCORE contributes to further developing our in the operations. sCORE has also helped us to become betresources in several areas, including: ter at working in an interdisciplinary manner Enhanced efficiency in supply chain What has been most difficult? in a more efficient way and at a very high Enhanced possibilities of adapting the Managing the complexity of the project, in pace of development. This is a prerequisite range to demand in various areas and all dimensions. We take an interdisciplinfor us to succeed in developing as a comsales channels ary approach to all business flows at Clas pany and addressing the rapid changes that Better forecasts, which ensures efficient Ohlson, while we also have a large number will occur in the retail sector in the next few production planning and optimised staffing of suppliers to be coordinated. In addition, years. Accordingly, the programme has conof the distribution centre in Insjön and in there is a high level of technical complexity tributed in many different ways to making stores because we work with so many areas of the us well-equipped to tackle the opportunities More efficient processes in our central operation simultaneously. and challenges of the future. functions, such as for transport documentation, invoice management How have we worked to ensure a high and supplier management level of energy in the project team? Opportunity to open new distribution We have succeeded in assembling a wondercentres fully competent team with highly motivated A modern technical platform, that and goal-oriented employees. Together, we enables Clas Ohlson to develop its have created conditions for high energy, inoperations efficiently over time cluding through joint meetings and activities, A total of 100-130 persons, both internal and external, have worked together to achieve the targets we have set for sCORE. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 27 OUR WAY OF WORKING | CO-WORKERS A strong team COMMITTED AND GOAL-ORIENTED EMPLOYEES who share our values and want to grow with us are fundamental to our continued expansion and development. Together, we will find new, smart solutions to practical everyday problems. Today, Clas Ohlson employs more than 5,000 employees in six countries. Clas Ohlson is to be an attractive employer Employees who want to grow with us that can develop and retain competent and In the recruitment process, we seek employees committed employees, while attracting new who want to grow and develop with Clas Ohlson skills. This is the key to continued successful and who share our values. We strive for increased growth. We offer a stimulating work environdiversity and we are sure that a variety of compement with many opportunities for personal and tencies and backgrounds are needed for continLONG-TERM ued successful growth. professional development. AMBITION Clas Ohlson will ensure a high-perforPassion for business Having a service mindset, commitment and a mance and impasOur strong core values are the foundation for all business-oriented approach are important prereqsioned organisation uisites to enjoy working with us. work conducted in the company and how we apthat will facilitate our customers’ everyday proach each other, our customers, suppliers and lives. society at large. The core of our corporate culture Skills development and career paths is salesmanship. We understand customers’ needs Our induction programme ensures that all new PRIORITIES FOR employees receive a broad understanding of Clas and we have a passion for doing business that is 2017/18 • Strengthening good for us and our customers. Ohlson’s history and corporate culture, our misleadership • Skills development of employees • Developing our OUR VALUES ability to attract Salesmanship is the core of the Clas Ohlson spirit and rests on four cornerstones: and retain key Drive, warmth, talents • Increasing diversity among our employees innovation and commitment. 28 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OUR WAY OF WORKING | CO-WORKERS We will attract, develop and retain the right competence for the development of Clas Ohlson moving forward. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 29 OUR WAY OF WORKING | CO-WORKERS 78 sion and our sustainability work to carry We primarily recruit internally, and with them when dealing with customers more than 50 per cent of our store and other stakeholders. managers held a different position at the company in the past. We need to change as conditions change. engagement index Each employee receives continuous skills development and individualised We use career planning and internal development to ensure that the Clas Engagement is high among Clas further training, separately or in groups. Ohlson spirit will live on. Ohlson’s employees and the index The Clas Ohlson Academy coordinates increased from 77 to 78 in the most and offers training at all levels and in all Diversity helps us to develop recent employee survey, which was conducted in autumn 2016. markets. We endeavour to ensure that every workplace has employees with different Skills are mainly learnt in daily work backgrounds, skills and experience. duties. New work assignments are a path Greater diversity boosts creativity and to new challenges within the Group and innovation. This helps us to understand there are major opportunities to advance and interact with our customers in the skills or change direction. best possible way. COYAT is the guide into the future What’s hot and what’s not? What are the trends? How will Clas Ohlson address the customers of the future? The members of COYAT, Clas Ohlson Youth Advisory Team, which was formed in January 2018, hail from different countries and positions within Clas Ohlson. They all have an enormous passion for retail, service and smart solutions. The members are already engaged in many different projects and initiatives, which include such subjects as corporate culture, sustainability and new store solutions. COYAT will also be a reference group for some of the strategic initiatives to be promoted in the next few years. 30 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OUR WAY OF WORKING | CO-WORKERS Clas Ohlson is to be an inclusive workFocus on well-being place, where we respect each other and It is important to us to be able to offer a follow Clas Ohlson’s core values. We stimulating and healthy work environhave a zero tolerance policy for all forms ment, where employees enjoy physical of discrimination and harassment. All and mental well-being, and feel a sense employees have the same rights, opporof confidence, security and belonging. tunities and obligations regardless of Clas Ohlson works actively and pregender, age, religion, ethnic background, ventively to improve the company’s disability or sexual orientation. employee attendance, through initiatives such as leadership, work environment We work to increase diversity through and preventive healthcare. recruitment and focused skills development. We work on the basis of our Employees who are contented and hapGroup-wide diversity policy and follow py are committed, stay longer and are up on how we develop in relation to important ambassadors for Clas Ohlson. targets and key ratios in this area. Our goal is for employee attendance to The focus during the financial year was exceed 96 per cent on an annual basis. to increase awareness of how diversity Employee attendance for the 2017/18 can contribute to the development of financial year was 95 per cent. Clas Ohlson, and we have prepared development plans for the next few years in consultation with our management teams. FOCUS on diversity Managers, proportion of women/men, % The gender division in the entire Group is 43 per cent women and 57 per 33 34 34 34 34 cent men. 34 per cent of managers were women during the year, unchanged compared with the preceding year. The target is that neither men nor women 67 66 66 66 66 will account for less than 40 per cent of each individual professional category. We also strive for increasing the balance of ages and recruiting older employ13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 ees to the company. Men Women Employees by country, % Age distribution, % Employee attendance, % Germany, 1% China, 2% 95 UK, 2% 50 years and older, 13% Under 30 years Finland, 9% Sweden, 59% old, 43% 95 94 94 94 Between 30-49 Norway, 26% years old, 44% 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 Target 96% CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 31 TRAINEESHIPS provide experience Leading at Clas commitment to our strategic work. In and work Excellent leadership creates personal and January, we gathered 160 of our most Together with the Swedish Public corporate growth. At Clas Ohlson, leadinfluential leaders and specialists for an Employment Service, we work to ership involves utilising and developing interactive strategy meeting, which was help young people who are excludour employees to generate good business followed up by several virtual meetings ed from the labour market to gain with a constant focus on the customer. during the spring. important practical work experience. Our internal leadership programs aim The programme also includes longto support our employees and managOur new strategy entails that many term unemployed persons over the ers in their development and to make employees will work in various strategic age of 50. In 2017/18, we acceptwell-founded decisions that will take projects in the years ahead and we have ed 64 new trainees. Of those who the company forward. This also ensures developed a programme for training participated during the financial year, shared leadership within Clas Ohlson. more people in our new project model. about a third were offered employment at the end of the traineeship. Our team leaders in stores and at the We continuously review the content of distribution centre in Insjön are a key our leadership programme and during Within the framework of the cooptarget group, who all attend our prothe year, we also tested various digieration with the Public Employment gramme with a focus on the first step. tal solutions to facilitate learning and Service, we also participate in the enhance the efficiency of the training “Sweden Together” programme, in Another key task has been to develop programme. We want to make our which we as a major employer take and strengthen the competence of the leadership programmes available to a a stance to help improve integration. approximately 100 managers who will broader target group within Clas Ohlson At a local level, partnerships are now lead our employees in addressing the and in the next few years, we will develalso in progress with municipalities challenges of the future and realising op more shorter training modules that and other players to be able to offer Clas Ohlson’s new strategy. Continsupport learning in everyday work and traineeships for persons with disabiliuous involvement meetings ensure disseminate the competence that already ties and others. understanding of, participation in and exists within Clas Ohlson. 32 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OUR WAY OF WORKING | CO-WORKERS Employee INTERVIEW Positive customer interaction generates energy Hello! Store manager, Drottninggatan Stockholm PETRA MALMSTEN Tell us about your job as store manager! What is most fun? You are testing many new concepts in If you like working with people, then this is job Watching your employees grow and naturally, the store. What is your most important is tremendous fun! In the store on Drottningseeing the result on the bottom line! As the success factor? gatan, we have more than 60 employees, all manager of Clas Ohlson’s largest store, I am Both customer benefits and our targets must full of commitment, innovativeness, drive and unfortunately not among our customers very be clear. A good plan is then needed to imwarmth. often, but I try to be present when we open plement these as efficiently as possible. And every morning, and then I try to interact with naturally, we follow up and evaluate whether it Much of the work involves getting people to one or more customers who I have the opreally turned out as well as we intended from feel confident in themselves and their roles, portunity to help before my agenda as store the start. as well as planning, following up, enhancing manager commences for the day. efficiency and driving results. Regardless of One example is when we redesigned our whether you work three or 40 hours a week, How do you create energy in your cuscheck-out queues in September last year. you should feel that your are important and tomer interaction? The response from our customers afterwards that you are a link in a well-functioning team. I think it is important to talk about positive was only positive, which is really wonderful. customer interaction and I try to do so at The fact that the personnel also gained a How important is diversity in your store? morning meetings and also in the weekly better work environment is a fantastic win-win Naturally, it is of great importance. We are all newsletter. situation. different in some way and have been shaped by different things in our lives. Together with And positive customer interaction genera large amount of humility and respect, this ates energy – listening to the customer and creates a wonderful sense of community and exceeding their expectations is something we a better work environment. actually all want to do! Our customers are very varied in many different ways and if we employees are the same, customer interaction becomes better and closer. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 33 Adding extra services for practical problem solving. 34 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER OFFERING Unique products and smart services CLAS OHLSON OFFERS SMART, simple, practical and affordable solutions focused on the home. Our offering is intended to simplify everyday life and provide inspiration. The product range should be attractive as well as distinctive and competitive in all of the markets we serve. Clas Ohlson has a broad offering in the categoProducts for a sustainable lifestyle ries of Hardware, Electrical, Multimedia, Home Our broad range of products and millions of and Leisure. The product range includes both customer relationships give us both a responsibilproprietary brands and other well-known brands. ity and an opportunity to make a contribution to LONG-TERM In addition, we offer spare parts and accessories the sustainable development of society. Actively AMBITION A product and that prolong the service life of products. Our striving to offer more products that contribute service offering based customers receive assistance, advice and tips from to a more sustainable lifestyle is therefore a on customers’ needs, our employees in stores, by telephone or online. priority as we develop our product range. This is prevailing trends and also something that we know our customers are that inspires people to adopt a more sustainA constantly changing offering requesting, and we are convinced that it will have able lifestyle is key to We work continuously to improve our customer an increasingly significant impact on purchase being best at solving offering. New products are added, existing prodecisions in the future. everyday practical ducts are developed and altered and others are problems. phased out. Services are added for practical proPRIORITIES FOR blem solving. We carefully monitor trends and 2017/18 consumption patterns and adapt our offering to STRICT REQUIREMENTS • Optimise category local markets. and product mix and continuous evaluation • Ensure an affordFor a product to be included in our product able and sustainAbout 15 per cent of our product range is reable offering range, we test to see if they meet our strict placed every year, and our customers see new • Strengthen our requirements on proper function, price, quality, products every week in our stores and in our proprietary brands safety and chemical content. Of course, they • Increase sales of online store. It should be easy to find the right must be produced under appropriate working products for a product for your needs, but we also want to more sustainable conditions. inspire customers to discover new solutions and lifestyle a more sustainable lifestyle. Products that we already sell are routinely evaluated on the basis of demand, customer satisfaction and profitability. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 35 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER OFFERING We increased the percentage of products Everything for the office. CRITERIA for for a more sustainable lifestyle during And more besides. products for a more the 2017/18 financial year to 16 per Clas Office is our offering for small and sustainable lifestyle cent of sales. Our objective is that the mid-size companies. B2B sales are noProducts for a more sustainable percentage of products for a more susthing new, but Clas Office enables us to lifestyle must meet our general tainable lifestyle will amount to 25 per provide even more relevant offerings and requirements and at least one of cent of sales by 2020. discounts, along with easier options for the following: registration and invoicing. Our availabil• More sustainable material Spare parts prolong service life ity through the store network and online • Fewer hazardous substances Our range of spare parts is good business store, our broad product range and our • Energyand water-efficient for both us and our customers, while expanded range of office products all • Reuse and recycling it helps us to save resources and extend help to make it easier for companies to the service life of a product. Our online consolidate all of their office purchases Our criteria for a more sustainable store offers a simple search system covto a single supplier – regardless of their lifestyle were further developed ering over 10,000 spare parts, including industry and their needs. Clas Office is during spring 2018, and reflect the products that are no longer stocked. currently available in the Swedish and impact of our products throughout Norwegian markets. the entire value chain. The range of spare parts is available in all markets, although with local variaStrict quality, safety and health tions in the product ranges in the UK requirements and Germany. A number of spare parts Quality is important to us and our are also available in our physical stores, customers. We are particularly diligent which manage stock levels based on local with products that carry our proprietary demand. brands and these undergo numerous Share of products for a more tests before being approved. The first insustainable lifestyle, % Our range of spare parts is very popuspection takes place when our engineers lar and sales during the financial year conduct advanced tests for quality, func16 increased by 13 per cent. tion, safety and durability on the sample products brought home by buyers from 14 trade fairs or purchasing trips. 10 6 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 Target 25% 2020 TELENOR moves in Our customers now have access to Telenor products and services right in our stores. Through this partnership, we can offer a complete range of telephony, broadband and accessories. Telenor is on site, with its own sales assistants, adjacent to the multimedia department. The pilot project, started in March 2018 and planned to run for six months, initially covers six stores in the Swedish market. 36 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 Remote control with SMART PLUG Clas Ohlson’s Smart Plug makes it easy to control everything from lamps to coffee machines and heat pumps remotely, from a smart phone or tablet. Smart Plug fits ordinary power points. Installation and an advanced built-in timer are easily controlled with the new Clas Ohlson Home app, which is free to download from Google Play or the Apple app store. New items for a CLEANER HOME NEW TECHWe are launching several new smart items NOLOGY means for a cleaner home. One example is Blue better lighting Pure 411, a small but efficient air filter that Lighting products are rapidly removes substances such as pollen, dust becoming more energy-effiand animal allergens from the air. cient, and better adapted to consumers’ demands and wishes. Our product range now contains several dimmaThe Dustzero dust collector is the ble lighting sources, and our perfect product for avoiding dust new Premium Classic LED when drilling into walls. bulbs look like the classic incandescent bulbs — something many customers have demanded — with perfect And why not let a robot clean the winlight quality and colour reprodows? Ecovac’s Winbot 950 is a new duction. Compared with the item in our product range that is perfect old bulbs, energy consumpfor large panes or other glass partitions. tion is approximately 80 per cent lower and the service life 15–25 times longer. Nest Labs for SAFER HOMES In autumn 2017, we introduced Nest Labs’ popular safety products for a safer home to the Nordic market. Fine little smart cameras for indoor or outdoor use. The customer controls the installation from the Nest app, which alerts them to smouldering fires or unwelcome visitors. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 37 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER OFFERING New services for We only place an order when the tek, Semko and SP Technical Research GREATER CUSengineers have deemed the product to Institute of Sweden. TOMER VALUE be up to standard and the supplier is in compliance with our Code of Conduct. Smart packaging Clas Ohlson has long offered help with repairs and spare parts, Read more about the requirements we We routinely update the packaging rewhich extends the service life of place on suppliers on pages 49–53. quirements that we impose on our supproducts and promotes reduced pliers. These requirements include the environmental impact. We are now Continuous monitoring is an importselection of materials and design, where expanding, adding new services to ant part of our quality work and we we strive to avoid unnecessary packaging our customer offering. consistently monitor claims statistics materials, particularly for products that and customer assessments to continue we sell in high volumes. Hire from Clas Customers developing and improving the entire can now choose to hire tools for product range. In partnership with our suppliers, we DIY projects instead of buying them. also develop new packaging solutions The new “Hire from Clas” service, We also work to minimise the use of and select materials we deem to be more already available in some 30 stores hazardous chemicals in the company’s sustainable. Through a new digital funcin Sweden and a smaller number of product range, and we have imposed tion, our store employees provide us pilot stores in Norway and Finstricter requirements than those set by with tips for improvement and contribland, has quickly become popular. legislation for products used by children ute numerous valuable insights. Customers save on space and and products that come into contact money and many people see it as with skin or food. Testing is carried out During the year, plastic packaging an alternative for a more sustainable in our own workshops and laboratories, for lighting sources was replaced with lifestyle. and we also cooperate with several indecardboard packaging bearing a clear Clas pendent test institutions such as InterOhlson profile. Complete mower This soundless robot lawnmower works in an environmentally friendly manner, keeping the lawn in perfect condition all summer. We offer mowers for all properties, complete with installation, maintenance and winter storage across Sweden. Sharpened knives Dull knives can be both troublesome and dangerous – keeping them sharp is important. Knife sharpening services are offered in all Swedish stores. Kitchen, hunting and fishing knives are received in-store and wet-sharpened at our workshop in Insjön. 38 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER OFFERING Employee Good design INTERVIEW adds the little extra that Hello! makes products unique Product development specialist PATRIK-PATRICIO AZÓCAR NORDEMAN and Designer SARAH EINARSSON Design is an important component in making products and the material yields a longer serdifferent ways, and there are individual things our proprietary brands more distinguished vice life, thereby making the products better to like about all of our products. and more attractive. Patrick and Sarah are from a sustainability perspective. in charge of designs including our Limited Can you talk briefly about your backEdition anniversary products, which were S: Yes, we discuss that a lot. Of course, the grounds? Why did you apply to work at launched in June and consist of products selection of materials in itself is the be-all Clas Ohlson? for everyday living that have long been in our and end-all. Origin and working with smart, S: I have been at Clas Ohlson since 2007, range but have been given a new design. eco-labelled materials is important. Right when I joined as a temp doing layouts for now, for example, we’re working a lot with instruction manuals. For several years, I then What is most important in the design bamboo because it’s a good material from a worked as a packaging designer and as a process? sustainability viewpoint, but also because it’s designer for the Home category, before I S: Without a doubt, it’s looking at things from quite trendy right now. started with product range development. the customer’s perspective and trying to My academic background is in media and understand what they’ll be asking for in a year What are your personal favourites in advertising, marketing and graphic design. and what will be trending by then. the new Limited Edition anniversary Moreover, my work fascinates me and I have products? learned a lot on the job. P: We are trying to attain breadth, and in that S: Together with the responsible product breadth we want to bring out details that give managers, we have prepared numerous P: I’ve always been interested in design and a little extra and make our products unique. unique products that we became very colour, and I studied media in upper secThe price is important, as well as being as attached to during the process. But what ondary school. I worked as a sales assistant cost-efficient as possible. stands out for me, is when we take an everyand store manager at Apple for a while until day object such as a screwdriver and make it I trained as an engineer in technical design. How do you work with sustainability? glamorous. I then completed my degree project here at P: This is something we work on all the time, Clas Ohlson — a project in solar cell lighting bringing it into the design process. One way P: It’s impossible to choose just one product! — and stayed! of seeing it is that a high level of quality in the It’s much like your children; you like them in Daily life looks a little better with LIMITED EDITION We are celebrating our 100th anniversary with a limited run of carefully selected range of everyday products with an exclusive twist. The Limited Edition products have been designed by our design team in Insjön, and were selected to represent the big sellers and favourites over the years. Everything from design and selection of material to packaging should make everyday life a little less ordinary. The first products — including a folding bike, an elegant table fan, a solar cell basket lantern, a stylish suitcase and an exclusive tool box — became available for sale in stores and online on 2 June 2018. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 39 Our proprietary brands offer a wider selection. Increased share of own brands Our proprietary brands complement the range One of the Nordic region’s in all product categories and offer customers a BEST-KNOWN brands with wider selection and more opportunities to choose very high brandrecognition the price and product features that best suit their needs. Sweden 99 % Norway 100 % We place strict requirements on quality, funcFinland 96 % tionality and sustainability. All of our proprietary products undergo numerous tests before being approved, both in Insjön, and out at the manufacturing plants before we place the first order. Share of proprietary brands, % Our proprietary brands accounted for 36 per cent of sales during the 2017/18 financial year, and 36 our objective is to increase this percentage further. 36 29 30 29 We are reviewing and improving our offering in order to be even more relevant and add value through design, functionality and sustainability. 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 40 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER OFFERING Our five PRODUCT CATEGORIES Services that SIMPLIFY DAILY LIFE Service is becoming an increasingly central part of Clas Ohlson’s customer offering. Even now, our customers can get help with hiring tools, finding spare parts, turning in knives for sharpening and buying robot lawn mowers complete with installation, maintenance and winHardware Electrical ter storage. In the Hardware category, we sell tools, Clas Ohlson has many smart, safe and fittings and materials that make it easier energy-efficient solutions for an electriNow we are taking the next step and more enjoyable to renovate, build, cal-smart home or office. The degree in simplifying daily life in all kinds of paint and repair. We focus on smaller of innovation is high and the design of homes. In autumn 2018, we will be projects. Clas Ohlson has the tools to the products has been given an increaslaunching Clas Fix it in the Swedget the job done, the paint to paint with ingly important role. Clas Ohlson offers ish market. Clas Fix it helps our and everything else needed to renovate products to transmit, charge, monitor, customers with tasks they do not and make home repairs. measure, light, heat, link, install, drive have time for, or that are a little too and ventilate. difficult to fix on their own. Multimedia Home Leisure Our Multimedia range uses simple and We have thousands of affordable The Leisure category contains products smart solutions to connect networks, products that make everyday life easier for outdoor living, the garden, sports and music, films, printouts and much more. and more enjoyable. The product range exercise, travel and games. Carefully Large parts of the range are replaced includes products for the living room, selected products contribute to active frequently due to new needs and the kitchen, broom cupboard, wardrobe, leisure for children and adults, both outrapid pace of technological developlaundry room and bathroom. Large parts door and indoor, all year round. ment, but we also supply products from of the range are changed each year to older generations of technology. follow prevailing trends. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 41 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER INTERACTION It should be simple, affordable and inspiring. 42 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER INTERACTION Best service in stores and online SHOPPING AT CLAS OHLSON SHOULD BE SIMPLE AND FLEXIBLE, as well as inspiring and affordable. We offer accessibility and service through a combination of various sales channels. Clas Ohlson’s service concept is based on the passion and skills of our employees. We want to be proactive, meeting our customers with commitment. Our co-workers in stores, customer service or chat rooms, who encounter LONG-TERM customers every day, are important brand bearers AMBITION 40 and brand builders. Good service and an easy shopping experience are both We meet customers via many channels key to increasing We work continuously to develop our various loyalty among existing sales channels and offer customers a flexible and customers as well as attracting new inspiring shopping experience. Our aim is to customers. manage all sales channels as one whole, minimising differences between physical and digital million customers in our stores PRIORITIES FOR stores. To an ever increasing extent, we are also 2017/18 The number of visitors to our stores • Strengthen our meeting our customers via social media. totalled 75 million during the year. excellent customer The conversion rate increased and meeting Our large store network is an asset, and stores the number of customers • Evaluate and totalled 40 million. further develop remain our most important sales channel. Our new store formats store concept is continually changing and evolv• Develop and ing, with new solutions and ideas. It should be Number of visitors in stores, millions enhance the Club easy for customers to find their way around, and Clas loyalty club we place great importance on product display 75 • Take the next steps in terms of cusand navigation to save time for both customers 76 76 75 tomer communica73 and employees. Clas Ohlson also has different tion regarding our store formats, in which the size and product range of more offering is adapted according to the location and sustainable products level of local competition to better serve customers and drive sales. 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 43 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER INTERACTION The store formats vary in size, and the Our new business system, sCORE, breadth of the range varies among difwill enable us to take the next step in ferent stores. Products not found in the the development of our omni-channel stores can be ordered for home delivery offering. We will be able to further raise or to be collected in-store. service levels for our customers by offering relevant products in the right sales Our online store is becoming an channel at the right time, in an even increasingly important sales channel. more efficient manner. Read more about Many customers search for information sCORE on page 27. on the internet, and both traffic and conversions in our online store are rising sharply. Online sales increased by 33 per cent during the 2017/18 financial year. Visits to the website also contribute to increased visits and sales in our stores. Club Clas FOR LOYAL CUSTOMERS Club Clas is our loyalty club for everyone who appreciates useful and practical solutions to everyday problems. Membership includes discounts, special offers and invitations to various store events. Purchase histories are saved and customers appreciate receiving more relevant offerings. Stores with many club members have a higher average ticket value and a higher conversion rate. Club Clas is currently available in Sweden and Finland, but we are planning to launch it in other markets. Clas Ohlson COMPACT STORE We want to be where our customers are as they go about their day, and supplement our store network with a smaller format. After having tested a smaller format store in London, we were able to open our first Clas Ohlson Compact Store in Hornstull, Stockholm in autumn 2016. A further five stores opened their doors during the 2017/18 financial year. We fill these stores with smart products and practical solutions. Orders from our online store can be placed here, and the tools needed for home DIY projects can be hired. 44 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 Satisfied customers RECOMMEND US Clas Ohlson routinely conducts surveys, both in-store and online, to capture customers’ views on how well we perform in customer interactions. The latest results for our markets in the Nordics, from March 2018, indicate a customer satisfaction index of 88 per cent. Our customers appreciate our staff in their customer interactions, and also say that they would gladly recommend us to friends or colleagues. We are continually working on improving our service through our follow-up programme for customer satisfaction. SUSTAINABLE STORE CHAIN OF THE YEAR at Retail Awards Clas Ohlson received the “Sustainable Store Chain of the Year” at the Retail Awards, arranged by the Swedish Trade Federation and the trade newspaper Market to highlight successful businesses, people, and initiatives in commerce. An extract from the jury’s citation: “In addition to reducing its own environmental impact, the company helps its customers to lead a more sustainable lifestyle.” CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 45 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER INTERACTION 36% have LED lighting Sustainable stores We strive to improve sustainability in the stores and reduce their environmental impact through enhancements to energy efficiency and by increasing the use of renewable energy sources. stores had been converted and new stores, when established, are fitted exclusively with LED lighting. During the financial year, electricity consumption in our stores decreased At the end of the financial year, from 117 to 109 kWh/m2. 36 per cent of our stores had installed More costand energy-efficient LED energy-saving LED lighting. lighting reduces electricity consumption in converted stores by an average of 38 per cent, and the energy savings is Energy use and related 35 kWh per square metre. At the end CO2 emissions from indirect and of the financial year, 36 per cent of our direct energy consumption CO2-emissions, tonnes GWh 5,000 50 4,000 40 3,000 30 2,000 20 1,000 10 We want to inspire a more SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE We showcase products that promote a more sustainable lifestyle in all our sales chan0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 0 nels. All our indoor lighting, solar cell lighting and spare parts are here, as are a large number of eco-labelled products. In 2018, we also included tool hire, an example of Emissions Energy consumption Clas Ohlson offering sustainable services with improved environmental performance. Stores account for 84% of total energy consumption and 97% of CO2 emissions. Closer to customers with POP-UP STORE The Clas Ohlson Pop-up Store is a shop that is even more accessible. We want to be closer to our customers, helping to solve practical projects and small problems in their everyday lives. The new concept was tested in Sweden in 2017. There were a total of eight stops: among vacationers at popular tourist destinations, incoming students at Lund University, at the Annual General Meeting in Insjön and among Christmas shoppers in Tyresö Centrum. In the summer of 2018, a Clas Ohlson Pop-up Store will open in Norway: a shop in Oslo focusing on interior design and kitchen and cleaning products. Finland’s Pop-up Store will première at the Midsummer festival in Himos, and will visit music festivals around the country with a customised product range. 46 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 Employee INTERVIEW Hello! We have a strong digital agenda Head of Marketing Communications, UK MELISSA TITSHALL The UK has a firm lead in online shopping, and Clas digital partner and a stronger digital agenda. The UK Ohlson UK is focusing particularly on sales online. is at the forefront in retail development, especially in online shopping, so it is exciting to see our positive Which trends in online shopping impact Clas development and the opportunities moving forward. Ohlson the most? In the UK, online shopping via mobile units, conveWhat’s in the works right now? nience and speed, personalisation and voice-activated Here in the UK, we will continue to focus on the digital shopping are the biggest trends. More than 55 per world and the web. We are going in even more for digicent of traffic and 40 per cent of all sales in online tal marketing, search engine optimisation, social media, shopping is from mobile units, so this is an area we various partnerships and having a high level of service are focusing on at the same time as we are working to in our offering online. meet customer demands as regards logistics and the possibility of same-day or next-day delivery. The ability The move from an external warehouse to our proprito communicate with the customer in a more personal etary “Omni-channel Warehouse” in Reading is an and relevant manner is also tremendously important. important step in ensuring the level of service, and we are recruiting new talent both internally and externally. How can we best interact with our customers? The customer always comes first, regardless of whether What do you see as most important, going it’s an issue of how we package the delivery — with a forward? thank-you card, for example — or how we can improve Remaining relevant and keeping ourselves up to date our online offering even more. A simple and inspiring on what’s happening in the market. But also, of course, customer journey and the right product, service or focusing on our customers and asking ourselves where price in combination with a clear communications they are, what they need, what they expect and how strategy are important tools for improving the customer we can deliver, at the same time as we develop relaexperience. A deep understanding of our customers is tionships with our customers and differentiate ourselves the priority, and forms part of the work in line with our on the market. new strategy. Having an open mind is important — digital and techHow has online shopping developed over the nological advances are so rapid that it is nearly imposyear? sible to be an expert. We’re always learning. Keeping The development has been a strong one. This is due up with the trends and continually improving ourselves to several different factors, for example a restructured is what is needed to stay successful. media strategy and increased focus on the web, a new CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 47 We collaborate closely with our most important suppliers. 48 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | PURCHASING High requirements for suppliers CLAS OHLSON DOES NOT OWN ANY MANUFACTURING PLANTS. Products that carry our proprietary brands, or which are unbranded, are bought directly from the manufacturer or through agents in Europe and Asia. We and our customers place strict demands on function and quality as well as price and respect for people and the environment throughout the supply chain. 71% LONG-TERM Clas Ohlson buys products from approximately AMBITION A close relationship 650 suppliers in Europe and 600 manufacturers with our suppliers is in Asia. Close to 71 per cent of all our products vital to us in terms are manufactured in Asia – primarily in China, of ensuring excellent our largest purchasing market, where we also working conditions have our own purchasers. manufactured in Asia along the supply chain and quality in our Approximately 71 per cent of our offering. We continually review our existing purchasing products are manufactured in Asia. markets and evaluate new ones. PRIORITIES FOR 2017/18 • Strengthen collaboration with priori tised suppliers Regions of origin Regions of purchase • Develop new purchasing markets Others, 2% Others, 1% • Increase transparSweden, 7% Rest of Europe, 7% ency and efficiency Asia, 44% Sweden, 48% in our supplier Rest of Europe, 20% Asia, 71% programme through collaboration with other companies within the Sedex framework CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 49 OPERATIONS | PURCHASING Better control OF CHEMICALS Chemicals can impact both health and the environment. With clear requirements for suppliers, on-site audits and spot checks of finished products, we can identify and phase out hazardous substances. We have defined a process for how we annually update our requirements regarding chemicals products. In the financial year, we Close partnership Before we enter into a partnership, also took such measures as tightWe invest in close, long-term relationwe conduct a technical review at the ening requirements on soft plastics ships with our suppliers and have built manufacturing plant in question of the that come in contact with the skin, a strong supplier network over time. supplier’s conditions and ability to delivand substances that can cause This enables us to reduce our purchaser in line with our quality requirements. odours. On 1 July 2017, Sweden ing costs and allows us to exert more We are also on site before each delivery introduced a chemical tax on home influence over product design, quality to conduct quality checks in line with an electronics for the purpose of and price, but also leads to greater deestablished procedure. reducing the amount of hazardous livery reliability and speed. All suppliers flame retardants, and we have must adhere to our Code of Conduct. Long-term relations with prioritised focused a great deal on ensuring We carry out both announced and suppliers are crucial, as we get to know environmental performance for unannounced audits to ensure that our them and they get to know us and our electric and electronic products. suppliers are complying with the Code standards. of Conduct. A total of 249 audits were We are conducting internal training conducted during the financial year. We to increase knowledge and to can state that over the last two years, improve the dialogue with our sup97 per cent of our suppliers met the pliers, and we participate actively requirements. The target is 98 per cent. in networks where we exchange Read more on page 52. experiences with other players in the industry. 50 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | PURCHASING Employee INTERVIEW Our requirements often surpass the law Hello! Technical & Quality Manager, Assortment Development Department HENRIK ALFREDSSON Quality control is becoming more important As a final check before the products are Which products are particularly important for ensuring safety, function, performance and shipped to us, we send our own personnel to keep a check on? sustainability. Increased demand puts new to the site and conduct spot checks on all One high-risk area is all products that are requirements on our processes and routines. deliveries. connected to the electricity network, or have some type of power supply unit between it and What quality requirements do we place How has the work on quality changed? the power point. We pay particular attention to on our products? We are continually developing our requirethis area. The requirements differ widely, depending on ments and our quality activities. The biggest the product area in question. In specifying change now is that we are working more Another important area is products containing requirements, we naturally base them on proactively on assessing our suppliers more lithium batteries — Bluetooth headsets, for existing legislation, but also on such factors systematically. We conduct technical audits, example — that customers wear close to their as how great a risk the product carries for the in which specialists together with the suppliears. If there is something wrong with a battery user, or how complex it is. Our requirements ers go through extensive inquiry forms. Based of this type, it can cause serious injuries. Here, often surpass the law. on that, we then conduct a risk assessment we work only with certain suppliers who have depending on the level of the suppliers’ safety proper control of safety circuits, discharging For our proprietary brands, we are not satisand quality work. currents and so on. fied just with receiving reports and documentation, we also test all our products before We are also doing more towards working All these areas are important to keep an eye on, they go into the product range and sales on proprietary designs and customised of course, but we focus a great deal on textiles, begin. We have our own testing labs in Insjön products. This means we are more involved toys, products that come in contact with food and Shanghai, and a number of partnerships in production, and can better control the level and product areas we sell in high volumes, with external laboratories. of quality. such as lighting sources. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 51 OPERATIONS | PURCHASING Transparency partnership enables improved efficiency Before we do business with a new supand increased transparency in the supply plier in a high-risk country, we conduct chain, while we can simultaneously conan audit to check that the supplier meets centrate our resources on high-risk areas. the requirements on working conditions, human rights and the environment in All our suppliers have been assessed our Code of Conduct. This is applicable based on their observance of the Code of for all new suppliers. Conduct, and 15 supplier partnerships have been terminated due to serious We have internal auditors in China deviations. In total, 249 announced and who undertake comprehensive reviews unannounced audits were conducted, to ensure that requirements are being compared with 346 audits the year observed. before. We see positive effects from the audit By building up strong relationships work and the follow-ups that we carry with strategic suppliers – for example, out. During the financial year, we through various training courses – we focused on integrating Sedex, a partnerimprove Clas Ohlson’s opportunities for ship for increased transparency regardlong-term profitability while contribing responsible purchasing, into Clas uting to positive change and improved Ohlson’s supplier programme. The Sedex working conditions in the supply chain. 97% fulfil THE Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, % REQUIREMENTS in the Code of Conduct Discrimination During the financial year, we Child labour conducted 249 audits, both Forced labour announced and unannounced. Compensation Authorized minors Of these audits, 79 were of new Audit access denied suppliers. Over the past 24-month Freedom of association period, 100 per cent of our supEnvironment pliers in high-risk countries were Laws and regulations audited against the Code of ConHealth and security duct requirements, and 97 per cent Social ensurance Working hours fulfilled the requirements without any serious deviations. The target is 98 per cent. 2017/18 52 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | PURCHASING Employee INTERVIEW Hello! Commitment and transparency are most important CSR Coordinator, China MANDY LIU Since the beginning of 2017, Clas Ohlson has In addition, Sedex — in contrast to many audits on a shared platform, we can see collaborated with Sedex, a global organisation other similar organisations — provides us which reports are relevant to us. If we find that works for responsible purchasing and with the opportunity to use our internal skills one, we don’t need to conduct our own supplier chains and gives its members access and previous experiences to integrate Clas audit; we can refer to their report. to various kinds of data to improve the rights, Ohlson’s standards with Sedex regulations. health, and safety of workers as well as the What is most important for ensuring a environment and business ethics. How has the partnership developed over responsible supply chain? the year? I would say commitment and transparenWhy did we choose to join Sedex? We invested a great deal of time in learning cy. Commitment throughout Clas Ohlson, The partnership means we can reduce the their standards and templates in order to all the way up to executive management, number of audits we conduct on our own, integrate our own compliance programme means we can tell our suppliers that this which saves time and money. And if Sedex with theirs. We have also had a great deal of is a priority, which gives it a great deal of conducts the audits in accordance with the contact with other companies who are memweight. forms we have in common, they can share bers of Sedex, in order to understand how the results with numerous customers. This they use the platform in their operations. Transparency is important, since we need is naturally more efficient for the suppliers as to know exactly how well the plants in the well. At the Sedex Awards, Clas Ohlson won the supply chain comply with our requirements. international “Best New Programme 2017” Regardless of how well or poorly a supplier Another reason is that we can collaborate award with our training tool, QuizRR. This is a complies with the requirements, the starting with others to motivate manufacturers to confirmation that we are doing the right thing. point for Clas Ohlson is always obtaining a correct shortcomings that are discovered. correct picture in order to identify the risks Through Sedex, we are many customers How does this supplement our own and offer support. pulling in the same direction and imposing the audits? same requirements, which leads to increased The Sedex joint standard provides us with inHow do you view developments, awareness in the plants and thus a greater sights into which risk factors are of immediate moving forward? desire to correct the shortcomings. interest. It helps us focus on the right things. As regards compliance control, we will And since Sedex shares the results from the continue to conduct our own audits while using Sedex. We work closely with larger, important suppliers to help them and to work proactively. TRAINING INITIATIVE wins prize at Sedex Awards Simply put, we want to help our suppliers in In partnership with QuizRR, we train directors and workers in employee rights, health the areas where shortcomings exist in order and safety. The initiatives were nominated for “Best New Programme Implemented” at to meet the compliance requirements over the long term. the Sedex Awards in April, 2018. Since its start in 2017, Clas Ohlson has introduced QuizRR into 26 plants in China and so far, 4,000 workers have participated in the digital training programme. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 53 OPERATIONS | DISTRIBUTION The distribution centre in Insjön is the spider at the heart of the web. 54 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | DISTRIBUTION Efficient, all the way home ALL OUR PRODUCTS PASS THROUGH THE DISTRIBUTION CENTRE in Insjön to be repackaged and distributed to stores or directly to customers. We maintain an excellent level availability on store shelves and online, while working to reduce our lead times and our CO2 emissions in relation to our sales through selection of modes of transport, increased freight consolidation and a higher fill rate. LONG-TERM The products from suppliers in about 30 counand on-line customers with the products they AMBITION tries and close to 60 countries of origin pass need, in the right quantities and at the right A well-developed and through our major distribution centre in Insjön, time. Our availability in stores is 97 per cent. sustainable distribution system with short Sweden, where products are repackaged and Orders from stores are processed automatically lead times and a high dispatched to our more than 230 stores in five when an article reaches its re-order point, and level of service is countries or directly to customers who shopped products reach the stores in one to three days. important in terms of in our online store. satisfying the needs 97% of customers. Logistics are at the heart of Clas Ohlson, and an PRIORITIES FOR efficient flow of goods that keeps CO2 emissions 2017/18 to a minimum is one of our most important • Increase productivity at the distribution factors for success. centre • Consolidate transAvailability and efficiency availability portation in China • Increase the fill rate Our distribution centre in Insjön is the hub that Orders from stores are processed autoin containers provides the conditions for efficient distribution matically and products reach the stores • Reduce CO2 emisand logistics. Our focus is on supplying stores in one to three days. sions relative to our sales CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 55 OPERATIONS | DISTRIBUTION Each working day, an average of approximately 1,100 pallets are delivered to stores and approximately 1,600 deliveries are made directly to customers. During the year, we continued to develop our distribution centre to meet the capacity requirements for approximately 250 stores. LEAN, a more resource-efficient working method, is now a natural part of our operations. We have further centralised inventory control and enhanced the efficiency of our operations through such measures as investments in driverless forklifts and a new packaging machine for online shopping, which reduce lead times to customers. Transport packaging has been changed to better suit both delivery depots and stores. We are also working on the stock turnover rate at our distribution centre. Following a certain level of stock buildup and changes to the purchasing and product mix, we remain relatively constant. Stock turnover rate THE DISTRIBUTION CENTRE in Insjön 6.5 • 77,000 square metres • 3,700 containers unloaded per year 6.9 7.0 6.5 6.6 • Delivers 285,000 pallets to stores each year • Delivers 440,000 mail dispatches per year • 400 000 pallet and storage spaces 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 56 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | DISTRIBUTION Employee New INTERVIEW packaging machine with many advantages Hello! Operating Manager, Distribution centre, Insjön ROBERT LINDELL In May 2018, a new packaging machine for Ultimately, this will of course also reduce online shopping was put into operation and delivery times for the customer. tuned up at the distribution centre in Insjön. How does the new packaging machine There was a rush to get the new packagenable increased sustainability? ing machine into place. How did that go? From a sustainability perspective, there are at We wanted to have the packaging machine in least two concrete advantages. One is that place before sCORE was implemented at the we send “less air” in our dispatches, since the main office. This meant that the inauguration new packaging machine customises and cuts itself and start-up actually took place before down box heights according to how much is everything had been run in properly. But the contained in them. Transportation from the supplier was with us for two weeks after distribution centre are also optimised, since we put it into operation, and saw to it that the size of the cartons is reduced and there is everything was working as it should. During room for more dispatches on every pallet. the run-in, the employees who work with the machine on a daily basis also provided a Previously, we included enormous amounts of great deal of valuable input. plastic cushions to protect the products, but this is disappearing now that we can adapt How was capacity affected? the size of the cartons. Capacity had previously been a little out of sync, and the picking of products had In addition, it’s a lot nicer for the customer to managed larger volumes than packaging. open the package and to avoid having to deal With this new machine, the bottleneck in the with unnecessary packaging waste! packaging process was removed at the same time as we were given better opportunities to Read more about sCORE on page 27. adjust staff levels accordingly. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 57 OPERATIONS | DISTRIBUTION All the way home with MATHEM Following an initial pilot phase in April 2018, customers shopping on MatHem’s website can order a select product range of Clas Ohlson products to be delivered right to their door. The offering is being gradually rolled out in the Malmö, Stockholm and Gothenburg regions. MatHem is Sweden’s leading online supermarket. Efficient transportation We are shifting to ships and rail We work continually on our transportaAlmost all goods arriving from Asia tion to ensure higher security of delivery, to Gothenburg or Gävle, Sweden, come lower costs and a reduced environmental by sea and are transported from there impact. During the previous financial by rail to Insjön. The target is to have at year we met our environmental goals for least 50 per cent of our overland freight 2020, which entailed reducing emissions shipments carried by rail by 2020 at of CO2 by 50 per cent between 2007 the latest. During the financial year, the and 2020, to 16 grams per tonne kiloproportion of overland freight by rail metre of freight. We reduced emissions decreased to 38 per cent (44). A strike to 11 grams during the year. We are in the Port of Gothenburg means that continuing to work on the reduction initially we had to reload onto trucks, Percentage of total overland freight of our transportation’s environmental and when freight was moved over to carried by rail, % impact, with the goal of reducing CO2 the port in Gävle – with a much shorter emissions relative to our sales over time. distance to Insjön – this also contributed 38 In the financial year, emissions relative to the decrease in the proportion of rail to our sales decreased by 23 per cent. in overland freight. 44 44 Part of the reduction is attributable to 41 33 the fact that measurement methods have The majority of goods arriving from changed between the years. Europe are consolidated and transported by rail from Helsingborg to Insjön. We We also have a target for shipping, ship 80 per cent of our Norwegian flow 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 which means that the fill rate in our by rail from Insjön to Oslo. Target 2020 50% goods containers from Asia is to increase Baseline 2007 25% from 80 per cent today to 85 per cent by 2020. 58 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | DISTRIBUTION Employee INTERVIEW The store Hello! plays a greater role in our new infrastructure Country Manager Sweden FREDRIK UHRBOM Clas Ohlson is collaborating with MatHem to At the end of 2018, we hope to be able to What are the most important advantages provide customers with the option of easy offer doorstep delivery service for our entire — for us as well as the customers? product deliveries right to their door. After a product range on our own online shopping One major advantage, of course, is that test period, the partnership will begin full-scale site by using MatHem’s infrastructure. This we gain access to an excellent infrastrucoperations in the summer of 2018. offering will be geographically limited to the ture. MatHem is also a good sales channel, areas where MatHem delivers. through which we can reach new customer Could you talk about the partnership with segments. MatHem is also a strong presence MatHem — the offering and the timetable? What role will the stores play in distribuin digital marketing, and we see we can learn This presents another sales channel for Clas tion, in the future? a great deal from them. Ohlson. A product range of around 700 prodThe stores will have a very important role, esucts will be sold and distributed directly from pecially when we expand our product range Of course, this will mean great advantages MatHem’s warehouse. The focus will be on at MatHem to encompass products that they for the customer as well. The most important our proprietary brands, and the products are don’t keep in stock. The stores closest to ones are that we are providing increased primarily consumer-oriented products with a MatHem’s warehouse will then serve as what accessibility to our product range, and make high frequency of sale — batteries, lighting and we call “feeder stores,” and pick products it easier for the customer through fast, simple freezer bags, for example. that will then be delivered to the customer’s deliveries. home together with their food package. This In the initial phase, our products will be available gives us the opportunity to easily expand our But MatHem is only one of several paths to at MatHem’s central warehouses in Stockholm, product range, and we can work with more the customer’s door, which is why we are also Gothenburg and Malmö. They will be sent there seasonal products. looking at several different types of partnermuch like a normal store delivery from the distriships also in our markets outside Sweden. bution centre in Insjön. Of course, the stores also have an important role in promoting the collaboration with We are convinced that 1+1 is much more The next phase, which will be initiated in August, MatHem, as well as in handling questions than 2, and strategic partnerships to supplemeans we will expand our collaboration and about returns and technical questions about ment our offering is the way forward for Clas introduce less frequently purchased goods and products, just as they do today. Ohlson. capital goods on MatHem’s website. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 59 OPERATIONS | GROWTH New store format and focus on online CLAS OHLSON IS CONTINUOUSLY EXPANDING with new stores, new channels and new offerings. We have a large, loyal customer base and a high degree of store density in the Nordic region, which is our home market. Our strong brand, our unique and relevant customer offering and the focus on online activity drives our continued growth. In the 2017/18 financial year, sales rose 3 per Store network optimised cent. We are opening more stores in both new We strive for a high degree of flexibility in our and existing markets, and expanded our store store network, and at the expiration of every store network during the financial year by a net of 13 contract we review the location of the store and new stores. We are also growing by strengthening the floor area or transform the store into another, our digital sales channels, traffic in our online more suitable format. Approximately 50 store shopping channels experienced a strong increase contracts will be up for renegotiation during the and online sales increased by 33 per cent. coming two-year period. Availability is crucial During the financial year, we continued develOur stores are attractively located in city centres oping our store network, in particular the new or popular shopping centres. As new stores are Clas Ohlson Compact Store format. In total, opened in prime locations in both established we established five stores in this smaller format and new markets, the existing store network is during the year. LONG-TERM continuously being updated to always offer cusAMBITION tomers an inspiring experience. A Clas Ohlson In the 2017/18 financial year we ended the We will develop, optistore is attractive and popular, and the addition franchise partnership with SYH Retail, a part mise and enhance the efficiency of our sales of one of our stores often significantly increases of the Al Homaizi Group of Companies, which channels in existing floor traffic in a shopping centre. Clas Ohlson entered into in 2013. As a consemarkets. quence, The two franchise stores in Dubai closed in December 2017. PRIORITIES FOR 2017/18 • Strengthen Clas Ohlson’s position Sales, store/m2, SEK 000s Sales per average employee, MSEK in the German market 31 2.8 • Expand presence in the London region • Strengthen store 30 30 30 31 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.6 network in the Nordic region 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 60 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | GROWTH Employee INTERVIEW Stores will have a new role as service centres Hello! Expansion Manager, Clas Ohlson Sweden THOMAS ARVIDSSON What are we doing to optimise our store way of providing service. Simply put, we are network? going to make it as easy as possible for our We have carefully analysed our entire existing customers. store network in all our markets in the Nordic region, and based on that we now have a How is it going with our new Compact plan for how we want the store network to Stores? look in five to seven years. We will move a There is a great deal of appreciation for the few stores to better locations, a few will have concept from customers, and sales remain less — or more — floor space, and a few healthy and stable. This is a new way of will be closed. We will take the opportunity interacting with customers for us, so both to make changes when lease contracts are employees and customers will need a little up for renegotiation. A few completely new time to get used to it. We strongly believe in stores are also being planned, primarily in the format, and will be testing several locathe smaller format. tions going forward. Could you talk about the stores’ How will the store format be developed new role? from here on? The stores will be our most important In general, the format will be smaller, which saleschannel, just as they are today. But means that even a “normal” store will have they will also be a service centre where a smaller retail space. To meet customers in our customers can find guidance or book the best way, we will need several completely various services. Many stores will serve as new formats. We also see a need for both a pick-up point for Click & Collect when the smaller and larger formats than we have tocustomer orders online and then collects the day. We need to adapt even more according order in the store. This places a number of to who our customers are and where we’re new demands on the store, both in being located. able to meet customers in the best way and in managing distribution and stock. In addition, we will be adapting the traditional service desks to a more modern and simpler CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 61 OPERATIONS | MARKETS Finland, 12% Market segment Sweden, 45% NORDIC REGION Percentage of total sales Norway, 40% SWEDEN NORWAY FINLAND Start year: 1918 Start year: 1985 Start year: 2002 90 stores 89 stores 39 stores 3 new stores, net, 2017/18 9 new stores, net, 2017/18 2 new stores, net, 2017/18 Market trends Market trends Market trends Inflation under the inflationary target conThe Norwegian economy experienced The Finnish economy is strong, and tinues to keep interest rates low, which a turbulent year. The major crisis in the growth is expected to continue during enabled retail to display a positive trend oil industry has created unemployment 2018. Retail sales were unchanged at during 2017/18. Retail sales increased and led to a slowdown in the economy. current prices during the financial year. by 2.1 per cent at current prices and the Retail increased by 2.5 per cent at curOnline sales for Finnish retail increased year ended again with record-breaking rent prices. Christmas shopping in Nor8 per cent and now account for more sales in Christmas shopping. Retail sales way decreased 1 per cent compared than 11 per cent of total retail sales. online increased 16 per cent during 2017 with the preceding year. Online sales Consumer confidence in the spring of and stood for 8.7 per cent of total sales. for Norwegian retail increased 13.5 per 2018 is the highest measured in 30 cent and now account for almost 4 per years. cent of total retail sales. Retail trend index Retail trend index Retail trend index 110 110 110 105 105 105 100 100 100 95 95 95 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Market players Market players Market players Elgiganten, IKEA, Netonnet and Jula, as Elkjøp, Coop, Rusta, Jernia, Power, Prisma, Motonet, Tokmanni, Gigantti. well as several global online players. komplett.no, Biltema and Jula. Clas Ohlson’s position Clas Ohlson’s position Clas Ohlson’s position We are strengthening our position in In Sweden, Clas Ohlson is a well-known The Clas Ohlson brand enjoys a high Finland, and greater consumer confiand established brand ranked second level of recognition in the Norwegian dence is leading to growth. We have after IKEA. We are focused on further market, and interest in our offering is higher annual growth than the market, strengthening the loyalty that our broad great. Our new stores were positively which is a result of a strong focus on customer base has shown us by develreceived and the sales trend is positive. customer care and seasonal offerings. oping our excellent customer service and We will continue to develop our sales We have also opened new stores and enhancing the relevance of our offering. channels in Norway in the 2018/19 rebuilt older stores. In the 2018/19 Clas Ohlson has a positive sales trend in financial year. financial year we will continue to grow Sweden and we will continue to develop in the Finnish market. our sales channels in the 2018/19 financial year. Sales, MSEK Sales, MSEK Sales, MSEK 3 658 3 287 998 3 483 3 588 3 190 3 167 3 295 2 934 2 928 2 697 913 819 747 658 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 62 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | MARKETS Outside Nordic countries, 3% OUTSIDE NORDIC COUNTRIES Percentage of total sales UK GERMANY Start year: 2008 Start year: 2016 DRASTICALLY 7 stores No new stores in 2017/18 4 stores 1 new store 2017/18 INCREASED expansion online Market trends Market trends Customers are increasingly The UK economy grew faster than Germany is one of Europe’s largest choosing to shop in our online expected toward the end of 2017, but retail markets. Unemployment has for the full year, growth was at its lowbeen around 3.5 per cent for the past store. In the 2017/18 financial est level since 2012. Unemployment six months, which is the lowest level year, online sales increased was 4.3 per cent, compared with 4.8 since 1980. Inflation has increased 33 per cent to 295 MSEK, per cent a year earlier. The consumer and is expected to reach 2.2 per cent price index has increased steadily in 2018. The retail trend index was which constitutes 3.6 per and is now at 104.3, compared with unchanged compared with last financent of total sales. 101.4 the preceding year. Consumer cial year and consumer confidence confidence is at negative levels while amounted to 10.9 in April 2018. Online retail sales increased steadily throughshopping increased by nearly 11 per The investment in an easy, out 2017. Online shopping increased cent, representing 12.5 per cent of safe and inspiring shopping by 14 per cent and now accounts for total sales. More and more people 16 per cent of UK retail sales, a trend are making purchases via their mobile experience is an important part that is largely driven by increased telephones, representing 39 per cent of our 100 more years growth shopping via mobile devices, which of online shopping. now accounts for 43 per cent of online strategy. The goal is for online shopping. sales to at least double every other year. Market players Market players Amazon, John Lewis and Currys. Bauhaus, Obi, Saturn Mediamarkt, Ikea and Amazon. Clas Ohlson’s position Clas Ohlson’s position During the 2017/18 financial year, we We continued to receive positive continued to invest in focusing on feedback from our customers during the London region, improving brand the financial year and can see a recognition, increasing online sales positive trend in key indicators such and providing a high level of service in as conversion and average receipts. stores. In 2018/19, we plan to close We will continue to attract consumers one additional store and, thereafter our in the Hamburg region in the 2018/19 store network will mainly be concenfinancial year by way of regular market trated to the London region. activities and relevant offerings, in stores as well as online. Outside Nordic countries in Sales, MSEK Online sales, MSEK one segment Clas Ohlson reports operations in the UK and Germany in one segment: “Outside Nordic countries.” The segment also 295 included the franchise operations in Dubai 268* that were closed in December 2017. Sales 354 372 299* during the year were affected by store 285 optimisation in the UK. 222 181 148 122 *Affected by store optimisation in the UK. 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 63 OPERATIONS | SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is a prerequisite for achieving our strategic goals. Our eight prioritised areas 1. Products for a sustainable lifestyle 5. Materials and chemicals We have an important role to play in helping customers live We impose clear requirements in relation to suppliers, have more sustainably through an offering with excellent environgood control and work for increased transparency in our mental performance. work with chemicals. 2. Resource-efficient business models 6. Human rights, children’s rights and employment conditions We are developing more resource-efficient business models Our target is 98 per cent supplier compliance with our requireand enabling a more circular approach to manufacturing, use ments, with no serious deviations from our Code of Conduct. and waste. 7. Business ethics 3. An attractive employer We will train employees and partners in and more clearly We will be a modern, inclusive workplace in order to attract relate business ethics to human rights. and retain strategically important competence. 8. Our role in society 4. Energy efficiency We work to be a positive force where we conduct operations. The goal is to reduce CO2 emissions in relation to our sales. Read more about our eight prioritised areas on pages 124-127. 64 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 OPERATIONS | SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Towards a resourceefficient VALUE strengthens CHAIN Our long-term ambition is to contribute to a more resource-efficient value chain. We have identified three important priorities our offering in the 100 more years strategy that will bring us closer to this ambition: • Develop the sustainability aspect of our product offering. • Develop and market resource-efficient OUR VIEW OF SUSTAINABILITY covers all parts of the value chain. We are service offerings that promote a sharpening the criteria for our product offering and are working to create an circular economy. inclusive workplace as well as to promote human rights and environmental • Create opportunities to reduce the considerations in our supply chain. We are making continual progress towards impact of carbon emissions from our sustainability targets for 2020. online shopping and homedeliveries. We integrate key sustainability issues into percentage of products for a more susfulfil environmental requirements. our strategy, business model and govtainable lifestyle as a share of total sales. This collaboration will also increase ernance. It is the responsibility of each In the 2017/18 financial year, this share the efficiency of audits and allow us to function to drive and pursue this work. totalled 16 per cent. We are thus on the allocate resources to strategic initiatives Our sustainability initiatives are described way towards achieving our goal of a for long-term change among suppliers, under the respective sections on opera25 per cent share of sales by 2020. for example, through training. tions. For more information about the governance of our sustainability efforts, During the year, we worked on developThe next step in our refer to pages 24 and 26. ing selection criteria for increasing the sustainability agenda precision and relevance in our offering. Our materiality analysis was updated in From Here to Sustainability We also worked on developing the new connection with the strategic review that For us, sustainability is a journey we call “Hire from Clas” service that provides has been carried out in the company “From Here to Sustainability.” It covers customers with the opportunity to during the year. Read more about Clas the most important issues, grouped into hire tools instead of purchasing them. Ohlson’s updated materiality analysis on eight prioritised areas, and represents the The service is already found in some pages 128–129. level of our ambition. The green speech 30 stores in Sweden and in a smaller bubble draws attention to products and number of pilot stores in Norway and In the 2018/19 financial year, we will services with better environmental perFinland. work further on integrating our goals formance than comparable products and for 2020 into the new strategy. services, and provides information on how A transparent supply chain they promote a more sustainable lifestyle. We have also raised the level of our More information on our sustainability ambition for the supply chain. Through efforts can be found on pages 121-135. Increased precision and relevance collaboration with Sedex, we have One of the most prioritised areas in the gained better insight into our suppliers’ sustainability agenda is increasing the working conditions and how they CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 65 Annual report 2017/18 66 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 Contents ANNUAL REPORT Director’s Report 68 Proposed allocation of earnings 73 Risks and uncertainties 74 Chairman’s letter 78 Corporate governance 79 Board of Directors 88 Senior management 90 Consolidated financial statements 92 Parent Company financial statements 95 Notes 98 Note 1 Accounting and valuation policies 102 Note 2 Financial risks 102 Note 3 Other operating income and op. expenses 103 Note 4 Depreciation 103 Note 5 Expenses by type of cost 103 Note 6 Expenses for employee benefits 103 Note 7 Remuneration to auditors 107 Note 8 Financial income and expenses 107 Note 9 Income tax 107 Note 10 Earnings per share 108 Note 11 Dividend per share 108 Note 12 Non-current assets 108 Note 13 Inventories 109 Note 14 Accounts receivable 109 Note 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 109 Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents 109 Note 17 Forward contracts 109 Note 18 Proposed allocation of earnings and Equity 110 Note 19 Pension obligations 110 Note 20 Financial instruments 111 Note 21 Accrued expenses and deferred income 111 Note 22 Other provisions 111 Note 23 Inter-Group transactions 112 Note 24 Participations in Group companies 112 Note 25 Securities held as fixed assets 112 Note 26 Appropriations 113 Note 27 Cash and bank balances 113 Note 28 Untaxed reserves 113 Note 29 Pledged assets 113 Note 30 Contingent liabilities and commitments 113 Note 31 Related-party transactions 114 Note 32 Average number of employees 114 Note 33 Segment reporting 114 Note 34 Events after the end of the year 115 Certification of the Annual Report 116 Auditor´s report 117 Sustainability report 120 Supplementary sustainability information 121 Our value chain 122 Eight prioritised areas 124 Materiality analysis 128 Sustainability risks 130 GRI Index 132 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 67 DIRECTOR’S REPORT Director’s report The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Clas Ohlson AB (publ), with registered office and head office in Insjön, in the Municipality of Leksand, Sweden, hereby present the annual accounts for the financial year 1 May 2017 to 30 April 2018. Unless otherwise stated, the figures relate to the Group. Figures in parenthesis pertain to the preceding year. All figures are stated in millions of Swedish kronor (MSEK) unless otherwise stated. Operations Clas Ohlson works to help and inspire people to improve their The company signed a strategic partnership agreement with everyday life by offering smart, simple, practical solutions at MatHem i Sverige AB in December. Customers can order a attractive prices. Our customer offering comprises a base of wide range of Clas Ohlson’s products via MatHem.se and have hardware, electrical, multimedia, home and leisure products as the products delivered right to their door. For Clas Ohlson, this well as a supplementary offering of services that simplify custopartnership entails opportunities to reach new customers via mers’ daily lives at home. Operations are conducted in Sweden, MatHem’s digital platform and to offer better service to existing Norway, Finland, the UK and Germany via stores and online customers with convenient and quick deliveries home to their shopping and via purchasing offices in China. door. Clas Ohlson acquired all of the newly issued shares corresponding to 10 per cent of MatHem i Sverige AB. The total The product range includes approximately 15,000 articles that investment in MatHem amounted to 224 MSEK. are purchased from a large number of suppliers in some 30 countries. The products are delivered to the distribution centre During the year, the company continued to strengthen its in Insjön, Sweden, and from there distributed via stores, or customer offering, for example, by launching Click & Colvia mail order/Internet directly to the customers. The number lect across the entire Norwegian store network. In Sweden, a of stores at the end of the year was 229, of which 90 were in partnership was entered into with Telenor in selected stores to Sweden, 89 in Norway, 39 in Finland, seven in the UK and broaden the customer offering. four in Germany. Clas Ohlson’s implementation of the new IT platform is a Significant events during the financial year strategically important initiative and a programme that will In August 2017, Lotta Lyrå took over as new President and run from the 2013/14 financial year until 2018/19. Our new CEO. business system – modern, scalable and flexible – creates the preconditions for better forecasts and planning, and simplifies During the fiscal year, the store network has been expanded and enhances the efficiency of processes and working methods. with 13 new stores net compared to the same period last year (11), three in Sweden, nine in Norway and two in Finland. In As a consequence of this strategic plan, online sales will be addition our fourth store in Germany opened in November moved from the ongoing implementation of the IT platform 2017, on Spitalerstraße in central Hamburg, which complesCORE, and will instead be included in the development of a ments our first phase of the company’s establishment in Germanew digital platform whose financing is included in the financiny. The franchise partnership in Dubai was discontinued during al plan linked to the strategy. With this change, the investment the financial year and two franchise stores were closed. linked to sCORE will amount to the previously communicated 500 MSEK over the five-year period from 2013/14 to 2018/19. The 2017 AGM resolved to make a 5 MSEK non-recurring donation to the Clas Ohlson Foundation, which was charged to Sales and profit net profit for the year. Sales increased to 8,211 MSEK, up 3 per cent compared with 7,990 MSEK in the year-earlier period. Measured in local curThe company initiated its 100 more years strategy in September. rencies, sales increased by 3 per cent. Sales in comparable units The work on strategy will result in a new strategic plan for the and local currency were unchanged. company’s continued development and growth. In conjunction with the above, Group Management was changed and expanOnline sales for the financial year increased by 33 per cent to ded to lead strategy efforts and the company moving forward. 295 MSEK (222). 68 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT Sales were distributed as follows: The gross margin was 40.0 per cent, down 1.2 percentage points compared with the year-earlier period (41.2). During the Sales area, MSEK financial year, the gross margin was negatively impacted by the stronger USD, increased commercial investments, the weaker PercentPercentage NOK and higher sourcing costs, which were offset by both age change, currency hedges (NOK) and exchange-rate effects related to the Countries 2017/18 2016/17 change local curr. delays in inventory. Sweden 3,658 3,588 2 2 Norway 3,287 3,190 3 5 The share of selling expenses increased by 0.3 percentage points Finland 998 913 9 7 to 31.4 per cent (31.1). The share of selling expenses increased Outside Nordic countries 268 299 -10 -10 as a result of the strategic initiatives begun during the financial Total 8,211 7,990 3 3 year totalling approximately 25 MSEK, which is an allocation of costs as part of the strategic plan that has now been brought *Effected by store optimization in the UK. forward a quarter. In addition, the share has decreased as a **Of which 295 MSEK (222) for the fiscal year comprises online sales. result of decreased costs in the UK, which were offset by unchanged sales in comparable units. The sales increase of 3 per cent from stores was distributed as follows: Administrative expenses increased approximately 30 MSEK Distribution of sales increase as a result of the ongoing strategic review and the 5 MSEK donation to the Clas Ohlson Foundation decided by the 2017 AGM. Comparable units in local currency 0 per cent New stores 3 per cent Exchange-rate effects 0 per cent Total 3 per cent Distribution of sales, % Gross margin, % Share of selling expenses, % Operating profit, MSEK Outside Nordic countries, 3% 31.4 40.0 Finland, 12% 468 32.1 32.2 31.7 31.1 Sweden, 45% 42.6 42.9 42.4 41.2 596 610 531 506* Norway, 40% 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 *Including a non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 69 DIRECTOR’S REPORT Operating profit amounted to 468 MSEK (610). Operating For more information about Clas Ohlson’s new strategy and profit, in addition to the above costs for strategic review and financial targets see pages 14-17. strategic initiatives, was impacted by non-recurring costs totalling approximately 10 MSEK, consisting of costs in connection 1–2 percentage points of the underlying operating margin are with implementing a new business system and future costs expected to be invested annually in strategic initiatives during associated with optimisation of the store network in the UK. the first two years. The fourth quarter 2017/18 should be regarded as the first quarter of our change in accordance with The operating margin was 5.7 per cent (7.6). Profit after finanthe new strategy. In connection with the internal launch of the cial items totalled 467 MSEK (609). Depreciation for the strategy, we will gather together all our employees in Tällberg financial year amounted to 226 MSEK (230). in August 2018, where we will also take the opportunity to celebrate Clas Ohlson’s 100th anniversary. Spot exchange rates for key currencies averaged 1.03 for NOK and 8.31 for USD, compared with 1.05 and 8.74, respectively, As part of optimising the UK store network, initiated during in the year-earlier period. Currency hedging was undertaken the 2015/16 financial year, one further store (Croydon) remains in USD and NOK. The company’s policy is to hedge 50 per to be closed, which will take place at the end of August 2018. cent of the expected flow in each currency every month, with six-month maturities. Financing and liquidity Cash flow from operating activities during the financial year Prospects for the next financial year totalled 373 MSEK (699). Cash flow for the financial year, after Clas Ohlson’s new 100 more years strategy was presented at a investing and financing activities, totalled -514 MSEK (17). An Capital Markets Day on 3 May – a strategy that will develop investment of 224 MSEK was made in MatHem i Sverige AB the company for future profitable growth, with the important in December 2017. The cash dividend paid to Clas Ohlson’s component of developing online operations. Clas Ohlson will shareholders in September 2017 totalled 395 MSEK (362). also become even more relevant to the customer by offering a more focused product offering while adding a supplementary The average 12-month value of inventories was 1,869 MSEK range of services. (1,739). Over a rolling 12-month period, the stock turnover rate at the distribution centre was 6.5 times (6.6). Clas Ohlson also announced new financial targets and frameworks for the company over the forthcoming five-year period: At the end of the financial year, the value of inventories was 2,038 MSEK (1,631). To ensure the continuity of the supp• Sales will increase organically an average of 5 per cent annuly chain, an inventory expansion has been planned ahead of ally over a five-year period implementing the inventory module in the new sCORE IT • Operating margin will amount to 6–8 per cent within a platform. Compared with the preceding year, 13 stores, net, five-year period were added. • Net debt in relation to EBITDA to be below two (2) times • The dividend policy remains unchanged from previous During the period, buy-backs of the company’s own shares to policy. The dividend is to comprise at least 50 per cent of secure the Long Term Incentive Plan 2017 (LTI 2017) amounearnings per share after tax, considering the company’s ted to 21 MSEK (76). financial position. Sales, MSEK Cash flow from operating Operating margin, % activities, MSEK 8,211 373 5.7 689 705 699 647 8.1 7,990 7.8 7,602 7.6 7,330 6,808 6.7 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16* 16/17 17/18 *Including a non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK. 70 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT At the end of the financial year, the Group’s net cash holdings, Employees meaning cash and cash equivalents less interest-bearing liabiliThe number of employees in the Group amounted to more ties, amounted to 116 MSEK (625). The equity/assets ratio was than 5,000 which converted to full time employees averaged 54 per cent (58). 2,951 (2,835). The increase is mainly related to new stores. Further information about employees is found in Notes 6 and Investments 32 in the Annual Report. During the financial year, cash flow from operating activities amounted to 497 MSEK (264). Of this amount, 224 MSEK Social responsibility referred to acquisitions of shares, including transaction expenContinuous work is conducted at Clas Ohlson with respect to ses, corresponding to 10 per cent of MatHem i Sverige AB. In sustainability including follow-up activities relating to our Code addition, 82 MSEK (128) pertains to investments in new or of Conduct. This work is mainly described on pages 24 and 26. refurbished stores. Other investments were primarily IT and replacement investments. During the financial year, investments Environmental impact in IT systems amounted to 124 MSEK (106). The company has a duty of notification with respect to the activity relating to the temporary storage of electronic waste. This duty The share and share capital of notification applies to any Swedish municipality in which Clas Clas Ohlson B shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm. The Ohlson has a store. The company does not otherwise have any share capital totals 82 MSEK, comprising 5,760,000 series A operations for which there is a duty of notification or for which it shares and 59,840,000 series B shares, each with a quotient is mandatory to obtain a permit under the Environmental Code. value of 1.25. Each series A share carries ten votes, while each With regard to electrical and electronic waste, the company series B share carries one vote. All shares carry equal rights to cooperates with the Elkretsen organisation in Sweden, which payment of dividends. Holders of series A shares can request is the joint company owned by the electrical industry for waste that their A shares be converted to series B shares. The share disposal. The company is affiliated to the recycling organisation capital is unchanged compared with the preceding year. REPA. In Norway, the company is affiliated to the recycling organisations Elretur AS and Grøn Punkt Norway. In Finland, there On 30 April 2018, the company had a total of 34,717 shareis equivalent cooperation with Serty, in the UK with Valpak and holders, according to the register of shareholders maintained by in Germany with Der Grüne Punkt. Euroclear Sweden, compared with 33,316 on 30 April 2017 The ten largest shareholders at that time held 56 per cent of the capiEnvironmental impact related to transportation of products is tal and 75 per cent of the votes. For the summary see page 139. one of Clas Ohlson’s most important environmental aspects. For this reason, enhanced transportation efficiency is a focus The Articles of Association contains no post-sale purchase rights area throughout the Group. During the financial year, both clause or other restrictions for the transferability of series B relative and absolute CO2 emissions declined year on year. Enshares. Apart from authorisation pertaining to the repurchase of vironmental impact from the store network and own operations shares stated on page 115, there are no other circumstances of is significantly lower than from the transportation of products. the kinds the company is obligated to disclose under the proviAnother activity to reduce environmental impact is the compasions of Chapter 6, Section 2a (4-11) of the Annual Accounts ny following an energy efficiency program that aims to convert Act. The number of registered shares is 65,600,000 unchanged existing lighting to more energy effective LED lighting. compared with the preceding year. On 30 April 2018, the company held 2,391,865 shares (2,516,562), corresponding Sustainability work covers all areas of activity and is described to 4 per cent of the total number of registered shares (3 per under the pages 34-65, as well as in the sustainability section on cent). The number of shares outstanding, net after repurchase, pages 64-65. For more information, see the company’s sustainawas 63,208,135 (63,083,438) at the end of the financial year. bility report on page 120. See also supplementary sustainability To secure the company’s commitment regarding conditional information on pages 121-135. matching shares and employee stock options in connection with LTI 2017, Clas Ohlson bought back shares during the first Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives quarter of 2017/18 for a total of 21 MSEK (76). The following principles were adopted at the most recent Annual General Meeting (”AGM”) and are proposed to remain unchanged until the next AGM. The general principles of remuneration for senior executives are to be based on the position held, CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 71 DIRECTORS REPORT’S individual performance, the Group’s financial results and the programs were designed to encourage participants to become remuneration being competitive in the country of employment. shareholders in the company, which is expected to have a posiThe combined remuneration of senior executives is to consist of tive impact on their long-term work performance. Connecting basic salary, variable salary in the form of a short-term incentive participants’ rewards to the company’s profit and value devebased on annual performance objectives, long-term incentives lopment will continue to promote company loyalty and thus based on multi-year performance, pension and other benefits. sustainable value growth in the company. In addition, notice of termination and severance pay are subject to terms and conditions. Long-term incentive programs that entitle employees to acquire share are subject to AGM approval. The qualification period Clas Ohlson aims to offer a competitive total level of remunerafor LTI 2015, LTI 2016 and LTI 2017 were in effect during tion, focusing on payments based on performance. This means the financial year. The qualification period for LTI 2015 was that variable remuneration may comprise a significant portion concluded after the close of the financial year and LTI 2018 of the total remuneration. The aim is for basic remuneration was launched. All incentive programs are share matching and to be in line with the median of the comparable market, while profit-based employee stock option plans. total remuneration, when Clas Ohlson meets or exceeds its objectives, is to be in the upper quartile of the market. Pension Pension agreements will, if possible, be defined-contribution Basic salary and formulated in accordance with levels and practices applicaThe fixed salary shall constitute the basis for total remuneration. ble in the country in which the senior executive is employed. The salary is to be related to the relevant market and reflect the extent of the responsibilities included in the position. The deOther benefits velopment of basic salary is to depend on how well work is perOther benefits may occur in accordance with the terms appliformed and how well the employee develops his/her expertise to cable in the country in which the senior executive is employed. assume future work assignments involving greater responsibility. However, such benefits may not constitute a major portion of The basic salary is to be reviewed annually to ensure that it is the combined remuneration. market-based and competitive. Period of notice and severance pay Variable salary (Short Term Incentive, STI) Senior executives will be offered terms in accordance with the In addition to basic salary, senior executives are to qualify for legislation and practices applicable to the country in which the STI for performance that exceeds one or several predetermined person concerned is employed. A senior executive will be preperformance levels during a financial year, designed to promote vented from working in a competing business during the period the company’s long-term value creation. Clearly defined perof notice. In certain cases, prohibition of competition in return formance targets are to be decided annually by the Board or by for continued remuneration may be applied for a maximum individuals elected by the Board. The performance targets may period of 24 months following expiry of the period of notice. be connected to operational, financial or personal results. Authorisation for the Board to depart from the guidelines Remuneration from the STI plan is subject to a ceiling, which The Board will be able to depart from these guidelines if there means that Clas Ohlson can calculate maximum remuneration are special reasons for doing so. In the event of a major devialevels from the beginning. Insofar as performance does not tion, the shareholders will be informed of the reasons for this at match the lowest performance level, no STI will be paid. STI the next AGM. For more information about remuneration see will depend on the position held and may not exceed 50 per Note 6. cent of salary if the ceiling is achieved, which also represents the maximum outcome of STI. STI remuneration is also conditioParent Company nal upon the performance on which earnings are based being During the financial year, Parent Company sales amounted to sustainable over time, and that Clas Ohlson is able to reclaim 6,444 MSEK (6,384) and profit after financial items totalled such remuneration that was paid due to information that later 298 MSEK (604). turned out to be obviously erroneous. Investments during the financial year totalled 403 MSEK Long-term incentive, LTI (169). An investment of 224 MSEK was made in MatHem i The objective of LTI programs is to generate conditions for reSverige AB in December 2017. Contingent liabilities for the taining and recruiting competent employees to the Group. The Parent Company amounted to 273 MSEK (252). 72 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT Events after the end of the year Dividend The qualification and performance periods for the LTI 2015 Clas Ohlson’s dividend policy is that the dividend is to comprilong-term incentive plan ran from 1 May 2015 until 30 April se at least 50 per cent of earnings per share after tax, taking into 2018. After the end of the reporting period, a total of 9,659 account the company’s financial position. shares were allotted on 2 May in accordance with the AGM’s resolution regarding share matching of one share per share The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 6.25 SEK purchased to those participants who remained employed after per share (6.25) be paid for the 2017/18 financial year. The the three-year qualification period. proposed dividend amounts to a total of 410 MSEK (410), which corresponds to 115 per cent (86) of the financial year’s The established performance criteria regarding average sales profit after tax. growth and increased earnings per share for the period 2015– 2018 were not achieved, meaning that no options were allotted Proposed allocation of earnings to the participants and, accordingly, the LTI 2015 has been The following earnings (SEK 000s) are at the disposal of the concluded. Annual General Meeting: Profit brought forward 415,569* In May 2018, the long-term incentive plan LTI 2018 was introProfit for the year 265,086* duced under the same structure as LTI 2017. Senior management will purchase shares in LTI 2018 in mid-June. The exercise Total 680,655* price for the conditional employee stock options has been set at SEK 93.80 per share, with exercise possible, following the thThe Board and Chief Executive Officer propose: ree-year qualification period between June 2021 and April 2025. Dividend payable to shareholders 6.25 SEK per share 410,0001 On 9 September 2017, the Annual General Meeting of Clas Carried forward to new account 270,655* Ohlson AB authorised the Board of Directors to acquire a Total 680,655* maximum of 860,000 shares during the period until the next 1 Dividends are based on the number of shares outstanding on the record date. Annual General Meeting to secure the company’s commitment in connection with the introduction of a share-based incentive The record date for payment of the dividend is proposed as programme, LTI 2018. The total number of shares required to 11 September 2018. It is anticipated that the dividend decided secure the undertaking for LTI 2018 is estimated at 850,000. upon by the AGM will be despatched on 14 September 2018. The entire LTI 2018 undertaking can be secured by using shares that were bought back to secure previous LTI plans where the With reference to the information presented above and what need has been recalculated. has otherwise come to the knowledge of the Board, the view of the Board is as follows: A comprehensive assessment of the As per 30 April 2018, the company’s holding of Clas Ohlson financial position of the Parent Company and Group indicates treasury shares amounted to 2,391,865 shares, corresponding to that the dividend is justifiable with reference to the demands 4 per cent of the total number of registered shares. made by the nature, size and risks of the operation on the equity and liquidity of the Parent Company and Group. The Group’s equity/assets ratio is 54 per cent before payment of dividend and 44 per cent after payment of dividend. This is judged to be an adequate equity/assets ratio, even when the stategy implementation has been taken into account. Dividend per share, SEK Regarding the company’s earnings and position in other respects, reference should be made to the following income 6.25* statements and balance sheets and the accompanying notes to 6.25 the accounts. 5.75 5.25 4.75 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 *Proposed dividend CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 73 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risks and uncertainties To develop an attractive and relevant customer offering and to ensure our future competitiveness, we must understand how our business environment is changing. The operations that Clas Ohlson carries on entail risks that could negatively impact the Group to varying extents. These risks can be divided into strategic, operational and financial risks. The Group’s risk scenario can change quickly, and we work continually to update the risk situation and to ensure quick, efficient risk management. Strategic, operational and financial risks impact our opportunities for achieving our strategic and business-related goals. CreaRisk map (example) ting awareness of the risks in the operations means they can be controlled, limited and managed. When handled correctly, risks Extremely high may lead to opportunities and add value to the business. Very high Risk management process IMPACT Clas Ohlson works continuously to update the Group’s risk High situation through a systematic process in which risks are identified, evaluated, managed and reported. Priority is assigned to the risks assessed as having the greatest negative impact in terms Medium of likelihood and conceivable effects on operations. Classification is also made on the basis of how well the implemented Low countermeasures correspond with the desired level. This work is Very unlikely Unlikely Possible Likely Very likely performed in each function based on the composition of Group Countermeasures implemented Management. Internal reports on measures implemented and PROBABILITY Countermeasures partly implemented changes in risk assessments are issued twice a year and on a Countermeasures required continuous basis when necessary. RISK MANAGEMENT THE BOARD The Risk Committee compiles, coordinates and develops the Group’s risk management, and SENIOR MANAGEMENT submits a report to Group Management and the Board. RISK COMMITTEE Governance Reporting Marketing Communications Business development Finance & Administration Assortment & Purchasing Information & IR Store operations Supply chain Each function monitors and manages existing risks, identifies any new risks and submits a report to the Risk IT HR Committee. Sustainability 74 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The risks are compiled in risk maps to clarify overall exposure and where measures should be prioritised. Maps are compiled at Group level and are a key component of the company management’s and the Board’s strategic and operational governance. Sensitivity analysis Clas Ohlson’s Risk Committee performs the work involved in Currency effects excluding hedging compiling, coordinating and developing risk management. Our Impact on profit operations are impacted by rapid changes, and these efforts Currency Change, % before tax, MSEK remain a high priority as the company continues to grow and NOK +/5 +/88 develop. USD +/5 -/+ 69 HKD +/5 -/+ 4 Strategic risks EUR +/5 +/3 The purpose of strategic risks is to ensure that the company’s GBP +/5 +/3 business model is properly adapted in both the short and the long term to our customers and the needs of the various markets. In addition, strategic risks are intended to indicate changes in the business environment with potentially significant effects The two diagrams below show the SEK trend against the Group’s prinon Clas Ohlson’s operations and business goals. Risks of a stracipal currency for purchasing (USD) and the Group’s principal currency tegic character primarily comprise risks associated with changes for sales (NOK). in the business environment and increased competition, shifts in technology and in customers’ purchasing habits, market posiMonthly average, SEK/USD tioning, and product range and offering as well as growth. 10.00 Operational risks 9.00 Operational risks are directly attributable to business operations 8.00 2017/18 2016/17 with a potential impact on earnings and the financial position. 7.00 Operational risks can normally be influenced and are often linked to the organisation’s processes, working methods and skills. 6.00 M J J A S O N D J F M A Operational risks are mainly risks associated with purchasing of products, sustainability, IT systems, logistics, key employees, USD is our most important purchasing currency. At the beginning of the financial year, on 2 May 2017, the exchange rate for USD was 8.84. Oveleases, shrinkage and regulatory risks. rall, the exchange rate was stable, peaking in November and December. It was noted at 8.68 SEK on 30 April 2018, a decline of about 2 per cent. The highest exchange rate was 8.89 SEK noted in May 2017, while the Financial risks lowest exchange rate was 7.84 SEK noted in January 2018. Financial risks are risks with a potential impact on earnings and the financial position. Risks of a financial nature consist primarily of risks associated with changes in the economy, currency exposure, transport costs, raw material prices and wage inflation. Monthly average, SEK/NOK 1.13 Currencies, currency hedging and currency fluctuations 1.11 1.09 The company’s currency exposure is high, primarily due to sales 1.07 1.05 2017/18 in Norway and the Group’s purchasing. About 50 per cent of 1.03 2016/17 the company’s purchases are made in currencies other than 1.01 0.99 SEK. The table to the right shows how earnings are impacted 0.97 by changes in currencies, excluding hedging. 0.95 M J J A S O N D J F M A Futures hedging is performed monthly in USD and NOK, The graph shows the trend for the SEK/NOK currency pair. At the beginning of the financial year, on 2 May 2017, the exchange rate for NOK with a maturity of six months, against half of the expected flow was 1.03 versus SEK. The NOK has increased during the financial year in each currency. In this way, the company is guaranteed the versus the swedish krona. It was noted at 1.09 SEK on 30 April 2018, up 6 per cent. The highest exchange rate was SEK 1.09 noted in April 2018, forward rate on a major proportion of its currency exchanges, while the lowest exchange rate was 1.00 SEK noted in December 2017. but also has the opportunity/risk of making the remaining Source: Riksbanken payments at the prevailing rate. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 75 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Strategic risks RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT CHANGES IN The retail landscape is changing at an increasingly rapid pace The purpose of Clas Ohlson’s new strategy for long-term, profitable growth THE BUSINESS owing to changes in, for example, consumer behaviour, purchasis to develop operations online, to offer a more unique and focused product ENVIRONMENT ing patterns and technology. Online traffic is increasing at an ever offering and simultaneously to add a supplementary service offering to meet AND greater rate, at the cost of foot traffic in physical stores. increased competition. COMPETITION We are also seeing increased competition from both new and This means continued work on strengthening our digital platform and on existing players. Global e-retailers and other digital players are developing our product range and our service offering. We also enter into always expanding their business and challenging existing busipartnerships with others to develop a relevant and competitive customer ness models. Many are competing for the same customers with offering that inspires and helps our customers in their everyday lives. similar offerings, and it is easier than ever to make comparisons. CUSTOMERS’ Constantly connected consumers want to buy when, where and Clas Ohlson continues to focus on integrating and developing various PURCHASING how they want, and regardless of the sales channel they use, they sales channels and delivery options, and on our capacity to interact with PATTERNS expect a simple and consistent shopping experience tailored to customers through digital channels to further improve our availability and AND MARKET their needs. service level. POSITION The rising trend of online shopping means that the physical Digitalisation provides us with tools to enhance understanding of customer store is increasingly becoming a meeting place and an arena for behaviour, drive sales, build loyalty and easily serve customers throughout experiences. Customers expect quick, reliable and convenient the entire decision-making and purchasing process, with respect for their deliveries, and want to choose the best option for them at that privacy (GDPR). specific time. PRODUCT The company’s most important task is to offer customers a releClas Ohlson works on detailed market and competitor assessments in RANGE, vant, attractive and affordable product range. If Clas Ohlson were order to create good conditions for designing an attractive and affordable OFFERING AND to misjudge new trends in both products and communication, this product range. COMMUNICAcould entail lower growth and profitability. TION Clas Ohlson works continually to maintain a clear and inspiring store and online concept, the right pricing and world-class service. Clas Ohlson will grow its operations and strengthen its brand in Clas Ohlson conducts detailed market and competitor analyses before GROWTH markets where we conduct operations. In addition, our customer decisions on strategic investments in our customer offering and sales chanoffering, our sales channels and a supplementary service offering nels, and capitalises on the experiences gained from previous ventures. are being developed. The risk is that these investments in growth will not generate the intended results. Operational risks RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT PURCHASING OF Clas Ohlson currently purchases just over 40 per cent of the Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct and ethical guidelines apply to all our PRODUCTS company’s products in Asia, the majority from China. The suppliers and contracts. We have our own audit teams in China that proportion of purchasing from Asia will increase through the conduct inspections and monitor compliance with the requirements of company’s own purchasing company in China. This will boost our Code of Conduct. Since the start of 2017, Clas Ohlson has been part the company’s competitiveness. There is a risk of bribes and of Sedex in order to further increase transparency regarding responsible corruption in the purchasing process, and suppliers in low-wage purchasing. Clas Ohlson works continuously on evaluating new potential countries entail increased risk of shortcomings in working conpurchasing markets in both Europe and Asia. ditions and respect for human rights. Increased single-country exposure entails greater risk (political risk, transport risk, currency risk and so forth). SUSTAINABILITY Our business model constitutes a potential negative impact on Sustainability is an integral part of our business model and governanRISKS people, the environment and society. ce. The foundation of this work is our Code of Conduct and our ethical guidelines. Even if these risks lie outside our direct operations, the consequences of not addressing them could impact Clas Ohlson’s For a further description of the company’s risk in the field of sustainability, reputation as a meaningful, trustworthy brand. They can also refer to pages 130–131. impact the confidence employees have in us as an employer and our market position, disrupt production and deliveries, incur unforeseen costs and cause violations of the law. IT SYSTEMS Clas Ohlson’s operations are highly dependent on IT support. As Implementation of a new business system is in progress. For more a result, it is essential that IT systems provide effective support information on sCORE, Systems for Clas Ohlson Retail Efficiency, refer to for the company’s day-to-day operations and maintain a high page 27. level of reliability. It is also important to ensure efficiency and provide support in the decision-making process. Clas Ohlson has an IT policy and an information security policy. In the event of new legislation or new regulations, the actions to be taken will be decided well in advance. There are standardised processes for implementing new systems, for changing existing systems and for daily operations. Infringements or deficiencies in processing customer informaClas Ohlson works actively to ensure that personal data is processed tion, employee information or business-critical data can lead securely pursuant to the applicable regulations and comprehensive work to decreased confidence and entail a negative impact on the was carried out during the year in accordance with the GDPR, the new Group’s earnings. European data protection legislation. 76 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT LOGISTICS Clas Ohlson’s distribution centre in Insjön is the hub of the Clas Ohlson invests continually in further enhancing the efficiency of its Group’s distribution chain. Goods from suppliers in Europe and logistics and the work in the distribution centre. manufacturers in Asia come here to be distributed to all our shops and our online customers. Collecting the logistics in one location We are working on maintenance and inspection of systems, fire protection carries certain risks, for example, disruptions to communications and security systems, etc. and infrastructure, as well as fire and strikes. The Group also works continuously with inspection of the distribution chain A large proportion of the company’s carbon dioxide emissions are to ensure efficiency. associated with transportation of products. EMPLOYEES Clas Ohlson must have motivated and skilled employees in order Clas Ohlson works for diversity and increased flexibility. Clas Ohlson is a to achieve the set goals and strategies. The geographic location workplace where employees can develop and grow with the company. of the main office and large parts of our operations at Insjön could Leadership, skills development and the company’s belief in individual result in difficulties in recruiting employees with the right expertise. employees equips the company for the future and cultivates an organisaOur growth also places great demands on recruitment, skills tion prepared to shoulder new challenges. development and internal mobility. We have a zero tolerance policy for all forms of discrimination and harassClas Ohlson’s new strategic orientation entails a certain adaptament. tion of competence, which could impact our employees and our ability to attract new employees with the right skills. LEASES Clas Ohlson leases the premises where shops have their operaClas Ohlson endeavours to have flexible leases with the opportunity for tions. Contract periods vary, depending on the market. re-negotiation during the lifetime of the contract. SHRINKAGE Clas Ohlson is exposed to shrinkage — shoplifting, for example The Group implements long-term preventive measures to reduce shrinka— on a daily basis. ge, using such methods as training initiatives and technical equipment. In addition, security efforts are continually monitored, evaluated and adapted. REGULATORY The company operates in a context where laws and regulations Clas Ohlson has an ethical approach and well-functioning internal controls. RISKS undergo continual change, becoming more complex. DeficienIn the event of new legislation or regulations, the actions to be taken will be cies in interpretation or compliance can damage the company’s decided well in advance of the regulations being implemented. reputation and result in fines or other sanctions. Financial risks RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT ECONOMIC The retail market in general is adversely affected by a weak ecoOur broad and affordable product range is less sensitive to cyclical fluctuaCLIMATE nomy and although Clas Ohlson sells products for everyday use, tions than that of many other competitors. a weak retail market will have a negative impact on sales. More than 80 per cent of our products are priced at less than SEK 300. Clas Ohlson’s broad product range, with five different product categories, entails lower risk since demand in one product category could increase while demand in another category falls. CURRENCIES The company’s currency exposure is high, primarily due to sales Futures hedging is performed monthly in NOK and USD, with a maturity of in Norway and the Group’s purchasing. About 50 per cent of the six months, against half of the expected flow in each currency. company’s purchases are made in currencies other than SEK. The principal currencies for purchasing are the US dollar (USD), In this way, the company is guaranteed the forward rate on a major proHong Kong dollar (HKD) and euro (EUR). Movement of the SEK portion of its purchases, but also acquires the opportunity/risk of paying for against the Norwegian krone (NOK) is also important for the the remaining purchases at the current rate. Group, since Norway accounts for approximately 40 per cent of sales. Net exposure to EUR is low, since the company brings in currency through sales in the Finnish and German markets. The Group is also exposed to the pound sterling (GBP) via sales in the UK. The table on page 75 shows how profit is affected by changes in principal currencies, excluding hedging. TRANSPORTAFreight shipping prices can vary considerably depending on the Clas Ohlson handles changes in freight shipping prices by actively monitoTION COSTS global market price, and currency fluctuations. ring and assessing the market. RAW MATERIAL Purchase prices for the company’s products are largely determiClas Ohlson has a broad portfolio of products and is therefore less impacPRICES ned by the price of individual raw materials in global markets. ted by changes to a specific raw material. This applies particularly to electronics (copper), batteries (zinc), lighting (aluminium) and plastic products (oil). Hedging against raw Some of Clas Ohlson’s suppliers purchase commodities/materials at fixed material prices is not carried out directly by the company. This contract prices, which entails some indirect hedging. entails a risk since the purchase price of the products concerned is affected by the price trend for raw materials. WAGE Clas Ohlson is affected by wage-level changes in countries Clas Ohlson works continuously to find new purchasing markets, both in INFLATION where the company’s products are manufactured. This can vary Europe and Asia. between products depending on how much labour is involved in the manufacturing process. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 77 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Chairman of the Board KENNETH BENGTSSON Time to change up gear As everyone knows, the conditions in retail are changing at a The overall goal of the work of the Board is to utilise the opfurious pace; when Lotta Lyrå took office as the new President portunities Clas Ohlson has while ensuring that the strategic, and CEO, the Board tasked her explicitly with putting things operational, financial and legal risks are minimised in accorinto a higher gear in order to develop the company going dance with our corporate governance, which together with our forward. It was time for a company celebrating its 100th annipolicies and our guidelines, are based on international norms versary to identify offensive approaches to meet a new business and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. environment and to leverage the opportunities opening up for Clas Ohlson in our part of the world and in our market. On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank everyone for their high level of commitment — and the tremendous will Changes are always challenging and difficult for the player who to identify new solutions and develop the company for a new sits passively and does not set its own agenda, but are opportuera — that permeates the entire organisation. The company nities for companies that can and will take the lead and drive is imbued with the entrepreneurial spirit and fundamental development. Now that I am closing the books on the work of values of our founder, Clas Ohlson. This is one reason that the the Board in the 2017/18 financial year, I can state that it has company has continued for 100 years. I am convinced that this been an incredibly intense year. The Board has utilised its varis an important part of the reason why Clas Ohlson is entering ious skills and experience to spar with, challenge and support its second century in a strong position to meet and leverage its the work of management. challenges and opportunities. The work has been very stimulating and engaging, and we have had rewarding dialogue that advanced our strategic work withKenneth Bengtsson out losing focus on daily operations and short-term issues. Chairman of the Board Insjön, Sweden, June 2018 The result? My perspective is that the strategy presented at the company’s Capital Market Day in early May can take Clas Ohlson to the front lines of what a retailer can be and represent. The strategy is innovative and, through its simplicity, updates the grand idea our founder built the company on one century ago. The work on implementing the new strategy has already begun, and Clas Ohlson has the opportunity to grow by taking a much greater role in Nordic homes than it plays today based on the unique strong confidence our customers have in us. 78 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Good corporate governance is a prerequisite for maintaining confidence among shareholders, customers and other external stakeholders and is built on the company’s strategies, targets and values permeating the entire organisation. The governance of Clas Ohlson is based upon Swedish legislaAnnual General Meeting tion, primarily the Companies Act, the listing agreement with Shareholders exercise their influence through participation in Nasdaq Stockholm and the Swedish Corporate Governance the company’s Annual General Meeting (the ordinary annual Code (the Code). In addition, governance follows the Articles general meeting). The AGM is the ultimate decision-making of Association, internal instructions and policies and recombody and since the initial public offering in 1999, has always mendations issued by relevant organisations. The corporate been held in Insjön, Sweden, on a Saturday in early Septemgovernance report has been prepared in accordance with the ber. The Notification, which is normally prepared about four Code. weeks prior to the AGM, is published in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar, as well as on the company’s website. All shareholders The Swedish Corporate Governance Code who are registered in the share register on the fifth day prior The Swedish Corporate Governance Code is applicable to all to the AGM and registered in time are entitled to participate. companies listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. The aim is to improve Registration can be made by telephone, e-mail, letter or the corporate governance in listed companies and foster trust in company’s website. companies among the general public and in the capital market. The Code is based on the “comply or explain” principle, which Each year, the AGM appoints the Board, the Chairman of the means that it is possible to deviate from the Code if an explanaBoard and the auditors for Clas Ohlson. In addition, the AGM tion is provided as to why the deviation has been made. During decides how profits are to be allocated. Other issues that arise the financial year it has not been any deviations versus the code are mandatory items under the Companies Act and Clas Ohlwithin Clas Ohlson. son’s Articles of Association (available at about.clasohlson.com). Clas Ohlson’s AGM is very well attended, the latest with about Compliance with applicable regulations 1,400 participants, making it one of the largest in Sweden. for stock exchange trading Neither the Swedish Securities Council nor the Stockholm On 30 April 2018, the company’s largest shareholders, each Stock Exchange’s Disciplinary Committee reported infringerepresenting at least 10 per cent of the votes, were Helena Ek ments of good stock exchange practices or of the application Tidstrand (16.9 per cent), Björn Haid (12.6 per cent), Johan of stock exchange regulations. Tidstrand (12.4 per cent), Peter Haid (11.8 per cent) and Claus-Toni Haid (11.5 per cent). CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 79 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee fulfills the guidelines pertaining to The Nomination Committee’s task is to submit proposals for independence as stated in the Code. The Nomination CommitBoard members and auditors, as well as fees to Board members tee represents broad experience of work in boards of directors (including committee work) and to auditors, to the next AGM and nominating procedures. at which the Board and auditors are due to be elected. The Nomination Committee also proposes the Chairman of the AGM. Nomination Committee prior to the 2018 AGM Prior to the AGM held on 8 September 2018, a Nomination At Clas Ohlson, a nomination process is applied for electing the Committee was elected comprising Jonas Bergh, Chairman Nomination Committee. The Chairman of the Board is a memof the Nomination Committee representing the owner-family ber of the Nomination Committee, along with representatives Haid, Göran Sundström representing the owner-family for the four largest registered shareholders or otherwise known Tidstrand, Ricard Wennerklint representing If Skadeförsäkring shareholders (record date 30 September). If a shareholder does AB, Erik Durhan representing Nordea Investment Funds and not elect a member, the next largest shareholder will be asked. Kenneth Bengtsson, Chairman of the Board of Clas Ohlson. The Nomination Committee elects a Chairman from within the Committee, which, according to the Code, shall not be the The composition of the Nomination Committee is based on Chairman of the Board or another Board member. the owner relationship at 30 September 2017. The Nomination Committee represents slightly more than 70 per cent of the During the year, an internal evaluation of the Board’s work total number of company shares (votes). The above Nominaand Board composition was carried out. The evaluation was tion Committee will serve until a new Nomination Committee performed as an internal written evaluation. The results of the has been elected. evaluation were presented verbally and in writing by the Board Chairman Kenneth Bengtsson. The assessment is that the Board The basis of the Nomination Committee’s work is that the Boworked well during the year. Reporting took place in order to ard is to have the expertise, experience and background required enable the Nomination Committee to make as thorough an by the assignment. The degree of diversity in the Board was assessment as possible of the Board’s combined expertise and also taken into account and efforts are made to achieve an even experience. gender balance. Factors including the company’s diversity policy were considered by the Nomination Committee in its work. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN CLAS OHLSON Nomination Committee ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING BOARD OF DIRECTORS Members and Chairman elected at the AGM Auditors Two members and one deputies appointed by unions Remuneration Strategies Audit Committee Committee Targets Reports Members from the Board Members from the Board President and CEO Senior Management Clas Clas Clas Clas Clas Clas Targets, Forecasts, Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson activities AB AS Oy Ltd Ltd (Shanghai) GmbH reports Internal control instruments External control instruments 80 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Particular emphasis was placed on the company’s strategies and Board of Directors targets, as well as on the demands that the company’s future Clas Ohlson’s shareholders elect the Board of Directors annualfocus will place on the Board. The Nomination Committee also ly at the AGM. The Board comprises eight members, who are discussed the Board’s long-term composition on the basis of elected by the AGM. In addition to these members, the Board future competency requirements, diversity and succession. includes two representatives and one deputy for the trade-union organisations in the company. These individuals are elected by The committee worked on the nominating procedure for Clas their own organisations. Ohlson’s AGM and held five meetings that were recorded, where the Board’s composition was evaluated, considered and The Board fulfils the independence requirement of the Code. discussed. All members, with the exception of Mathias Haid and Göran Sundström, are deemed independent in relation to the compaThe Nomination Committee’s work during the mandate period ny, executive management and major shareholders. Clas included the following: Ohlson strives towards diversity, comprising to over time have • Report on the Board’s work from the Chairman of the Board an equal distribution of men and women in the Board. Gender • Evaluation of the Board’s work distribu-tion in the Board among the members elected by the • Nomination of the Chairman of the Board and Board AGM in the past financial year was four men (50.0 per cent) members and four women (50.0 per cent). In the preceding year, the • Position concerning the independence of Board members correspon-ding distribution was four men (57.1 per cent) and and candidates three wo-men (42.9 per cent). Charlotte Strömberg and Anne • Preparation of proposals for fees to the Board and committees Thorstvedt was elected to the Board of Directors at the 2017 • Preparation of proposals for the Chairman of the AGM AGM. • Nomination of auditors Board meetings The Nomination Committee’s complete proposals are presented Immediately following the AGM, the statutory Board meeting at the latest in connection with the publication of the Notificais held, at which the rules of procedure for the Board and tion of the AGM. instructions to the company’s CEO are approved. The members of the Board’s Audit and Remuneration Committees Auditors and au-thorised signatories for the company are also appointed The AGM appoints auditors for the Parent Company each year. at this meeting. In addition to this meeting, the Board holds at The AGM held on 9 September 2017 appointed Deloitte the least seven further meetings during the financial year. These are auditors of the company, with Kent Åkerlund as Auditor in held quarterly in conjunction with the publication of the Charge. Kent Åkerlund is an Authorised Public Accountant at compa-ny’s financial reports and once in June prior to Deloitte. Deloitte was elected up to the 2018 AGM. concluding the Annual Report, once in connection with the AGM and once during the autumn for strategic discussions. Payment for audit engagements in the Group in the past three The strategy me-eting usually takes place over two days, while years totalled 2.2 MSEK, 2.1 MSEK and 2.1 MSEK, respectiother meetings are held on one day. The strategy meeting vely. Remuneration for other assignments in the past three years mainly discusses issues relating to the Group’s targets and totalled 0.6 MSEK, 0.4 MSEK and 0.2 MSEK, respectively. strategies, product range, store establishment strategy, major Work in addition to auditing relates primarily to issues pertaiinvestments and so forth. Other meetings primarily deal with ning to consultation on tax issues and IFRS accounting rules. the usual Board issues, the company’s reports and reporting by the Board committees. The independent position of the auditors is ensured firstly by the internal policies of the auditing firm and secondly by the The company’s auditors attend three of the Board meetings Board’s guidelines indicating what engagements the auditing to report on what has emerged during the audit. The Board firm may undertake in addition to auditing. meets the auditors once annually without the presence of senior management. The Board held twelve Board meetings during the financial year, of which one was a strategy meeting. The Board assesses its work annually. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 81 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How the Board works Audit Committee The rules of procedure for the Board of Directors stipulate At its first meeting following the AGM, the Board established which items on the agenda are to be fixed and which may vary. an Audit Committee comprising Cecilia Marlow, Chairman, Each Board meeting is normally to be devoted to a specific Göran Sundström and Charlotte Strömberg. The Board has topic so that the Board can gain more in-depth knowledge issued instructions for the committee work. and understanding of the various parts of the company’s operations. There are also presentations on these topics by employees The Audit Committee is responsible for the quality assurance of the company. of financial reporting. In addition, the Audit Committee is responsible for supervising the effectiveness of risk management The issues that the Board dealt with during the year included and internal control of the financial reporting. strategic direction, monitoring of the business plan, a review of risk management, significant business processes, development The members of the Audit Committee met the auditors on of current markets and expansion. two occasions during the financial year to be informed about the focus of the audit and discuss views on the risks faced by The work of the Board’s committees is an important element of the company. In addition, the auditors attended several of the the Board’s work. The Board has prepared instructions for the committee’s other meetings. Important tasks for the Audit committees’ work. The Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee are to serve as a communication link, between the Committee discuss issues that fall within the committees’ remit. Board and the company’s auditors and to establish what services Issues that have been addressed in the committee meetings are over and beyond auditing can be procured from the company’s minuted and notified to the other Board members at the Board auditors. The auditing effort is evaluated annually, after which meetings. information is passed to the Nomination Committee on the outcome. The rules of procedure also state that the Board must meet with the company’s auditors at least twice per year. In addition, the The Audit Committee held seven meetings during the finanrules of procedure also regulate certain formal matters, such as cial year. Attendance is shown in the table on page 83. The rules for the notification of meetings and secrecy. meetings are minuted and reported at the next Board meeting. Representatives of the company’s management attended the committee’s meetings as co-opted members. The meetings THE BOARD’S WORKING SCHEDULE May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb March April Annual report AGM Monthly updates of the business operations, results, KPIs, etc. Operations planning • Dividend proposal • Strategy meeting • Interim report, Q2 • Interim report, Q3 • Year-end report • Financial reporting • Financial reporting • Interim report, Q1 • Financial reporting • Monitoring of the • Monitoring of the • Financial reporting business plan/forecast business plan/forecast • Monitoring of the business plan/forecast • Monitoring of the • Risk reporting • Forecast for future • Annual Report for the business plan/forecast • Meeting with auditors financial years preceding financial year • Annual General Meeting • Decision on business plan • Risk reporting • Statutory Board meeting • Decision pertaining to • Meeting with auditors remuneration issues 82 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE addressed issues aimed at quality assuring risk management and of work between the Board and CEO is indicated in the Board’s internal control of the financial reporting. Moreover, the Audit rules of procedure and in the instructions to the CEO. These Committee dealt with issues regarding the company’s interim state that the Board is responsible for the governance, supervireports, annual report, accounting, liquidity and other issues. sion, organisation, strategies, internal control, forecasts and policies of the company. In addition, the Board decides on major Remuneration Committee investments and matters of principle relating to the governance In accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the of subsidiaries, as well as the election of Board members and AGM of a limited liability company whose shares are listed for the CEO. The Board is also responsible for the quality of the trading on a regulated marketplace is to decide on guidelines financial reporting. for remuneration of senior executives. The Code also stipulates that the Board is to establish a Remuneration Committee. The CEO in turn is responsible for ensuring that the company is managed in accordance with Board’s guidelines and instrucThe Clas Ohlson Board decided in September that the Remutions. In addition, the CEO is responsible for forecasting and neration Committee was to comprise Kenneth Bengtsson planning the company’s operations so that specified targets are (Chairman), Göran Näsholm and Mathias Haid. The Board has attained. The CEO ensures that the control environment is issued instructions for the committee work. favourable and that the Group’s risk-taking at any time is compatible with the Board’s guidelines. Any deviations have to be The Remuneration Committee submits proposals for guidelines reported to the Board. The Board also receives regular informapertaining to basic salary and variable remuneration for senior tion from the CEO through a monthly report. management. The process regarding variable remuneration for all staff works in a similar way. The Committee met six times CEO and Senior Management during the financial year. Attendance is shown in the table Clas Ohlson’s CEO leads the senior management’s work and below. The meetings are minuted and reported at the next makes decisions pertaining to the operations in consultation Board meeting. The Remuneration Committee addressed such with others in the senior management. At the end of the finanissues as fixed and variable remuneration and prepared the cial year, senior management comprised twelve individuals and suggestions to long-term incentive program (LTI). meetings were held monthly and as otherwise necessary. The meetings focus primarily on strategic and operative monitoring and Distribution of work between the Board and CEO development, as well as results follow-up. In addition to these The Board appoints the CEO of the company. The distribution meetings, there is close daily cooperation within management. Composition of the Board and attendance during the financial year 1 4 Member 2, 3 Elected Independent Independent 5 Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee9 6 6 Kenneth Bengtsson 2013 Yes Yes 12/12 6/6 5/5 Ros-Marie Grusén 2016 Yes Yes 11/12 Mathias Haid 2015 Yes No 8 11/12 6/6 6 Cecilia Marlow 2007 Yes Yes 12/12 7/7 Göran Näsholm 2015 Yes Yes 11/12 6/6 7 7 Charlotte Strömberg 2017 Yes Yes 7/7 4/4 8 Göran Sundström 2014 Yes No 12/12 7/7 5/5 7 Sanna Suvanto-Harsaae 2010 Yes Yes 3/57 3/3 7 Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg 2017 Yes Yes 6/7 1 The trade-union organisations have had three representatives on the Board, two board members and one deputies. For further information on Board members, see pages 88-89. The work of the Board and its committees is described on pages 81-83. 2 For information on date of birth, work experience, assignments and shareholdings, see pages 88-89. 3 Remuneration of Board members is stated in Note 6, see page 103. 4 Independent in relation to the company and executive management according to the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. 5 Independent in relation to major shareholders of the company according to the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. 6 Chairman. 7 At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, Charlotte Strömberg and Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg where elected to the Board as Board members. Sanna Suvanto-Harsaae declined re-election. The composition of the committees were changed in connection with the 2017 annual general meeting. 8 Are, or represent, major shareholders. Refer to page 139 for information about major shareholders. 9 For the Nomination Committee, only those members who are also Board members are presented. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 83 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Governance of subsidiaries The five wholly owned subsidiaries Clas Ohlson AS in Norway, Clas Ohlson Oy in Finland, Clas Ohlson Ltd in the UK, Clas Ohlson GmbH in Germany and Clas Ohlson Ltd (Shanghai) in China are governed by their own boards in the country concerned, principally consisting of representatives of Clas Ohlson AB in Sweden. The Board in Sweden receives continuous information about the subsidiaries through the CEO’s monthly reports on the subsidiaries. These reports also include the results of operations and financial position of the company concerned. External and internal control instruments Clas Ohlson’s governance occurs within the framework for external control instruments, such as Nasdaq Stockholm’s rules and regulations, the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Furthermore, there are internal control instruments consisting Remuneration to the other eleven senior executives totalled of the Articles of Association, the Board’s rules of procedure, 15.7 MSEK, of which 1.2 MSEK was in the form of variinstructions for the CEO, policies, guidelines, as well as Clas able remuneration. Variable remuneration pertaining to the Ohlson’s values and corporate culture. expensed but not definite portion of the long-term incentive programs was a cost reduction of 0.2 MSEK. Last year the Clas Ohlson’s corporate culture corresponding figure was a total cost of 1.9 MSEK. RemuneThe core of Clas Ohlson’s corporate culture is salesmanship. ration, in addition to variable remuneration (STI), amounting The company’s corporate culture is based on drive, warmth, to a total of 0.9 MSEK was paid in cash to a number of senior innovation and commitment. These common values permeate executives in accordance with the opportunities stipulated in the daily work. the guidelines on remuneration of senior executives, as approved by the 2017 AGM, to deviate from these guidelines where Remuneration warranted by specific reasons. Such specific reasons were the Fees paid to the Board during the financial year totalled 3.4 extraordinary efforts resulting from the work on the company’s MSEK, in accordance with the resolution by the AGM. Of new strategy in the autumn, winter and spring (2017–2018) the fees paid, 0.5 MSEK pertained to remuneration for work and that was adopted by the Board in May 2018. The review of on the Board’s Remuneration and Audit Committees. Of the the new strategy commenced after the 2017 AGM. The work Board’s total fee, 0.8 MSEK was paid to the Chairman of the associated with the review was thus not encompassed by the tarBoard. No remuneration is paid to members of the Nomination gets established for the variable remuneration programme (STI) Committee. and was not taken into account in the guidelines on remuneration of senior executives approved by the 2017 AGM. Another Peter Jelkeby held the role of Acting President and CEO between special reason for the cash payment was the need to ensure that 1 May and 31 July 2017. Remuneration as acting CEO amounthe company can retain key senior executives. All twelve of ted to 6.2 MSEK, of which 0.1 MSEK amounted to variable senior management receive the additional benefit of a company remuneration (STI). Variable remuneration pertaining to the car. The 2017 AGM decided on guidelines for remuneration to expensed but not definite portion of the long-term incentive prosenior management pertaining to the 2017/18 financial year. grams (LTI 2015, LTI 2016 and LTI 2017) was a cost reduction of 0.7 MSEK for the acting CEO. Last year the corresponding Severance pay figure was a total cost of 0.2 MSEK. Lotta Lyrå took over as Under the contract of employment with the CEO, the mutual President and CEO on 1 August 2017. Remuneration as CEO period of notice is six months. Six months’ salary is payable amounted to 5.3 MSEK, of which 0.2 MSEK amounted to in the event of termination by the company. Applicable basic variable remuneration (STI). Variable remuneration pertaining to salary, variable remuneration and benefits are payable during the expensed but not definite portion of the long-term incentive the period of notice. program (LTI 2017) was calculated at 0.7 MSEK for the CEO. 84 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Pension Risk management The members of the Board do not receive any pension benefits The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk effort. for their Board engagements. The retirement age for the CEO The risk situation in Clas Ohlson is updated and analysed reand for other senior management is 65. The CEO has a defigularly. This is done by means of a systematic process in which ned-contribution pension into which 1.7 MSEK (Lotta Lyrå) risks are identified, valued and assessed, managed, monitored and 0.7 MSEK (Peter Jelkeby) was paid during the financial and reported. Using an overall assessment, priority is given year. Other members of senior management receive pension ento those risks whose impact and probability are deemed to titlements based on their applicable ITP plan, which also covers represent the most negative effect. A key aspect in this work is other salaried staff in Sweden. the measures undertaken to avoid (control activities), reduce or shift the risk to another party (insurance). The risks are entered Remuneration principles in risk maps in order to clarify the overall risk exposure. The general principles of remuneration for senior executives are Mapping is done at the Group level and represents a tool for to be based on the position held, individual performance, the operational and strategic governance by the Board and the Group’s financial results and the remuneration being competiticompany’s senior management. By means of risk mapping, the ve in the country of employment. The combined remuneration focus can be aimed at reducing the company’s risk exposure of senior executives is to consist of basic salary, variable salary in and reducing the consequences of any risks emerging. The Risk the form of a short-term incentive based on annual performanCommittee pursues the work involved in compiling, monitoce objectives, long-term incentives based on multi-year perforring and developing the risk management process. Reporting mance, pension and other benefits. The principles also regulate of the Group’s overall risk status is made internally to the Audit the terms and conditions for termination of employment and Committee and the Board twice annually. for severance pay. Sustainability Clas Ohlson strives to offer a competitive total level of remuFor Clas Ohlson, it is important to protect and assume reneration, focusing on payments based on performance. This sponsibility for people and the environment impacted by our means that variable remuneration may comprise a significant operation. Our sustainability agenda is an integrated part of portion of the total remuneration. The aim is for basic remuneClas Ohlson’s operation and is reported on pages 34-36. Clas ration to be in line with the median of the comparable market, Ohlson’s sustainability report is defined on page 120. Refer also while total remuneration, when Clas Ohlson meets or exceeds to pages 121–135 for supplementary sustainability information. its objectives, is to be in the upper quartile of the market. RISK MANAGEMENT Decision on overall policies The Board Monitoring Audit Committee Reporting Governance Implement, delegate Senior Management Establish guidelines and instructions, educate, compile Risk Committee reports Monitor existing risks, identify new risks, Head of function report CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 85 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal control of the financial reporting Risk assessment and control activities The Board has overall responsibility for the company’s systems A model has been devised in the company to assess the risk of pertaining to internal control. The responsibility is regulated by errors in financial reporting. The purpose of the model is to the Swedish Companies Act, which also states that the Audit identify a number of items in the income statement and balanCommittee has a specific responsibility for monitoring quace sheet and processes for preparation of financial information lity assurance in risk management and internal control of the where the risk of errors is judged to be elevated. financial reporting. The Group’s income consists of sales in stores and online The company’s work on internal control follows the framework shopping where payment is principally made by credit card developed by The Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of or in cash. This income is documented in its entirety in bank the Treadway Commission (COSO). The framework consists of accounts which are reconciled daily. The risk of errors in the five individual areas: control environment, risk assessment, conreporting of income is limited. Group expenses primarily trol activities, information and communication and follow-up. comprise goods-related expenses, freights, salaries and social security contributions, rental expenses and marketing. Income Control environment and expenses are forecasted for each store and department. The The control environment comprises the organisational strucoutcome is checked monthly against both the forecast and the ture and the values, guidelines, policies, instructions and so preceding year. on, according to which the organisation works. Effective Board work forms the basis of good internal control and the Board About 89 per cent of Clas Ohlson’s assets consist of inventories of Clas Ohlson has established rules of procedure and clear and non-current assets. Accordingly, particular emphasis has instructions for its work. This also includes the Board’s Remubeen placed on preventing and detecting deficiencies in these neration and Audit Committees. areas when designing internal controls. Part of the Board’s work involves drawing up and approving The processes and the control structure are documented in a the policies that govern the Group’s work on internal control. separate financial manual, which is updated regularly. Work is Another part involves creating the necessary conditions for an continuously in progress to evaluate the most essential processes organisational structure with clear roles and responsibilities, in the Group. The greatest risks in each process are documented. leading to effective management of the risks in the operation. An assessment is then made of whether the controls that take The Group has regulations governing decision-making and place are adequate. If there is a need, further compensatory authorisation levels that parallel the Group’s organisational controls are introduced to reduce the risk to an acceptable level. structure. The focus is on clarifying who has a mandate to The subsidiaries have accounting managers and controllers who decide on investments, activities, signing of agreements and so ensure that financial reporting is correct and complete. In addiforth in each function and the limits in terms of the amounts tion, they ensure that legislation is observed and that financial involved. In the event that the amount exceeds the function’s reporting is completed within the time frames to senior manamandate, the decision is assigned to the next level in the orgagement and to the Group accounting function. Moreover, there nisation. This is done in order to maintain a good corporate goare controllers at major Group functions and on the Group vernance and awareness at the various levels in the organisation. finance function with equivalent working tasks. The regulations governing decision-making and authorisation constitute the basis for decision-making at Clas Ohlson. The Group finance function has a close and well-functioning cooperation with subsidiaries as regards reporting and closing The senior management is responsible for implementing accounts. Each month, all subsidiaries report complete closing guidelines for the maintenance of good internal control. An accounts, which constitute the basis for the Group’s consolidaongoing work is being done in developing and improving ted financial reporting. internal control. The senior management and the Audit Committee report continuously to the Board according to approved Information and communication procedures. Major policies, guidelines, instructions and manuals that are of significance to internal control are regularly updated and All activity is undertaken in accordance with the ethical guidelicommunicated to employees concerned. General guidelines and nes drawn up in the Group’s Code of Conduct. instructions are also available on the company’s intranet. 86 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE There are both formal and informal information channels to nicating material issues to the senior management, Board and the senior management and the Board for information from auditors. An important aspect is to ensure that any viewpoints staff. The Board receives regular feedback from the operations from the auditors are rectified. on questions that relate to internal control through the Audit Committee. For external communication, there are guidelines Three times a year, the entire Board meets the company’s audithat support the requirement to provide the equities market tors to be informed of the external audit and discuss relevant with correct information. issues. On the basis of the auditors’ reporting, the Board forms a picture of the internal control and the correctness of the fiFollow-up of internal control nancial information. The CEO does not take part in any issues Senior management and the Audit Committee regularly report that relate to company management. to the Board on the basis of established procedures. The Board receives regular information from the CEO every month Internal audit through a monthly report for the Group. This monthly report Following evaluations in the financial year and preceding years, also contains information on the results and financial positions the Board has not found it necessary to date to establish an inof the subsidiaries. ternal audit function. The company’s Group-wide controller function has instead been adapted to also deal with work reEach interim report is analysed by the Audit Committee with garding internal control. The question of whether to establish regard to the correctness of the financial information. The a separate internal audit function is re-examined annually. FurAudit Committee also plays a key role in monitoring to ensure thermore, the company has a Risk Committee that continuousthat there are sufficient control activities for the most essential ly evaluates material risks and control activities. areas of risk pertaining to the financial reporting and commuCLAS OHLSON 2017/18 87 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors Kenneth Bengtsson Ros-Marie Grusén Mathias Haid Born 1961. Born 1971. Born in 1970. Chairman of the Board since 2014. Member of the Board since 2016. Member of the Board since 2015. Member of the Board since 2013. B.Sc. Social Science/Behavioural Science. Professional experience: Pilot at Lufthansa Professional experience: CEO and various Professional experience: CEO of Norsk Cargo AG, training officer at Lufthansa’s executive positions in ICA for more than 30 Medisinaldepot AS and Region Manager for the airline operations and several senior positions years. Scandinavian area Celesio AG, CEO of Admenta in Lufthansa’s airline operations in 1998-2015. Other significant directorships: Chairman Sweden AB/LloydsApotek, CEO of Plantagen AB Member of the Board of Clas Ohlson AS and of the Board in Ahlsell AB, Ersta diakoni, Sysand senior positions at Ikea. Clas Ohlson Oy 2002-2005. Member of the tembolaget and World Childhood Foundation. Other significant directorship: Board member Board of Clas Ohlson Foundation. Board Member of Synsam and Herenco. of Besqab AB and Granngården AB. Independent in relation to the company, executive Dependent in relation to major shareholders Independent in relation to the company, according to the Swedish Code of Corporate management and major shareholders according to executive management and major shareholders Governance. Independent in relation to the the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. according to the Swedish Code of Corporate company and executive management. Shareholding:*: 0 Governance. Shareholding*: 11,610 series B Shareholding*: 8,000 series B share own holding and 37,000 series B via a legal entity Cecilia Marlow Göran Näsholm Born in 1960. Born in 1955. Member of the Board since 2007. Member of the Board since 2015. Master of Business Administration, Stockholm School of Mechanical engineer and Master of Business Administration. Economics. Professional experience: CEO of Ahlsell AB 1999-2015. ExProfessional experience: CEO of Kronans Droghandel, ecutive Vice President of Ahlsell AB, Division Manager of Ahlsell CEO of JC and CEO of Polarn O. Pyret. AB, President of Jirva AB, Purchasing Director of Calor Celsius Other significant directorships: Chairman of the Board of AB and various purchasing-related positions in Alfa Laval. Kivra. Board member of Fazer Group, MatHem, Nordea Other significant directorships: Chairman of the Board of Fonder and Internationella Engelska skolan. Fresks Holding AB and LW AB. Board member of Martin & Servera AB. Independent in relation to the company, executive management and major shareholders according to the Swedish Code Independent in relation to the company, executive management of Corporate Governance. and major shareholders according to the Swedish Code of Shareholding*: 1,500 series B via a legal entity Corporate Governance. Shareholding*: 38,642 series B 88 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Göran Sundström Charlotte Strömberg Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg Born in 1962. Born in 1959. Born in 1965. Member of the Board since 2014. Member of the Board since 2017. Member of the Board since 2017. Master of Business Administration, Lund University. MSc in Business and Economics, Stockholm MSc in Business and Economics, School of Professional experience: Founder and CEO of SundSchool of Economics. Business, Economics and Law at the University ström & Partners, various senior positions in Corporate Professional experience: Former CEO of of Gothenburg. Finance at Alfred Berg Fondkommission AB, Aros Jones Lang LaSalle Nordic region, a number of Professional experience: Global Vice Securities AB and Nordea Securities. senior positions at Carnegie Investment Bank President Marketing Effectiveness and Insights, Other significant directorships: Chairman of the and worked at Alfred Berg/ABN Amro, ConsenElectrolux. Various executive positions at Procsus and Robur Kapitalförvaltning. ter & Gamble, Kraft Freia Marabou, Kraft Foods Board of Logitall AB and Board member of Parks & ReOther significant directorships: Chairman of and Mondelez International. sorts Scandinavia AB and Sundström & Partners AB. Castellum AB, Board member of Kinnevik AB, Member of the Board of Clas Ohlson Foundation. Sofina S.A., Skanska AB and a member of the Independent in relation to the company, comSwedish Securities Council. pany management and major shareholders Dependent in relation to major shareholders according according to the Swedish Corporate Goverto the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Independent in relation to the company, comnance Code. Independent in relation to the company and executive pany management and major shareholders Shareholding*: 0 management. according to the Swedish Corporate GoverShareholding*: 2,400 series B share own holding and nance Code. 1,600 series B via a legal entity Shareholding*: 2,500 series B shares Henrik Andersson Joe Erikson Lasse Zwetsloot Born in 1971. Born in1987. Born in 1976. Member of the Board since 2012. Member of the Board since 2017. Deputy Member of the Board since 2012. Employee representative (Unionen). Employee representative (Handels). Employee representative (Handels). Shareholding*: 0 Shareholding*: 0 Shareholding*: 410 series B * Own and related parties’ shares as of 15 June 2017. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 89 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | SENIOR MANAGEMENT Senior management Lotta Lyrå Tony Dahlström Magnus Höjman** President and CEO Director of Purchasing Director of Supply Chain Employed in 2017 Employed 1982 to 2007, and 2009 Employed in 2011 Born in 1975 Born in 1964 Born in 1967 Master of Business Administration , StockProfessional experience: Category MaMaster of Business Administration, Lund holm School of Economics nager at Clas Ohlson, CEO of OS TechnoUniversity and University of California Professional experience: Head of Developlogy Nordic, Product Manager and various Professional experience: Consultant at ment and Expansion for the Ikea Group, and positions in stores, at distribution centre and Accenture, Venture Manager at Real Venture other executive positions in the Ikea Group. customer service at Clas Ohlson. Group and various positions in sales and maVarious positions in Södra Skogsägarna and Shareholding*: 15,503 series B shares nagement at Procter & Gamble Scandinavia. McKinsey & Co. Shareholding*: 5,920 series B shares Shareholding*: 8,778 series B shares Tina Englyst Göran Melin** Sara Kraft Westrell** General Counsel CFO Director of Information and IR Employed in 2011 Employed in 2010 Employed in 2013 Born in 1976 Born in 1962 Born in 1974 LLB, Uppsala University and University of Master of Business Administration, School of Master of Business Administration, Lund UniCambridge (LLM) Business, Economics and Law at versity and National University of Singapore Professional experience: Associate at the University of Gothenburg Professional experience: Director of InforMannheimer Swartling Advokatbyrå, Senior Professional experience: Authorized Public mation at Hexagon AB, Director of Market Legal Counsel at MTV Networks AB and Accountant and Partner at PwC. and Communication at JB Education and Head of Legal at MTV Networks AB. Shareholding*: 11,570 series B shares Communications Advisor at Kreab. Shareholding*: 6,598 series B shares Shareholding:*: 4,269 series B shares * Own and related parties’ shares as of 31 May 2018 ** Göran Melin will be leaving his position on 30 June 2018. Magnus Höjman will be leaving Group Management on 30 June 2018. Sara Kraft Westrell will be leaving her position in September 2018. 90 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | SENIOR MANAGEMENT Pär Christiansen Pär Christiansen has been recruited as the new CFO, and will take office on 1 July 2018. He comes most recently from his role as CFO of Gant, and has previously held executive positions at Transcom, MTR and SAS. Shareholding*: 11,920 series B-shares Fredrik Uhrbom Geir Hoff Sampo Päällysaho Country Manager, Clas Ohlson Sweden Director of New Markets and Expansion Country Manager, Clas Ohlson Finland Employed in 2017 Employed in 1994 Employed in 2011 Born in 1971 Born in 1972 Born in 1972 MSc in Business and Economics, Stockholm MSc in Law, Political Science and National MSc in Business and Economics, Helsinki University, Regensburg FH and Dalarna Economy, University of Oslo School of Economics University Professional experience: Country Manager, Professional experience: Trading Director, Professional experience: Director Market Clas Ohlson Norway; Head of Marketing, Clas Marketing Director and Regional Director at Operations at Hultafors Group, part of Ohlson Norway and various other positions at Kesko Group in Finland and the Baltic region, Investment AB Latour, Trade Commissioner/ Clas Ohlson Norway. European Trade Director at AMS Sourcing BV, Country Manager at Exportrådet. Shareholding*: 14,487 series B-shares the Netherlands. Shareholding*: 9,931 series B-shares Shareholding*: 5,351 series B-shares Jacob Sten Jesper Smith Stine Trygg-Hauger*** Chief Growth Officer HR Director Country Manager, Clas Ohlson Norway Employed in 2018 Employed in 2017 Employed in 2009 Born in 1967 Born in 1970 Born in 1982 Business Administration, Lund University. Behavioural science, language and business Marketing & Communications, BI Norwegian Professional experience: CEO of Inspiranadministration, Lund University. Executive Business School da, and a number of executive roles at Sony Master’s in Management and Organisation, Professional experience: Head of CommuMobile, Ericsson Mobile and Orkla Foods. Nyenrode Business School nications & Customer Interaction and various Shareholding*: 1,634 series B-shares Professional experience: HR and Internal positions in marketing and communication Communications Director at Telekom Austria at Clas Ohlson Norway, Brand Manager at Group, as well as various roles in HR for Validus. Ericsson, Sony Ericsson and Tieto. Shareholding*: 1,907 series B-shares Shareholding*: 1,389 series B-shares *** Rune Johansen is acting Country Manager during Stine Trygg-Hauger’s parental leave. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 91 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Income statement Cash flow statement 1 May 2017 1 May 2016 1 May 2017 1 May 2016 MSEK Note –30 Apr 2018 –30 Apr 2017 MSEK –30 Apr 2018 –30 Apr 2017 1, 2 Operating activities Sales 8,210.7 7,990.1 Operating profit 468.3 609.9 Cost of goods sold 4,5,6 -4,926.6 -4,698.6 Adjustment for non-cash items Gross profit 3,284.1 3,291.5 – depreciation 225.6 230.0 Selling expenses 4, 5, 6 -2,579.7 -2,485.2 – loss from sale/disposal of Administrative expenses 4, 5, 6, 7 -237.1 -193.1 non-current assets 1.4 37.3 Other operating income 3 24.3 24.5 –o  ther non-cash items -18.4 -54.8 Other operating expenses 3 -23.3 -27.9 Interest received 0.7 0.7 Operating profit 468.3 609.9 Interest paid -1.9 -1.6 Tax paid -131.8 -160.8 Financial items Cash flow from operating activities before Financial income 8 0.7 0.7 changes in working capital 543.9 660.6 Financial expense 8 -1.9 -1.6 Cash flow from changes in working capital Profit before tax 467.1 608.9 – accounts receivable -1.8 0.0 Income tax 9 -109.3 -130.2 – inventories -361.8 32.8 Profit for the year 357.8 478.7 – other receivables -109.3 45.4 – accounts payable 243.6 -54.5 Number of shares at the end of the period, millions 63.2 63.1 –o  ther current interest-free operating liabilities 58.3 14.8 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 10 5.66 7.59 Cash flow from operating activities 372.8 698.9 Earnings per share Investing activities after dilution, SEK 10 5.65 7.57 Investments in intangible assets -124.0 -105.9 Proposed dividend per share, Investments in tangible assets -148.8 -157.6 SEK 11 6.25 6.25 Investments in securities held as fixed assets -224.5 0.0 Sale of equipment 0.1 0.1 Cash flow from investing activities -497.2 -263.5 Statement of consolidated comprehensive income Financing activities 1 May 2017 1 May 2016 Repurchase of own shares -20.9 -75.7 MSEK –30 Apr 2018 –30 Apr 2017 Sales of own shares 26.1 19.7 Profit for the year 357.8 478.7 Dividend to shareholders -395.0 -362.0 Other comprehensive income, Cash flow from financing activities -389.8 -418.0 net after tax: Cash flow for the year -514.2 17.5 Items that can later be reversed in the consolidated income statement: Cash and cash equivalents Exchange-rate differences 54.3 22.9 at the start of the year 625.1 604.3 Cash-flow hedging -9.3 21.6 Exchange-rate differences in cash and cash equivalents 4.9 3.3 Items that cannot later be reversed in the consolidated income statement: Cash and cash equivalents Remeasurement of defined-benefit at the end of the year 115.8 625.1 pension obligations 0.0 0.0 Other comprehensive income, net after tax 45.0 44.5 Comprehensive income for the year 402.8 523.2 (all of the above profits were attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders during the year) 92 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Balance sheet Balance sheet MSEK Note 30 Apr 2018 30 Apr 2017 MSEK Note 30 Apr 2018 30 Apr 2017 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets 12 Equity 18 Intangible assets Capital and reserves attributable to Parent Company shareholders IT and software costs 428.2 340.2 Share capital, 65,600,000 shares Total intangible assets 428.2 340.2 with a quotient value of 1.25 SEK 82.0 82.0 Tangible assets Other contributed capital 90.4 90.4 Land and buildings 386.8 414.4 Other reserves -44.9 -89.9 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 654.6 649.9 Profit brought forward including profit for the year 2,136.4 2,168.2 Total tangible assets 1,041.3 1,064.3 Total equity 2,263.9 2,250.7 Securities held as fixed assets Non-current liabilities Securities held as fixed assets 12 224.5 0.0 Deferred tax liabilities 9 210.1 195.8 Total securities held as fixed assets 224.5 0.0 Other non-current liabilities 5.0 5.0 Other non-current provisions 22 12.3 25.9 Non-current receivables Deferred tax assets 9 13.4 17.0 Total non-current liabilities 227.4 226.8 Other non-current receivables 19 1.5 1.6 Current liabilities Total non-current receivables 14,9 18.5 Accounts payable 20 881.6 635.2 Current assets Tax liability 35.3 39.4 Inventories 13 2,038.0 1,630.7 Other current liabilities 20 180.8 169.2 Accounts receivable 14 33.7 31.0 Accrued expenses and deferred income 17, 21 536.5 500.2 Tax assets 61.3 23.2 Other provisions 22 74.2 78.0 Other receivables 35.4 8.1 Total current liabilities 1708.4 1,421.9 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 15,17 206.6 158.2 Total equity and liabilities 4 199.7 3,899.4 Cash and cash equivalents 16 115.8 625.1 Total current assets 2,490.7 2,476.4 Total assets 4,199.7 3,899.4 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 93 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Consolidated statement of changes in equity (Note 18) Attributable to Parent Companys shareholders Other Share contributed Translation Hedging Profit brought MSEK capital capital difference reserve forward Total Opening balance at 1 May 2016 82.0 90.4 -117.9 -16.5 2,100.7 2,138.8 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – – 478.7 478.7 Other comprehensive income Cash-flow hedging after taxl – – – 21.6 – 21.6 Exchange-rate differences – – 22.9 – – 22.9 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension obligations – – – – 0.0 0.0 Total other comprehensive income – – 22.9 21.6 0.0 44.5 Total comprehensive income – – 22.9 21.6 478.7 523.2 Transactions with shareholders Repurchase of own share – – – – -75.7 -75.7 Sales of own share – – – – 19.7 19.7 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service – – – – 6.7 6.7 Dividend – – – – -362.0 -362.0 Total transactions with shareholders – – – – -411.2 -411.3 Closing balance at 30 April 2017 82.0 90.4 -95.0 5.1 2,168.2 2,250.7 Opening balance at 1 May 2017 82.0 90.4 -95.0 5.1 2,168.2 2,250.7 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – – 357.8 357.8 Other comprehensive income Cash-flow hedging after tax – – – -9.3 – -9.3 Exchange-rate differences – – 54.3 – – 54.3 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension obligations – – – – 0.0 0.0 Total other comprehensive income – – 54.3 -9.3 0.0 45.0 Total comprehensive income – – 54.3 -9.3 357.8 402.8 Transactions with shareholders Repurchase of own share – – – – -20.9 -20.9 Sales of own share – – – – 26.1 26.1 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service – – – – 0.2 0.2 Dividend – – – – -395.0 -395.0 Total transactions with shareholders – – – – -389.6 -389.6 Closing balance at 30 April 2018 82.0 90.4 -40.6 -4.3 2,136.4 2,263.9 94 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company Income statement Cash flow statement 1 May 2017 1 May 2016 1 May 2017 1 May 2016 MSEK Note –30 Apr 2018 –30 Apr 2017 MSEK –30 Apr 2018 –30 Apr 2017 1, 2 Operating activities Sales 23 6,444.1 6,384.2 Operating profit 186.8 502.7 Cost of goods sold 4,5,6 -4,817.6 -4,579.7 Adjustment for non-cash item Gross profit 1,626.5 1,804.5 – depreciation 151.5 157.5 – loss from sale/disposal of Selling expenses 4,5,6 -1,244.9 -1,150.9 non-current assets 0.9 3.6 Administrative expenses 4,5,6,7 -195.8 -149.1 – other non-cash items 4.9 5.1 Other operating income 3 24.3 24.3 Interest received 1.3 0.4 Other operating expenses 3 -23.3 -26.1 Interest paid -2.7 -2.2 Operating profit 186.8 502.7 Tax paid -82.9 -105.5 Financial items Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 259.6 561.6 Dividend from subsidiaries 112.7 103.2 Interest income 8 1.3 0.4 Cash flow from changes in working capital Interest expense 8 -2.7 -2.2 – accounts receivable 1.7 -0.3 Profit after financial items 298.0 604.1 – inventories -265.6 42.7 – other receivables -145.1 211.5 Appropriations 26 12.8 -76.2 – accounts payable 251.0 -23.1 Profit before tax 310.8 527.9 – other current interest-free operating liabilities 74.6 -278.7 Income tax 9 -45.7 -91.7 Cash flow from operating activities 176.2 513.7 Profit for the year 265.1 436.3 Investing activities Proposed dividend per share, Investments in intangible assets -124.0 -105.9 SEK 11 6.25 6.25 Investments in tangible assets -54.7 -62.9 Investments in securities held as fixed assets -224.5 0.0 Sale of equipment 0.1 0.1 Comprehensive income, Parent Company Cash flow from investing activities -403.1 -168.7 1 May 2017 1 May 2016 Financing activities MSEK –30 Apr 2018 –30 Apr 2017 Repurchase of own shares -20.9 -75.7 Sales of own shares 26.1 19.7 Profit for the year 265.1 436.3 Repayments/Lending from subsidiaries 0.0 -4.7 Other comprehensive income, Dividend from subsidiaries 112.7 103.2 net after tax: Dividend to shareholders -395.0 -362.0 Items that can later be reversed in the consolidated income stateCash flow from financing activities -277.1 -319.4 ment: Cash flow for the year -504.0 25.5 Profit/loss from hedging of net investments in foreign operations 11.3 2.4 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 540.9 515.4 Comprehensive income for the Cash and cash equivalents year 276.4 438.7 at the end of the year 36.9 540.9 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 95 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company Balance sheet Balance sheet MSEK Note 30 Apr 2018 30 Apr 2017 MSEK Note 30 Apr 2018 30 Apr 2017 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets 12 Equity 18 Intangible assets Restricted equity IT and software costs 428.2 340.2 Share capital, 65,600,000 shares Total intangible assets 428.2 340.2 with a quotient value of 1.25 82.0 82.0 Statutory reserve 106.8 106.8 Tangible assets Development fond 15.8 7.9 Land and buildings 386.8 413.7 Total restricted equity 204.6 196.8 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 327.0 361.9 Non-restricted equity Total tangible assets 713.8 775.6 Fair value fund -17.5 -28.8 Financial non-current assets Profit brought forward 433.1 394.3 Deferred tax assets 4.0 3.1 Profit for the year 265.1 436.3 Receivables, Group companies 165.2 153.9 Total non-restricted equity 680.7 801.7 Securities held as fixed assets 25 224.5 0.0 Total equity 885.3 998.5 Participations in Group companies 24 29.3 29.3 Total financial non-current assets 423.0 186.3 Untaxed reserves 28 1,035.7 1,048.5 Total non-current assets 1,565.0 1,302.1 Current assets Provisions Inventories Other provisions 22 50.7 46.0 Merchandise 13 1,327.6 1,062.0 Total provisions 50.7 46.0 Total inventories 1,327.6 1,062.0 Non-current liabilities Current receivables Other non-current liabilities 5.0 5.0 Accounts receivable 14 18.0 19.7 Total non-current liabilities 5.0 5.0 Tax assets 60.5 23.0 Receivables from Group companies 113.6 72.9 Current liabilities Accounts payable 20 829.2 578.2 Other receivables 29.0 2.6 Liabilities to Group companies 126.5 86.0 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 15 127.4 86.9 Other current liabilities 32.8 41.9 Total current receivables 348.5 205.2 Accrued expenses and deferred income 21 312.8 305.9 Cash and bank balances 27 36.9 540.9 Total current liabilities 1,301.4 1,012.2 Total current assets 1,713.1 1,808.1 Total equity and liabilities 3,278.1 3,110.2 Total assets 3,278.1 3,110.2 96 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company Change in Parent Company equity Total nonStatutory Development restricted MSEK Share capital reserve fund equity Total equity Opening balance at 1 May 2016 82.0 106.8 – 782.2 971.0 Dividend – – – -362.0 -362.0 Repurchase own shares – – – -75.7 -75.7 Sales of own shares – – – 19.7 19.7 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service – – – 6.7 6.7 Change of development fund – – 7.9 -7.9 0.0 Other comprehensive income – – – 438.7 438.7 Closing balance at 30 April 2017 82.0 106.8 7.9 801.7 998.5 Opening balance at 1 May 2017 82.0 106.8 7.9 801.7 998.5 Dividend – – – -395.0 -395.0 Repurchase own shares – – – -20.9 -20.9 Sales of own shares – – – 26.1 26.1 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service – – – 0.2 0.2 Change of development fund – – 7.9 -7.9 0.0 Other comprehensive income – – – 276.4 276.4 Closing balance at 30 April 2018 82.0 106.8 15.8 680.7 885.3 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 97 NOTES Accounting policies and Notes Amounts are in MSEK unless stated otherwise Note 1 Accounting and valuation policies Compliance with standards and legislation To be applied The consolidated financial statements for Clas Ohlson have been prepared in to financial years accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting Standards beginning after: Rules for Groups and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations from IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) as approved by IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 or later the EU. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with the cost IFRS 15 Revenue from method, apart from financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments), contracts with customers 1 January 2018 or later measured at fair value. IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 or later The accounting policies for the Group indicated below have been applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The standard consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements, enters force for financial years that begin on 1 January 2018 or later (financial unless otherwise stated. The Group’s accounting policies have been applied year 2018/2019 for Clas Ohlson) and at that point replaces IAS 39 Financial consistently to the reporting and consolidation of the Parent Company and instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The standard is divided into three subsidiaries. parts: classification and measurement, hedge accounting and impairment. Estimates and assumptions IFRS 9 requires that financial assets be classified into three different measurement Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management categories: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income or to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that impact upon the application fair value through profit or loss. Classification is determined on initial recognition of the accounting policies and the carrying amounts for assets, liabilities, income based on the characteristics of the asset and the company’s business model. In and expenses. These are based on historical experience and a number of other the case of financial liabilities, there are no major changes compared with IAS 39. factors that appear reasonable under the prevailing conditions. The estimates and The largest change refers to liabilities measured at fair value. For such liabilities, assumptions are reviewed regularly and are not judged to entail any significant the portion of the change in fair value that is attributable to own credit risk is to be risk of material adjustment of carrying amounts for assets and liabilities during the recognised in other comprehensive income instead of profit or loss, unless this next financial year. Any changes to estimates are recognised in the period in which were to cause a recognition inconsistency. the change is made if the change has only impacted upon this period, or in the period in which the change is made and future periods if the change impacts upon The other part refers to hedge accounting. IFRS 9 requires expanded disclosures both the current period and future periods. Further information on estimates and on risk management and the effect of hedge accounting. The new policies largely assumptions made is presented in Notes 9, 13 and 22. entail better conditions for the accounts to provide a fairer view of the company’s management of financial risks. For the Group, the estimates and assumptions made in conjunction with impairment testing of intangible assets not yet utilised were deemed of material signifFinally, new policies were introduced for the impairment of financial assets, based icance. This means that if the estimates and assumptions made were to signifion an expected loss impairment model. One of the purposes of this new model cantly differ from the actual outcome, the effect on the financial statements could is to allow for provisions for credit losses at an earlier stage. The Group will start be considerable. In connection with the impairment testing of intangible assets, to apply IFRS 9 in the financial year beginning on 1 May 2018. The Group will not the carrying amount is to be compared with the recoverable amount, which is the restate comparative figures for the 2017/18 financial year in accordance with the highest of the asset’s net selling price and value in use. After testing and assessstandard’s transitional rules. ing the value in use, it was deemed that there were no impairment requirements regarding the company’s investment in intangible assets not yet utilised. Discussions on the classification and measurement of the Group’s financial instruments were held during the year. Following this work, it was established that Securities held as non-current assets are measured at fair value according to level the new rules for classification and measurement will not have a material impact on 3 of the fair value hierarchy since they are based on the adjusted value of a transthe Group’s financial position on the transition date, since the rules will not entail action on a non-active market. any change to the measurement of the financial instruments in the consolidated balance sheet on that date. Restructuring costs include the necessary impairment of assets and other items that do not affect cash flow, as well as estimated costs for redundancies and other IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, the new revenue standard, direct expenses related to the discontinuation of operations. Restructuring costs enters force on 1 January 2018 or later, and where Clas Ohlson is concerned are classified as non-recurring items. Cost estimates are based on detailed action replaces both IAS 18 Revenue and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes. The plans that are expected to improve the Group’s cost structure and productivity. majority – approximately 96 per cent – of all Clas Ohlson’s sales are store sales. Historical outcomes from similar events in previous action plans are normally used Under the new standard, Clas Ohlson’s income will be recognised at the time as the basis for the calculations to minimise the uncertainty factor. Reserves for when control of the goods passes to the buyer compared with previously when restructuring amounted to 17.7 MSEK (40.5 MSEK) at year-end of which 12.3 income was recognised when material risks and benefits were transferred to the MSEK (25.9) was classified as long term. buyer. The transition has no effect on the date of Clas Ohlson’s income recognition since the date for when control of the goods passes to the customers is the same The following new and amended IFRSs and interpretations came as the date that Clas Ohlson recognised income under IAS 18. Variable payments into effect and impacted the Group in the 2017/18 financial year. attributable to store sales, such as discounts and price reductions, are not New or amended standards and new interpretations did not have any material impacted by the introduction of the new standard. Regarding the remaining 4 per impact on the Group’s 2017/18 financial statements. cent of revenue relating to online shopping, the introduction of the new standard will not impact recognition of revenue concerning these portions. Work is under New and amended standards that have not yet come into effect way on the design of future disclosures in accordance with IFRS 15. The Group has not yet started to apply the new or amended standards and new interpretations that have been published, but that come into effect for financial IFRS 16 Leases, the new lease standard entering force on 1 January 2019 or later, years beginning on or after 1 May 2018. The standards and interpretations that are with 2018/19 as the comparison year, will impact Clas Ohlson. The new standard deemed to impact the financial statements for the period in which they are applied differs materially from the current IAS 17. It applies to all leases, as well as to for the first time are described below. subletting. A linear operating cost is replaced with a “front-heavy” cost profile for each individual lease. Portfolios with a spread of maturities are impacted less. One project has been established and an analysis of how the reports will be impacted, in terms of amounts, will continue through 2018 and going forward. The transition method has not yet been selected. 98 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 NOTES Other new or amended standards and new interpretations, that have not yet come Non-current assets into effect, are not expected to have any material impact on the consolidated Non-current assets are recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and any financial statements on initial application. accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes the purchase price and expenses directly attributable to the asset in order to bring it into the position and condition Consolidated financial statements necessary for it to be utilised in accordance with the purpose of the acquisition. The consolidated financial statements pertain to the Parent Company and all Depreciation is based on the cost and estimated useful life of the assets. Straightcompanies over which the Parent Company directly or indirectly has controlling line depreciation is used for all assets. Land is not depreciated. The Group applies influence. The Group controls a company when it is exposed to or is entitled to component depreciation, which means that depreciation is based upon the variable return from its holdings in the company and has the opportunity to impact estimated useful life of the components. The following depreciation periods are the return through its influence in the company. applied: The purchase method has been applied in preparing the consolidated financial Intangible assets 5-10 years statements. Inter-Group transactions, balance-sheet items, as well as unrealised Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 5-15 years gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Buildings 20-33 years Whenever appropriate, the accounting policies have been amended to guarantee Land improvements 20 years consistent application of the Group’s policies. Leashold improvements 10 years The consolidated financial statements include the wholly owned subsidiaries Clas New acquisitions and replacements are capitalised, while maintenance and repair Ohlson AS, Clas Ohlson Oy, Clas Ohlson Ltd (UK), Clas Ohlson GmbH and Clas costs are expensed. The assets’ residual value and useful life are tested at the Ohlson Ltd (Shanghai). end of each reporting period and adjusted as needed. An asset’s carrying amount is immediately impaired to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its assessed recoverable amount. As assets are sold or disposed of, the Segment accounting cost and appurtenant accumulated depreciation are written off. Any profit or loss is Clas Ohlson has the following segments: Sweden, Norway, Finland and Outside recognised. All of Clas Ohlson’s properties are owner-occupied properties. Nordic countries as well as Group-wide. The Group-wide segment pertains to the Group-wide functions in Sweden that assist sales organisations with purchasing, distribution, marketing, management and other support. A large portion of the Intangible assets Group’s value is generated in the Group-wide segment. The Group’s internal Costs for the maintenance of software are expensed when they arise. pricing was adapted to these prerequisites. Development costs directly attributable to the development and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria have been fulfilled: Translation of foreign currencies a) Functional currency and reporting currency • It is technically possible to complete the software so that it can be used Items included in the financial statements for the various units in the Group •T  he company’s intention is to complete the software and use or sell it are measured in the currency used in the financial environment where each • The conditions for using the software exist company is most active (functional currency). The consolidated financial •H  ow the software generates probable financial advantages can be proven statements use Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the reporting currency for •A  dequate technological, financial and other resources for completing the the Group. All sums, unless otherwise stated, are rounded to the nearest development and for using or selling the software are available, and million Swedish kronor plus one decimal point. • T  he costs attributable to the software over the course of its development can be reliably calculated b) Transactions in foreign currency  Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency Directly attributable costs are capitalised as a portion of the software and include at the exchange rates that apply on the transaction date. Exchange-rate costs for employees and a reasonable share of indirect costs. gains and losses arising from the payment of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency at the Other development costs, which do not meet these criteria, are expensed when rate prevailing on the balance-sheet date are recognised in profit or loss. they arise. Development costs that were previously expenses are not recognised An exception is when transactions represent hedging that fulfils the as an asset in subsequent periods. conditions for hedge accounting of cash flows, in which case gains/losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. For derivatives, refer to the Development costs for software recognised as an asset are amortised of the section on financial instruments. software’s estimated useful life. c) Group companies  Results and financial position for all Group companies, translated to the Impairment of non-financial assets Group’s reporting currency as follows: Intangible assets with an indeterminable useful life or intangible assets not ready a) assets and liabilities for each of the balance sheets translated to the rate for use, are not impaired but are tested annually for any impairment requirements. on the balance-sheet date: Depreciable assets are assessed to determine any decrease in value resulting from b) income and expenses for each of the income statements translated to events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying amount might the average currency rate and not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised in the amount by which the c) all exchange-rate differences that arise are recognised in other carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable comprehensive income. amount is the higher of the fair value of the asset less selling expenses and value in use. In assessing impairment loss, assets are grouped at the lowest levels at which there are separate identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). For assets that have been previously impaired, testing is conducted on each balance-sheet date on whether reversal should be done. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 99 Financial instruments Borrowing Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised on the trade date Borrowing is initially measured at fair value, net after transaction expenses. the date when the Group binds itself to purchase or sell the asset. Financial Borrowing is thereafter recognised at amortised cost and any difference between instruments are initially measured at fair value plus transaction expenses, which the amount received (net after transaction expenses) and the repayment amount applies to all financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss. is recognised in profit or loss distributed over the borrowing period, applying the If the market for a financial asset is not active (and for unlisted securities), the effective interest method. Group will establish the fair value by applying such valuation methods as the use of information concerning recently completed transactions on an arms-length Charges paid for credit facilities are recognised as transaction expenses for borrobasis, reference to the fair value of another instrument that is essentially equivalent, wing insofar as it is probable that the credit will be utilised in full or in part. In such analyses of discounted cash flow and options valuation methods. In this cases, charges are recognised when the credit has been utilised. When there connection, market information is widely used while company-specific information is no evidence that the credit will be utilised in full or in part, the charges will be is used as little as possible. Financial instruments are derecognised from the recognised as advance payment for financial services and distributed over the balance sheet when the right to receive cash flows from the instrument has expired term of current credit facilities. or been transferred and the Group has transferred virtually all the risks and benefits associated with right of ownership. Borrowing is classified as current liabilities if the Group is not unconditionally entitled to defer payment of the debt for at least 12 months after the balanceCash-flow hedging sheet date. The effective portion of changes in the fair value for a derivative instrument identified as the cash-flow hedge portion and which meets the conditions for Loan expenses hedge accounting is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss General and specific loan expenses that are directly attributable to purchasing attributable to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. or what is known as qualified assets, which are assets that necessarily take a significant amount of time to complete for intended use or sale are recognised as Hedging of net investments part of the cost of these assets. Capitalisation ceases when all activities required The hedging of net investments in foreign operations is recognised in a similar to complete the asset for its intended use or sale have been completed. There are manner as in the case of cash-flow hedging. currently no qualified assets. Other loan expenses are charged to profit during the period they arise. The portion of gain or loss attributable to a hedging instrument viewed as an effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss Current and deferred income tax attributable to the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. Tax expenses for the period include current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the profit or loss except when the tax pertains to items recognised in other Accumulated gains and losses in equity are recognised in profit or loss when noncomprehensive income or directly in equity. In such cases, the tax is also Swedish operations are partly or totally divested. recognised in other comprehensive income and equity. Securities held as non-current assets The current tax expense is calculated based on the tax regulations established Investments in participations in other types of companies than Group companies, or established in practice on the balance-sheet date in the countries in which the joint ventures and associated companies are recognised as securities held as nonParent Company and its subsidiaries are active and generate taxable income. current assets. These are measured at fair value. Changes in value are recognised Management regularly evaluates the statements made in the income tax return in other comprehensive income. When assets available for sale are divested, the pertaining to situations where applicable tax rules are subject to interpretation. accumulated profits or losses are transferred to profit or loss. When deemed suitable, management makes provisions for amounts that will probably be paid to the tax authority. Inventories Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences arising between the taxable Inventories have been valued at the lower of cost and net selling price on the value of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated balance-sheet date, applying the “first in, first out” principle. Net selling price is the financial statements. estimated selling price in operating activities less selling expenses. Inter-company profits arising from delivery between companies forming part of the Group are Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that future taxable deducted. Necessary provision for obsolescence has been made. Inventory surplus will be available, against which the temporary differences can be utilised. expenses include transfers from other comprehensive income of any gains/losses from cash-flow hedging fulfilling the conditions for hedge accounting, attributable Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there are legal offsetting rights to purchases of goods. for the particular tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities pertain to taxes by the same tax authority and pertain to the same tax Receivables subject or different tax subjects and for which there is a plan to settle the balance Receivables with a due date more than 12 months after the balance-sheet date through net payments. are recognised as non-current assets, while others as regarded as current assets. Receivables are recognised at the amount expected to be paid after individual Employee benefits testing. Group companies have different plans for remuneration after retirement, including defined-benefit and defined-contribution pension plans. Accounts receivables are initially measured at fair value and then at amortised cost applying the effective interest rate method, less any provision for depreciation. a) Pension obligations A provision for depreciation is posted when there is objective evidence that the  A defined-contribution pension plan is a pension plan according to which Group will not be able to receive all sums due according to the original terms of the the Group pays set amounts to a separate legal entity. The Group has no receivables. The amount of the provision is recognised in profit or loss. legal or informal obligations to pay additional amounts if this legal entity does not have sufficient assets to pay all remuneration to employees Cash and cash equivalents corresponding to the employees’ service during the current or previous Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and immediately available balances at periods. A defined-benefit pension plan is a pension plan that is not a banks and equivalent institutions, as well as short-term investments with a term of defined-contribution plan. less than three months from the time of acquisition.  A typical defined-benefit plan stipulates the amount of the pension benefit an employee will receive after retirement, usually based on one or more Accounts payable factors such as age, service period and salary. Accounts payable are the obligation to pay for products or services that were  In the Parent Company, there are both defined-contribution and definedacquired in the operating activities from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified benefit pension plans. However, in accordance with statement UFR 10, the as current liabilities if they fall due within one year or earlier. If not, they are defined-benefit ITP pension plan (Alecta) is treated as a defined-contribution recognised as non-current liabilities. pension plan. Defined-benefit pension plans are available in the Norwegian subsidiary. Accounts payable are initially measured at fair value and thereafter at amortised  Regarding defined-benefit pension plans, the cost of the pension benefit cost applying the effective interest method. 100 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 NOTES is determined based on actuarial calculations according to the so-called event that has occurred and it is likely that an outflow of resources will be Projected Unit Credit Method. Revaluations, including actuarial gains and required to discharge the commitment and a reliable estimate can be made of losses, effects of changes in the asset ceiling and the return on the plan the amount.Provisions are made for open buy, unredeemed gift cards, estimated assets (excluding the interest components that is recognised in profit future guarantee commitments, bonus points to club members as well as for or loss) are recognised directly in the balance sheet with income or restructuring of the store network in the UK, which is described in more detail in cost corresponding to the change for the period in the statement of recognition of income. For further information see note 22. other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Revaluations recognised in other comprehensive income affect profit brought forward Income and are not reclassified to the income statement. Service costs from The Group’s income is generated through the sale of products to consumers prior periods are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the plan in accordance with the terms of sale. Sale income is recognised net less VAT, is changed. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the returns, reservations for open buy and discounts. A combined experience is used start of the period to the defined-benefit net liability or asset. The definedto assess and reserve for returns and open purchase at the time of sale ncome is benefit costs are divided into the following categories: recognised at the time of sales/delivery to the customer, when material risks and benefits associated with ownership of the goods have been transferred to the • service costs (including service costs for the current period, service costs purchaser. in prior periods and gains and losses pertaining to reductions and/or regulations) Clas Ohlson’s customers can choose to become a member of the Club Clas • net interest expense or net interest income loyalty program. Sales are conducted in accordance with IFRIC 13 in order to take • r evaluations into account club members’ earning of bonus points and the opportunity to utilise points saved in the form of bonus cheques as payment in the future. All issued The first two categories are recognised in profit or loss as personnel bonus cheques are not redeemed which is why each sale in the loyalty program is costs (service costs) and net financial items (net interest expense). Gains reduced by the fair amount with respect to future redemption of bonus cheques, and losses related to reductions and regulations are recognised as service considering the current degree of redemption. Consideration is also taken to costs from prior periods. Revaluations are recognised in other comprethe member’s probable redemption of bonus cheques in the future. Earnings hensive income. are recognised through a reduction in sales during the earnings period with a  The defined-benefit pension obligation is recognised in the balance corresponding provision in the balance sheet. sheet corresponding to current surplus or deficit related to the Group’s defined-benefit obligations. Any surplus is recognised only to the extent that Interest income pertains to interest on bank balances. Income is recognised in the it corresponds to the present value of future repayments from the respective period to which the interest pertains. pension plan or future reductions in premium payments to the plan. Leasing b) Remuneration in the event of termination of employment In the Group and in the Parent Company, lease contracts occur primarily in the  Remuneration in the event of termination of employment is paid when an form of rental contracts for retail premises. All the stores, except the one in Insjön, employee’s employment is terminated by the Group before the normal are leased. These contracts have been classified as operational leases as they do pension date or when the employee accepts voluntary redundancy not signify that the economic benefits and risks associated with ownership have in exchange for such remuneration. The Group recognises redundancy been transferred to the tenant. remuneration when the Group no longer has the opportunity to withdraw the offer of remuneration. In cases where the company has issued an offer Operational leases, in which the Group is the lessee, are recognised in the to encourage voluntary redundancy, redundancy remuneration is calculated consolidated income statement as an operating expense straight line over the based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits leasing period. In cases in which the Group is the lessor, income is recognised as that mature more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are a sale in the period to which the leasing pertains. Depreciation is recognised in discounted to the present value. operating profit. Share-based payments Cash-flow statement The Group has a number of share-based remuneration plans that are settled with The cash-flow statement is prepared according to the indirect method. The shares and whereby the company receives services from the employees in return recognised cash flow comprises only transactions that entail receipts or for the Group’s equity instruments (matching shares and options). The fair value disbursements. In addition to cash or bank balances, current financial investments of the service period that entitles employees to allocation of matching shares and that are subject only to an insignificant risk of fluctuation in value and have a options is expensed. The total amount to be expensed is based on the fair value of remaining term of less than three months from the time of acquisition are classified the allocated matching shares and options: as cash and cash equivalents. • including all market-related conditions (e.g. target share price) • excluding e.g. profitability, target for sales increases and that the employee Parent Company accounting policies The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the remains with the company for a stipulated period and, Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal • including the impact of the conditions that do not constitute vesting Entities, of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. This means that the Parent conditions (e.g. requirement that employees must save or retain the shares Company, in the annual accounts of the legal entity, has to apply all EU-approved for a stipulated period). IFRS standards and interpretations as far as possible under the terms of the Annual Accounts Act and taking into account the connection between accounting At the end of each reporting period, the Group re-examines its assessments of the and taxation. The recommendation specifies the exceptions from and additions number of shares that are expected to be vested based on the non-market-based to IFRS that are to be made. The regulations in IAS 39 pertaining to financial vesting conditions and service conditions. Any possible deviation to the original guarantee agreements are not applied with respect to guarantee agreements for assessments resulting from the reappraisal will be recognised in profit or loss and subsidiaries. In the Parent Company, loan expenses are charged against profits the corresponding adjustments made in equity. for the period to which they refer. Shares in the subsidiaries are recognised at cost less deductions for any impairment. The social security contributions arising from the allocation of options will be regarded as an integral part of the allocation and the expense will be treated as a The financial reports are rounded to the nearest million Swedish kronor plus cash-regulated share-based remuneration. one decimal point. The accounting policies for the Parent Company have been consistently applied to all periods presented in the Parent Company’s financial Provisions statements. Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet among current and non-current liabilities when the Group has a legal or informal obligation resulting from an Amendments to accounting principles RFR 2 Amendments to RFR 2 did not have any material impact on the Parent Company’s financial statements for the financial year 2017/18. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 101 Amendments to RFR 2 that have not yet come into effect Currency effects excluding hedging: Senior management does not expect other amendments to RFR 2 that have not Impact on yet come into effect to have any material impact on the Parent Company’s financial Currency Change, % profit before tax, MSEK statements on initial application. NOK +/5 +/88 USD +/5 -/+ 69 Classification and format HKD +/5 -/+ 4 The income statement and balance sheet follow the format of the Annual Accounts EUR +/5 +/3 Act. This means certain differences compared with the consolidated financial GBP +/5 +/3 statements, for example, items in the balance sheet are more specified and subitems have different names in equity. Cash and cash equivalents are also exposed to currency risk since a certain proportion of the funds is invested in foreign currencies. Tax The amounts reserved as untaxed reserves are taxable temporary differences. Refinancing and liquidity risks Due to the connection between recognition and taxation, the deferred tax liabilities Refinancing and liquidity risk pertain to the risk that Clas Ohlson is unable to attributable to the untaxed reserves are not recognised in legal entities. According receive loans or meet payment obligations due to insufficient liquidity. Refinancing to Swedish practice, the amendments in untaxed reserves are recognised in the requirements are regularly reviewed by Clas Ohlson’s central finance function, income statement in individual companies under the heading “Appropriations.” In which is responsible for external borrowing. Refinancing requirements are primarily the balance sheet, the accumulated value of the reserves is recognised under the contingent on market trends and investment plans. See also Note 27. heading “Untaxed reserves,” whereby 22 per cent can be regarded as deferred tax liability and 78 per cent as restricted equity. Interest-rate risk The interest-rate risk is low since the company’s interest expense is low in relation Other to total earnings. The financial reports are stated in MSEK with one decimal point, unless otherwise stipulated. Rounding off can result in certain tables not adding up. Price risk Price risk is regarded as low as the company buys from more than 600 suppliers. Note 2 Financial risks In accordance with its purchasing policy, the company also avoids entering into long-term supply contracts, to retain flexibility with regard to suppliers and The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks through its operations: market products. risk (including currency risk, interest-rate risk and price risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk. The Group’s overall risk management policy focuses on Credit risk the unpredictability of financial markets and endeavours to minimise potential Accounts receivable are characterised by a very low risk, as each sub-item is small unfavourable effects on the Group’s financial results. The Group uses derivatives to and the Group’s credit policy is restrictive. Provisions for doubtful receivables are hedge certain risk exposure. made following individual examination, but this has not been necessary in the past five financial years for either the Group or the Parent Company. Total credit risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk effort. The risk situation in is not deemed to exceed the carrying amounts of the Group’s financial instruments. the Clas Ohlson Group is updated and analysed regularly. This is done by means of a systematic process in which risks are identified, valued, assessed, managed, Cash and cash equivalents are invested in various bank accounts, mainly at monitored and reported. Using an overall assessment, priority is given to those Nordea and its international branches in Norway, Finland and the UK. Credit risks whose impact and probability are deemed to represent the most negative risk is considered insignificant. The total liquidity risk comprises cash and cash effect. For more information, refer to pages 74-77 of the Annual Report. equivalents and unutilised overdraft facilities. Currency risk Capital risk A significant portion of accounts payable comprises liabilities in foreign currencies Capital risk is regarded as low because the Group had a low portion of liabilities at and is therefore subject to currency risks. In the Group, the principal currencies the end of the financial year and an equity/assets ratio of 54 per cent. used in purchases are hedged in order to reduce any currency risks, in accordance with the financial policy. The goal of the Group’s capital structure is to be able to continue to report a favourable return to shareholders, value for other stakeholders and to maintain an About 50 per cent of the company’s purchases are made in currencies other than optimal capital structure to ensure that capital costs are minimised. The capital Swedish kronor (SEK). The principal currencies for purchasing are the US dollar structure can be adapted to meet the requirements that arise by altering the (USD), Hong Kong dollar (HKD) and euro (EUR). In addition, movements of SEK dividend to shareholders, buying back shares, issuing new shares or disposing against the Norwegian krona (NOK) are very significant to the Group, because of assets in a bid to reduce liabilities. The assessment of capital requirements about 40 per cent of sales take place in Norway. Net exposure to EUR is low, is conducted using relevant key ratios such as the relationship between net because the company has EUR-denominated sales due to its expansion on the indebtedness and equity. Finnish and German market. The table below shows how profit is affected by changes in the principal currencies (excluding hedging). Hedging will take place on a monthly basis with maturities of six months for half of the expected flow in Norwegian kronor (NOK) and US dollars (USD). 102 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 NOTES Note 3 Other operating income and operating expenses Note 5 Expenses by type of cost Group Parent Company The item “Cost of goods sold” includes all costs incurred in conveying the goods to the distribution centre and subsequently to the store shelf, such as product 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 costs, freight to the distribution centre and stores, customs duty, environmental Other operating income charges and handling costs at the distribution centre and stores. The item “Selling expenses” includes primarily stores costs as well as payroll costs, rents, marketing Rental income 24.2 24.2 24.2 24.2 and costs for the sales-related support function at the head office. The item “Administrative expenses” includes costs for other support functions at the head Profit on sale or disposal of office. tangible assets 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Payroll expenses including social security expenses during the financial year Other operating income 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 totalled 1,813.1 MSEK (1,743.4) in the Group and 1,080.7 MSEK (1,049.4) in the Total 24.3 24.5 24.3 24.3 Parent Company. Other operating expenses Depreciation during the financial year totalled 225.6 MSEK (230.0) in the Group and 151.5 MSEK (157.5) in the Parent Company. Leasing expenses -22.5 -22.5 -22.5 -22.5 Loss on sale or disposal of tangible assets -0.8 -5.4 -0.8 -3.6 Note 6 Expenses for employee benefits Total -23.3 -27.9 -23.3 -26.1 2017/18 2016/17 Salaries and other remuneration Note 4 Depreciation Parent Company 776.5 751.2 Subsidiaries 627.5 592.0 Group 2017/18 2016/17 Group total 1,404.0 1,343.2 Depreciation broken down by type of asset Intangible assets1 35.9 34.7 2017/18 2016/17 Land and buildings 29.5 29.8 Social of which, Social of which, Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 160.1 165.6 security pension security pension Total 225.6 230.0 expenses expenses expenses expenses Social security expenses Depreciation broken down by function Parent Company 304.2 59.2 298.2 54.9 Cost of goods sold 76.2 78.4 Subsidiaries 104.9 35.8 102.0 29.3 Selling expenses 141.6 145.2 Group total 409.1 95.0 400.2 84.2 Administrative expenses 7.8 6.5 Total 225.6 230.0 Of the Parent Company’s pension expenses, 2.5 MSEK (2.8) pertained to the group consisting of the Board, CEO and Deputy CEO. Of the subsidiaries’ pension expenses, 0.3 MSEK (0.8) pertained to presidents of subsidiaries. Parent Company 2017/18 2016/17 In the Group, expenses for defined-contribution pensions amounted to 82.7 MSEK Depreciation by type of asset (72.5) and defined-benefit pensions to 0.0 MSEK (0.0). Intangible assets1 35.9 34.7 The Parent Company only has defined-contribution pension plans (including Land and buildings 29.5 29.4 Alecta) for which the year’s expenses was 47.0 MSEK (43.2). Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 86.0 93.4 In the Parent Company, the year’s expenses for special employer’s contribution on Total 151.5 157.5 pension premiums was 12.3 MSEK (11.7). For more information on the definedbenefit pension plans in the Group, refer to Note 19. Depreciation by function Cost of goods sold 76.2 78.4 Selling expenses 67.4 72.7 Administrative expenses 7.8 6.5 Total 151.5 157.5 1 Depreciation of intangible assets is recognised as selling expenses. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 103 Remuneration of Board members, presidents 2017/18 2016/17 and other senior managment Basic Vari. remu. BeneBasic Vari. remu. Bene2017/18 2016/17 salary STI LTI1 fits salary STI LTI1 fits Salaries paid to senior Parent Company management Salaries and other remuneration 28.9 29.3 Lotta Lyrå, CEO 2 4.9 0.2 0.7 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – of which, variable remuneration 1.2 6.2 Klas Balkow, CEO 3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.8 1.3 0.0 0.2 Pension expenses 5.1 4.9 Peter Jelkeby Acting CEO 4 6.0 0.1 -0.7 0.1 1.4 0.3 0.2 0.0 1 4 Number of individuals in Group 18 14 Peter Jelkeby Deputy CEO 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.1 0.6 0.3 0.1 Other senior management (11 individuals, of whom 5 2017/18 2016/17 5 6 individuals in 2016/17) 14.0 1.2 -0.2 0.5 9.0 1.9 1.6 0.4 Group Management total 24.8 1.5 -0.2 0.8 19.3 4.2 2.1 0.7 Salaries and other remuneration 35.6 37.3 – of which, variable remuneration 1.8 8.2 Pension expenses 5.5 5.7 1 Number of individuals in Group 22 18 201-07-31 and was deputy CEO between 2016-05-01 -2016-12-31. 1 The composition of the Senior Management changed from 7 members to 12 members 13 5 The composition of the Senior Management changed from 7 members to 12 members September 2017. 13 September 2017. 6 The amount includes remuneration of 0.9 MSEK that refers to salaries approved by the Board Board remuneration and is a deviation from the guidelines on remuneration of senior executives approved by the Fees are paid to the members of the Board according to AGM resolutions. Board 2017 AGM. Refer also to the description on page 84. members who are employed in the company do not receive director fees. No pensions or other incentive programs are paid to the company’s Board. 2017/18 2016/17 DefinedDefinedDefinedDefinedNo director fees were paid in the subsidiaries. contribution benefit contribution benefit 2017/18 2016/17 Pension expenses for senior management Director CommitDirector Commit1 fees tee fees fees tee fees Lotta Lyrå, CEO 1.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 2 Board of Directors Klas Balkow, CEO 0.0 0.0 2.1 0.0 3 Kenneth Bengtsson, Chairman 0.64 0.12 0.64 0.12 Peter Jelkeby Acting CEO 0.7 0.0 0.2 0.0 3 Cecilia Marlow, member 0.32 0.14 0.32 0.14 Peter Jelkeby Deputy CEO 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.0 Göran Sundström, member 0.32 0.08 0.32 0.06 Other senior management (11 individuals, of whom 5 Mathias Haid, member 0.32 0.06 0.32 0.06 individuals in 2016/17) 4 2.7 0.0 2.1 0.0 Ros-Marie Grusén, member 0.32 0.00 0,32 0.00 Management total 5.2 0.0 4.9 0.0 Göran Näsholm, member 0.32 0.06 0.32 0.06 1 Lotta Lyrå took office as CEO 2017-08-01. 2 Klas Balkow was CEO until 2016-12-31. Charlotte Strömberg, member 0.32 0.08 0.00 0.00 3 Deputy CEO Peter Jelkeby held the role of Acting President and CEO between 2017-01-01 Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg, member 0.32 0.00 0.00 0.00 2018-07-31 and was deputy CEO between 2016-05-01 -2016-12-31. 4 The composition of the Senior Management changed from 7 members to 12 members Sanna Suvanto-Harsaae, member 0.00 0.00 0.32 0.06 13 September 2017. Board total 2.88 0.54 2.56 0.51 Under the contract of employment with the acting CEO, the mutual period of notice is six months. Six months’ salary is payable should employment be At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, Charlotte Strömberg and Anne Thorstvedt terminated by the company. Applicable salary and benefits are payable during the Sjöberg was elected to the Board after Sanna Suvanto-Harsaae declined period of notice. The retirement age is 65. re-election. Salary and other remuneration payable to the CEO are decided by the Board and Gender distribution on the Board among the members elected by the AGM in discussed by a Remuneration Committee appointed within the Board. Salary is the past financial year was four men and four women. In percentage terms, the reviewed at the end of each financial year. distributioin is 50.0 per cent men and 50.0 per cent women. Salaries and other remuneration for other Senior Management are decided by the Remuneration of Senior Management CEO, supported by the Remuneration Committee within the framework decided Remuneration paid to the CEO and other members of senior management is by the Board. made up of basic salary, variable remuneration and pension contributions. Eleven individuals, together with the CEO, comprise senior management during the The principles for variable remuneration are resolved by the AGM. The financial year. performance targets are prepared by the Remuneration Committee and decided by the Board. During the year, two different types of variable remuneration, STI and For the composition of senior management at 30 April 2018, see page 90-91. LTI, were payable. Provisions for STI and LTI are posted continuously in the individual annual accounts. All members of Senior Management are entitled to annual pension contributions, primarily in accordance with the ITP plan. The retirement age is between 65 and 67. 104 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 NOTES The gender distribution during the financial year among Senior Management of through allotment of shares. If the employee holds the acquired shares and is still the Parent Company, is tree women and seven men. In percentage terms, the employed by the Group after the end of the qualification period, the company will distribution is thus 70,0 per cent male and 30,0 per cent female. The distribution in issue matching shares to the employee. the preceding year was five men and two women. The gender distribution during the financial year among Senior Management of the Group, is four women and The employee may also be allotted profit-based employee stock options, see the eight men. In percentage terms, the distribution is thus 66.7 per cent male and description below. 33.3 per cent female. The distribution in the preceding year was five men and two women. The programs from LTI 2015 have been changed by dividing the participants into two groups: Further information on decision-making processes in the Group is presented on pages 79-87. 1. senior management comprising senior management including the CEO, Group Management and country managers elected by the Board or corresponding posiRemuneration principles tions, regarded as having considerable potential in their present position to influThe general principles of remuneration for senior executives are to be based on ence Clas Ohlson AB’s long-term development (Senior Management). the position held, individual performance, the Group’s financial results and the remuneration being competitive in the country of employment. The combined 2. other employees who could develop into members of Senior Management or remuneration of senior executives is to consist of basic salary, variable salary in assume other key positions within the Group and thus influence Clas Ohlson AB’s the form of a short-term incentive based on annual performance objectives, longlong-term development (Key Individuals). term incentives based on multi-year performance, pension and other benefits. In addition, notice of termination and severance pay are subject to terms and For senior management, the program is unchanged compared with earlier proconditions. grams, see the description above. For Key Individuals, LTI 2015, LTI 2016 and LTI 2017 entails that participants receive an allocation of conditional performance-baClas Ohlson aims to offer a competitive total level of remuneration, focusing on sed employee stock options free of charge. The number of allocated employee payments based on performance. This means that variable remuneration may stock options is based on the calculated number of shares, which, at the prevailing comprise a significant portion of total remuneration. The aim is for fixed remunemarket price at the start of the program, corresponds to a value of a minimum of 5 ration to be in line with the median of the comparable market, while total remuneper cent and a maximum of 10 per cent of the Key Individual’s annual basic salary. ration, when Clas Ohlson meets or exceeds its objectives, is to be in the upper quartile of the market. Employee stock options are allocated free of charge and each stock option entitles the holder to acquire one series B Clas Ohlson share. Up to and including LTI Basic salary 2014, the price per share when the option was exercised was calculated at 110 The basic salary is to comprise the basis for total remuneration. The salary is to be per cent of the average of the volume-weighted average price paid for the series related to the relevant market and reflect the extent of the responsibilities included B Clas Ohlson share on the Nasdaq Stockholm established for each day during in the position. The development of basic salary is to depend on how well work a period of 10 trading days prior to the acquisition period. For subsequent LTI is performed and how well the employee develops his/her expertise to assume plans, the figure is 100 per cent. The exercise price for LTI 2015, LTI 2016 and LTI future work assignments involving greater responsibility. The basic salary is to be 2017 has been set at 144.80 SEK, 161.00 SEK and 148.30 SEK, respectively. reviewed annually to ensure that it is market-based and competitive. The options may be exercised not earlier than three years and not later than seven years from the date of allotment. For an option to be exercised, the holder must still be employed by the Clas Ohlson Group and have retained his/her personal Variable remuneration (Short Term Incentive, STI) investment for three years from the date of allotment. The option holdings do not In addition to basic salary, senior executives are to qualify for STI for performance provide entitlement to receive dividends on the underlying shares. that exceeds one or several predetermined performance levels during a financial year, designed to promote the company’s long-term value creation. Clearly defined The number of employee stock options that may be exercised by participants of performance targets are to be decided annually by the Board or by individuals LTI programs up to and including LTI 2014 depends on the number of series elected by the Board. The performance targets may be connected to operational, B shares that the employee has acquired within the framework of the plan, and financial or personal results. Remuneration from the STI plan is subject to a ceiling, whether the company’s growth and profit growth during the first three financial which means that Clas Ohlson can calculate maximum remuneration levels from years increase to the levels set by the Board. These established levels are: Entry, the beginning. Insofar as performance does not match the lowest performance Target and Stretch, with a straight-line increase between each profit level. level, no STI will be paid. STI will depend on the position held and may not exceed 50 per cent of salary if the ceiling is achieved, which also represents the maximum For Key Individuals under LTI 2016 and LTI 2017, the number of employee stock outcome of STI. STI remuneration is also conditional upon the performance on options that may be exercised depends on the number of shares as corresponded which earnings are based being sustainable over time, and that Clas Ohlson is by the Key Individual’s salary at the start of the program (a minimum of 5 per cent able to reclaim such remuneration that was paid due to information that later and a maximum of 10 per cent). turned out to be obviously erroneous. Entry is a minimum level that must be exceeded in order for an employee stock Long-term incentive programs (Long Term Incentive, LTI) option to be exercised. The three levels correspond to the following number of The aim of LTI programs is to create the prerequisites for retaining and reemployee stock options: cruiting competent employees to the Group. The programs were designed to encourage participants to become shareholders in the company, which is expec• Entry: 5 options per acquired/calculated series B share ted to have a positive impact on their long-term work performance. Connecting • Target: 10 options per acquired/calculated series B share participants’ rewards to the company’s profit and value development will continue • Stretch: 15 options per acquired/calculated series B share to promote company loyalty and thus sustainable value growth in the company. In addition to the levels described above, there is a “Max” level. This level is conLong-term incentive programs that entitle employees to acquire shares are subject ditional upon the existence of a specific situation and a single member of Senior to AGM approval. The qualification period for LTI 2015, LTI 2016 and LTI 2017 Management fulfilling the exceptional tasks resolved by the Board. The level correwere in effect during the financial year. The qualification period for LTI 2015 was sponds to a maximum of 25 options per acquired series B share. concluded after the close of the financial year and LTI 2018 was launched. All longterm incentive programs are share matching and profit-based employee stock Accordingly, the total number of employee stock options that may be exercised by option plans. each participant is limited to 15 options (25 options for exceptional tasks). All ongoing long-term incentive programs have been approved by an Annual It was not possible to exercise any of the options for LTI 2015, LTI 2016 or LTI General Meeting. The current program covers up to 100 senior executives and 2017 on 30 April 2018. The number that may be exercised after three years is other individuals deemed to be able to influence Clas Ohlson’s development in the based on the achievement of growth and profit targets in accordance with the long-term. above. The sum that is expensed is based on the level of 0 options for LTI 2015, 10 options per share for LTI 2016 and 10 options per share for LTI 2017. All participants up to and including LTI 2014 acquired series B shares in Clas Ohlson corresponding to a value of not less than 5 per cent and not more than The total outcome for all ongoing LTI programs during the financial year was a 10 per cent of their annual basic salary. Participants acquired series B Clas Ohlson cost reduction of 8.9 MSEK, including social security contributions. Last year the shares, at market price, which the company will later match (1:1) free of charge corresponding figure was a total cost of 10.0 MSEK. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 105 In accordance with the below, LTI 2016 and LTI 2017 will include the following Number of options to excercise number of series B shares and employee stock options for the various participant Number of options to categories if the Target level is achieved (refer to the tables below). excercise 1 Participants LTI 2014 LTI 2013 LTI 2012 Extent of LTI 2016 and LTI 2017 at target level Acting CEO and President 1 21,233 20,000 0 LTI 2016 Other members of Group Management 74,292 49,820 8,217 Matching shares Other participants 149,616 223,342 28,896 No. of No. of employee Target value Participants series B-shares2 stock options2 MSEK3 Total 245,141 293,162 37,113 CEO and President 0 0 0.0 1 Refers to former acting President and CEO Peter Jelkeby Other members of Senior Management 3,825 38,250 1.4 LTI 2015 result The qualification and performance periods for LTI 2015 were valid from 1 May Other participants 887 171,790 4.0 2015 until 30 April 2018. A total of 9,659 shares were allotted on 2 May, after the end of the financial year, in accordance with the AGM’s resolution regarding share Total 4,712 210,040 5.4 matching of one share per share purchased to those participants who remained LTI 2017 employed after the three-year qualification period. The set criteria pertaining to the average sales and profit growth per share for the period 2015 to 2018 were not Matching shares achieved, which resulted in no options being allotted to participants and the LTI No. of No. of employee Target value 2015 was thus concluded. Participants of LTI 2014, LTI 2013 and LTI 2012 were Participants series B-shares2 stock options2 MSEK3 already entitled to exercise 10.9, 15 and 9 options respectively, per purchased share at an exercise price of 153.60 SEK, 94.30 and 109.10 SEK SEK, respectiCEO and President 4,352 43,520 1.3 vely. Other members of Senior Management 6,036 60,360 1.9 The table below outlines the number of awarded matching share and options for Other participants 1,528 191,150 3.6 LTI 2015. Share awards LTI 2015 Total 11,916 295,030 6.7 Matching 1 Initially, at the start of the program, the participants acquired 14,528 and 17,859 shares under Participants share Options the frameworks of the LTI 2016 and LTI 2017 respectively. Acting President and CEO 1 1,966 0 2 The number of shares and employee stock options may be recalculated due to decisions concerning a possible new share issue or split. Other members of Group Management 5,792 0 3 The target value of the plan is calculated based on the fair value on the date of allotment. The share value on the date of allotment was 142.76 SEK (LTI 2016)/ 130.72 SEK (LTI 2017) Other participants 1,901 0 and the fair value of the option was 22.51/17.58 SEK. To calculate the fair value of the options, Total 9,659 0 the binominal model for option valuation was used. Valuation has been conducted using an initial share price of 160.76/149.47 SEK, an exercise price of 161.00/148.30 SEK, an expected 1 Refers to former acting President and CEO Peter Jelkeby dividend per share annually, an anticipated lifetime for the options of five years, an interest rate of -0.07 per cent /-0.08 per cent, a volatility of 25.38 per cent /23.03 per cent and annual Share repurchase for LTI programs withdrawals of 5 per cent. Volatility is measured as the standard deviation for the expected During 2015, 2016 and 2017, Clas Ohlson repurchased series B Clas Ohlson return on the share price based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices during the past shares to fulfil the company’s long-term obligations under the incentive prothree years. The values were adjusted for the discounted value of future dividends. grammes. Repurchased shares will be allotted, sold to participants or to correspond to social security expenses. Pensions and other benefits Share awards As a main rule, pension agreements are to be defined-contribution and designed The table below outlines the number of granted, forfeited and exercised share in accordance with the levels and practices that apply in the country in which the awards during this and previous financial year: senior executive is employed. Other benefits may occur in accordance with the conditions that apply in the country in which the senior executive is employed. 2017/18 However, such benefits may not constitute a large portion of the total remuneration. Share awards LTI 2017 LTI 2016 LTI 2015 LTI 2014 At 1 May 10,831 11,939 24,115 Granted 17,859 Forfeited -5,943 -6,119 -2,280 Exercised -24,115 At 30 April 11,916 4,712 9,659 0 2016/17 Share awards LTI 2016 LTI 2015 LTI 2014 LTI 2013 At 1 May 16,256 30,526 40,569 Granted 14,528 Forfeited -3,697 -4,317 -6,411 Excercised -40,569 At 30 April 10,831 11,939 24,115 0 106 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 NOTES Note 7 Remuneration to auditors Note 9 Income tax Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Deloitte AB 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Tax on profit for the year Remuneration for audit engagement 2.0 2.0 1.3 1.1 Income tax on profit for the year -88.6 -130.5 -46.6 -91.1 Remuneration for audit related services 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.0 -88.6 -130.5 -46.6 -91.1 Tax consultations 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3 Deferred tax Other 0.5 0.1 0.5 0.0 Deferred tax pertaining to temporary differences -20.7 0.3 0.9 -0.5 Total 2.8 2.5 2.0 1.4 -20.7 0.3 0.9 -0.5 Total recognised tax expense -109.3 -130.2 -45.7 -91.7 Note 8 Financial income and expenses Reconciliation of applicable tax Financial income is distributed as follows: rate and effective rate Recognised profit before tax 467.1 608.9 310.8 527.9 Group 2017/18 2016/17 Expected tax expense according to the swedish tax rate 22% -102.8 -134.0 -68.4 -116.1 Interest income 0.7 0.7 Group total 0.7 0.7 Tax effect of: Differences in foreign tax rates -0.1 -1.6 0.0 0.0 Parent Company 2017/18 2016/17 Non-deductible/non-recognised -4.1 4.6 -0.3 3.0 Adjustment earlier taxation -1.9 2.1 -1.9 -0.6 Interest income 0.7 0.4 Tax-free dividend subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 24.8 22.7 Interest income, subsidiaries 0.6 0.0 Other -0.5 -1.3 0.0 -0.6 Parent Company total 1.3 0.4 Recognised tax expense -109.3 -130.2 -45.7 -91.7 Financial expenses are distributed as follows: Effective tax rate, % 23.4 21.4 14.7 17.4 Group 2017/18 2016/17 Financial expenses -1.9 -1,6 Deferred tax items recognised directly in equity 2.6 -6.1 0.0 0.0 Group total -1.9 -1,6 Deferred tax assets 13.4 17.0 4.0 3.1 Parent Company 2017/18 2016/17 Deferred tax liabilities -210.1 -195.8 0.0 0.0 Interest expense -1.7 -1.6 Interest expense, subsidiaries -1.1 -0.6 RecogRecognised in Amount Parent Company total -2.7 -2.2 Amount nised in compreExchange at the at start profit or hensive rate differend of Group 2017/18 of year loss income ences year Change in deferred tax in temporary differences during the year Inter-company profit in inventories 31.2 -19.2 0.0 0.0 12.0 Accruals and deferrals 8.8 -1.6 0.0 0.0 7.3 Pensions 2.3 1.0 0.0 0.2 3.4 Accelerated depreciation -72.4 -10.3 0.0 0.0 -82.6 Tax allocation reserves -147.8 9.7 0.0 0.0 -138.2 Hedging reserves -1.4 0.0 2.6 0.0 1.2 Other 0.4 -0.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 Total -178.9 -20.7 2.6 0.2 -196.7 The Group does not have any unrecognised deferred tax assets or tax liabilities on temporary differences. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 107 RecogNote 12 Non-current assets Recognised in Amount Amount nised in compreExchange at the Group Parent Company at start profit or hensive rate differend of 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Group 2016/17 of year loss income ences year Intangible assets Change in deferred tax in tempo-rary differences during the year Capitalised IT and software costs Inter-company profit in Opening cost 472.3 368.0 472.3 368.0 inventories 12.2 19.0 0.0 0.0 31.2 Acquisitions for the year 124.0 105.9 124.0 105.9 Accruals and deferrals 10.0 -1.2 0.0 0.0 8.8 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension 3.3 -1.2 0.0 0.2 2.3 Sales and disposals -0.2 -1.7 -0.2 -1.7 Accelerated depreciation -71.1 -1.3 0.0 0.0 -72.4 Closing accumulated cost 596.1 472.3 596.1 472.3 Tax allocation reserves -132.9 -15.0 0.0 0.0 -147.8 Hedging reserves 4.7 0.0 -6.1 0.0 -1.4 Opening depreciation -132.1 -97.4 -132.1 -97.4 Other 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 Depreciation for the year -35.9 -34.7 -35.9 -34.7 Total -173.3 0.4 -6.1 0.2 -178.9 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sales and disposals 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.0 Closing accumulated depreciation -167.8 -132.1 -167.8 -132.1 Note 10 Earnings per share* Closing residual value according to plan 428.2 340.2 428.2 340.2 2017/18 2016/17 Earnings per share before dilution Group Parent Company Profit for the year 357.8 478.7 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Average number of shares before dilution 63.2 63.1 Tangible assets Earnings per share before dilution 5.66 7.59 Land and buildings Earnings per share after dilution Opening cost 755.0 758.2 752.2 755.8 Profit for the year 357.8 478.7 Acquisitions for the year 2.6 0.6 2.6 0.3 Average number of shares before dilution 63.2 63.1 Reclassifications -2.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Adjusted for: Sales and disposals 0.0 -3.9 0.0 -3.9 share savings program 0.1 0.2 Translation differences 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 Average number of shares after dilution 63.3 63.3 Closing accumulated cost 754.8 755.0 754.8 752.2 Earnings per share after dilution 5.65 7.57 * number of shares are express in millions of share. Opening depreciation -340.7 -313.8 -338.5 -312.2 Earnings per share before and after dilution Reclassifications 2.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 The calculation of earnings per share has been based on profit for the year attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders, totalling 357.8 MSEK (478.7) and Sales and disposals 0.0 3.1 0.0 3.1 on a average number of shares outstanding before and after dilution during both Depreciation for the year -29.5 -29.8 -29.5 -29.4 2017/18 and 2016/17. Translation differences 0.0 -0.1 0.0 0.0 Options pertaining to LTI 2014, LTI 2015, LTI 2016 and LTI 2017are not included in the calculation of earnings per share after dilution as they did not generate any Closing accumulated depreciation -368.1 -340.7 -368.1 -338.5 dilution effect during the reported periods. Closing residual value according to plan 386.8 414.4 386.8 413.7 Carrying amount, land 6.5 6.5 6.5 6.5 Note 11 Dividend per share The dividends paid in 2017/18 and 2016/17 totalled 395.0 MSEK (6.25 SEK per share) and 362.0 MSEK (5.75 SEK per share). A dividend pertaining to 2017/18 of 6.25 SEK per share, totalling 410.0 MSEK, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 September 2018. The proposed dividend has not been recognised as a liability in these financial statements. 108 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 NOTES Group Parent Company Note 13 Inventories 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fitGroup Parent Company tings 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Opening cost 1789.8 1,780.2 1052.0 1,044.2 Merchandise 2,038.0 1,630.7 1,327.6 1,062.0 Acquisitions for the year 146.2 157.0 52.0 62.6 Total 2,038.0 1,630.7 1,327.6 1,062.0 Reclassifications 2.9 0.0 0.0 0,0 Cost of goods sold 4,926.9 4,698.6 4,817.6 4,579.7 Sales and disposals -15.6 -163.8 -9.9 -54.8 Of which, obsolescence -3.8 -5.8 -2.6 -5.5 Translation differences 51.3 16.3 0.0 0.0 Closing accumulated cost 1,974.6 1,789.8 1,094.1 1,052.0 Obsolescence is calculated based on individual assessment on the basis of age analysis in stores and the distribution centre. Opening depreciation -1,139.8 -1,097.4 -690.2 -650.4 Depreciation for the year -160.2 -165.5 -86.0 -93.4 Note 14 Accounts receivable Reclassifications -2.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Group Parent Company Sales and disposals 14.2 128.9 9.1 53.6 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Translation differences -32.0 -5.9 0.0 0.0 Accounts receivable 33.7 31.0 18.0 19.7 Total 33.7 31.0 18.0 19.7 Closing accumulated depreciation -1,320.0 -1,139.8 -767.1 -690.2 Closing residual value according to Fair value 33.7 31.0 18.0 19.7 plan 654.6 649.9 327.0 361.9 Note 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Parent Company 2017/18 2016/17 Group Parent Company Financial non-current assets 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Opening cost 186.3 179.8 Prepaid rent 93.4 73.0 45.6 40.9 Increase/decrease in Prepaid costs of materials 39.5 18.7 39.5 18.7 non-current receivables 12.2 6.5 Other prepaid expenses 73.7 66.4 42.3 27.3 Closing accumulated cost 198.5 186.3 Total 206.6 158.2 127.4 86.9 Group Parent Company Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Group 2017/18 2016/17 Securities held as fixed assets, valued at fair value* Cash and bank balances 115.8 625.1 Securities held as fixed assets, valued Group total 115.8 625.1 at fair value at the beginning of the year 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 At the end of the year, utilised overdraft facilities in the Group, which are not included in cash and cash equivalents, totalled 0.0 MSEK (0.0), refer to Note 20. Acquisition 224.5 0.0 224.5 0.0 Revaluation during the year 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Unutilised overdraft facilities in the Group, which are not included in cash and cash equivalents, amounted to 400.0 MSEK (400.0). Securities held as fixed assets, valued at fair value at the end of the year 224.5 0.0 224.5 0.0 Note 17 Forward contracts *According to level three in the fair value hierarchy, see note 20 As per the balance-sheet date, outstanding cash-flow hedging existed according Investment commitments to the following table. Contracted investments on the balance-sheet date not yet recognised in the financial statements total the following amounts: Carrying amount Average remaining Currency and fair value Nominal amount term in months.1 Group Parent Company Sell/buy 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 NOK/SEK -10.7 1.5 160.3 72.0 2.1 2.5 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 21.0 39.6 10.1 3.0 NOK/USD 4.4 5.0 391.7 430.6 3.4 3.2 SEK/USD 0.8 0.0 18.2 5.3 5.5 4.4 Total -5.5 6.5 570.3 507.9 3.1 3.1 1 Maturity ranges from 9 May 12 Sept for NOK/SEK, 9 May 24 Oct for NOK/USD and 17 Oct to 17 Oct for SEK/USD. In the preceding year, the maturity ranges were from 10 May 12 Oct for NOK/SEK and 3 May 19 Oct for NOK/USD and 12 Sept to 12 september for SEK/USD. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 109 Note 19 Pension obligations The Group has defined-benefit occupational pension plans for only a few formerly employed salaried employees. The following tables provide an overview of the items included in the net expense for the remuneration recognised in the consolidated income statement for the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans. The amounts for the pension plans are also recognised in the consolidated balance sheet. For more information, refer to the pages 100-101. Changes in the asset/liability recognised in the balance sheet are: 2017/18 2016/17 At the start of the year 1.6 1.2 Net Periodic Pension Cost -0.2 0.0 Employer contribution 0.1 0.3 Exchange-rate differences 0.1 0.1 Note 18 Proposed allocation of earnings and Equity Recognised provision at end of the financial year: 1.5 1.6 The following earnings (SEK 000s) are at the disposal of the Annual General Pension obligations: Meeting: 2017/18 2016/17 Profit brought forward 415,569* Present value of funded obligations 4.6 6.6 Profit for the year 265,086* Fair value of plan assets 6.1 8.2 Total 680,655* Non-recognised actuarial gains/losses 0.0 0.0 Asset in balance sheet 1.5 1.6 The Board and Chief Executive Officer propose: Defined-contribution plans Dividend payable to shareholders 6.25 SEK per share 410,0001 Defined-contribution plans exist in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Payments to Carried forward to new account 270,655* these plans are made continuously according to the rules of each plan. Total 680,655* 2017/18 2016/17 Group 82.7 72.5 1 Dividends are based on the number of shares outstanding on the record date. Parent Company 47.0 43.2 The record date for payment of the dividend is proposed as 11 September 2018. It is anticipated that the dividend decided upon by the Annual General Meeting will For salaried employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan’s defined-benefit pension be despatched on 14 September 2018. obligations retirement and family pensions are insured on the basis of insurance with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting With reference to the information presented above and what has otherwise Board, UFR 10 Classification of ITP plans financed by insurance in Alecta, this is come to the knowledge of the Board, the view of the Board is as follows: A a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the current financial year, the company comprehensive assessment of the financial position of the Parent Company and did not have access to information to recognise its proportionate share of the Group indicates that the dividend is justifiable with reference to the demands made plan’s obligations, plan assets and expenses, which entails that the plan cannot by the nature, size and risks of the operation on the equity and liquidity of the be recognised as a defined-benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan insured through Parent Company and Group. The Group’s equity/assets ratio is 54 per cent before insurance with Alecta is therefore recognised as a defined-contribution plan. The payment of dividend and 44 per cent after payment of dividend. This is judged to premium for the defined-benefit retirement and family pensions are individually be an adequate equity/assets ratio, even when the strategy implementation has calculated and depend on such factors as salary, previously earned pension been taken into account. and expected remaining service period. The expected contributions for the next reporting period for ITP 2 insurance policies taken out with Alecta amount to 12.5 The total number of ordinary shares is 65,600,000 (2016/17: 65,600,000) with MSEK (12.0). a quotient value of 1.25. The number of series A shares is 5,760,000, while the number of series B shares is 59,840,000. Each series A share carries ten votes, The collective funding ratio comprises the market value of Alecta’s assets as while each series B share carries one vote. All issued shares are fully paid up. a percentage of the insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s The company has outstanding stock option plans, whose outcome was hedged actuarial methods and assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. The through the repurchase of 2,391,865 series B shares (2,516,562). The number collective funding ratio is normally permitted to vary between 125 and 155 per of sharesoutstanding at the end of the year was 63,208,135 (63,083,438). The cent. If Alecta’s collective funding ratio falls below 125 per cent or exceeds averagenumber of shares before and after dilution is reported in Note 10. 155 per cent, measures are to be taken to create the conditions for returning the collective funding ratio to the normal interval. In the event of a low collective The Group’s reserves contain translation differences of -40.6 MSEK funding ratio, a measure could be raising the contracted price for new policies (-95.0), and hedging reserve of -4.3 MSEK (5.1). and expanding existing benefits. In the event of a high collective funding ratio, a measure could be introducing premium reductions. At the end of 2017, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 154 per cent (149). 110 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 NOTES Note 20 Financial instruments The average period of credit is 30 days. The average period of credit is 44 days (45) for accounts payable and for other Financial instruments per category current liabilities 20 days (20). All accounts payable expires due within 60 days. Loan All bank loans and overdraft facilities are denominated in SEK. During the current receivables financial year, the Parent Company did not have any bank loans. and Derivatives Securities accounts for hedging that can be The overdraft facility in the cash pool carries floating interest rates. During the year, Assets 30 April 2018 Level receivable purposes sold Total the average interest rate was 0.14 per cent (0.12). The credit limit on the overdraft Accounts receivable 2 33.7 0.0 0.0 33.7 in the cashpool facilities totalled 100 MSEK (100). The Parent Company also has an overdraft facility of 300 MSEK available at DNB Bank ASA. Collateral for bank loans Derivative instruments 2 0.0 8.6 0.0 8.6 consisted of the reporting of financial covenants. The Group’s total overdraft facilities Securities held as fixed amounted to 400 MSEK (400). assets* 3 0.0 0.0 224.5 224.5 Cash and cash The Parent Company’s credit is included in a cash pool for the Group in which utilised equivalents 2 115.8 0.0 0.0 115.8 credit totalled 0.0 MSEK (0.0). The fair value on borrowing corresponds to its carrying amount, since the discounting effect is not significant. Total 149.6 8.6 224.5 382.6 *The holding in MatHem Sverige AB was valued based on a transaction between two independent parties, and adjusted by the amount of the holding compared with the observed transacNote 21 Accrued expenses and deferred income tion. The fair value was measured according to level 3 of the fair value hierarchy since the value is based on the adjusted value of a transaction in a non-active market. Group Parent Company 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Derivatives Other Accrued payroll expenses 114.5 115.0 59.2 66.8 for hedging financial Liabilities 30 April 2018 Level purposes liabilities Total Accrued holiday pay expenses 191.2 177.1 108.8 103.1 Derivative instruments 2 14.1 0.0 14.1 Accrued social security Accounts payable contributions 101.5 107.4 77.2 85.4 and other liabilities 2 0.0 1,024.8 1,024.8 Other items 129.4 100.8 67.5 50.6 Total 14.1 1,024.8 1,038.9 Total 536.5 500.2 312.8 305.9 Loan receivables and Derivatives for Note 22 Other provisions accounts hedging Assets 30 April 2017 Level receivable purposes Total Refers to: a) Sales-related provisions Accounts receivable 2 31.0 0.0 31.0 Pertains to provisions for guarantee commitments, unredeemed gift cards, open Cash and cash equivalents 2 625.1 0.0 625.1 purchase and estimated bonus points to customer club members, which are all expected to be utilised during the subsequent financial year. The provision for estiTotal 656.1 0.0 656.1 mated future guarantee commitments is equivalent to the guarantee expenses for the year with respect to the length of the warranty period. Derivatives Other for hedging financial Gift cards Liabilities 30 April 2017 Level purposes liabilities Total When purchasing Clas Ohlson’s gift cards in stores or via online shopping, the Derivative instruments 2 0.8 0.0 0.8 entire amount is recognised as a provision and recognised as income only when the gift card has been used in a store or has expired. Accounts payable and other liabilities 2 0.0 772.0 772.0 Open purchase and complaints Clas Ohlson offers its customers open purchase for 90 days and the right to Total 0.8 772.0 772.8 complain about unsatisfactory purchases for up to ten years after the purchase. Most of the returns occur during the week following the purchase. Every month, Fair value measured according to the three levels below: sales and cost of goods sold are adjusted taking into account the estimated Level 1: Listed prices in an active marketplace. proportion of returns. Level 2: Valuation model mainly based on observable market data for the asset or liability. Club Clas Level 3: Valuation model mainly based on own assumptions. Members of the Clas Ohlson’s loyalty program, Club Clas, receive bonus cheques in various amounts depending on the amount of purchases the customer made at Clas Ohlson. The cheques are distributed continuously and are valid for six Financial liabilities months. All issued bonus cheques are not redeemed which is why each sale in the Group Parent Company loyalty program is reduced by the fair amount with respect to future redemption of bonus cheques, considering the current degree of redemption. 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Accounts payable 881.6 635.2 829.2 578.2 b) Restructuring During the financial year 2015/16 a provisions for a non-recurring expense of Other current liabilities 143.2 136.8 14.5 26.5 107.0 MSEK pertaining to the restructuring of the store network in the UK was Total 1.024.8 772.0 843.7 604.7 made. Fair value 1,024.8 772.0 843.7 604.7 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 111 Group Parent Company Note 23 Inter-Group transactions Guarantee commitments 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Of the Parent Company’s invoiced sales, intra-Group sales accounted for 2,783.9 Opening provisions 10.2 10.0 5.8 5.7 MSEK (2,784.7). Of this sum, 2,177.2 MSEK (2,173.4) related to sales to Clas Ohlson AS in Norway, 561.7 MSEK (563.9) to sales to Clas Ohlson Oy in Finland, Utilised during the year -10.2 -10.0 -5.8 -5.7 40.1 MSEK (43.7) to sales to Clas Ohlson Ltd in the UK and 4.9 MSEK (3.7) sales Allocated during the year 11.3 10.2 6.1 5.8 to Clas Ohlson GmbH in Germany. No purchases were made from subsidiaries. Total 11.3 10.2 6.1 5.8 Open purchase, unredeemed Note 24 Participations in Group companies gift cards and bonus points 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Parent company 2017/18 2016/17 Opening provisions 53.2 54.2 40.2 41.9 Accumulated acquisitioin value Utilised during the year -53.2 -54.2 -40.2 -41.9 Opening value 29.3 29.3 Allocated during the year 57.5 53.2 44.6 40.2 Shareholder contribution 0.0 0.0 Total 57.5 53.2 44.6 40.2 Total 29.3 29.3 Restructuring 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 The table below shows Clas Ohlson AB’s holding of shares and participations in Opening provisions 40.5 102.7 0.0 0.0 subsidiaries according to the balance sheet 30/4. All companies are owned 100 Utilised during the year -26.8 -62.2 0.0 0.0 percent. Allocated during the year 3.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 17.7 40.5 0.0 0.0 Of which long-term provision amounts to 12.3 25.9 0.0 0.0 Total provisions 86.5 103.9 50.7 46.0 Holding of shares and participations in subsidiaries for Clas Ohlson AB 2018-04-30 2017-04-30 Number of Number of Country Company Registred office Registration number shares Value MSEK shares Value MSEK Norway Clas Ohlson AS Oslo NO 937402198 10,000 0.1 10,000 0.1 Finland Clas Ohlson OY Helsinki FI 1765891-7 500,000 4.7 500,000 4.7 UK Clas Ohlson Ltd London 6298382 300,000 4.0 300,000 4.0 Germany Clas Ohlson GmbH Hamburg HRB 130004 1 9.3 1 9.3 China Clas Ohlson (Shanghai) Co, Ltd Shanghai 310000400574190 1,500,000 11.3 1,500,000 11.3 Total 29.3 29.3 Note 25 Securities held as fixed assets Parent Company 2017/18 2016/17 Accumulated acquisition value Opening value 0.0 0.0 Acquisitions for the year 224.5 0.0 Total 224.5 0.0 The table below shows Clas Ohlson AB’s holding of securities held as fixed assets according to the balance sheet 30/40. Holding of securities held as fixed asset for Clas Ohlson AB 2018-04-30 2017-04-30 Number of Percentage of Country Company Registered office Registration number shares votes Value MSEK Value MSEK Sweden MatHem i Sverige AB Stockholm 556775-7264 666030 10 % 224.5 0.0 Total 224.5 0.0 112 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 NOTES Note 26 Appropriations Note 29 Pledged assets Parent Company 2017/18 2016/17 Group Parent Company The difference between recognised depreciation 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2015/16 and depreciation according to plan: Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings -32.2 -9.1 Total pledged assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – land and buildings 1.0 1.0 Provision for tax allocation reserves The company has no collateral for own obligations pertaining to currency forward contracts. Regarding contracted overdraft facilities, the company’s reports finanProvisions for the year 44.0 -68.0 cial covenants, for which the company met the terms and conditions by a healthy Parent Company total 12.8 -76.2 margin. During the year, unutilised overdraft facilities amounted to 400.0 MSEK (400.0) in the Group and Parent Company. Note 27 Cash and bank balances Note 30 Contingent liabilities and commitments Parent Company 2017/18 2016/17 Parent Company 2017/18 2016/17 Contingent liabilities, Parent Company Cash and bank balances 36.9 540.9 Guarantee in favour of Group companies pertaining Parent Company total 36.9 540.9 to future rental commitments 273.3 251.7 Unutilised Group overdraft facilities, which are not included in cash and cash equivalents, totalled 400.0 MSEK (400.0). Parent Company commitments All store premises, with the exception of Insjön, are leased and treated as operating leases. The company’s policy is that rent should be fixed and not based Note 28 Untaxed reserves on store turnover. The average contract period at 30 April 2018 was four years. Parent Company 2017/18 2016/17 Contracted leases were calculated according to rent levels for 2018. Accumulated difference between recognised depreciation and depreciation according to plan: 2017/18 2016/17 – equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 407.7 375.5 Rents and lease payments in financial year 297.0 289.6 – land and buildings 0.0 1.0 Provision for tax allocation reserve 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022Tax 2013:1 0.0 107.0 Contracted future Tax 2013:2 72.0 72.0 rents 233.3 206.1 156.9 118.1 138.4 Tax 2014 101.0 101.0 Tax 2015 138.0 138.0 Contingent liabilities, The Group The Group has no contingent liabilities. Tax 2016 123.0 123.0 Tax 2017 131.0 131.0 Group commitments All store premises, with the exception of Insjön, are leased and treated as operTax 2018 63.0 0.0 ating leases. The company’s policy is that rent should be fixed and not based on Parent Company total 1,035.7 1,048.5 store turnover. The average contract period at 30 April 2018 was five years. Contracted leases were calculated according to rent levels for 2018. Group 2017/18 2016/17 Rents and lease payments in financial year 737.3 738.9 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022Contracted future rents 709.9 622.0 526.3 395.8 702.5 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 113 Note 31 Related-party transactions Note 33 Segment reporting The number of shareholders in the company totalled 34,717. The major Clas Ohlson has the following segments: Sweden, Norway, Finland and Outside shareholders are Clas Ohlson’s descendants Helena Ek-Tidstrand, Björn Haid, Nordic countries as well as Group-wide. The Group-wide segment pertains to the Johan Tidstrand, Peter Haid and Claus-Toni Haid , who hold 38 per cent of the Group-wide functions that assist sales organisations with purchasing, distribution, capital and 66 per cent of the votes. No transactions with related parties took marketing, management and other support. A large portion of the Group’s place during the financial year or previous year. Remuneration of the Board and value is generated in the Group-wide segment. The Group’s internal pricing was senior management is presented in Note 6 to the Annual Report. For further adapted to these prerequisites. Transactions between Group-wide and the sales description, refer to the corporate governance report, pages 79-87. organisations consist primarily of deliveries and payment for goods, internal invoicing of services rendered and interest on Group-wide loans. The income measure recognised per segment consists of operating profit. Clas Ohlson has no customers that individually account for more than 10 per cent of the Group’s sales. Note 32 Average numbers of employees Group Parent Company 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Sales per segment Total Sweden 1,667 1,601 1,667 1,601 Sweden 3,657.6 3,587.8 – of whom, women (713) (685) (713) (685) Norway 3,286.8 3,190.1 Total Norway 772 734 Finland 998.1 912.9 – of whom, women (299) (284) Outside Nordic countries 268.2 299.3 Total Finland 336 306 Group-wide 2,783.9 2,784.7 – of whom, women (153) (139) Eliminations of sales to other segments -2,783.9 -2,784.7 Total UK 86 116 – of whom, women (44) (59) Total 8,210.7 7,990.1 Total China 52 50 Operating profit per segment – of whom, women (26) (25) Sweden 150.3 147.3 Total Germany 37 28 Norway 138.6 134.4 – of whow women (18) (14) Finland 32.0 28.9 Total 2,951 2,835 1,667 1,601 Outside Nordic countries 9.1 10.7 – of whom, women 1,253 1,206 713 685 Group-wide 138.2 288.6 The average number of employees is based on the total number of hours worked Total 468.3 609.9 in relation to total annual working time. Assets per segment Sweden 776.8 800.8 Norway 661.7 582.2 Finland 193.6 168.0 Outside Nordic countries 150.5 124.8 Group-wide 2,301.2 1,598.5 Total 4,083.9 3,274.3 Cash and cash equivalents are not included in the tables above. Investment and depreciation per segment Investments Depreciation 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Sweden 20.3 39.3 36.7 37.9 Norway 59.6 63.8 51.3 48.1 Finland 15.2 10.4 15.1 14.0 Outside Nordic countries 18.7 20.3 7.6 14.8 Group-wide 1 383.5 129.8 114.9 115.2 Total 497.2 263.6 225.6 230.0 Investments in intangible assets amounted to 124.0 Mkr (105.9). 1 Depreciation attributable to intangible assets amounted to 35.9 Mkr (34.7 Mkr). Investment in MatHem i Sverige AB amounted to till 224,5 Mkr. 114 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 NOTES Note 34 Events after the end of the period External financing After the end of the financial year, the company signed an agreement for an external credit facility corresponding to 250 MSEK to meet the company’s financing requirements. End of performance period, Long-term Incentive Plan, LTI 2015 The qualification and performance periods for the LTI 2015 long-term incentive plan ran from 1 May 2015 until 30 April 2018. After the end of the reporting period, a total of 9,659 shares were allotted on 2 May in accordance with the AGM’s resolution regarding share matching of one share per share purchased to those participants who remained employed after the three-year qualification period. The established performance criteria regarding average sales growth and increased earnings per share for the period 2015–2018 were not achieved, meaning that no options were allotted to the participants and, accordingly, the LTI 2015 has been concluded. LTI 2018 and utilisation of authorisation to buy back shares In May 2018, the long-term incentive plan LTI 2018 was introduced under the same structure as LTI 2017. Senior management will purchase shares in LTI 2018 in mid June. The exercise price for the conditional employee stock options has been set at SEK 93.80 per share, with exercise possible, following the threeyear qualification period between June 2021 and April 2025. On 9 September 2017, the Annual General Meeting of Clas Ohlson AB authorised the Board of Directors to acquire a maximum of 860,000 shares during the period until the next Annual General Meeting to secure the company’s commitment in connection with the introduction of a share-based incentive programme, LTI 2018. The total number of shares required to secure the undertaking for LTI 2018 is estimated at 850,000. The entire LTI 2018 undertaking can be secured by using shares that were bought back to secure previous LTI plans where the need has been recalculated. As per 30 April 2018, the company’s holding of Clas Ohlson treasury shares amounted to 2,391,865 shares, corresponding to 4 per cent of the total number of registered shares. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 115 CERTIFICATION OF THE ANNUAL REPORT Certification of the Annual Report The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the IFRS standards as adopted by the EU and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and provide a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Directors’ Report for the Group and Parent Company provides a fair overview of the development of the Group’s and Parent Company’s operations, financial position and earnings, and also describes material risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and companies included in the Group. Insjön 2018-06-29 Kenneth Bengtsson Mathias Haid Cecilia Marlow Chairman of the Board Göran Näsholm Charlotte Strömberg Göran Sundström Ros-Marie Grusén Anne Thorstvedt Sjöberg Lotta Lyrå CEO and Chief Executive Officer Henrik Andersson Joe Erikson Employee representative (Unionen) Employee representative (Handels) Our audit report was submitted on 30 June 2018. Deloitte AB Kent Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant The balance sheets and income statements are to be adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 8 September 2018. 116 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Clas Ohlson AB (publ) Corporate identity number 556035-8672 Valuation of inventories Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Risk description Opinions Clas Ohlson report inventories of SEK 2 038 million as of April 30, 2018. InvenWe have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Clas Ohlson tories comprise a substantial part of the group’s assets and consists of a large AB (publ) for the financial year 2017-05-01 2018-04-30 except for the corporate number of articles assorted over 229 stores and a central warehouse. Inventory governance statement on pages 79-87. The annual accounts and consolidated is accounted for at the lower of cost and net sales value. Inventory accounting is accounts of the company are included on pages 68-116 in this document. subject to significant judgment and estimates, mainly related to obsolescence, calculation of costs included in the inventory value and supplier bonuses. In adIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the dition, we have considered the large transaction volumes and the complexity due Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial posito the number of warehouse locations. For further information, please refer to the tion of the parent company as of 30 April 2018 and its financial performance and Risk assessment and control activities on page 86, Estimates and assumptions cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. on page 98, group accounting principles for inventory on page 100 and note 13. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Our audit included but was not limited to the following audit procedures: the group as of 30 April 2018 and their financial performance and cash flow for • Auditing Clas Ohlson’s procedures for inventory management and the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Stanprocurement. dards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory • Auditing of Clas Ohlson’s applied calculations of costs included in the administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and inventory value. consolidated accounts. • Auditing of the inventory valuation according to the ”first in, first out” principle and applied model for obsolescence. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the • Completeness testing with data analytics covering all inand outgoing income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. deliveries from the warehouses. • Participating in stock taking for selected stores and Clas Ohlson’s Our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts distribution central in Insjön. are consistent with the content of the additional report that has been submitted • Evaluating the adequacy of applied accounting principles and relevant to the parent company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation disclosures. (537/2014) Article 11. Revenue recognition Basis for Opinions Risk description We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing The group’s sales as of April 30, 2018 amounts to SEK 8 210.7 million. The (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities company recognizes revenue at the time of sales/delivery to the customer when under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities material risks and rewards associated with ownership of the goods have been section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance transferred. Revenue recognition has been identified as a key audit matter since with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled sales comprise a significant financial statement line item and consists of a large our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes number of small transactions, in all material aspects to consumers through own that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services stores with upfront payment. For further information refer to Risk assessment and referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to control activities on page 86 and note 33 segment reporting. the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its controlled companies within the EU. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 117 AUDITOR’S REPORT Our audit included but was not limited to the following audit procedures: Auditor’s responsibility • Auditing of Clas Ohlson’s process for revenue recognition, handling of cash Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual and evaluation of identified key controls, for example matching of sales accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstateagainst obtained payment. ment, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes • Analytical audit procedures of recorded revenue and reconciliation of total our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a sales on receipt level traced against the corresponding movement in guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally acceptinventory facilitated by data analytics tools. ed auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when • Auditing of Clas Ohlson’s analysis and evaluation of fluctuations in the gross it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material margin. if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence • Auditing of the process of handling cash in a selection of stores. the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the annual accounts consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-67 and 120-152. The Board of and consolidated accounts is located at the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description forms part of the auditor’s report. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion Report on other legal and regulatory requirements regarding this other information. Opinions In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether Director of Clas Ohlson AB (publ) for the financial year 2017-05-01 2018-04-30 the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consoland the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. idated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit to be apappears to be materially misstated. propriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Directors be If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that discharged from liability for the financial year. there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Basis for Opinions We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing stanResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director dards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparain the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent tion of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The these requirements. Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, to provide a basis for our opinions. whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of DiThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the rectors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the comcompany’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assesspany’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as ment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity Board of Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, and position in general. to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the adThe Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsiministration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous bilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s financial assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring reporting process. that the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. 118 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the management’s administration is located at the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors website: www. revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/documents/rev_dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description forms part of the auditor’s report. Auditor’s examination of the corporate governance report The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance statement on pages 79-87 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Deloitte AB, was appointed auditor of Clas Ohlson AB by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 2017-09-09 and has been the company’s auditor since 2013-09-07. Insjön, June 30, 2018 Deloitte AB Kent Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant For signature please see Swedish version of the Auditor’s report. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 119 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability report 2017/18 In accordance with Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Annual Accounts Act, Clas Ohlson has chosen to prepare its statutory sustainability report separately from its Annual Report. Sustainability is an integral part of Clas Ohlson’s operations cluding purchasing, people and logistics. A more exhaustive deand we integrate sustainability issues into our strategy, business scription of sustainability risks is provided on pages 130–131. model and governance. Refer to pages 24 and 26 for a description of Clas Ohlson’s business model. Sustainability topics The sustainability targets and outcomes are described on pages are integrated into all elements of the new strategy, which is 124–125. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact’s ten described on pages 14–17. principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption; the Sustainability Report comprises Clas Our sustainability initiatives are described under the respective Ohlson’s Communication on Progress. operational sections on pages 34–63. For information about the sustainability organisation, policies and governance, refer to Clas Ohlson reports its work with sustainability pursuant to page 26. the GRI standards. The GRI index on pages 132–135 provides further information about our various sustainability-related The materiality analysis is used as guidance for the eight priordisclosures. itised sustainability areas that Clas Ohlson has focused on, and which are validated each year through stakeholder dialogues. In The above page references constitute a report on Clas Ohlson’s spring 2018, the materiality analysis was updated to reflect the work and results in the areas of environment, social conditions new strategic framework. Read more on pages 128–129. and personnel, respect for human rights and anti-corruption efforts. Together, this information comprises Clas Ohlson’s Sustainability risks are disclosed under Risks and uncertainties Sustainability Report. on pages 74–77 and are found under several risk categories, inAuditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Clas Ohlson AB (publ), corporate identity number 556035-8672. Engagement and responsibility It is the board of directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the financial year 2017-05-01 to 2018-04-30 and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Insjön, June 30, 2018 Deloitte AB Kent Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant For signature please see Swedish version of the report. 120 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION Supplementary sustainability information “From Here to Sustainability” – the green speech bubbles that greet our customers – aim to showcase our Sustainability strengthens our offering and makes us more resilient. The sussustainable offering and explain how tainability efforts are integrated into operations and impact across our entire they contribute to a more sustainable value chain. lifestyle. From introducing criteria for sustainable products and ensuring an inclusive work environment to promoting human rights and good environmental work in our supply chain. We have taken key steps in reaching the sustainability targets we set for 2020. Toward a resource-efficient From Here to Sustainability also details the journey we are making to become a more sustainable company. As an integrated part of VALUE CHAIN Our long-term ambition is to contribute to a more reour strategy, From Here to Sustainability defines the key sustainsource-efficient value chain. We have identified three ability issues to manage and describes our ambition level. We important priorities in the 100 more years strategy that will report our work within eight prioritised areas. bring us closer to this ambition: • Develop the sustainability aspect of our product offering. In the spring, the materiality analysis was updated to identify the areas with the greatest relevance based on our new strategic frame• Develop and market resource-efficient service offerings work 100 more years. In the 2018/19 financial year, we will work that promote a circular economy. further on including our current goals for 2020 into a format that • Create opportunities to reduce the impact of carbon aligns with the new strategy. emissions from online shopping and home deliveries. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 121 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | OUR VALUE CHAIN Our value chain Our long-term aim is to help make the value chain more resource-efficient. Managing our positive and negative impact in an effective manner requires that we understand where to make the impact in the chain for each of the material issues. Our responsibility extends outside of our own operations’ direct impact and also encompass impacts that we contribute to or which we are connected to through our business relations with suppliers and customers for example. We also have considerable scope for influencing the various parts of the value chain. The value-chain perspective helps us to identify possibilities and risks, to understand boundaries, and how we can create value for our stakeholders. Product development Manufacturing Transportation Operations AREA Together with strategic partners 71 per cent of the products are Transportation of 1,300 million Some 5,000 employees in six for our proprietary brands manufactured in Asia tonne kilometres of products countries. ISSUES • Water and energy efficiency • Code of Conduct and • Emissions of CO2 and • Skills development • More sustainable material quality requirements energy consumption • Diversity • Packaging • Anti-corruption and bribes • Transportation efficiency • Health and well-being • Recyclable • Human rights • Packing rate and • Young people in our workforce • Functionality in new and existing markets freight consolidation • Energy efficiency and waste • Product life • Migrant worker conditions • Anti-corruption and bribes VALUE • Reduced impact from product • Improved standards for • Reduced CO2 emissions • A high-performing CREATION use and recycling suppliers, their workers • More cost-efficient organisation • Relevant and unique products and families and local transportation solutions • Attract and retain communities skilled employees • Increased confidence in • Increased employee committhe Clas Ohlson brand ment ABILITY TO INFLUENCE MEDIUM MEDIUM MEDIUM HIGH 122 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | OUR VALUE CHAIN VALUE CHAIN Manufacturing • Human rights, children’s rights and employment conditions Product development • Business ethics • Products for a more sustainable lifestyle • Our role in society • Materials and chemicals in products Transportation • Energy efficiency CRITICAL IN REALISING OUR AMBITIONS Operations • Being an attractive employer SOUND BASIS FOR LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY • Business ethics ONE STEP AHEAD OF OUR STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS Sales • Products for a more sustainable lifestyle • Resource-efficient business models • Business ethics End of the product life • Materials and chemicals in products Product use • Products for a more sustainable lifestyle • Resource-efficient business models Sales Product use End of the product life AREA Some 230 stores and online Products with a high environmental Participate in collection and recyshopping in five countries performance at attractive prices cling schemes allow our customers to live more sustainably. ISSUES • Availability of products that • Product life • Waste have a high environmental • Environmental impact • Recycling performance during the product life • Reuse • Information about products for • Hazardous chemicals • Producer responsibility and a more sustainable lifestyle • Product safety collection system • Energy efficiency in stores • Services for a more • Chemicals sustainable lifestyle • Spare parts VALUE • Loyal customers Extended product use • Less waste and more CREATION • Motivated employees • High confidence in the products material recycling • Attractive, unique • Less waste and increased • Fewer chemicals to the environand relevant product offering resource efficiency ment • Reduced energy costs • Fewer chemicals to the envi• More information about ronment environmental impact • Reduced energy consumption and CO2 emissions • Cost savings ABILITY TO INFLUENCE HIGH LOW LOW CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 123 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | EIGHT PRIORITISED AREAS Eight prioritised areas Our eight prioritised areas define the environmental and social areas that we are to focus our efforts on, how we are to create value and how we measure our progress. 1 2 Products for a sustainable lifestyle Resource-efficient business models OUR TARGET is for products for a more sustainable lifestyle By developing more resource-efficient business models, to represent 25 per cent of sales by 2020. Clas Ohlson has we promote society’s shift from a traditional linear view an important role to play in helping customers live more of manufacture, use and disposal toward a more circular sustainably. By offering products with excellent environmental economy. performance at an attractive price, we make this possible in practice. We have focused on developing an offering that extends the service life of our products. We also see business opTo ensure the relevance of our offering, we worked during the portunities in hiring and sharing services that make things year on further developing the criteria for products for a more easier for the customer at the same time as it entails a sustainable lifestyle. The ambition is that they better reflect significantly lower impact on the environment viewed from their impact on the environment and social aspects throughout the service life of the product. One such example is the the entire value chain. We are also working on developing sysnew Hire from Clas service, a customer offering with a sigtematics for managing and reporting our gradual advancement nificantly enhanced environmental performance compared of the position for the entire offering. with traditional sales of products. Read more about Hire from Clas on page 38. Updated criteria and the appurtenant product requirements are approved by a committee consisting of the Head of AsServices that extend the service life of products continue sortment, the Head of Sustainability and the Head of Quality. to perform positively. Sales of spare parts increased 13 per Responsibility for applying the criteria and product requirecent over the previous year. We also introduced a knifements, which is integral to our purchasing process, lies with sharpening service as well as installation, winter storage Product Development and the product managers. and servicing of robot lawnmowers. Read more about these services on page 38. At the end of the financial year, the share of products that met any of our sustainability criteria totalled 16 per cent. The In the 2018/19 financial year, we will focus on ensuring list is dominated by products that meet the requirements for that resource efficiency and circular thinking become a third-party environmental labelling that Clas Ohlson accepts, central component in the development of new services for example FSC or energy-efficient LED lighting. One area of and solutions, and that we are transparent in our commufocus during the year has been increasing the share of eco-lanication with our customers. To achieve this, we will train belled wood and paper products. and involve our employees so that they can be positive sustainability ambassadors. For the product groups currently lacking established sustainability standards, the work on defining proprietary product requirements continues so as to be able to include these products in the sustainable product range as well. In the 2018/19 financial year, we will clarify and garner support for the new criteria internally and develop processes for approval, implementation and monitoring. 124 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | EIGHT PRIORITISED AREAS 3 4 An attractive employer Energy efficiency By creating a modern, inclusive workplace, we can attract OUR TARGET is to reduce our CO2 emissions in relation to our and retain the skills we need to develop Clas Ohlson going net sales. As we continue to grow as a company, it is essential forward. that our CO2 emissions do not follow suit. In the three areas of learning, simplification and commitIncreased online shopping impacts customers’ expectations ment, we focus on leadership development, effective of quickly receiving products shipped right to their door. Unteams, diversity, skills development and more efficient derstanding and managing environmental impact from various processes. sales and distribution channels is becoming increasingly important. Shared policies and processes govern how we work as regards recruitment, induction of new employees, skills It is also important that energy use in our properties and stores development, diversity and remuneration. The work is govis as efficient as possible, and that we promote the use of elecerned through a “Capability Council” in which we prioritise, tricity and heating from renewable energy sources. During the coordinate, monitor and evaluate our work. 2017/18 financial year, electricity use in our stores decreased from 103 to 95 kWh/m2. During the year, we updated and simplified our processes in order to offer more flexible workplaces and more Our CO2 emissions (Scope 1+2) decreased 12 per cent inclusive working methods. Our digital training platform has compared with the preceding financial year. Today, 96 per been developed to become more modular, to better meet cent of our products are transported by ship and rail, both of employees’ needs in different phases of development. which have relatively positive CO2 profiles. The share of freight transported by rail in relation to total overland freight was 30 Our goal is for employee attendance to exceed 96 per cent per cent (44) during the financial year. The decrease was due by 2020. During the financial year, employee attendance to a switch-over in connection with the strike in the Port of Gowas 95 per cent. Neither men nor women represent less thenburg and with moving a portion of our product inflow from than 40 per cent of any individual occupational group; this Gothenburg to Gävle. Emissions from freight transportation in also applies to senior management. During the financial relation to sales decreased during the financial year. year, 34 per cent of directors were women. We are working on redirecting our freight towards transport In the 2018/19 financial year, we will define goals and begin that increases security of delivery, reduces costs and reduces measuring employees’ experience of how well we live up environmental impact. We are increasing the share of transport to our business goals, and of the skills we need in our by ship and rail, as well as optimising and enhancing the transition to a more digital business model. efficiency of the flow of goods as regards the fill rate in our containers and vehicles. In the coming financial year, the work will be supplemented with analysis and assessment of how we can best support climate-efficient distribution to end customers. We will also focus on further promoting efficient energy use built on renewable sources of energy. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 125 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | EIGHT PRIORITISED AREAS 5 6 Materials and chemicals Human rights, children’s rights and Through setting clear supplier requirements, good control and employment conditions increased transparency, we ensure that we are always one OUR TARGET is 98 per cent supplier compliance with our step ahead in our work with chemicals and on maintaining our requirements, with no serious deviations from our Code of customers’ confidence. Conduct. We must always fulfil legal requirements, but in certain cases The majority of the products we sell are manufactured in counwe go further than what the law requires. This includes placing tries where there is an increased risk for deviations in relation requirements that no substances on the REACH candidate list to our Code of Conduct. It is therefore important that we conmay be found in any of our products. For textiles and soft plastic tinually check and monitor our suppliers’ compliance with our parts that come into contact with the skin, we start from the prerequirements regarding human rights, working conditions, and cautionary principle, developing requirements based on industry health and safety as well as the environment. standards and our own assessments. We have processes firmly established for assessing risk, During the year, we conducted training to increase knowledge ensuring compliance and following up on deviations from the among employees who are responsible for evaluating whether Code of Conduct. Before we start working with a new supplier, products and suppliers meet our requirements. We have also we assess whether our requirements are fulfilled, and if not, begun supplier audits as regards chemicals in manufacturing, whether the supplier is willing to rectify any deviations. We do with a focus on incoming materials – an important supplement not enter into partnerships if we discover serious deviations. to the requirements we set for the end products. Each supplier is assessed against the requirements of the Code of Conduct at least every two years. The starting point for compliance control is a risk analysis in order to clearly focus on where the risks for deviations are During the year, 249 (346) announced and unannounced greatest. The results of the checks and follow-ups show that audits were performed. Of these, 79 concerned new suppliers; this yields results; two examples are the work on reducing 64 were approved, but collaboration with 15 suppliers was flame retardants and PAH in products. Serious deviations could declined owing to serious deviations from our requirements. Of lead to stopping the sales of products or recalling them from the suppliers audited, 97 per cent (98) were in compliance with the market. During the year, we also clarified our requirements our requirements. The decrease from the preceding year was regarding odours from products. due to our changing the classification for deviations regarding transparency and issues related to working times. In the 2018/19 financial year, we will continue to develop the work on chemical audits among suppliers, to clarify requireDuring the year, we also focused on integrating Sedex, a ments regarding products with a focus on PFA substances and partnership for increased transparency regarding responsible to prepare for implementation of strengthened system support. purchasing, into Clas Ohlson’s supplier programme. The partnership with Sedex enables improved efficiency and increased transparency in the supply chain, while we can simultaneously concentrate our auditing resources where the risk is greatest. In the coming financial year, we will continue to develop our proactive work on promoting long-term positive changes among strategically important suppliers through knowledge development, while supporting our business in the best manner possible. Sales of products for CO2 emissions, grams of CO2 Percentage of suppliers 1 a more sustainable lifestyle, % 4 relative to our sales 6 meeting the requirements of the Code of Conduct with no serious deviations, % 97 1.73 98 98 2.25 96 16 14 10 6 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 Target 25% 2020 Target: Reduce emissions in relation Target 98% to net sales 126 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | EIGHT PRIORITISED AREAS 7 8 Business ethics Our role in society OUR TARGET in the 2017/18 financial year was to train employBy acting as a positive force in the communities in which we ees and partners in and to link business ethics more clearly to operate, we improve the confidence that our employees, human rights. customers, and other local stakeholders have in us. Viewing the impact that we have from the perspective of future Clas Ohlson has a strong corporate culture and our core values generations promotes the long-term aspect we need in our are the starting point for being a responsible and trustworthy work. company. Our Code of Conduct and Code of Business Ethics define the requirements and instructions that both employees We collaborate with such partners as the Save the Children and partners are expected to follow. Compliance with the Fund in order to develop and implement strategic initiatives codes ensures that we are acting based on what is best for the that strengthen Clas Ohlson’s brand, build knowledge and company, and not acting and governing decisions based on our understanding for new important fields linked to our strateown or a third party’s interests. In addition, both Clas Ohlson gic priorities, have a positive impact on local communities and society benefit from acting in accordance with the law in a and create employee engagement. business climate that is free from corruption, conflicts of interest and unlawful restrictions of competition. We focus on the rights of children, and support the UN Children’s Rights and Business Principles. One example is the The most significant risks regarding corruption exist in the “Better business for children and migrant parents,” a threesupply chain and when entering into larger contracts. Offers year initiative to engage Clas Ohlson’s suppliers in China in from suppliers or collaborating partners to participate in events, improving the rights and well-being of migrant workers and conflicts of interest in the purchasing process and attempts at their children. bribery in connection with audits of suppliers also occur. We endeavour to ensure that everyone understands their roles and We apply a systematic approach to first understand, and conducts themselves in line with our Code of Business Ethics, then address, identified needs through increased knowlregardless of where in the world we do business. This is why we edge, tools and support. During the year, 900 migrant regularly arrange courses for senior executives and for employworkers with families received long-distance training in ees who work with large-scale purchasing and agreements, as parenthood, and 46 children benefited from participation well as our agents in Asia. The courses are held in small groups in more than 1,300 activities at locations made safe for in the relevant language, and are adapted to local conditions. children at the plants so that they could be reunited with Managing ethical risks is particularly important as we expand their parents during the summer holidays. Both satisfaction into new purchasing markets. and periods of employment increased in the plants that implemented the programme. Our Code of Conduct and Code of Business Ethics describe Clas Ohlson’s commitment to maintaining high ethical norms The next step is to continue the roll-out of parental training when doing business, as well as our expectations of each emcourses; the goal is to support the establishment of an ployee and business partner. Our Code of Conduct and Code additional five areas made safe for children in partnership of Business Ethics are included in all purchase agreements and with strategically important suppliers so as to facilitate the we strive to include them in all major contracts. We are clear reunification of migrant parents and their children. that violations of the Code of Business Ethics could lead to consequences under labour law and criminal law, or lead to the We have also worked on informing and involving children in termination of the partnership. Any suspected deviations from our home markets in the Nordic countries around important the Code of Business Ethics can be reported by e-mail, to an environmental questions such as recycling. immediate superior or the company’s General Counsel. Such reports can be made anonymously. Read more about reporting deviations on page 24. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 127 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | MATERIALITY ANALYSIS What really counts Clas Ohlson’s materiality analysis constitutes the basis for our way of working on sustainability and how we report social and environmental impact. The process enables identification of the issues that are most As a result of the materiality analysis, 20 areas of sustainability relevant for delivering long-term value creation to our most with a high level of relevance to Clas Ohlson have been identiimportant stakeholders. It also enables identification of the fied. They have been grouped based on the three strategic areas greatest impacts of the business model on the environment and of the new strategy: society and the most important contributions to our overall operational targets, and to building Clas Ohlson as a meaning• Nine areas deal with A unique customer offering and ful and credible brand and company. The process is a forwardcover impacts from products and new business models. looking one, and has enabled identification of the issues that • Two areas relate to World-class customer service and cover prepare us and build our resistance through managing risks and collaboration with our customers. making use of opportunities that a rapidly changing society • Nine areas relate to Smart and simple and cover skills brings with it. supply, integrity and efficient operations. The process has also led to five recommendations that have been integrated in Clas Ohlson’s 100 more years strategy. In support of the Sustainable Development Goals As part of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the world has united around eliminating extreme poverty, decreasing inequalities, solving the climate crisis, and promoting peace and justice. We can make this vision a reality through shared efforts in all sectors of society. Clas Ohlson will do its part by working strategically on its most important sustainability issues. We have analysed our main contributions to the SDGs from three perspectives: 1. How we can reduce negative impact from the business model. 2. How we can promote positive contributions in our operations and along the entire value chain through our products and in production. 3. How we can promote positive changes systematically and in a scalable manner. 1, 2, 3 1, 2, 3 2 2, 3 128 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Demographic DRIVING Climate change FORCES change ANALYSED Globalisation 1. Technology Anti-corruption AREAS Circular economy IDENTIFIED Chemicals Health 2. Energy ISSUES Clas Ohlson’s Strategic impact on focus areas WEIGHTED sustaina3. bility Management group INTERVIEWS Organisaand Consumers tions internal Em4. experts ployees VALUE CHAIN ANALYSIS 5. INTEGRATION IN THE STRATEGY 6. The process in brief Our materiality analysis has been updated as part of Clas Ohlson’s strategic review. In order to identify the most material sustainability issues, we have applied a six-step process in which the results from each step lead on to the next. 1. The trends and drivers that will form the future are analysed. 2. Topics that may be relevant to the company’s strategy are identified and categorised under each of the three strategic focus areas: A unique customer offering, World-class customer service and Smart and simple. 3. The issues are ranked in an internal process together with the heads of business areas and experts with insights from our primary stakeholder groups. 4. The results are validated through interviews with external stakeholders, an online survey and the management group. 5.5. The areas that have the greatest impact in each phase of the value chain are identified to evaluate where the impact occurs, where it can create the greatest value and where our responsibility begins and ends. 6.6. The results are compiled together with recommendations for continued integration into the company’s strategy. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 129 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Risk areas from a sustainability perspective Our business model constitutes a potential negative impact on people, the environment and society. Unless managed correctly, these risks could impact Clas Ohlson’s reputation as a meaningful and trustworthy brand. They can also impact the confidence employees have in us as an employer and our market position, disrupt production and deliveries, incur unforeseen costs and cause violations of the law. Identifying environmental, social, human rights and anti-corruption risks is an integral part of our materiality process, and risk management is integrated into our operations. For more information on the Group’s risks, refer to the Risks and uncertainties section on pages 74–77. AREA DESCRIPTION IMPACT MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENT RAW Environmental impact from non-optimised Risks attributable to costs of materials, • Replace fossil fuel-based material with more MATERIALS use of non-renewable resources. which impacts product pricing. sustainable alternatives. • Reduce use of materials. Increased environmental impact from Reputational risk. • Use materials with less environuse of raw materials for products and mental impact. packaging. • Increase use of recycled materials. • Increase opportunities for recycling. Regulatory risks. • Energy-efficient products. CLIMATE Carbon emissions as a consequence of • Energy-efficient stores, offices and CHANGE electricity consumption when using our Risks regarding emissions from transpremises. products. portation. • Replace fossil fuel-based material with more sustainable alternatives. Carbon emissions from transportation. Risks attributable to disruptions • Reduce carbon emissions relative to our (e.g. as a consequence of extreme sales by switching to modes Carbon emissions occurring in operations. weather). of transportation with low emissions. • Increase the fill rate and adapt it to a more Reputational risk. sustainable logistics system. • Limit the potential hazardous chemicals in CHEMICALS Risk for ground and water pollution. Regulatory risks. our products. • Apply frameworks for handling chemicals Health risks in manufacturing, processing Risks in the working environment. adapted to the EU RoHS and Reach and using products. legislation. Reputational risk. • Apply the cautionary principle through Clas Ohlson’s chemicals requirements, which define both general and product-specific requirements that are updated annually. • Furnish spare parts. END-OF-LIFE Inefficient use of products and short Regulatory risks. • Introduce products with more PRODUCTS service lives increase demand for raw fields of application, hiring and sharing materials. Reputational risk services that reduce waste • Introduce solutions that extend Low value from material recycling. products’ service life, facilitates collection, reuse and recycling. 130 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | SUSTAINABILITY RISKS AREA DESCRIPTION IMPACT MANAGEMENT SOCIAL CONDITIONS, HUMAN RIGHTS AND EMPLOYEES WORKING Risk of violations of the right to free associRegulatory risks. • Consolidate and focus on strategic CONDITIONS ation, fair wages, safety, discrimination and suppliers. AND HUMAN access to social insurance systems among Transparency regarding the impact of • Train both workers and RIGHTS suppliers in high-risk countries. our products on consumers’ purchasing management at our suppliers. behaviour. • Check compliance with the Code of Risk of forced and compulsory labour and Conduct and monitor deviations. child labour among suppliers in high-risk Partnerships with suppliers that must be • Check potential suppliers countries. terminated. based on the requirements in the Code of Conduct before any partnership begins. Families negatively impacted by workforce Reputational risk. • Refrain from initiating partnership if migration. serious deviations are discovered. HEALTH AND Product safety, consumer safety and Regulatory risks. • Take responsibility for all employees SAFETY health when using our products. and subcontractors working in Costs related to interruptions in operations Clas Ohlson’s operations. Worksite accidents and stress-related as a consequence of absence due to health factors among our employees. illness. Workplace accidents at suppliers. Reputational risk. SKILLS Risk that we do not prepare our employLimited access to benefits. • Apply shared policies and ees prior to the transition to rapid digital processes for skills development and development. Reputational risk. remuneration. DIVERSITY Risk of not successfully recruiting and A brand that is not relevant as an employer • Apply shared policies for making use of talents. and/or an offering that is not attractive. diversity. • Recruit for increased diversity. Risk of not enabling an inclusive society. Limited access to benefits. Reputational risk. CONFIDENCustomers’ right to privacy and confidenRegulatory risks. • Apply the information security policy TIALITY AND tiality in connection with purchases and as and manage personal data in accordance SECURITY members in the loyalty programme. Reputational risk. with the applicable legislation. • New, digital tools make it easy for customers to change and learn about personal information. AREA DESCRIPTION IMPACT MANAGEMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION BRIBERY IN Corruption threatens economic and social Regulatory risks. • Apply the Code of Business Ethics, THE SUPPLY stability, especially in high-risk countries. which is a part of our Code of Conduct, CHAIN Obstacles to establishment in new purchasand report suspected deviations. ing regions. • Train employees who work with purchasing and high-value contracts, and Increased costs. our agents in Asia. Risks for deficiencies in quality and deliveries. Reputational risk. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 131 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | GRI-INDEX GRI Standards Index The Annual Report contains information as stated in the GRI Standard’s guidelines for sustainability reporting. Our report, published on an annual basis, describes our prioritised sustainability areas as well as the relevant targets and key indicators linked to these areas. The GRI Index provides references to standard information about the company and corporate governance, as well as information about Clas Ohlson’s material aspects. References refer to the Annual Report or website. With the exception of energy consumption, all data has been collected during the 2017/18 financial year. As our Communication on Progress, this report explains how Clas Ohlson’s approach reflects our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. STANDARD DISCLOSURE 2016 GRI DISCLOSURE REFERENCE 102-1 Name of the organisation Directors’ Report, p. 68 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Business model, p. 22-23, Directors’ Report, p. 68 102-3 Location of headquarters Directors’ Report, p. 68 102-4 Location of operations Directors’ Report, p. 68 102-5 Ownership and legal form Directors’ Report, p. 71 102-6 Markets served Directors’ Report, p. 68 102-7 Scale of the organisation Directors’ Report, p. 69 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Co-workers, p. 31 102-9 Supply chain Purchasing, p. 49 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Ten-year overview, p. 144 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Sustainability risks, p. 130-131 102-12 External initiatives Chairman´s statement, p. 78 102-13 Memberships of associations about.clasohlson.com STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO’s statement, p. 10 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Risks and uncertainties, p. 74-77, Sustainability risks, p. 130-131 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Governance and responsibility, p. 24, Co-workers, p. 31 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance and resposibility, p. 24 132 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | GRI-INDEX GRI DISCLOSURE REFERENCE GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Governance and resposibility, p. 24, Corporate governance, p. 79-87, Board of Directors, p. 88-89 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Governance and resposibility, p. 26 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Board of Directors, p. 88-89, Group management, 90-91 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Sustainability risks, p.130-131 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Risks and uncertainties, p. 74-77 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Our value chain, p. 122-123, Materiality analysis, p. 128-129 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder expectations, p. 20-21 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements On average 90% of Clas Ohlson’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder expectations, p. 20-21 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder expectations, p. 20-21 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder expectations, p. 20-21, Materiality analysis, p. 128-129 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Directors’ Report, p. 68 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Materiality analysis, p. 128-129 102-47 List of material topics Our value chain, p. 122-123, Materiality analysis, p. 128-129 102-48 Restatements of information GRI Index, introduction, p. 132 102-49 Changes in reporting Directors’ Report, p. 68 102-50 Reporting period GRI Index, introduction,p. 132 102-51 Date of most recent report GRI Index, introduction, p. 132 102-52 Reporting cycle GRI Index, introduction, p. 132 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contacts, ps. 152-153 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards GRI Index, introduction, p. 132 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index, introduction, p. 132 102-56 External assurance The auditor’s statement in regards to meeting Swedish legislation on sustainability reporting, p. 120 MATERIAL TOPICS EKONOMIC STANDARDS INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Corporate governance, Control environment, p. 86 103-2 The management approach and its components Corporate governance, Control environment, p. 86 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Auditor’s report, p. 117 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Business model, Economic value by stakeholder group, p. 22-23 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS MATERIALS 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Eight prioritised areas, Materials and chemicals, p. 126 103-2 The management approach and its components Eight prioritised areas, Materials and chemicals, p. 126 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Eight prioritised areas, Materials and chemicals, p. 126 Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson is in the process of defining a relevant indicator. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 133 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | GRI-INDEX GRI DISCLOSURE REFERENCE ENERGY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Eight prioritised areas, Energy efficiency, p. 125 103-2 The management approach and its components Eight prioritised areas, Energy efficiency, p. 125, about.clasohlson.com 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Eight prioritised areas, Energy efficiency, p. 125 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Chart: Energy use and related CO2 emissions from indirect and direct energy consumption, p. 46 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organization Distribution, p. 58 EMISSION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Chart: Energy use and related CO2 emissions from indirect and direct energy consumption, p. 46, Distribution, p. 58 103-2 The management approach and its components Eight prioritised areas, Energy efficiency, p. 125 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Eight prioritised areas, Energy efficiency, p. 125 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Chart: Energy use and related CO2 emissions from indirect and direct energy consumption, p. 46 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Chart: Energy use and related CO2 emissions from indirect and direct energy consumption, p. 46 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Eight prioritised areas, Resource-efficient business models, p. 124 103-2 The management approach and its components Eight prioritised areas, Resource-efficient business models, p. 124 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Eight prioritised areas, Resource-efficient business models, p. 124 Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson is in the process of defining a relevant indicator. SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Eight prioritised areas, Human rights, children´s rights and employment conditions, p. 126 103-2 The management approach and its components Eight prioritised areas, Human rights, children´s rights and employment conditions, p. 126, about.clasohlson.com 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Chart: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 52 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Purchasing, p. 52 SOCIAL STANDARDS EMPLOYMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Eight prioritised areas, An attractive employer, p. 125 103-2 The management approach and its components Eight prioritised areas, An attractive employer, p. 125, about.clasohlson.com 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Engagement index, p. 30 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Data not available OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Eight prioritised areas, An attractive employer, p. 125 103-2 The management approach and its components Eight prioritised areas, An attractive employer, p. 125, about.clasohlson.com 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Chart: Employee attendance, p. 31* * Clas Ohlson has defined its own indicator for this topic. 134 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION | GRI-INDEX GRI DISCLOSURE REFERENCE DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Eight prioritised areas, An attractive employer, p. 125 103-2 The management approach and its components Eight prioritised areas, An attractive employer, p. 125, about.clasohlson.com 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Co-workers, Focus on diversity, p. 31 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Corporate governance, p 80-81, Board of Directors, p. 88-89, Chart: Managers, proportion of women/men, p. 31 NON-DISCRIMINATION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Eight prioritised areas, An attractive employer, p. 125 103-2 The management approach and its components Eight prioritised areas, An attractive employer, p. 125, about.clasohlson.com 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance and responsibility, p.24 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Co-workers, p. 31 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Eight prioritised areas, Human rights, children´s rights and employment conditions, p. 126 103-2 The management approach and its components Eight prioritised areas, Human rights, children´s rights and employment conditions, p. 126, about.clasohlson.com 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Chart: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 52 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective Chart: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 52* bargaining may be at risk 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour Chart: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 52* 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour Chart: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 52* 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or Chart: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 52** that underwent human rights screening 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Purchasing, p. 52 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Chart: Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, p. 52 * This indicator tracks non-compliances based on supplier audits, where there is a higher risk for deviations in regards to freedom of association. ** All new suppliers are evaluated on their performance against our Code of Conduct criteria. CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 103-2 The management approach and its components Eight prioritised areas, Materials and chemicals, p. 126, about.clasohlson.com 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Purchasing, Better control of Chemicals, p. 50 Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson is in the process of defining a relevant indicator. CUSTOMER PRIVACY 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance and responsibility, ref. GDPR, p. 25 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance and responsibility, ref. GDPR, p. 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance and responsibility, ref. GDPR, p. 25 Although this topic is considered material for Clas Ohlson, the associated GRI indicator is not relevant for measuring our impact. Clas Ohlson is in the process of defining a relevant indicator. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 135 THE SHARE The Clas Ohlson share Clas Ohlson’s series B share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 1999. The share is included in the Consumer Services sector index. The share reported a 35 per cent decline during the financial year. Clas Ohlson’s total market capitalization amounted to 6.3 billion SEK (9.6) calculated on the most recent share price of 96 SEK paid for the share on 30 April 2018. Share trend Share capital The Clas Ohlson share decreased by 35 per cent to 96.00 SEK The share capital of Clas Ohlson at the end of the financial (147.00) compared with the year-earlier period, while the SIX year totalled 82 MSEK, comprising 5,760,000 series A shares General Index increased by 2 per cent. The total return for the and 59,840,000 series B shares, each with a quotient value of share, including reinvested dividends, was minus 30 per cent. 1.25. Each series A share carries ten votes, while each series B share carries one vote. All shares carry equal rights to payment The highest price paid was 172.50 SEK, recorded in August of dividends. Holders of series A shares can request that their 2017, while the lowest price paid was 85.10 SEK, recorded in A shares be converted to series B shares. April 2018. Treasury shares Share turnover The number of registered shares amounted to 65,600,000, of During the financial year 2017/18, 46,483,081 Clas Ohlson which 2,391,865 shares (2,516,562) were held by the company shares were traded, representing a turnover rate of 71 per cent. at the end of the financial year. At the end of the period, the number of shares outstanding, net after buy-back, was 63,208,135 (63,083,438). The 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of Clas Ohlson Clas Ohlson’s Annual General Meeting, one of the largest in Sweden, attracted shareholder from all over the country. On Saturday 9 September, approximately 1,400 people gathered at the distribution center in Insjön. In addition to the traditional product fair, where interested shareholders were able to share news, the Clas Ohlson Pop-up Store where loaded with great deals and appreciated service. 136 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 THE SHARE To safeguard the company’s commitment regarding conditioDividend policy and dividend nal matching shares and employee stock options in connection Clas Ohlson’s dividend policy is that the dividend is to comwith LTI 2017, Clas Ohlson bought back 130,000 shares prise at least 50 per cent of earnings per share after tax, with during the first quarter 2017/18 for a total of 21 MSEK at consideration for the company’s financial position. an average price of approximately 161 SEK per share. The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 6.25 SEK Shareholding structure (6.25) per share be paid for financial year 2017/18. The proOn 30 April 2018, the company had a total of 34,717 shareposed dividend totals 410 MSEK (410), which represents holders (33,316). Non-Swedish owners accounted for 37 per 115 per cent (86) of the financial year’s net profit. cent (33) of the capital and 36 per cent (34) of the votes. The Swedish ownership is dominated by private individuals and companies, owning 42 per cent (41) of the capital, while institutions own 21 per cent (26). Share data Shareholder categories, % Listing: Nasdaq Mid Cap Swedish private Swedish institutions, 21% shareholders, 42% Ticker: Clas B Industry: Consumer Services ISIN code: SE0000584948 Non-swedish shareholders, 37% Number of shareholders Earnings per share, SEK Average daily trading, Dividend per share, SEK thousands 34,717 184 5,66 6,25* 7,59 33,316 7,27 6,42 27,933 6,00* 6,25 27,106 24,975 5,75 5,25 104 103 4,75 94 72 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 * * Including a non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK. Proposed dividend CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 137 Number of shares THE SHARE trades (000s) Clas Ohlson B SIX Generalindex OMX Stockholm Retail_PI 200 2,000 The Clas Ohlson-share price and turnover trend 2017/18 190 1,800 Number of shares 180 Clas Ohlson B SIX Generalindex OMX Stockholm Retail_PI trades (000s) 1,600 175 6 000 170 1,400 150 5 000 160 1,200 150 125 4 0001,000 140 800 100 3 000 130 600 75 2 000 120 400 50 1 000 110 200 Clas Ohlson B (Total return) Number of shares 100 SIX Return Index25 OMX Stockholm Retail_GI trades (000s) 0 0 MAY JUN JUL MAY AUG JUN JUL SEP AUGOCT SEP NOVOCT DEC NOV DECJAN JAN FEBFEB MAR MAR APR APR 400 6,000 2017 2018 2016 2017 Source: Source: 350 5,000 Clas Ohlson B (Total return) Number of shares SIX Return Index OMX Stockholm Retail_GI trades (000s) 300 400 8 000 4,000 350 7 000 250 300 6 000 3,000 200 250 5 000 200 4 0002,000 150 150 3 000 1,000 100 100 2 000 50 1 000 50 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Source Source: Data per share1 2 2017/18 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 63.2 63.1 63.2 63.1 63.1 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 5.66 7.59 6.00 7.27 6.42 Comprehensive income per share, SEK 6.37 8.30 5.07 7.41 6.41 Cash flow per share, SEK 3 5.90 11.08 11.15 10.25 10.91 Equity per share, SEK 35.82 35.68 33.75 33.92 31.12 Share price at 30 April, SEK 96 147 162 143 143 4 Dividend per share, SEK 6.25 6.25 5.75 5.25 4.75 P/E-ratio, multiple 17 19 27 20 22 Dividend yield, % 6.5 4.3 3.5 3.7 3.3 Payout ratio, % 110 82 96 72 74 Total return, % -30 -6 17 3 69 1 See key ratio definitions on page 141. 2 Including a non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK. 3 From the operating activities. 4 Proposed dividend. 138 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 THE SHARE Trend in share capital Additional Accumulated Total Year Transaction shares number of shares share capital 1994 48,000 4,800,000 1999 Split 10:1 432,000 480,000 4,800,000 1999 Bonus issue 6,720,000 7,200,000 72,000,000 1999 New share issue 1,000,000 8,200,000 82,000,000 2001 Split 4:1 24,600,000 32,800,000 82,000,000 2004 Split 2:1 32,800,000 65,600,000 82,000,000 1 Major shareholders Number of Number of Percentage Percentage Shareholder series A shares series B shares of capital of votes Helena Ek Tidstrand 1,368,060 6,179,828 11.5 16.9 Björn Haid 1,007,960 4,732,834 8.8 12.6 Johan Tidstrand 1,368,060 900,000 3.5 12.4 Peter Haid 1,007,960 3,785,243 7.3 11.8 Claus-Toni Haid 1,007,960 3,465,916 6.8 11.5 Nordea 0 3,867,985 5.9 3.3 If Skadeförsäkring AB 0 3,114,337 4.7 2.7 Afa Försäkring 0 1,949,959 3.0 1.7 Odin Sverige 0 1,762,392 2.7 1.5 Swedbank 0 1,176,154 1.8 1.0 Other shareholders 0 28,905,352 44.1 24.6 Total 5,760,000 59,840,000 100.0 100.0 1 Shareholder categories Number of Number of Percentage Percentage Shareholder series A shares series B shares of capital of votes Swedish private individuals 3,744,080 23,887,709 42.1 52.2 Swedish institutions 0 13,922,443 21.2 11.9 Non-Swedish owners 2,015,920 22,029,848 36.7 35.9 Total 5,760,000 59,840,000 100.0 100.0 1 Shareholding structure Number of Size interval Number of shares Percentage shareholders 1–500 3,541,165 5.4 28,278 501–1,000 3,131,972 4.8 3,834 1,001–5,000 4,589,903 7.0 2,142 5,001–10,000 1,665,382 2.5 226 10,001–15,000 886,904 1.4 72 15,001–200,000 677,877 1.0 38 200,001– 51,106,797 77.9 127 Total 65,600,000 100.0 34,717 1 at 30 April 2018 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 139 QUARTERLY RESULTS Quarterly results MSEK 2017/18 2016/17 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 1 May 2017 1 Aug 2017 1 Nov 2017 1 Feb 2018 1 May 2016 1 Aug 2016 1 Nov 2016 1 Feb 2017 –31 Jul 2017 –31 Oct 2017 –31 Jan 2018 –30 Apr 2018 –31 Jul 2016 –31 Oct 2016 –31 Jan 2017 –30 Apr 2017 Sales 1,782.6 1,991.1 2,745.9 1,683.1 1,763.5 1,956.6 2,695.2 1,574.8 Cost of goods sold -1,059.9 -1,175.7 -1,625.1 -1,065.9 -1,074.5 -1,144.1 -1,567.3 -912.7 Gross profit 722.7 823.3 1,120.8 617.3 689.0 812.5 1,127.9 662.2 Selling expenses -572.6 -632.3 -706.8 -668.1 -563.0 -634.4 -684.7 -603.2 Administrative expenses -49.8 -65.9 -64.7 -56.6 -49.4 -49.4 -51.3 -43.0 Other operating income/expenses -0.2 -0.2 -0.2 1.5 -1.2 -1.8 -1.9 1.5 Operating profit/loss 100.1 124.9 349.2 -105.9 75.4 127.0 390.0 17.5 Financial income 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.4 Financial expense -0.3 -0.5 -0.5 -0.6 -0.1 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 Profit before tax 99.9 124.5 349.0 -106.3 75.5 126.5 389.5 17.4 Income tax -22.5 -28.7 -78.6 20.6 -17.6 -30.2 -84.6 2.2 Profit/loss for the period 77.4 95.8 270.4 -85.7 57.9 96.4 305.0 19.5 KEY RATIOS FOR THE PERIOD Gross margin, % 40.5 41.2 40.8 36.7 39.1 41.5 41.8 42.0 Operating margin, % 5.6 6.2 12.7 -6.3 4.3 6.5 14.5 1.1 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 1.22 1.52 4.28 -1.36 0.91 1.53 4.84 0.31 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 1.22 1.51 4.27 -1.36 0.91 1.53 4.83 0.31 Comments to the quarterly results Seasonal fluctuations Two new stores (4) were opened during the first quarter Clas Ohlson’s market and operations are influenced by consu2017/18 and zero stores were closed (2). Five new stores (3) mer purchasing behaviour. The company’s product range is parwere opened during the second quarter and zero stores were ticularly well suited to Christmas preparations and Christmas closed (2). In the third quarter four stores (5) were opened and shopping, which means that the third quarter (November-Jathree stores were closed (0). Six stores (5) were opened during nuary) is generally the strongest quarter of the financial year. the fourth quarter and one store were closed (2). This is followed by the second and first quarters and, finally, the fourth quarter, which is the weakest in terms of sales and profit. 140 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 KEY RATIO DEFINITIONS AND GLOSSARY Key ratio definitions Clas Ohlson uses certain financial measures in this annual report that are not Gross margin defined in accordance with IFRS. Clas Ohlson believes that these key ratios Gross profit divided by sales for the period. are relevant to users of the financial report as a supplement for assessing Clas Ohlson’s performance. These financial measures are not always comparable with Gross profit the measures used by other companies since not all companies calculate such Gross profit is calculated as the total of sales less cost of goods sold. financial measures in the same way. Accordingly, these financial measures are not to be regarded as a replacement for measures defined according to IFRS. The Net debt/EBITDA measures not defined according to IFRS are presented below, unless otherwise Net debt divided by EBITDA for the latest 12 months period stated. Non-recurring cost Average inventory value Cost that is not regularly found in the business. Average inventory value is calculated as the total inventories for the most recent 12 months divided by 12. Operating margin Operating profit divided by sales for the period. Capital employed Balance-sheet total (total assets) less current and long-term non-interest-bearing Operating profit liabilities. Operating profit comprises profit before financial items and tax. Cash flow from operating activities Payout ratio Operating profit adjusted for items not included in cash flow, interest, paid tax and Dividend divided by earnings per share before dilution. change in working capital. P/E ratio Cash flow from operating activities per share Share price at year-end divided by earnings per share before dilution. Cash flow from operating activities divided by the average number of shares before dilution. Return on capital employed Operating profit plus financial income expressed as a percentage of average capital Comprehensive income per share employed. Average capital employed is calculated as the total capital employed for Comprehensive income divided by average number of shares before dilution. the most recent 12 months divided by 12. Dividend yield Return on equity Dividend per share divided by the year-end share price. Net profit for the period expressed as a percentage of average equity. Average equity is calculated as the total equity for the most recent 12 months divided by 12. Earnings per share (before and after dilution)* Profit for the period divided by the number of shares (before and after dilution). Sales growth Sales in relation to sales during the year-earlier period. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization Total return Increase or decrease in share price between the end of the year and the beginning Equity per share of the year plus re-invested dividend as a percentage of the share price at the Equity divided by the number of shares outstanding at the end of the period. beginning of the year. Equity/assets ratio Working capital Equity at the end of the period divided by the balance-sheet total (total assets). The total of assets, minus cash and cash equivalents (inventories and current receivables), less current non-interest-bearing liabilities. *Defined in accordance with IFRS. Glossary Average ticket value LEAN Average amount per purchase. Philosophy on how to achieve a resource-efficient working method. Clas Office Level of service Our concept that facilitates purchases for our corporate customers. Percentage of product range that is available “on the shelf” in our sales channels. Club Clas Nasdaq Stockholm Our loyalty program, our customer club. Marketplace for trading with securities, where Clas Ohlson’s B share is listed. C/O Omni-channel Our new digital platform that links together products, guidance and supplemenA shopping experience where customers perceive a seamless interaction between tary services. physical stores, the online store and telephone sales. Code of Conduct Products for a more sustainable lifestyle The standards we set for ourselves, and the suppliers of our products and Products with a positive, or significantly lower, environmental impact throughout services, regarding working conditions, workplace health and safety and the their life cycle than a standard product. environment. Sales per square metre Comparable units Store sales in relation to the effective retail space. For new stores, a conversion Units that have been in operation during the current period and the entire has been made in relation to how long the store has been open. year-earlier period. sCORE Conversion rate Systems for Clas Ohlson Retail Efficiency, our project for the introduction of a new The percentage of visitors who make a purchase. business system. Franchise Sedex Concept whereby we “rent” our brand to an external player, who operates a Clas Ohlson works together with Sedex, a global organisation that promotes store under our name. responsible supply chains. GDPR Store traffic The EU’s new General Data Protection Regulation sets requirements covering the Number of visitors. handling of personal data and applies in all EU countries from May 2018. UN Global Compact GRI UN international principles regarding human rights, labour standards, the Global Reporting Initiative, a global standard for sustainability reporting. environment and corruption, designed for companies. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 141 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Alternative Performance Measures This section contains a reconciliation of certain alternative performance measures (APMs) with the closest reconcilable items in the financial statements. As analysis tools, APMs are limited, and must be considered in their context and not as a replacement of financial measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. APMs are presented to improve an investor’s evaluation of the operations, as an aid in forecasts of forthcoming periods, and to simplify meaningful comparisons of earnings between periods. Management uses these APMs, for example, to evaluate the operating activities compared with previous results, for internal planning and forecasts and to calculate certain performance-related remuneration. For definitions, refer to page 127. The APMs recognised in this annual report may differ from similarly named measures used by other companies. Average inventory value Earnings per share (before and after dilution)* Group Group 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Average inventory value 1,869.0 1,739.2 Profit for the year 357.8 478.7 Number of shares before dilution 63.208 63.053 Number of shares after dilution 63.312 63.255 Capital employed Number of shares before dilution 5.66 7.59 Group Number of shares after dilution 5.65 7.57 2017/18 2016/17 *Defined in accordance with IFRS. Total assets 4,199.7 3,899.4 Long-term non-interest-bearing liabilities -227.4 -226.8 Equity per share Current non-interest-bearing liabilities -1,708.4 -1,421.9 Group Capital employed 2,263.9 2,250.7 2017/18 2016/17 Total equity 2,263.9 2,250.7 Reason for use: Capital employed measures the company’s ability, in addition to cash balances and cash and cash equivalents, to meet the needs of the Number of shares at end of period 63.208 63.083 operations. Equity per share 35.82 35.68 Cash flow from operating activities per share Reason for use: Equity per share measures the company’s net value per share and determines whether a company increases its shareholders’ capital over time. Group 2017/18 2016/17 Equity/assets ratio Cash flow from operating activities 372.8 698.9 Group Number of shares before the dilution 63.208 63.053 2017/18 2016/17 Cash flow from operating activities per share 5.90 11.08 Total equity 2,263.9 2,250.7 Reason for use: Cash flow from operating activities per share measures the cash Total assets 4,199.7 3,899.4 flow that the company generates per share before capital investments and cash Equity/assets ratio 53.9% 57.7% flows attributable to the company’s financing. Reason for use: A high equity/assets ratio provides the financial scope and Comprehensive income per share independence required for conducting the operations and managing variations in the need for working capital and for capitalising on business opportunities. Group 2017/18 2016/17 Gross margin Comprehensive income 402.8 523.3 Group Average number of shares before dilution 63.208 63.053 2017/18 2016/17 Comprehensive income per share 6.37 8.30 Gross profit 3,284.1 3,291.5 Sales 8,210.7 7,990.1 Dividend Yield Gross margin 40.0 % 41.2% Group Reason for use: Gross margin shows the difference between net sales and the 2017/18 2016/17 cost of goods sold expressed as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin is affecDividend per share 6.25 6.25 ted by several factors, for example, product mix, price trend and cost reductions. Share price 30 April 96.00 147.00 Dividend Yield 6.5 % 4.3% 142 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Gross Profit Return on equity Group Group 2017/18 2016/17 2017/18 2016/17 Sales 8,210.7 7,990.1 Profit for the year 357.8 478.7 Cost of goods sold -4,926.6 4,698.6 Average equity 2,230.7 2,136.8 Gross profit 3,284.1 3,291.5 Return on equity 16.0% 22.4% Reason for use: Return on equity is a measure of profitability in relation to the Operating margin carrying amount of equity. Return on equity is also a measure of how investments are used to generate increased income. Group 2017/18 2016/17 Operating profit 468.3 609.9 Sales growth Sales 8,210.7 7,990.1 Group Operating margin 5.7% 7.6% 2017/18 2016/17 Reason for use: The operating margin shows operating profit as a percentage of Sales actual year 8,210.7 7,990.1 net sales and shows operational profitability. Sales previous year 7,990.1 7,601.6 Sales growth 2.8% 5.1% Payout ratio Reason for use The change in sales reflects the company’s realised sales growth over time. Group 2017/18 2016/17 Total return Dividend 6.25 6.25 Group Earnings per share before dilution 5.66 7.59 2017/18 2016/17 Payout ratio 110.4% 82.3% Share price at the beginning of the year 147.00 162.00 Share price at the end of the year 96.00 147.00 Return on capital employed Re-invested dividend 6.25 5.75 Group Total -44.75 -9.25 2017/18 2016/17 Total return -30.44% -5.71% Operating profit 468,3 609.9 Interest income 0,7 0.7 Working capital Average capital employed 2 230,7 2,146.8 Group Return on capital employed 21,0% 28.4% 2017/18 2016/17 Reason for use: Return on capital employed is a measure of profitability after taTotal current assets 2,490.7 2,476.4 king into account the amount of capital used. A higher return on capital employed indicates that capital is used more efficiently. Cash and cash equivalents -115.8 -625.1 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities -1,708.4 -1,421.9 Working capital 666.5 429.3 Reason for use: Working capital is used to measure the company’s ability to meet short-term capital requirements. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 143 Ten-year summary MSEK 2017/2018 2016/2017 2015/20161 2014/2015 2013/2014 2012/2013 INCOME STATEMENT Sales 8,210.7 7,990.1 7,601.6 7,329.8 6,807.7 6,518.9 Operating profit 468.3 609.9 506.4 596.0 530.5 430.6 Profit before tax 467.1 608.9 507.6 597.2 530.2 419.9 Income tax -109.3 -130.2 -128.8 -138.3 -124.8 -88.4 Profit for the year 357.8 478.7 378.8 458.9 405.4 331.5 BALANCE SHEET Non-current assets 1,469.5 1,404.5 1,397.8 1,399.9 1,424.2 1,461.6 Non-current receivables 239.4 18.5 18.1 11.6 8.1 3.2 Inventories 2,038.0 1,630.7 1,639.2 1,569.3 1,348.2 1,303.9 Current receivables 336.9 220.6 263.4 242.5 229.5 214.9 Cash and cash equivalents 115.8 625.1 604.3 517.4 358.3 124.6 Total assets 4,199.7 3,899.4 3,922.8 3,740.7 3,368.3 3,108.2 Equity 2,263.9 2,250.7 2,138.8 2,144.5 1,964.9 1,836.5 Non-current liabilities, interest-bearing 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 227.4 226.8 195.2 213.3 206.5 185.7 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 1,708.4 1,421.9 1,588.8 1,382.9 1,196.9 1,086.0 Total equity and liabilities 4,199.7 3,899.4 3,922.8 3,740.7 3,368.3 3,108.2 CASH FLOW Cash flow from operating activities 372.8 698.9 704.6 647.3 689.1 517.8 Investments -497.2 -263.5 -274.1 -192.3 -171.8 -166.5 Cash flow after investments -124.4 435.4 430.5 455.0 517.3 351.3 Financing activities -389.8 -418.0 -335.9 -298.9 -283.6 -334.4 Cash flow for the year -514.2 17.5 94.6 156.1 233.7 16.9 KEY RATIOS 2 Growth in sales, % 2.8 5.1 3.7 7.7 4.4 4.1 Gross margin, % 40.0 41.2 42.4 42.9 42.6 41.6 Operating margin, % 5.7 7.6 6.7 8.1 7.8 6.6 Return on capital employed, % 21.0 28.4 23.6 29.3 28.0 23.2 Return on equity, % 16.0 22.4 17.6 22.5 21.7 18.3 Equity/assets ratio, % 53.9 57.7 54.5 57.3 58.3 59.1 Net debt/EBITDA 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sales per square metre in store, SEK 000s 31 31 30 30 30 31 Number of stores at year-end 229 216 205 198 185 174 Number of full-time equivalent employees 2,951 2,835 2,787 2,736 2,629 2,524 DATA PER SHARE Average number of shares before dilution 63,200,598 63,052,803 63,167,924 63,121,729 63,137,148 63,349,241 Average number of shares after dilution 63,311,743 63,254,614 63,461,923 63,400,934 63,243,692 63,421,154 Number of shares at period end 63,208,135 63,083,438 63,376,420 63,216,061 63,140,994 63,287,808 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 5.66 7.59 6.00 7.27 6.42 5.23 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 5.65 7.57 5.97 7.24 6.41 5.23 Comprehensive income per share, SEK 6.37 8.30 5.07 7.41 6.41 4.68 Cash flow per share, SEK 3 5.90 11.08 11.15 10.25 10.91 8.17 Equity per share, SEK 35.82 35.68 33.75 33.92 31.12 29.02 Share price 30 April, SEK 96 147 162 143 143 87 4 Dividend per share, SEK 6.25 6.25 5.75 5.25 4.75 4.25 P/E ratio 17 19 27 20 22 17 Dividend Yield, % 6.5 4.3 3.5 3.7 3.3 4.9 1 During previous year a non-recurring cost of 107.0 MSEK related to the restructuring of the store network in the UK affected the result. During previous year’s first quarter 10.5 MSEK was also attributable to costs for closing one store in the UK. In addition, there was a tax effect on non-deductible expenses estimated at 7.1 MSEK. 2 See key ratio definitions on page 141. 3 From operating activities. 4 Proposed dividend. 144 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 TEN-YEAR SUMMARY Comments* 2011/2012 2010/2011 2009/2010 2008/2009 Sales Sales increased to 8,211 MSEK, up 3 per cent compared with 6,260.0 5,828.0 5,555.8 4,930.2 7,990 MSEK in the preceding year. In local currencies, sales 560.6 507.1 590.5 502.8 increased by 3 per cent. 551.0 499.0 588.2 503.8 -150.5 -134.6 -155.4 -138.3 Number of stores 400.5 364.4 432.8 365.5 During the financial year, 17 new stores (17) opened; 3 in Sweden, 10 in Norway, 3 in Finland and 1 in Germany. During 1,515.0 1,469.5 1,365.5 1,195.5 the fiscal year, one store in Norway, one store in Finland and 3.5 10.9 1.0 2.0 two franchise stores in Dubai have also been closed. During 1,228.7 1,429.2 1,204.1 1,117.2 previous year 6 stores were closed in the UK. The number of 197.5 176.7 173.4 164.5 stores at the end of the period was 229, of which 90 were in 111.8 132.6 98.8 92.0 Sweden, 89 in Norway, 39 in Finland, 7 in the UK and 4 in 3,056.5 3,218.9 2,842.8 2,571.2 Germany. 1,843.8 1,656.8 1,646.1 1,493.1 0.0 300.0 100.0 65.0 Gross margin 195.7 165.9 90.3 86.4 The gross margin was 40.0 per cent, down 1.2 percentage 30.0 261.7 171.4 208.6 points compared with the year-earlier period (41.2). During the 987.0 834.5 835.0 718.1 financial year, the gross margin was negatively impacted by the 3,056.5 3,218.9 2,842.8 2,571.2 stronger USD, increased commercial investments, the weaker NOK and higher sourcing costs, which were offset by both currency hedges (NOK) and exchange-rate effects related to the 964.9 350.3 602.8 339.7 delays in inventory. -206.1 -295.3 -315.8 -433.1 758.8 55.0 287.0 -93.4 Operating profit -781.5 -6.0 -267.9 -109.2 Operating profit amounted to 468 MSEK. The operating profit –22.7 49.0 19.1 -202.6 has been affected as a result of the company’s strategic review of approximately 30 MSEK, strategic initiatives initiated during 7.4 4.9 12.7 5.8 the fiscal year amounting to approximately 25 MSEK and the 42.1 41.6 40.8 40.8 5 MSEK donation to the Clas Ohlson Foundation decided 9.0 8.7 10.6 10.2 by the 2017 AGM. Operating profit, in addition to the above 27.9 24.6 32.6 32.6 costs for strategic review and strategic initiatives, was impac23.1 22.5 28.0 24.4 ted by non-recurring costs totalling approximately 10 MSEK, 60.3 51.5 57.9 58.1 consisting of costs in connection with implementing a new 0.1 1.1 0.5 0.5 business system and future costs associated with optimisation of 34 34 38 38 the store network in the UK. 157 139 120 106 2,370 2,219 2,048 1,927 Operating margin The operating margin was 5.7 per cent (7.6 per cent). 63,635,998 63,802,230 64,383,906 65,065,008 63,702,052 63,870,584 64,432,321 65,075,701 Cash flow 63,615,000 63,710,000 64,280,000 64,955,000 During the financial year, cash flow from operating activities 6.29 5.71 6.72 5.62 totalled 373 MSEK (699). Cash flow for the financial year, after 6.29 5.71 6.72 5.62 investing and financing activities, was -514 MSEK (17). An 6.75 4.79 6.43 5.76 investment of 224 MSEK was made in MatHem i Sverige AB 15.16 5.49 9.36 5.22 in December 2017. The cash dividend paid to Clas Ohlson’s 28.98 26.01 25.61 22.99 shareholders in September 2017 totalled 395 MSEK (362). 99 98 128 94 4.25 3.75 3.75 3.00 Return 16 17 19 17 The return on capital employed amounted to 21.0 per cent (28.4) and the return on equity was 16.0 per cent (22.4). 4.3 3.8 2.9 3.2 * Refers to the financial year 2017/18. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 145 STORE NETWORK Clas Ohlson’s stores* SWEDEN NORWAY Store Opening date Store Opening date Store Opening date A Alingsås 27 Mar 2014 Stockholm, Barkarby Gate 27 Nov 2014 A Alta 17 Nov 2011 B Borlänge 26 Sep 2013 Stockholm, Bromma 23 Sep 2010 Arendal 28 Nov 2007 Borås 24 Oct 2002 Stockholm, Drottninggatan 21 Oct 2010 Asker 16 Oct 2008 E Eskilstuna 30 May 2002 Stockholm, Farsta 18 Nov 1999 Askim 11 Oct 2017 F Falun 5 Feb 2009 Stockholm, Gallerian 30 Jun 1989 B Bergen, Galleriet 30 Nov 2017 G Gävle 27 Nov 2003 Stockholm, Haninge 10 Dec 2004 Bergen, Lagunen 6 Mar 2003 Gothenburg, Backaplan 19 April 2018 Stockholm, Hornstull 27 Oct 2016 Bergen, Sartor 16 Feb 2006 Gothenburg, Bäckebol 10 Apr 2003 Stockholm, Kista 5 Dec 2002 Bergen, Sentrum 22 Apr 1999 Gothenburg, Nordstan 1 Jun 1992 Stockholm, Kungens Kurva 24 Apr 2014 Bergen, Vestkanten KjøpeGothenburg, Partille 9 Apr 2006 senter 22 Nov 2012 Stockholm, Liljeholmen 15 Oct 2010 Gothenburg, Sisjön 19 Apr 2012 Bergen, Åsane 30 Sep 2004 Stockholm, Nacka 29 Mar 2007 Göteborg, Västra Frölunda 23 Oct 2009 Bodø, City Nord 7 June 2011 Stockholm, Sickla 6 Dec 2007 H Halmstad, Flygstaden 16 Jun 2011 Bodø, Glasshuset 1 Feb 2018 Stockholm, Skärholmen 7 Dec 2000 Halmstad, Gallerian 8 Mar 2001 Bryne 5 Nov 2009 Stockholm, Sollentuna 31 May 2007 Helsingborg, Kullagatan 4 Jun 2009 D Drammen, Buskerud 8 Sep 2011 Stockholm, Solna 7 Apr 2005 Helsingborg, Väla centrum 12 Jun 2003 Stockholm, Solna, Mall of Drammen, Gulskogen 18 Sep 2008 Hudiksvall 23 Apr 2009 Scandinavia 12 Nov 2015 E Elverum 22 Mar 2012 I Insjön 27 Jun 1918 Stockholm, Täby 25 Oct 2001 F Farsund 1 June 2017 J Jönköping, A6 22 May 2003 Stockholm, Vällingby 15 Nov 2007 Finnsnes 9 Jun 2016 Jönköping, City 9 Dec 2010 Stockholm, Värmdö 17 Jun 2015 Fredrikstad, Dikeveien 25 Nov 2010 K Kalmar, Baronen 24 Nov 2005 Stockholm, Väsby 27 Apr 2007 Fredrikstad, Torvbyen 1 Dec 2005 Kalmar, Hansa City 14 Mar 2013 Strömstad 29 May 2009 Førde 22 Nov 2012 Karlskrona 27 Nov 2014 Sundsvall, Birsta 30 Apr 2008 G Gjøvik 10 Mar 2006 Karlstad, Mitt i City-gallerian 21 Sep 2006 Sundsvall, In: gallerian 10 Jun 1999 H Halden 12 Mar 2015 Karlstad, Bergvik 20 Aug 2015 Södertälje 29 Apr 2010 Hamar 11 Nov 2014 Kiruna 11 Nov 2010 T Trelleborg 25 Apr 2007 Harstad, Sjøkanten Senter 24 Feb 2011 Kristianstad 18 Apr 2007 Trollhättan 28 Jun 2012 Harstad, Amfi Kanebogen 6 Apr 2017 Kungsbacka 13 Mar 2008 U Uddevalla 19 Oct 2006 Haugesund 3 Oct 2002 L Lidköping 25 Apr 2012 Umeå, Avion 17 Mar 2016 Horten 9 Jun 2011 Linköping 10 Jun 2004 Umeå, MVG 13 Apr 2000 Husnes 8 Mar 2018 Luleå, Smedjan 21 Mar 2002 Uppsala, Gränby 25 Aug 2011 Hønefoss 19 Feb 2009 Luleå, Storheden 16 Feb 2012 Uppsala, S:t Per Gallerian 16 Nov 2000 J Jessheim 5 Nov 2008 Lund 7 Nov 2013 V Valbo 23 Feb 2012 K Kongsberg 3 Jun 2010 Löddeköpinge 26 Nov 2015 Varberg 28 Sept 2017 Kongsvinger 24 May 2012 M Malmö, Burlöv 25 Mar 2010 Visby 17 Apr 2008 Kristiansand, Sandens 6 Nov 2008 Malmö, Emporia 25 Oct 2012 Västervik 6 Dec 2012 Kristiansand, Sørlandssenteret 19 Nov 1998 Malmö, Mobilia 26 Sep 2013 Västerås, Erikslund 22 Sep 2011 Kristiansund 24 Mar 2011 Malmö, Triangeln 3 Dec 1993 Västerås, Igor 22 Nov 2001 L Larvik 23 Apr 2009 Motala 29 Jan 2009 Växjö 6 May 2004 Levanger 5 Jun 2014 Märsta 26 April 2018 Ä Ängelholm 23 Mar 2017 Lillehammer 18 Nov 2010 N Norrköping, Domino 2 May 1996 Ö Örebro, Krämaren 27 Nov 1997 Lillestrøm 23 Mar 2017 Norrköping, Mirum Galleria 10 Dec 2009 Örebro, Marieberg 26 Mar 2009 Lørenskog 30 Nov 2006 Norrtälje 14 Jun 2012 Örnsköldsvik 12 Apr 2007 M Mandal 20 Nov 2014 Nyköping 5 Oct 2006 Östersund 28 Apr 2005 Mo i Rana 7 Jun 2012 P Piteå 20 Sep 2007 Molde 22 Oct 2009 S Skellefteå 17 Mar 2005 Moss 12 Oct 2006 Skövde 27 Nov 2008 N Narvik 4 Dec 2008 146 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 STORE NETWORK FINLAND OUTSIDE NORDIC COUNTRIES Store Opening date Store Opening date Store Opening date O Orkanger 30 Oct 2014 E Espoo, Ainoa 16 Mar 2017 UK Oslo, Alna Senter 27 Sep 2006 Espoo, Iso Omena 14 Oct 2015 L Liverpool 29 Apr 2010 Oslo, Bogstadsveien 27 Oct 2011 Espoo, Pikkulaiva 27 Sept 2017 London, Croydon 27 Nov 2008 Oslo, Bryn Senter 26 Aug 2010 Espoo, Sello 14 Sept 2005 London, Ealing 3 Dec 2015 Oslo, CC-Vest 11 Sep 2014 H Helsinki, Columbus Shopping Centre 18 May 2017 London, Kingston 3 Dec 2009 Oslo, Lambertseter Senter 12 Oct 2010 Helsinki, Itis 6 Nov 2003 M Manchester 30 Apr 2009 Oslo, Oslo City 11 Nov 2005 Helsinki, Kaivotalo 3 Nov 2016 R Reading 19 Nov 2009 Oslo, Storo Storsenter 19 Jun 2008 Helsinki, Kamppi 2 Mar 2006 S St Albans 1 Oct 2015 Oslo, Stovner 6 Oct 2016 Helsinki, Kannelmäki 17 Oct 2013 Oslo, Torggata 26 Aug 1991 Helsinki, Mannerheimintie 14 Nov 2002 GERMANY P Porsgrunn 27 Apr 2006 Hyvinkää 18 Oct 2012 H Hamburg, Altona 15 Sep 2016 R Rykkinn 15 Mar 2018 Hämeenlinna 30 Oct 2014 Hamburg, Alstertal 24 Nov 2016 S Sandefjord 10 Sep 2015 J Joensuu 6 Nov 2008 Hamburg, Jungfernstieg 19 May 2016 Sandnes, Kvadrat 23 Sep 1998 Jyväskylä, Kauppakatu 10 Nov 2016 Hamburg, Spitalerstraße 30 Nov 2017 Sandnes, Maxi 26 May 2016 Jyväskylä, Palokka 8 Sep 2011 Sandvika 10 Jan 2002 K Kempele, Zeppelin 3 Aug 2017 Sarpsborg 8 Jun 2006 Kokkola 27 Sept 2007 Ski 16 Oct 2003 Kotka 23 May 2013 Skien 18 Oct 2007 Kouvola 13 Sep 2012 Slependen 18 Sep 2014 Kuopio, Haapaniemenkatu 24 Feb 2005 Sogndal 6 Jun 2013 Kuopio, Matkus 1 Nov 2012 Stathelle 23 Nov 2017 L Lahti, Karisma 3 Nov 2011 Stavanger, Kilden 25 Oct 2007 Lahti, Syke 31 May 2012 Stavanger, Madla 8 Nov 2007 Lempäälä 29 Nov 2007 Stavanger, Mediegården 11 Nov 2010 Lappeenranta 1 Nov 2007 Steinkjer 15 Oct 2009 M Mariehamn 16 May 2013 Stord 20 Jun 2013 Mikkeli 16 June 2011 Stjørdal 2 Nov 2017 O Oulu 25 Nov 2010 Strømmen 21 Oct 1999 P Pori 30 Oct 2014 Svolvær 8 Dec 2016 R Rovaniemi 23 Oct 2008 T Tromsø 12 Jun 2008 S Seinäjoki 11 Sep 2008 Trondheim, City Lade 12 Oct 2017 T Tampere, Hämeenkatu 18 Mar 2004 Trondheim, City Syd 8 May 2003 Tampere, Shopping Mall Ratina 19 April 2018 Trondheim, Solsiden 19 Oct 2000 Turku, Forum 3 Mar 2005 Trondheim, Trondheim Torg 17 Feb 2011 Turku, Raisio 4 Nov 2015 * Store portfolio at 30 April 2018 Tønsberg 21 Sep 2001 Turku, Skanssi 25 Oct 2012 V Valdres 26 Oct 2017 Visit about.clasohlson.com/about-us/our-stores/ V Vantaa, Jumbo 27 Oct 2005 to receive continuously updated information about Vestby 14 Mar 2013 Vantaa, Myyrmanni 29 Nov 2011 the store portfolio. Vinstra 16 Feb 2017 Vaasa 14 Oct 2004 Vinterbro 26 Mar 2015 Clas Ohlson’s broad and affordable product range is also available online in the Swedish, Norwegian, Voss 16 Jun 2016 Finnish, UK and German markets. Å Ålesund 22 Jan 2004 Ø Ørsta 4 Oct 2012 www.clasohlson.se www.clasohlson.no www.clasohlson.fi www.clasohlson.uk www.clasohlson.de CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 147 HISTORY Smart solutions are our passion – in the past and in the future CLAS OHLSON, AN ENTREPRENEUR WITH A PASSION for technology and innovation, founded a mail order company in 1918 in Insjön, Sweden. Insjön is still the heart of Clas Ohlson — our head office is still located here. Clas Ohlson (1895–1979) started his own business in 1914 Clas Ohlson was both ingenious and technically knowledgeable, when he took over his brother’s bicycle shop and became one always looking for clever new solutions to every imaginable of Insjön’s busiest bicycle repairmen. In 1918, he founded Clas problem. He never succeeded in making a time machine from Ohlsson & Co together with his younger brother Emil Pettersa bicycle, but he built up one of the country’s largest mail-order son, who ran the printing operations. companies instead. The bicycle shop soon became a secondary operation when “The precondition for entrepreneurship, both then and now, is catalogues with blueprints, textbooks, manuals and instructions having something new to bring,” he said in an interview in the put wind in the company’s sails. late 1960s. 148 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 HISTORY Clas Ohlson’s accomplishments over the years included building his own camera and providing an account of his ideas on the rotation of the galaxies and on the Big Bang for the foremost astronomers of Uppsala University. Not infrequently, his ideas ended up as products in the catalogue, such as a steel wire bird feeder of which a quarter of a million were sold. The company has been particular about its history and about preserving the renowned Clas Ohlson spirit. For example, Clas Ohlson shook every employee’s hand every morning, distributed premium bonds and invited all his employees to trips to the Alps and to Copenhagen. He remained active in the company until his death in 1979. However, his son — engineer Tore Ohlson — took over as CEO during his father’s final years. A genuine joy of discovery continued to drive him throughout his life. The Clas Ohlson Foundation, established in 2017, is a non-profit organisation and a foundation independent of Clas Ohlson AB. Its purpose is to – Support innovation, entrepreneurship and initiative in the Dalarna region of Sweden; – Provide children and young people with expanded opportunities for education; and – Help people in need. The initiators and founders are members of the Ek Tidstrand and Haid families, the heirs of Clas Ohlson and shareholders in Clas Ohlson AB. They have donated more than 5 MSEK to the foundation, and in addition will set aside a portion of the The Clas Ohlson Foundation was host of the “Commodity of the Year” at the 2018 dividend every year. Junior Achievement Sweden championships. Pictured is Dimitri Haid, Chairman of the Clas Ohlson Foundation, together with Fredrik Rinaldo and Michal Wallentin The Clas Ohlson Annual General Meeting 2017 resolved on a from Grillska upper secondary school in Västerås, who won with “MerchSwedenone-time donation of 5 MSEK to the foundation’s operations. UF”, a reseller of exclusive clothing and shoes in the second-hand market. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 149 1925 Sales of 100 MSEK 1985 Another new office The company’s sales exceed 100 MSEK for the first The company is building another new office beside the time. During the year, a subsidiary was opened in railway. The land was acquired in 1924 and the location for Norway when mail order sales were established in the the head office until 1972. Clas was quick to move into the country. attic floor together with his family. In the following year, a store was opened for over the counter purchases and, for the first time, that year’s catalogue had more products than drawings. 1918 1944 1967 1989 2000 1972 1961 1999 1991 At the age of just 22, The first store outside Clas Ohlson and his Sweden is inaugurabrother Emil founded The new office and ted in Oslo, Norway. a mail order comstore building on Clas Ohlson is a 250,000 copies of the pany, Clas Ohlsson Highway 70 in Insjön well-known name in catalogue are printed, & Co. The company is completed. The Norway, since the first including about 7,000 is registered as a number of employmail order catalogue products. The comClas Ohlson is bicycle repair shop ees is 75. The was published there pany has about 600 listed on the and printer, but mail catalogue has about in 1985. suppliers. Stockholm Stock order operations are 8,000 products. soon started. Exchange. Sales exceed Clas Ohlson opened Clas Ohlson removed an “s” 1 billion SEK its first store outside from his last name because for the first time. Insjön in central he thought it graphically 146,477 packages are sent Stockholm. looked better. from Insjön during the year. The average value of a package is 56 SEK, or about 480 SEK today. 150 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 Club Clas arrives 1995 Club Clas was launched in March and in its first year, the loyalty club attracted more than 2013 one million members. New central warehouse A new central warehouse in Insjön enters use. At its opening, the warehouse encompassed 11,000 square metres with a ceiling height of 9 metres. 2008 2010 2014 2016 2009 2011 2002 2017 2015 2018 2012 Clas Ohlson’s first franchise The Club Clas customer Clas Ohlson celeThe first store Clas Ohlson Clas Ohlson store is opened club welcomes its two brates 100 years. in Finland is opens its opens its 150th in Dubai. The millionth member. Clas Unique customer opened 100th store store in Lahti in Clas Office corOhlson’s first store in offers, a look back in Helsinki. in Motala in Finland. porate concept Germany is opened in at some historic Sweden. is launched in central Hamburg. The moments and a The distribution centre Sweden and company has 4,700 festival for all of our grows and now has Norway. The employees. employees are just a total capacity of Club Clas loyalty a few examples of The Central Warehouse, programme is 120,000 pallet spaces. how the event will now named the Distribuintroduced in The store in Insjön is be celebrated. tion centre, is expanded Finland. expanded and becomes and the Clas Ohlson Clas Ohlson opens the Group’s largest. Sales exceed 8 billion SEK for the Museum opens in Insjön. its 200th store in The expansion in the UK first time. Lotta Lyrå was recruited as A new online shopping platform is Karlstad in Sweden. the new President and CEO. The 100 is started, and the first launched, with extended availability, There are 87 stores store opens in Croydon more years strategy was initiated to service and inspiration. A mobile version in Sweden. develop Clas Ohlson going forward. in southwest London. is also launched at the end of the year. The Club Clas loyalty programme is launched in Sweden. In December, monthly sales exceed 1 billion SEK for the very first time. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 151 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AND CALENDAR ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2018 We want to showcase Clas Ohlson celebrating 100 years as a company at this year’s AGM. We will do this together with Information to our shareholders at Tegera Arena in Leksand on Saturday the 8 September, where we will add some extra festivities in conjunction with the formal AGM. shareholders More information about the AGM is available at https://about.clasohlson.com/agm2018. Annual General Meeting Notification of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of shareholders of Clas Notification of the AGM takes place through an announcement Ohlson AB will be held on Saturday, 8 September 2018 at 11:00 in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar and the notice being made avaia.m. at the Tegera Arena in Leksand, Sweden. Registration will lable on the company’s website. Documents to be presented at commence at 9:30 a.m. the AGM are available from the company’s website about four weeks before the meeting. Attendance Shareholders who intend to participate at the AGM must have Distribution policy notified the company by not later than 3 September 2018, at the The Annual Report is distributed only to those shareholders following address: Clas Ohlson AB (publ), AGM, c/o Euroclear who request it. Distribution takes place about 6 weeks prior to Sweden, Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden. the AGM. The Clas Ohlson Annual Report and other financial information are available at about.clasohlson.com Notification may be given by telephone +46 247-446 00 or by e-mail agm2018@clasohlson.se. Dividend proposal The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of 6.25 SEK (6.25) Shareholders entitled to participate at the AGM are those who per share for the 2017/18 financial year. are listed on Euroclear Sweden AB’s printed shareholder register on 3 September 2018, and who have notified their intention to • The final trading trade for Clas Ohlson shares, including participate on the same day at the latest. Shareholders who have rights to dividends, is 8 September 2018 trustee-registered shares must temporarily re-register the shares in • Record date for payment of dividend is 11 September 2018 their own names with Euroclear Sweden AB. Shareholders must • The payment date is 14 September 2018 inform the trustee in good time prior to 3 September 2018. FINANCIAL INFORMATION Contact details Clas Ohlson provides financial information for the 2018/19 financial year as follows: Clas Ohlson AB • Interim report May-July, 5 September 2018 SE-793 85 Insjön • Interim report August-October, 5 December 2018 Tel: +46 247-444 00 • Interim report November-January, 13 March 2019 ir@clasohlson.se • Interim report February-April, 5 June 2019 about.clasohlson.com 152 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 Sweden Clas Ohlson AB SE-793 85 Insjön Tel: -46 247-444 00 www.clasohlson.se Norway Clas Ohlson AS Torggata 2–6 N-0105 Oslo Tel: +47 (0)23 21 40 05 www.clasohlson.no Finland Clas Ohlson Oy Brunnsgatan 10 B 00100 Helsingfors Tel: +358 (0)20 111 22 22 www.clasohlson.fi UK Clas Ohlson Ltd. 10-13 Market Place Kingston upon Thames Surrey KT1 1JP Tel: +44 (0)8247 9300 www.clasohlson.co.uk Germany Clas Ohlson GmbH Jungfernstieg 38 203 54 Hamburg Tel: +49 (0)40 2999 78111 www.clasohlson.de China Clas Ohlson (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Room 1102-1103, No. 666 Gubei Road, Kirin Plaza, Changning District, Shanghai Tel: +86 (0)21 3387 0055 For more information about Clas Ohlson visit about.clasohlson.com ÖMÄRK ILJ T M Produced by Clas Ohlson AB in cooperation with Clas Ohlson AB, SE-793 85 Insjön Fotografisk Form & Kommunikation. Tel: +46 247-444 00, e-mail ir@clasohlson.se Print: Henningsons Tryckeri AB. Registered office: Insjön Photo: Clas Ohlson, Gustav Kaiser, Mikael Lundblad, Roger Nellsjö, Corporate Identity Number: 556035-8672 Rickard Larsson, Nest Cam, Dan Pettersson, Getty Images and Shutterstock. CLAS OHLSON 2017/18 153 Smart solutions from Clas Ohlson www.clasohlson.com 154 CLAS OHLSON 2017/18
