CSR REPORT 2017/2018 ABOUT THE REPORT Welcome to the ege Group's Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report for the financial year from 1 May 2017 to 30 April 2018. The report includes our statutory corporate social responsibility report, cf. Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act1, and firm of auditors EY have ensured that the report is in compliance with the Act. The report also serves as our Communication on Progress report for the UN Global Compact. For the first time, the report not only includes egetæpper's factories in Herning and Gram, but all factories in the Group: egetæpper Herning, egetæpper Gram, Hammer Carpets, Bentzon Carpets, Carpet Concept and UAB Litspin. This change is due to Section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act, which requires the CSR report to include data from the entire Group. Last year we achieved a derogation from this rule while we were working to establish a data collection system for the four factories in which we have acquired the majority shareholdings since 2010. The system is now in place and we look forward to presenting full CSR accounts for the first time in this report. This has entailed significant changes in the content and results of the report. It is still built up around the seven focus areas in the CSR standard, DS 49001, according to which egetæpper in both Herning and Gram are certified. This year, however, the ­figures in the report concern the entire Group. In contrast to Herning and Gram, the other factories in the Group have not previously worked systematically with CSR. A lot of work therefore remains to be done before the Group's other factories have built up the required approach to CSR activities. This is naturally reflected in the figures presented in the CSR report. The Group figures differ significantly from the figures usually presented in egetæpper's CSR report. Secondly, egetæpper's EMAS statement, which is normally included in the CSR report, has been extracted and published in a separate document. This is because EMAS solely concerns the factories in Herning and Gram. The figures in this CSR report are thus not verified by EMAS as usual. Interested readers can find the verified figures for Herning and Gram in the EMAS statement on egetæpper's website. In the longer term, we would like all of the Group figures in the CSR report to be externally verified. Until then, we can emphasise that we devote a lot of internal work to verifying the figures at the individual factories. A new aspect is that in this year's report we are launching the #sustainablestories hashtag. Under this hashtag we focus on good stories and current issues. We hope that other companies will also seize the opportunity to share their stories with each other and to spotlight relevant issues. Questions concerning the CSR report can be addressed to: Director/CSO – Chief Sustainability Officer Henrik Schmidt Hansen: hsh@ege.dk CSR Manager Dorthe Aaboe Kallestrup: dak@ege.dk 1 See Annex 1 for further details of Section 99a. TABLE OF CONTENTS 5 A new organisation is taking shape 6 Profile 7 The ege Group's business model 8 Risk analysis 11 Stakeholder analysis 12 Management excellence 14  #sustainablestories: We have adopted the sustainable development goals. Have you? 16 Human rights 18 Fair operating practices 20 Labour practices 21  #sustainablestories: 100% renewable energy two years ahead of time! 22 Environmental conditions and climate impact 24 #sustainablestories: Take-back – the impossible dream? 26 Consumer issues 28  #sustainablestories: Circular economy in large and small aspects in 2017/2018 29 Local community development and involvement 30 Stories from the Group's factories Data 34 KPIs for responsibility Annexes 38 Annex 1: What is section 99a? 39 Annex 2: Calculation basis for data sources and CO2 calculations 4 Svend Aage Færch Nielsen & John Vestergaard A NEW ORGANISATION IS TAKING SHAPE Since 2010, egetæpper has grown from two factories to six. egetæpper in Herning was the first factory in the Group and so far has served as the head office for the others. In view of the expansions and acquisitions in recent years, however, it is time for a reshuffle. The 2017/2018 financial year has been spent on developing and We have also purchased a tool to help us ensure centralised suppreparing the ege Group for a completely new Group structure. plier management by the ege Group, as well as better informaAs of 1 May 2018, the six factories will rank equally under a new tion and risk assessment of all product suppliers in the Group. head office, ege Group. The egetæpper CSR department will be The aim is to continue to develop partnerships with suppliers moved over to the ege Group, from where in future it will service and to optimise product development towards greater sustainall of the factories in the Group on an equal footing and ensure ability at product level and in the value chain. that the Group continues to develop in the required direction within CSR. The focus has thus been adjusted to a more overall Under the new Group structure it has also been decided to have Group focus, while the individual factories will each drive their a sharper focus on telling the world at large about our sustainaown CSR initiatives going forward. bility activities. We believe that creating a sustainable future not only requires the dedicated commitment of the many compaThe organisational change is closely aligned with the intention nies in the world, but also openness and willingness to listen to of Section 99a, whereby the entire Group's CSR work will be inand take inspiration from each other. During the year, we therecluded in our reporting. As a consequence of Section 99a, we fore contributed by giving presentations at a large number of now undertake data collection and risk analyses at all factories, exciting events. In this way, we hope to inspire and challenge which have revealed the strengths and weaknesses existing in others to embark on a sustainability course. the Group. It is clear to us that in certain areas we must start from scratch, while in other cases we are well-prepared to face Several years ago we decided that we will be the carpet manuthe world's challenges and create a sustainable future. facturer in the world that is best at CSR. With the new Group structure, we are maintaining this goal. The figures in this year's On the CSR side, the focus of the current financial year has CSR report show a different picture than before, since we now been to bring the entire Group through our anti-corruption proinclude the factories that did not work systematically with CSR gramme, to conduct risk analyses at all factories, and to perform before becoming part of the Group. Yet this does not change an international stakeholder analysis covering all markets and our ambitions and approach to the area. As the founder of the factories in the Group. This has given us a good foundation for Group, Mads Eg Damgaard, once said: “If you roll up your sleeves the work that lies ahead. and get started, anything is possible”. Herning, 29 June 2018 CEO Svend Aage Færch Nielsen CFO John Vestergaard 5 PROFILE ege Group is a leading European carpet manufacturer with six different factories, which together form a strong Group that has the entire world as its market. The Group was founded in 1938 by Mads Eg Damgaard, and his spirit still lives in the Group's visions. The Group has the most modern technology in the carpet industry and has been a pioneer in many ways over the years. egetæpper Herning, Denmark Hammer Carpets, Denmark Founded in 1938 by Mads Eg Damgaard. The company unFounded in 1948 by Sigfred Møller Jørgensen. In 2014, dertakes the development, production and sale of tufted and egetæpper acquired 51% of the shares in Hammer Carpets, woven carpets. Using modern technology, it can produce any as part of a succession process. Hammer Carpets underdesign, and with the shortest delivery time in the industry. takes the development, production and sale of Colortec and The carpets are primarily sold to five commercial segments: Axminster carpets, which are primarily sold to fourand fivehotels, offices, the healthcare sector, institutions and the star hotels, and to the marine and cruise liner industry. The transport sector. egetæpper Herning is wholly-owned by the ege Group still owns 51% of Hammer Carpets, and full takeoGroup. In 2017/2018, the factory produced 4,273,974 m2 of ver will take place no later than 1 October 2021. In 2017/2018, carpets. the factory produced 973,774 m2 of carpets. egetæpper Gram, Denmark Carpet Concept, Germany Founded as Gram Tæpper in 1905 by Christian Andersen. In Founded in 1994 by Thomas Trenkamp. In 2016, egetæpper 1983, egetæpper acquired the majority shareholding in the took over 75% of the shares in Carpet Concept, in order to company, which as of 2000, on the completion of the merger, gain a stronger position in the German market, where Carpet became egetæpper Gram. egetæpper Gram produces tuftConcept is a market leader for the development, production ed and woven carpets for the same segments as the factory and sale of flat-woven carpets for the office segment. The ege in Herning, as well as for the residential market. egetæpper Group still owns 75% of Carpet Concept, and full takeover will Gram is wholly-owned by the Group. In 2017/2018, the factake place no later than 1 December 2021. In 2017/2018, the tory produced 1,875,616 m2 of carpets. factory produced 306,000 m2 of carpets. Bentzon Carpets, Denmark UAB Litspin, Lithuania Founded in 1976 by Erik La Cour Bentzon. In 2010, egetæpFounded in 2000 by Jesper Olsen. In 2012, egetæpper acper acquired 51% of the shares in Bentzon Carpets as part quired Litspin in order to move the Group's wool spinning mill of a succession process. Bentzon Carpets develops, manufrom Vejle in Denmark to Lithuania. Since then, the factory factures and sells flat-woven carpets for the residential and has been modernised and adapted to the Group's needs. Litcontract market, primarily in Europe. The ege Group still owns spin produces woollen yarns for egetæpper. Litspin is 100% 51% of Bentzon Carpets, and full takeover will take place no owned by the Group. In 2017/2018, the factory produced later than 1 May 2020. In 2017/2018, the factory produced 841,538 kg of yarns. 1,722,569 m2 of carpets. 6 THE EGE GROUP'S BUSINESS MODEL In conjunction with the restructuring of the ege Group, a new business model will be developed for the overall Group. Until then, egetæpper's business model and business strategy, Sustainable Carpet Design 2022, set the course. Our mission, vision and values constitute our business founda­ business strategy, ensuring good financial results and achieving tion. This is implemented as nine strategic action areas, in­ the business objectives. The CSR report is based on these seven cluding CSR. The CSR action area is divided into a further seven focus areas. CSR focus areas, which together contribute to supporting the egetæpper's business Strategic initiatives CSR focus areas CSR efforts support the Financial results foundation strategy 2017/2018 Consumer conditions Expansion of ege's position Responsibility to users within carpet tiles Environmental conditions Mission Balanced and focused concept Responsibility to the environWe design high-quality and collection development ment carpets with respect for people and the Selective strengthening of Sustainable products, Human rights environment market coverage with focus on processes and solutions Responsibility to people in the Net revenue value-creating sub-segments strengthen egetæpper's value chain 1,157,370 t.DKK Vision brand and expansion opWe wish to be the trendsetCSR development for selected portunities by creating value Labour practices ting supplier to the most markets and sub-segments in egetæpper's markets and Responsibility to employees demanding sectors of the sub-segments Profit before financial market Optimisation of carpet Local social development items and tax (EBIT) structures Ensure compliance and risk Responsibility for the societies 78,536 t.DKK Values management in which we operate Design Strengthening of ege's position Quality as a design company Management excellence Respect Transparency Utilisation of Group synergies Fair operating practices Competence development Responsible business conduct Reduction of net working capital The implementation of the business model in practice creates our The value chain is important, since various CSR risks arise within the value chain. The value chain is the series of activities that are pervalue chain. When we know where they originate, we can deploy formed with the aim of giving our products the greatest possible initiatives in the right areas. Our value chain is presented below. value for the customer and society. Value chain Value creation Supplier Carpets of high quality Waste Transport Dividend to shareholders Sustainable development Development of the local community User Production Job creation and productivity Employee well-being Design and Installation Tax contributions ­development Capacity and competence building Transport Sales/Customer 7 RISK ANALYSIS An important element of CSR is to identify the risks associated The overall picture is of a Group in which the various factories with the company's business activities. This is not only risks for are at different levels in terms of CSR and risks, but we can also the company itself, but also risks for society at large. On the banote that all factories show a great willingness and desire to desis of Section 99a, this year we have conducted dialogue-based velop in the right direction. risk analyses at all factories in the Group, in order to identify how the factories present a risk to society. On this basis, we have A number of significant risks extend across the entire Group, or drawn up individual recommendations to present these risks at are so significant in nature that a joint Group effort is required to the individual factories. prevent and reduce the risk. Value chain Identified risk Current action Supplier Suppliers: The greatest impacts from the ege Most of the direct suppliers have signed egetæpper's Group are found in the supply chain, where the risks Code of Conduct. It has been decided to draw up range from the environment to human rights, and a new joint Code of Conduct for the ege Group, to corruption. Despite a well-established supplier which all direct suppliers will be required to sign. We management system, we do not yet have a full have also invested in a tool to streamline supplier overview of all suppliers from all factories. management, including requiring the involvement of The supplier management system also solely includes suppliers throughout the value chain. direct suppliers. The major task remains of including the other stages of the supply chain. Supplier CSR legislation: The entire Group is subject to Section In connection with the risk analysis, all factories have Production 99a, the UK Bribery Act, the UK Modern Slavery Act been introduced to the CSR legislation to which they Sales and other CSR legislation, but knowledge of this is are subject. Going forward, the ege Group's work on lacking at some of the factories. CSR legislation will involve the entire Group. Production CO2 emissions: By purchasing renewable energy at It has been decided that the other factories will two factories, the ege Group is working to reduce its investigate opportunities for investment in renewable CO2 emissions. The other four factories do not yet energy. At one factory, an investigation is already invest in renewable energy. underway. The Group's total CO2 emissions have been reduced It has been decided to investigate the opportunities to by 48% compared to 2007. However, CO2 emissions in reduce CO2 emissions from freight transport. connection with freight transport are increasing. Production Environmental impacts: Three factories have held It has been decided that, going forward, all factories environmental certification for some time, while this will work towards environmental targets and was achieved by a fourth factory this year. These environmental improvements. Currently, screenings factories are all working towards environmental at two factories are planned, in order to achieve targets and environmental improvements. The environmental optimisations. other two factories do not yet work systematically with environmental issues and environmental improvements. Production Work pressure: Busy production schedules, low The factories which do not already work with Sales unemployment in general and a market under psychosocial well-being have been encouraged to pressure are challenging the factories in the Group in focus on this in conjunction with their risk analysis. different ways. This presents retention and recruitment Contact has also been established between the ege challenges at some of the factories. Group's HR department and the individual factories, in order for advisory services to be provided. Production Available energy sources: One factory has no access There are currently no initiatives in this area. to renewable energy and is completely dependent on oil as an energy source, which is both a vulnerability for the Group and an environmental burden. Each year, we will investigate the CSR risks in the Group and front of the situation and take appropriate action to prevent review decisions in order to ensure that we can be at the foreand reduce risks. 8 Due diligence and risk management The ege Group is working to achieve a shared management sysIt has been decided that all factories must achieve ISO 9001 certem that is based on recognised standards. Currently, three out tification. The other standards will be implemented on a g ­ radual of six factories are working with the system. This will ensure us a basis, according to an individual assessment. This overview common base that is continuously evaluated and developed, and shows which management standards the individual factories that new targets are set each year. have adopted and plan to adopt.2 ISO 9001 ISO 14001 EMAS OHSAS 18001 DS 49001 Quality Environment Environment Working environment CSR egetæpper Herning √ √ √ √ √ egetæpper Gram √ √ √ √ √ Hammer Carpets X √ Being assessed Being assessed Being assessed Bentzon Carpets X Being assessed Being assessed Being assessed Being assessed Carpet Concept X Being assessed Being assessed Being assessed Being assessed UAB Litspin √ √ Being assessed Being assessed Being assessed The management system is based on the Plan – Do – Check – Act plans, follow-up and adjustments. This is a permanent aspect of model. In practice, this means a constant focus on due diligence the everyday activities at the factories working with the system. processes internally within the Group, e.g. as objectives, action Environmental Social and and climate Anti-corruption Due diligence model employee conditions conditions Human rights and bribery Due diligence DS/OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 DS 49001 DS 49001 tool EMAS Overall due Internal audit diligence Plan External audit processes Management evaluation Objectives Act Do Action plans Examples Check Occupational Environmental Supply chain Anti-corruption accidents accidents management Whistleblower Occupational injuries scheme Welfare Supply chain management Example of due diligence which are subject to greater risk than the rest. Supplier manageIndividual due diligence processes are particularly important ment is one of these areas. We use due diligence to ensure risk elements of our social responsibility, since they concern areas minimisation. Replacement of Risk assessment supplier initiated of supplier Follow-up on­ Code of Conduct ­improvements sent for acceptance Evaluation of Action plans for response from ­improvements ­supplier On-site audit of ­high-risk suppliers 2 A tick indicates that the standard has been implemented. A cross indicates that it is being implemented. 9 10 Bentzon Carpets STAKEHOLDER ANALYSIS The requirements and expectations of the surrounding world New focus among stakeholders are important factors when we set the direction for our CSR In this year's analysis, stakeholders have sent a strong signal to work. For this reason, every two years we conduct a major stakeus about the importance of continuing to work with sustain­ holder analysis, in which we directly ask stakeholders which CSR ability. 96% have responded that it is important for them that we areas it is important that we work with. For the first time, the engage with CSR. stakeholder analysis has covered the entire Group. Overall, 274 people from 37 different countries participated in the analysis. It is interesting to note, however, that the environment is no longer stakeholders' first priority. Human rights are now taking a clear We define stakeholders as parties that affect or are affected by first place, while the environment occupies second place. This the ege Group's decisions and actions. Stakeholders are groups, means that, as a Group, we have decided to increase our focus e.g. customers, employees or local communities, that are directon human rights, among other things by drawing up a new Code ly affected by our business activities. They may also be parties of Conduct for all of the Group's suppliers, and by the ege Group that set requirements on behalf of other groups, or the environjoining the UN Global Compact, so that all factories are commitment, that are not able to protect their own interests. ted to this. We are naturally also maintaining our strong focus on the environment and the other focus areas. In overall terms, Our stakeholders comprise the following groups: the stakeholder analysis has led to decisions on 15 specific new initiatives in the Group. • Shareholders/owners • Employees • Trade unions • Customers • Suppliers • Architects/designers • Local authorities Choose the 3 most important focus areas for your profession. Please prioritize them from 1 to 3, where no. 1 is most important: 1. Priority 2. Priority 3. Priority 100% 24,2% 22,1% 33,5% 43,7% 75% 51,3% 53,1% 29,3% 34,0% 50% 38,9% 33,3% 26,3% 34,7% 25% 46,8% 41,8% 27,5% 23,0% 22,5% 12,2% 0% ENVIRONMENT WORKING HUMAN RIGHTS FAIR BUSINESS CONSUMER LOCAL COMMUNITY That is about CONDITIONS That is about freedom PRACTISE CONDITIONS DEVELOPMENT AND sustainable solutions, That is about creation of association, equal That is about That is about labelling INVOLVEMENT reduction of emissions of decent, safe and pay for equal work, anticorruption and fair schemes, certificates, That is about and waste, less healthy working no child workers, no competition, among adequate information supporting the consumption and conditions at the discrimination at the others. to consumers local community more reuse, among workplace and in the workplace and in the and handling of through cooperative others. value chain, among value chain, among complaints, among relationships, purchase others. others. others. and education, among others. 11 MANAGEMENT EXCELLENCE The Sustainable Carpet Design business strategy has set the direction for several years, but so far many of our CSR initiatives have been concentrated on the factories in Herning and Gram. The new organisational structure will change this. We are already well underway with including the entire Group in the CSR work, so that we can maintain a leading position in this important area. Future of the CSR policy Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR The ege Group's CSR policy was developed for egetæpper's factories in Herning and policy Gram. The policy will be updated in the new year, so as to cover the entire Group. At The fundamental basis for our present, all factories are familiar with the policy and acknowledge that it is the basis for CSR policy is that we comply our CSR work. with all of the legislative requirements, regulations and standards From business model to practice to which we are subject […] The ege Group's Executive Board holds the overall responsibility for the CSR policy 1.7 Organisation management and strategy. A CSR steering group at egetæpper, comprising the Executive Board, As part of egetæpper's manage­management group and selected employees, meets several times a year to follow up ment philosophy, we wish to have on the CSR work and clarify complex issues. The CSR department develops and iman open dialogue with our stakeplements CSR goals and activities. This constellation ensures the broad support of all holders. We will therefore engage relevant players in the organisation. actively in dialogue with employees, customers, architects/ In future, the individual factories will be responsible for ensuring momentum within designers, municipalities, supCSR. New CSR steering groups will be set up at every factory, supported by the ege pliers and our owners on ­topics Group's CSR department to the extent necessary. and activities that fall within and which are of significance to CSR. Women in managerial positions We will also ensure that our CSR Since 2015, the ege Group has aimed to promote the number of women in managework is made available to the ment. The distribution of women and men in the Board of Directors is already 50%, ­ general public and to everyone while at Group level we have 31% female managers. We have thus achieved the goal who works for or on behalf of of maintaining 30% female managers. The aim is that by 2022 at the latest, the ratio of egetæpper. female managers must reflect the general gender breakdown for the employees in the Group. This year, women account for 41% of the Group's workforce. Tax policy in a business-driven perspective It is important for the ege Group to have a transparent tax policy. To achieve our longterm financial objective of growth in revenue and earnings before income tax (EBIT), we have a strategic objective to selectively increase our market coverage, with focus on value-creating sub-segments. We primarily consider business opportunities in the individual market, and give less weight to the amount of tax paid. We adhere to the national transfer pricing rules, which entail that tax is paid in the country in which the revenue is generated.3 Tax evasion is not permitted. 3 The ege Group is represented in a number of European countries, as well as Singapore and the USA, with subsidiaries. We trade with subsidiaries on the basis of the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines. The set-up for trading with subsidiaries has been prepared in collaboration with the KPMG and EY firms of auditors. This ensures that we operate in accordance with both Danish and local foreign legislation. 12 We wish to ensure that the Group's tax planning takes place on the basis of responsible commercial transactions and activities. This includes that: • We will handle all matters concerning taxation in accordance with current legislation. • We will pay tax on a correct basis in the countries in which we operate. The ege Group's Executive Board and Board of Directors approve overall strategies and policies, and monitor compliance. Procedures are amended as required, on the basis of any changed statutory requirements. Political contributions and lobbying The ege Group is an apolitical company. We do not make political contributions and do not have any lobbying costs. We are, however, represented on the boards of two industry organisations, Danish Fashion & Textile and the European Carpet and Rug Association, ECRA, which conducts lobbying on behalf of the industry. We are also active participants in a number of other industry organisations, including: CEN TC134, GUT, Gulvbranchen (the Flooring Industry Association), Dansk Standard for gulvbranchen (Danish Standard for the Floor Industry), Carpet Recycling UK, CARE in the USA, Global Compact Denmark, etc. Through our work in these organisations, we seek to improve conditions in the industry. Ownership and transparency We emphasise the transparency of our business. Every year we publish an Annual Report containing a wide range of information about ownership and decision-making structure within the Group. In the Annual Report, interested readers can e.g. find information about shareholders, finances and future plans. The Annual Report is available on egetæpper's website: www.egecarpets.com under Investor. Here, it is also possible to find information about the Board of Directors' composition and independence, as well as the remuneration of the Board of Directors and the Executive Board. WALK THE TALK • In 2018/2019, a new CSR policy covering the entire Group will be developed • In 2018/2019, endorsement of the UN Global Compact will be extended to include all factories in the Group • By 2022, the ratio of female managers must reflect the general gender breakdown for employees in the Group 13 #SUSTAINABLESTORIES: WE HAVE ADOPTED THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS. HAVE YOU? The world is under pressure. Within just a few decades, we will nets account for some of the plastic waste that poses a danger begin to run out of certain raw materials, while increasing poputo marine life. These are often dumped after use or discarded lation growth and climate problems will have adverse impacts all without being recycled. Our yarn supplier Aquafil collects and over the world. We need to act now in order to stop this negative purchases used fishing nets, shredding and regenerating them spiral. In 2015, the UN drew up a roadmap for how this can be as Econyl yarn. Econyl is fine, white 100% regenerated nylon yarn achieved. This became the 17 Sustainable Development Goals that is perfect for the carpet industry. 21% of the products from (SDG's). Every country of the world has signed up to confirm that the factories in Herning and Gram are created with Econyl yarn. towards 2030 they will work to secure the future of the planet through the 17 SDG's. This requires a serious effort from all Another environmental problem is plastic bottles. These are countries, businesses and people. discarded everywhere in nature, and many of them end up in the sea. We can use these plastic bottles in our products. We We have previously described how the work of the ege Group have developed Ecotrust, which is a patented felt backing for contributes to achieving many of the goals. We no longer take carpet tiles made from plastic bottles. Ecotrust is not just an this approach. Our focus has shifted to connecting the most environmentally friendly alternative backing material. It is also ­relevant of the SDG's with our core products and services. This dimensionally stable, with good acoustic properties. All carpet is where we can make a real contribution and create a real differtiles from Herning and Gram come with the Ecotrust backing, ence. These are the goals that we have chosen: which consists of 100% regenerated plastic bottles. Carpet tiles from Bentzon Carpets and Carpet Concept are also supplied SDG no. 12: Responsible production and consumption with regenerated plastic backing. We expect to sell far more carWe are committed to the circular ­economy pet tiles in the future, so that our contribution to this SDG will concept through our Cradle to Cradle be increasing. We will also seek out other opportunities to use strategy at the factories in Herning and ­ regenerated plastic in our products. Gram. The principle is to create responsible consumption, less waste, fewer chemicals, SDG no. 7: Affordable and clean energy more recycling, etc. Most of the products Green energy is not part of our core service. we sell are Cradle to Cradle certified, and since all of the Group's On the other hand, we work with it at such purchasing is managed centrally from the ege Group, Cradle to a high level that it makes a real difference. Cradle is part of the entire Group's purchasing strategy. SustainThe factories in Herning and Gram cover all ability and responsible consumption are thus part of our core of their energy consumption with the purservice. With the objective of achieving Cradle to Cradle certichase of renewable energy from the offshore wind farm Horns fication of all products by 2022, we can make an even bigger Rev II. In the future we will explore the opportunities to also work difference going forward. with renewable energy at the other factories in the Group. SDG no. 14: Life below water In the years to come the Group will continue to focus on the One of the world's major challenges is plastic SDG's, thereby doing what we can to achieve the UN's roadmap waste. Plastic is degraded very slowly and to save the world. We hope that more companies will follow suit poses a major threat to the environment, by taking an active stance on where they can make a difference, and not least to marine life. Used fishing and then making a concerted effort to do so. 14 Bentzon Carpets 15 HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights are an increasingly more important aspect of our work on social responExcerpt from egetæpper's CSR sibility. This is not because we experience major problems with human rights in the ege policy Group, but because the increasing demands made by the world at large have opened 1.1 Human rights our eyes to the issues that exist. We have become aware of where we can play a role, We will ensure non-discrimination and we have therefore launched a number of initiatives to make a positive difference. and equal opportunities. This applies internally in relation to our Human rights at Group level employees, and externally in our The UN Guiding Principles are the UN's guidelines for companies' focus on human value chain. rights throughout the value chain. Compliance with the guidelines requires a considerWe will respect and support able effort. The focus must be on respect for human rights and on minimising negative human rights: civil and political impacts through due diligence processes. rights, as well as economic, social and cultural rights. In countries It is our goal to implement the UN Guiding Principles before 2020. Last year, we bewhere there is a risk of human gan working on a risk analysis of human rights at the factories in Herning and Gram. rights infringements, we will seek This year we have undertaken risk analyses at all factories in the Group. In cooperato take steps to avoid any infringetion with the individual factories' managements, we have reviewed the practice at each ments of human rights that affect ­individual factory in relation to the articles of the UN's Universal Declaration of Human the people with whom we co­ Rights from 1948. The analysis showed that in most cases we have good procedures operate and work in a business in place to ensure that we avoid human rights infringements. Some problematic issues relationship. have been identified, however, and these will be followed up, going forward. As part of the work on the UN Guiding Principles, this year we have invested in a tool to help us obtain more information about the individual suppliers than we receive today through our Code of Conduct. By means of self-assessment and documentation requirements, it will be possible to make individual risk assessments of the suppliers, while we can also set the requirement of due diligence in the next stage of their value chain. We had expected to start this work in the current financial year, but due to the reorganisation we have had to defer the process until 2018/2019. We look forward to starting on this work and expect to send out the first self-assessments before the end of 2018. Group Code of Conduct So far, the supplier management work has been based on egetæpper's Code of Conduct. In the coming year we will prepare a new Code of Conduct covering the entire Group. We are currently forming an overview of how many additional suppliers it will have to be sent out to. This is probably a limited number, since in many cases the same suppliers are shared by all players in the carpet industry. The current Code of Conduct has been sent out to 98 suppliers. Eleven of these have declined to sign it, but have been able to document by other means that they fulfil our requirements. In many cases, a supplier declines because it has its own Code of Conduct, to which it refers. All 98 suppliers have been approved in accordance with our requirements. 16 Speigel, Germany – Carpet Concept reference Extended supplier focus In working with supplier management, so far we have focused on product suppliers and transport operators. This year we have decided to extend the work to also include suppliers of other services, if we purchase for more than DKK 1 million from them annually. In the coming year we will identify the relevant suppliers and issue the new Code of Conduct to them as well. WALK THE TALK • In 2018/2019, a new Code of Conduct covering the entire Group will be drawn up • In 2018/2019, the work on supplier management will be extended to include the entire Group • In 2018/2019, suppliers from which we purchase for more than DKK 1 million annually will be included in the supplier management • Implementation of the UN Guiding Principles before 2020. During 2018, the work begins to urge strategic suppliers, in the first instance, to perform an internal risk analysis and due diligence process. After this, the aim is for the suppliers themselves to pass on the process to their subsuppliers. 17 FAIR OPERATING PRACTICES In the ege Group, we have a great wish to act responsibly at all times. We impose strict requirements on ourselves and expect our partners to meet the same requirements. We are committed to being able to document our actions and are constantly working to improve, and become sharper and more sustainable. We also seek to promote this approach in the value chain. Closer cooperation with strategic suppliers Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR Last year we decided to work to strengthen cooperation with strategically imporpolicy tant suppliers. There are many advantages from strengthening this cooperation. This 1.4 Fair operating practices achieves more influence, faster development and more information that can be used We will operate on an honest and to document the process. It may also entail financial benefits. In 2017/2018, we have ethical basis in every respect. We strengthened our cooperation with two strategic suppliers. will prevent and combat corruption and bribery, and are comAquafil supplies us with Econyl yarn, which consists of regenerated fishing nets. This mitted to a zero-tolerance apyarn is used in many of our products. As a trial, we have begun to send production cutproach to corruption and bribery. tings from Herning to Aquafil, to investigate whether it is also possible to reuse this in We will suppress illegal conduct their yarns. This is an exciting project of which we look forward to seeing the results. and irregularities within and in relation to our activities, incluØrsted (formerly DONG Energy) is another supplier with which we have strengthened ding non-compliance with this our ties. For many years, via a climate partnership, Ørsted has helped us identify posCSR policy. We give employees sible energy and environmental optimisation measures at the factories in Herning and and other stakeholders the opGram, in which we have subsequently invested. We have now reached a point where it portunity to submit anonymous is difficult to find more projects in which it can be worthwhile to invest in the short term. reports via our whistleblower That is why we have expanded our cooperation. Going forward, we will seek to gather a scheme. number of investment projects focused on waste streams that are not profitable in the We will promote social responsishort term but which can overall, provide long-term gains. The investments are being bility throughout our value chain. made together with Ørsted in a new form of partnership entitled “Energy as a Service”. A new aspect is that we are also in the process of testing wool from a new supplier which takes the same sustainable approach to their business as we do. Part of their business concept is to communicate the importance of sustainable processes. This has interesting perspectives, because we wish to work with partners who can help us communicate this particular message. Anti-corruption on the Group's agenda Anti-corruption has been high on the agenda for many years. We have a zero-tolerance policy, and do not accept bribery, corruption or facilitation payments in any form. All employees are informed of our guidelines in this area, and all key persons and em­ ployees with external contacts must take an e-learning programme, to train their ability to distinguish between right and wrong in the many grey zones relating to corruption and bribery. At the Herning, Gram and Litspin factories, as well as in the related subsidiaries, the e-learning programme was implemented some time ago. In 2017/2018, we have fo18 Loom – Bentzon Carpets cused on implementing it at the other factories. 83 employees from Bentzon Carpets, Hammer Carpets and Carpet Concept, respectively, have therefore implemented the programme this year. Overall, 301 employees from the Group have completed the programme. Whistleblower scheme lives a quiet life Since 2012, we have had a whistleblower scheme that makes it possible to file anonymous reports concerning experienced and suspected problematic issues in the Group. Since 2012, there has only been one single report in the system, which has lived a quiet life this year too. We are delighted that there seems to be no need for the whistleblower scheme, while we also continue to spread knowledge of the scheme internally within the Group. All employees in the Group have received information material about the whistleblower scheme, which we continually encourage them to use if they experience irregular situations. There is access to egetæpper's whistleblower scheme via our website: www.egecarpets.com WALK THE TALK • Closer cooperation with strategically important suppliers in order to strength­ en sustainable development. 19 LABOUR PRACTICES Good labour practices are a precondition for satisfied employees who make a worthExcerpt from egetæpper's CSR while contribution. At the factories in Herning and Gram we have worked with occupolicy pational health and safety management since 2006, when we achieved certification 1.2 Employees and labour pracunder DS/OHSAS 18001. This leads to many good initiatives to ensure a good working tices environment. The other factories have not had the same focus on the working environWe will ensure good employment ment. There is thus room for improvement in several areas within the Group. conditions for our employees, and we adhere to the current colPhysical working environment needs to be improved lective agreements for our area. The longstanding efforts at the factories in Herning and Gram mean that there are no We will promote diversity in the longer any significant problems with the physical working environment. On the other workplace and work to increase hand, there is room for improvement in other areas within the Group. At Litspin we face the number of women in manamajor challenges with temperature fluctuations in production, depending on the weathgerial positions […] er conditions. In the summer, the temperature in production can rise to 30 degrees, We will ensure that our emplowhich can affect employees' physical well-being. Due to the building's interior layout, it yees can use their competences is complicated to create better ventilation and temperature control, but in 2018 we have in the best possible way, regardlaunched new initiatives and expect to solve the problem in the coming year. less of gender, ethnicity, religion, political views, age, disability, At the other factories, it is a challenge that employees would prefer to man the same ­sexual orientation, etc. […] workstation every day, which can lead to adverse burdens. Internal job rotation and We will ensure a healthy and changing tasks have been tried out in several instances at both Hammer Carpets and positive working environment for Bentzon Carpets, but without any great success. This is also something we need to our employees and we will conwork on in the future. Fortunately, we can welcome the fact that there are generally very stantly seek to improve working few cases of attrition and work-related disorders within the Group. conditions. […]. We will work for inclusion and health-promoting Evolving safety culture activities. Since 2015, the factories in Herning and Gram have been working to create a new We will ensure that our emplosafety culture for which the goal is to achieve zero accidents leading to absence by no yees have opportunities to delater than 2020. Safety ambassadors have been trained in all departments of producvelop in their work, e.g. via further tion, safety equipment has been purchased, and first aid personnel has been trained. education and training. This is a very positive project from which the other factories can take inspiration. In conjunction with the risk analysis, all factories in the Group have been encouraged to benefit from each other with regard to the dissemination of a better safety culture. For example, regular fire-fighting courses are held for selected employees in Herning and Gram, and the other factories have also been urged to attend these courses. Well-being must be in focus in the rest of the Group While well-being has been high on the agenda in Herning and Gram during the last few years, this work has not yet begun at the other factories. There are also considerable differences between the factories in terms of whether they offer employee development interviews, the tradition for electing union representatives and the focus on the psychological working environment. At the Danish factories, there are generally many employees with very long seniority in the company. Every year we celebrate 20th, 30th, 40th and 50th anniversaries. We take this as confirmation that well-being does not constitute a major problem. Nevertheless, we would like to focus more on this in the future, among other things by discussing opportunities and needs at the individual factories. WALK THE TALK • Towards 2022, all factories in the Group must launch initiatives for a better physical and psychological working environment • Towards 2022, all factories in the Group must work to reduce the number of accidents and injuries by adopting better safety measures 20 #SUSTAINABLESTORIES: 100% RENEWABLE ENERGY TWO YEARS AHEAD OF TIME! When global warming came onto the agenda in 2011, we enWe have celebrated this milestone by undertaking to continue tered into a climate partnership with Ørsted (formerly DONG to purchase renewable energy equivalent to 100% of the elecEnergy). In this partnership, we made the commitment to invest tricity consumption in Herning and Gram during the next five every single year in energy optimisation and environmental imyears. The next step will be to explore the opportunities to also provements, which in the long run would reduce our CO2 emiswork with renewable energy at the other factories in the Group. sions by 50% compared to 2007. An important part of this plan Hammer Carpets has already decided to commence investwas the purchase of renewable energy. We were ambitious, and ments in renewable energy by no later than 2019. therefore we adopted the goal to purchase renewable energy equivalent to 100% of the electricity consumption at the factoWe have also considered bio-natural gas as a substitute for orries in Herning and Gram before 2020. dinary natural gas in Herning and Gram. The bio-natural gas market is still evolving and as yet there are not so many producSince then, every year we have purchased an ever-increasing protion facilities in the Danish market. To speed up this developportion of renewable energy from the offshore wind farm Horns ment, we have made the commitment for 25% of our natural Rev II. In 2017/2018, the energy purchase amounted to 9,017 gas consumption to be bio-natural gas as from 2019. This inMWh, which is equivalent to 100% of the electricity consumption vestment means that 50% of the natural gas consumption for in Herning and Gram. We have thus achieved the plan two years our Cradle to Cradle certified products will be bio-natural gas ahead of schedule. This is an important milestone for us. in 2019. 21 ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS AND CLIMATE IMPACT We have traditionally always had a strong focus on environmental conditions and climate change in the ege Group. At the factories in Herning and Gram we have worked with environmental management since 1996, when we achieved both ISO 14001 certification and EMAS registration. We therefore have many initiatives to reduce the environmental impacts at these factories, and most of our good stories come from here. And, of course, we're not going to stop here. Environmental certification of Hammer Carpets Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR We are very proud that Hammer Carpets in 2017 was the fourth of the Group's six policy factories to achieve environmental certification. It takes a lot of effort to achieve en1.3 Environment and climate vironmental certification. The company must develop policies and procedures to enVia focused activities and by setsure that environmental conditions are managed in the best possible way, and targets ting environmental objectives, we must be set for the improvement and development of these efforts. At the same time, will work to prevent and reduce the ­entire company is under scrutiny concerning everything from chemical and waste­ the environmental impacts of our water management to energy consumption and emergency management in the event production activities and the use of accidental discharges. and disposal of our products, and continue to improve our efforts in It is a great step forward every time a new factory becomes environmentally certified. the environmental area. With the new certification, four out of six factories are now ready to handle the enviThis applies for the external enronmental challenges faced by a manufacturing company. ISO 14001 helps the Group vironment around us, the working stay at the forefront of development, and this is important because we live in a world environment at our factories, and where the environment is under intense pressure. the indoor climate in the environments in which our carpets are The other factories that are ISO 14001-certified are Herning, Gram and Litspin. fitted […] We will reduce the company's Environment on the agenda across the Group CO2 emissions and thereby reThere is no doubt that the ege Group's factories in Herning and Gram have the duce our climate impacts. We ­greatest environmental impact. There are more processes at these factories than at will support the development of the other factories, which entails higher consumption of water, heat and energy. The renewable energy by redeeming factories in Herning and Gram also produce by far the most m2 of carpets annually. GO certificates via our climate This makes it right and fitting that this is where the greatest environmental efforts are partnership with DONG Energy*. made. * Dong Energy has changed its name This does not mean, however, that the environment is less important at our other facto Ørsted. tories. Litspin and Hammer Carpets are already well underway with environmental improvements via their ISO 14001 certification, and this year it has been decided that going forward Bentzon Carpets and Carpet Concept will also work systematically to achieve environmental improvements. Environmental screening is already planned, which hopefully will lead to concrete environmental projects and targets. This will put the environment on the agenda throughout the Group. Investment in bio-natural gas Renewable energy is very high on our agenda. We already invest 100% in wind energy at the factories in Herning and Gram, but there are also other opportunities within renewable energy. In Denmark, we wish to invest in bio-natural gas in the future. Currently, there is very little bio-natural gas available in the Danish market, but investing in this area will make it possible to produce more of it in the future. In the first instance, we have made the contractual commitment that 25% of our natural gas consumption in 2019 will be bio-natural gas. This creates positive development within renewable 22 Radisson Blu Royal, Belgium – Hammer Carpets reference ­energy, while supporting our Cradle to Cradle strategy. Bio-natural gas is replacing 50% of the natural gas consumption in our Cradle to Cradle certified products. Reduction of CO2 emissions since 2007 Since 2013, we have been working to reduce our CO2 emissions. The aim is to reduce emissions by 50% before 2020, compared to our emissions in 2007. Every year we have undertaken energy savings projects at the factories in Herning and Gram and invested in renewable energy. The overall Group's emissions are compiled annually in climate accounts that divide the emissions into three different scopes.4 The objective of ­reducing CO2 emissions by 50% comprises Scope 1 and 2. The overall reduction of these two scopes is 48% this year, as was the case last year. We are thus still 2% short of achieving the target. As from 2019, investment in bio-natural gas will commence, which will help us achieve the target. We are also now considering Scope 3. Over the years, we have seen increasing CO2 emissions in connection with the freight transport of carpets. We have therefore decided to investigate the opportunities to reduce CO2 emissions in Scope 3. The aim is to find out how, in the future, we can take measures to reduce CO2 emissions in this scope too. WALK THE TALK • Before 2020, CO2 emissions must be reduced by 50% compared to emissions in 2007* • By 2020 at the latest, we must have investigated opportunities to reduce CO2 emissions from freight transport • Towards 2022, all factories in the Group must work to increase reuse and recycling • Towards 2022, all factories in the Group must explore the opportunities within renewable energy in order to invest in relevant projects • Towards 2022, all factories in the Group must work to minimise waste of surplus materials • Towards 2022, all factories in the Group must work to phase out chemicals and hazardous material, wherever possible * This refers to CO2 emissions concerning natural gas, oil, LPG, passenger transport in owned cars, electricity and district heating. 4 Scope 1 concerns natural gas, oil, LPG and passenger transport in owned vehicles. Scope 2 includes electricity and district heating, and Scope 3 comprises freight transport, travel and passenger transport in leased vehicles. 23 #SUSTAINABLESTORIES: TAKE-BACK – THE IMPOSSIBLE DREAM? In 2013, we launched a large-scale project to ensure that, by 2020 at the latest, we can take back all of our own carpets and reuse them. This can either be as direct recycling, whereby we collect, clean and resell the carpets, or by recovering the shredded carpet materials for reuse in new products. The ultimate goal is to be able to recycle the carpets directly in our own production, e.g. as filler in the backing. Step 1: ege Vintage either. We believe that it is time to realise that a joint effort is In 2014, we achieved the first stage of the take-back programme needed. There are many good forces, ideas and visions in this with the launch of ege Vintage, whereby we offer to take back area, but the problems are so complex that it is difficult for one used carpet tiles and sell them again online. The entire set-up is individual company to overcome them alone. working and we can see increasing interest in the concept from customers. Nevertheless, we only take back a small number of • How can financial incentives be created to collect and recarpet tiles. The primary reason is that carpet tiles are still such turn the carpets to the manufacturer? a new product that they are not ready to be replaced. This will • How can we prevent increased CO2 emissions when carpets change in the course of 3-4 years. Yet it is also a challenge to take are to be transported back from remote destinations? the tiles back in practice. It is more time-consuming for floor fit• How can we finance the development of machinery that can ters to collect and pack the tiles properly than to throw them in a separate and sort the carpet components for recycling? waste skip. It is also considerably more expensive to transport the • Which products with used carpet components will there be tiles back to the factory in Herning than to discard them. a large-scale market for? • How are labelling schemes handled for products containing Step 2: Recover by ege used carpet components? The second part of the programme is a much greater challenge. This is the ability to reuse the recovered carpet materials in new Let us solve the problem together products. We have spent many hours and involved a number of For a long time we have been seeking to achieve solutions to the partners in finding a solution. Yet it is not as simple to dis­mantle aforementioned issues. For the same reason we are a member a carpet as one might think. The components are glued well toof Carpet Recycling UK in England and CARE in the USA. Both orgether and we have not yet managed to achieve a viable pro­ ganisations are working to find a comprehensive solution to the duct from our efforts. We are still working on the project and the problem of carpet waste. We would like to encourage other playopportunities have not been exhausted, but this is taking longer ers in the carpet industry to follow suit, just as political initiatives than we had imagined. may be necessary. Let us together seek to find a solution that can benefit everyone. This requires a willingness to co­operate The entire industry is fighting this battle and the courage to share experience with each other. We still We can see that we are by no means alone in these endeavours. believe that take-back programmes will be part of the future, Many other carpet manufacturers also dream of being able to and we will continue to work to achieve our goals, yet we cannot reuse their carpets. Several of them have even launched prodo this alone. This is an industry issue that everyone should supgrammes that are similar to ours, but without any great success port and endeavour to resolve. 24 ReForm Artworks Ecotrust – egetæpper 25 CONSUMER ISSUES Consumers are becoming more and more aware of the concept of sustainability and are increasingly demanding sustainable products and production processes. In particular, business customers with procurement for large projects require labelling schemes, social responsibility and certifications. We can see that working on sustainability issues serves as a door opener to many negotiating rooms. That is why we focus on sustainability at a high strategic level. Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR Cradle to Cradle strategy policy In cooperation with Vugge til Vugge Denmark, last year we developed a Cradle to Cra1.5 Consumer conditions dle strategy for the Group, to ensure that all products are Cradle to Cradle certified by We will promote a safe and healthy 2022. indoor climate in the buildings in which our carpets are fitted, Cradle to Cradle is one of the most difficult product certifications to achieve. The thereby protecting the health and aim of Cradle to Cradle is to manufacture products that fulfil the requirements in five safety of our end-users. ­categories. We will promote sustainable use of our products by means of Material Health: Products which exclusively comprise materials that can be labelling schemes and certificapart of a healthy life cycle, without being to the detriment of people and the tion, and via product information environment. and product declarations describing our products' impact on Material Reutilisation: The products are designed to be part of a biological the environment in connection or technical life cycle, without generating any waste. with the fitting, use, maintenance and disposal of these products. Furthermore, we will promote Renewable Energy: CO2 neutrality and 100% renewable energy. sustainable consumption via the development of Cradle to ­Cradle products which, rather than becoming waste, can be transWater Stewardship: Process wastewater must be so clean that in principle it formed into nutrients or reused. could be drinking water. Social Fairness: The company is assessed for compliance with inter­ nationally recognised social responsibility standards. We currently have 42 Cradle to Cradle certified products, which makes us the carpet manufacturer in the world with the most Cradle to Cradle certifications. We are now awaiting the approval of a further six products. All of the products come from the factories in Herning and Gram. The other factories show a great interest in being included in the work. 26 The 2022 Cradle to Cradle strategy sets high ambitions. The plan is to fully achieve the targets in all five Cradle to Cradle categories. We have already achieved some of the targets, such as 100% renewable energy, while others require a dedicated and comprehensive effort to improve our performance. A roadmap and concrete action plans set the course with annual milestones. In 2017/2018 we can, among other things, tick off the milestones for: • Recycling of materials: Launching a project for reuse of production cuttings • Social responsibility: Conducting risk analyses at all factories in the Group and purchasing supplier management tools to focus our efforts towards suppliers • Packaging: Focus on requirements concerning recycled materials in packaging, including the requirement of 80% recycled cardboard in cardboard packaging. #sustainablestories: It is important to share the good stories with each other. This creates inspiration and makes it possible to discuss opportunities and issues. We therefore make a great effort to present our CSR work. In 2017/2018, we gave presentations to a large number of business leaders, government officials, politicians and other professionals at conferences, events and after-work meetings. For better or for worse, we share our successes and the challenges we face. This is because setting ambitious sustainability goals certainly also presents challenges. We are convinced that by sharing our experience with the world at large, we are generating positive development. Informed people can make more qualified choices. ­Sustainability is often included in these qualified choices. This dialogue also gives an opportunity to spotlight the issues that often arise from a focus on social responsibility. There may be very good intentions behind an objective, and a great deal of effort may have been made to achieve it, yet not always with a successful outcome; or this may take much longer than expected. We would also like to talk about this. If a company's project fails, despite its good intentions, the company will risk being shamed in the media. This may cause some companies to give up hope, thereby sending development back to square one. By launching the #sustainablestories hashtag, we are encouraging companies to share their stories. We are taking the lead in this year's CSR report, including our focus on one of our own goals, which it is a major challenge for us to achieve. WALK THE TALK • Implement the Cradle to Cradle principles throughout the company, including the opportunity to recirculate all materials in a closed cycle, reuse of carpet waste in new ways, and ownership of the concept among relevant employees. The aim is to fully live up to all of the requirements in the Cradle to Cradle categories by 2022 at the latest. 27 #SUSTAINABLESTORIES: CIRCULAR ECONOMY IN LARGE AND SMALL ASPECTS IN 2017/2018 33 tonnes of used polyester in white felt backing Hammer Carpets's white felt backings consist of 50% regenerated polyester fibre. In total, 132,818 kg of 493 tonnes regenerated polyester 1,572 MWh of backing has been used. of heat is created from used ­recirculated plastic bottles In Herning and Gram, we Ecotrust is egetæppers own patcan recover heat from certain ented felt backing for carpet tiles. It consists of 100% regene­rated production facilities as displastic bottles. All carpet 90% recycled trict heating or to heat 1,288 tonnes tiles are supplied with material in our own buildings. of yarn created the Ecotrust backing. ­carpet base from used When carpets are produced, fishing nets the yarn is tufted into a carpet A large proportion of our base. Two of our carpet base types contain 90% recycled material products is produced from from e.g. industrial waste. Econyl yarn consisting of Overall, we have used regenerated fishing 603,971 kg of recycled nets and other carpet base this year. plastic waste. 21,691 m3 re­ 1,000 tonnes circulated water of recycled In Herning and Gram, ­thickener we clean and reuse When we clean the water the water from selected from the washing process production processes. This at the Herning dyeing year, 12,414 m3 of water plant, we can also draw was reused in Herning 81% recycled 2 million litres ­thickener out of the and 9,277 m3 in of residual dye water and reuse it. cardboard Gram. We used 226,700 kg recycled of cardboard this year, This is equivalent to 1,600 ­including as packaging kg of pure dye. At the for carpet tiles. Of this, same time we have 183,000 kg is recycled 87% of the recycled 7,000 kg of cardboard. sales are Cradle ­chemicals. to Cradle egetæpper has 42 Cradle to Cradle certified products. Overall, these products account for 87% of egetæpper's sales 100% recycled to the contract market. plastic in carpet tubes Our carpet tubes consist of 100% recycled plastic. This year we bought 372,186 kg of carpet tubes in Herning and Gram, and 78,669 kg at Hammer Carpets. This 100% renewable is equivalent to 451 km of carpet tubes in total. energy We invest in renewable energy corresponding to the electricity consumption in Herning and Gram. This year we achieved the target of 100%. 28 LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND INVOLVEMENT A socially responsible company supports its local community. We have therefore always been committed to acting locally, creating good relations and contributing actively to the local community. This helps attract manpower and ensures good development at local level. There is still scope for development in this area at several of our factories, but a number of good initiatives are underway. New intakes for industrial operator training courses In 2014, the factories in Herning and Gram initiated cooperation with five other carpet manufacturers on a new industrial operator training course with focus on the carpet Excerpt from egetæpper's CSR industry. During a two-year process, the coming new industrial operators gain a depolicy tailed understanding of the full carpet production cycle. This ensures a highly-skilled 1.6 Developing and involving workforce for the industry and gives industrial operators the opportunity to achieve an the local community important position in the company's production. We will engage in the local communities in which our production It has been difficult to attract students to this training course, so we are pleased that is based. We will seek to work new intakes will be starting up in 2018. This also supports our goal to appoint 70% with relevant organisations, edumore apprentices and trainees at the factories in Herning and Gram before 2020. We cational institutions and public currently have 12 trainees and apprentices at the two factories, which is one less than authorities concerning local busiwhen we set the target in 2015. One of the reasons is that it is difficult to recruit ­trainees, ness development, job creation but we have ongoing focus on the opportunities in the education system. We are curand skills development, as well rently looking for ten trainees, and two of the traineeships are newly-established. as the development of modern technologies. Charitable initiatives in the Group Even though we do not consider it our purpose to donate to charity, there are many good, independent initiatives in different areas of the Group. In 2017 for example, in collaboration with KidsAid, egetæpper invited over 200 sick children to an intimate concert, featuring major Danish names, at the factory in Herning. The children had the opportunity to meet their idols, take a selfie with them and listen to the live music. In England, we hold diving events where we invite customers and business partners with a diving certificate out to dive. The purpose includes telling the story that a large number of our products contain regenerated plastic from used fishing nets and plastic bottles. At these events we collect waste from the sea. In Sweden, during three months in 2017, we donated SEK 2 per m2 of carpet sold from selected collections to the voluntary organisation Superheroes in Gothenburg. Superheroes' purpose is to bring joy into the lives of children who are hospitalised with cancer. At weekends, volunteers dress up as superheroes and spend time with the children. The campaign raised SEK 15,000, which is enough to ensure two new super­ heroes for the organisation this year. In the USA, we support DIFFA (Design Industries Foundation Fighting Aids) by donating 1% of sales in the US market to this association. In Denmark, we support another ­voluntary association, Help Eastern Europe, by donating carpet residues for distribution to institutions and poor families in Ukraine and Romania. In 2017/2018 we have sent 2,379 m2 of carpets to Help Eastern Europe. We also support a number of charitable purposes through the Ege Foundation, which was founded by Mads Eg Damgaard. In 2017/2018, the Ege Foundation among other things supported Den Jyske Sangskole (The Jutland School of Singing), Handilejr (holiday camp for the disabled) at Røddinglund Centre, and the Abildå Brunkulsleje mining museum. 29 STORIES FROM THE GROUP'S FACTORIES egetæpper Herning At egetæpper Herning, together with Ørsted we are engaged in an exciting project to map waste streams in production. So far, we have identified 16 different waste streams for further investigation. An analysis of such factors as temperature and operating hours will show whether it is possible to generate profits from long-term investments. The Nordic Ecolabel is winning ground in the Scandinavian market and is in demand among many customers. However, it has only just become possible to have carpets ­assessed under the scheme. We have therefore begun to investigate whether our carpets can be Nordic Ecolabelled. Herning – 45.500 m2 We achieved two new Cradle to Cradle certifications during 2017/2018, bringing us up to a total of 42 Cradle to Cradle certified products. This year we completed the replacement of all lighting at the factory with LED lighting. This is expected to result in annual savings of around 145,000 KWh. Safety is a major focus area for us. We have an objective of 0 accidents leading to absence by 2020. In 2017/2018, we appointed a number of safety ambassadors in all departments of production. Together with the occupational health and safety organisation, the ambassadors have received training in strengthening the safety culture. One initiative is their monthly safety walks and safety is the first agenda item at the weekly meetings. We also have a corps of employees who are trained in first aid and fire fighting. Well-being is also still on the agenda. Last year we undertook a major well-being ana­ lysis in Herning and have subsequently followed up on this. A new analysis this year showed that we have improved well-being significantly in several departments, while the general level of well-being has also improved. Comparison with the figures from NFA5 shows that we score high on the question of “How satisfied are you with your job as a whole”. egetæpper Gram At egetæpper Gram, in 2017/2018 we focused on recipes and set-ups on our dyeing system. In the past it has been necessary to dye some rugs twice on the system, but with the new changes we only require one dyeing cycle. This saves water, gas and electricity, while also reducing chemicals consumption. This is a major environmental improvement. We are generally working to reduce additives in the dyeing process by investigating whether it is possible to manufacture products of the same high quality using other or fewer additives. This is an exciting process that among other things has led to reduced consumption of chemicals. Gram – 24.000 m2 We have a very strong focus on safety at the factory, and in 2018 all production employees were provided with new safety shoes. We conduct safety walks on a daily basis, 5 The Danish National Research Centre for the Working Environment 30 STORIES FROM THE GROUP'S FACTORIES and safety is always the first item on the agenda at noticeboard meetings. In 2017/2018 we achieved 500 days with no reported occupational injuries. This was celebrated with “Othello” cream cake for all employees. We are in the process of changing the lighting in the factory to LED lighting. We have now replaced approximately 40% of the lighting. This is taking place in conjunction with the natural replacement cycle, and in areas where the lights are on for the greatest number of hours. The aim is to replace all fluorescent tubes by no later than 2020. In cooperation with Business Academy Southwest, we are part of a project entitled “The Labour Force of the Future” – an EU project aimed at encouraging unskilled w ­ orkers to take skilled training, and skilled workers to progress to vocational training. The project facilitates the clarification of competences, as well as training plans, that reflect the wishes of the company and the employee. The focus is initially on welders and electricians who, via the Collective Agreement for Industry, have the opportunity for training agreements. In Gram, the first employee has started on a training course. Hammer Carpets At Hammer Carpets, we have taken the decision to invest in renewable energy as from 2019. Cooperation with Ørsted has also been launched concerning environmental screening in connection with the Climate Partnership between ege Group and Ørsted. This will help us identify energy optimisations and environmental improvements going forward. We will also investigate opportunities to recycle smaller yarn residues that so far have been discarded. This will contribute to achieving the goal of minimising the waste of surplus materials in the Group. We have strong focus on inclusiveness at the workplace. Several employees are enHammer Carpets – 14.000 m2 gaged on special terms, including an employee hired under flexible terms, and 10% of production employees are employed under Section 56 of the Danish Act on Benefits in the Event of Illness or Childbirth. This provision of the Act ensures that employees with a chronic illness can keep their job, because the workplace receives reimbursement from the employee's municipality of residence when the employee is absent due to his or her chronic illness. We are working continuously to optimise the working environment and in 2017/2018 purchased adjustable-height desks for the sampling department, as well as reclining chairs that are used to get in under the looms during maintenance and repairs. Well-­ being is also on the agenda at Hammer Carpets. Meetings have been held with ege Group HR on this subject and it has been decided to include questions about wellbeing in the future workplace assessment scheme for employees. In 2018, we finally became part of the ege Group's management system with an ISO 14001 certification in environmental management. The next step will be ISO 9001 certification in quality management. Key employees have already attended a preparatory course. 31 STORIES FROM THE GROUP'S FACTORIES Bentzon Carpets At Bentzon Carpets, we have planned a meeting with Ørsted in 2018 to identify possible environmental improvements and investment ideas within energy optimisation. This will mark the start of a more systematic effort to achieve environmental improvements at the factory and in the Group. On the employee side, we are in dialogue with ege Group HR on the opportunities to work with well-being, and we have decided that by 2020 at the latest, we will offer all employees annual employee development interviews. Safety will also be in greater focus in the future, with the decision to offer all Bentzon Bentzon Carpets – 10.000 m2 Carpets employees the opportunity to attend a fire-fighting and first aid course. Finally, we have taken the first step towards joining the ege Group's management ­system, with planned ISO 9001 certification in quality management in 2019/2020. Key employees in this process have already attended a preparatory course on certification and we are looking forward to getting started. Carpet Concept At Carpet Concept, we plan to install a new filtration system in 2018/2019 that will reduce noise, odour and dust from the laser cutter that is used to punch carpet tiles. This will improve the physical working environment in the tile department, while also being good for the environment. We have also planned to replace the lamps in two warehouse buildings with new energy-friendly lamps with LED tubes in 2018/2019. In the course of the following two years we will switch to LED lighting in a further series of buildings. We expect that this will lead to annual energy savings of around 5% with regard to lighting. Carpet Concept – 17.000 m2 When we plan new qualities and collections, as far as possible we investigate and use environmentally friendly yarns and backings made from regenerated material. Our focus includes being able to recycle our products after use, as well as the Cradle to Cradle principle. We attach importance to ensuring that employees are aware of safety issues and we conduct regular first-aid courses. A new aspect in 2018 is a fire-fighting course for employees. The local fire authorities already conduct inspections of our buildings to check whether safety is in order. Every six months we undertake health screening of all of our production employees. This helps ensure that any problems are discovered in time and that employees are 32 STORIES FROM THE GROUP'S FACTORIES sound and healthy. We also conduct regular workplace risk analyses, in order to prevent hazardous situations. In 2018, we introduced flexible working hours for office staff on a trial basis, with the aim of achieving a better work-life balance. The trial will run for three months, after which it will be evaluated. In cooperation with another company, we offer nursery school places for employees' children in our own office building. This makes everyday life easier and ensures peace of mind for employees when their children are close by. UAB Litspin At Litspin, in 2017/2018 we started to recirculate the heat from our compressors as space heating at the factory. This is a good project that saves energy, reduces CO2 emissions and ensures a better indoor climate at the factory during the cold months. During the warmer months, we sometimes have problems with excessively high temperatures at the factory, because ventilation and cooling are complicated to establish. This has always been the case, but new measures have now been put in place which hopefully will help achieve a better interior temperature during heat waves. In 2017/2018, we replaced the lamps in the raw materials warehouse with new, energyLitspin – 8.500 m2 efficient lamps with LED tubes. The next step will be the replacement of the lamps at our carding lines. We will get started on this in 2018/2019. We have a strong focus on safety at Litspin. All employees are trained in fire prevention and first aid. A new aspect is that everyone is trained in civil protection in the event of a natural disaster or war. Lithuanian law requires employers to have good emergency systems. We have just begun to include questions about the psychosocial working environment, well-being, working conditions and employee satisfaction in our internal audits, which are undertaken several times a year. We have also begun to hold more employee ­development interviews, which have not previously been so widely used at the factory. The new measures will help ensure that we have a good working environment at Litspin. In 2016, Litspin achieved ISO 9001 certification in quality management. We are currently working on upgrading the management system to the new 2015 version of the standard. The upgrading is taking place in 2018. 33 KPIs FOR RESPONSIBILITY We use various different KPIs to measure the ege Group's In Herning, we have finished changing all lighting to LEDs, which ­sustainable and responsible business development. The KPIs will result in a calculated annual saving of 145 MWh. are inspired by the Global Reporting Initiative (G4). Since this is the first time that we have collected CSR data from all of the In both Herning and Gram, the heat recovery systems have been Group's factories, it is not possible to compare the figures with in use. In Herning, production of 757 MWh was registered, of previous years. This financial year must therefore be seen as a which we used 237 MWh to heat buildings. The rest was sold as form of base year for consolidated figures. Next year it will be district heating. In Gram, 815 MWh was produced, of which we possible to show changes in the results. used 172 MWh for heating and sold the rest as district heating. This gives total energy savings of 1,572 MWh. Energy savings This year we undertook a number of energy savings projects: At Litspin, we have entered into a new agreement with our electricity supplier concerning green energy, which will result in exIn Gram, we have insulated a boiler, which will result in calcupected annual savings of almost 95 MWh. lated annual savings of 85 MWh. This equals savings of 7,667 m3 of gas. Greenhouse Gas Accounts6 We have prepared greenhouse gas accounts for the entire Group since 2011. This makes it possible to show the development over time. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Flights, train, bus and ferry Tonnes Natural gas, fuel oil and LPG Electricity Freight transportation of CO2 Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) District heating Personnel transport (diesel/fuel) 12,000 10,194 10,000 29% 8,000 7,315 56% 6,000 5,879 5,762 84% 4,000 3,468 2,000 964 287 499 294 166 260 75 27 6 0 Base year 2017/2018 Base year 2017/2018 Base year 2017/2018 The total CO2 reduction for Scope 1 and 2 is 48%. We are thereOn the other hand, we can see an increase in CO2 emissions in fore at the same level as last year. We are 2% from achieving the Scope 3. This is primarily due to intensified business activities in 2020 target of a 50% reduction. As from 2019, investment in bioglobal terms. Freight transport in particular weighs heavily in the natural gas will commence, which will help us achieve the target. CO2 accounts. We have therefore decided to take a closer look The reduction since the base year is due to massive investments at Scope 3 in the future, in order to identify how we can reduce in GO certificates for renewable energy from the Horns Rev II the CO2 emissions within this scope. offshore wind farm, as well as the ongoing energy savings projects in the Group. 6 See Annex 2 for further details of the Greenhouse Gas Account 34 Inputs and outputs in production egetæpper egetæpper Bentzon Hammer Carpet UAB Inputs and outputs in 2017/2018 Herning Gram Carpets Carpets Concept Litspin Size of the company m2 m2 m2 m2 m2 m2 Size of the company's site 360,000 72,000 10,000 48,029 49,632 17,971 Built-up area 45,500 24,000 5,426 17,891 13,840 10,282 Production m2 of carpets m2 of carpets m2 of carpets m2 of carpets m2 of carpets Kg/yarn 4,273,974 1,875,616 1,722,569 973,744 306,000 841,538 Energy consumption KWh KWh KWh KWh KWh KWh Electricity 6,518,021 2,498,758 277,966 598,224 659,952 1,832,346 Natural gas 20,987,494 8,643,283 539,583 3,079,582 Renewable energy 6,518,021 2,498,758 District heating 696,000 Water consumption m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ 67,600 21,003 146 442 650 845 Water recovery m3 m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ 10,414 9,277 Recycled raw material Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg In the product 2,359,890 233,290 3,825 132,819 94,696 4,000 Consumption of materials Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg For carpet production 13,684,647 4,810,970 1,094,003 2,124,748 772,727 910,869 Renewable materials 563,150 7,110 162,580 882,617 15,510 888,098 Non-renewable materials 13,121,497 4,803,860 931,423 1,242,131 757,217 22,771 Packaging in total 679,846 198,754 48,044 84,415 24,175 18,671 Renewable packaging 412,227 1,244 17,336 7,282 Non-renewable packaging 267,619 197,510 48,044 84,415 6,839 11,389 Operation and maintenance 99,742 29,801 365 99,580 1,200 240 Waste Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Kg Recycling 114,925 154,014 88,860 18,120 30,710 4,000 Thermal recovery 1,496,815 392,560 22,284 266,650 100,010 17,720 Land fill 35,680 14,886 Destruction, hazardous waste 25,213 1,795 773 660 169 Discharge m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ m³ Wastewater 56,027 14,861 146 442 650 296 35 Workforce Men Women New employees Leaving employees egetæpper Herning 198 93 55 30 egetæpper Gram 50 13 7 6 Bentzon Carpets 14 17 2 Hammer Carpets 44 46 23 12 Carpet Concept 58 41 5 9 UAB Litspin 21 32 18 19 Employee breakdown Managers* Salaried employees Hourly-paid employees Men Women Men Women Men Women egetæpper Herning 25 6 58 75 140 19 egetæpper Gram 10 4 10 5 40 8 Bentzon Carpets 3 1 6 6 8 11 Hammer Carpets 5 2 8 19 33 26 Carpet Concept 8 6 27 27 27 16 UAB Litspin 3 3 13 4 8 28 * Note that managers are included twice in these statistics, since they are also included in the salaried-employee or hourly-paid employee groups. Absence due to illness* Men Women Salaried employees Hourly-paid employees egetæpper Herning 2.7% 3.3% 2.6% 3.1% egetæpper Gram 4.5% 4.0% 2.3% 5.0% Bentzon Carpets 6.9% 2.3% 3.4% 6.7% Hammer Carpets 2.7% 3.4% 2.1% 3.5% Carpet Concept 4.0% 5.9% 2.0% 8.0% UAB Litspin 4.6% 9.0% 4.1% 8.7% * Sick leave statistics do not include long-term illness Occupational injuries and accidents Notified occupational injuries and accidents leading to absence Time lost Deaths egetæpper Herning 5 531* egetæpper Gram Bentzon Carpets 1 15 Hammer Carpets 2 518 Carpet Concept 3 352 UAB Litspin 1 556 * 427 of the lost working hours in Herning are due to events that occurred at the workplace, but are not related to carrying out the tasks. The events are only reported to protect the employee for insurance purposes. 36 Non-compliance with legislation Results Non-compliance with legislation 0 Non-compliance with environmental legislation 2 deviations* Non-compliance with product health and safety legislation 1 deviation** Non-compliance with labelling scheme legislation 0 Non-compliance with marketing legislation 0 Grievances due to failure to respect human rights 0 Grievances due to non-compliance with environmental legislation 0 Documented incidents of corruption and bribery 0 Documented incidents of discrimination 0 Documented incidents of child labour 0 Documented incidents of forced labour 0 Documented incidents of lack of respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 0 * The deviations occurred at egetæpper Gram and have had no consequences for the external environment or led to any comments or warnings from the public authorities. ** D eviation of the CE requirement for a single batch at Carpet Concept, which was subsequently re-processed. The deviation has had no consequences for safety and health. Subsequently, the recipe was modified to ensure that similar issues do not occur again. 37 ANNEX 1: WHAT IS SECTION 99A? On 1 January 2016, Section 99a of the Danish Financial State• For each policy area, it must be stated how the policy is ments Act entered into force for the ege Group. According to translated into action, and any systems and procedures that the Act, large companies must supplement the management support it. Details must also be given of the due diligence report with a CSR report. As a minimum, the report must include processes applied. the following: • Details must be given of the most significant risks relating to the company's business activities and of how the company • A brief description of the company's business model and handles the risks in question. The information must be given the connection between the business model and CSR. for each policy area. • Information must be provided on the company's CSR poli• Information must be given on the company's results as a cies. As a minimum, information must be given on policies consequence of working with CSR, as well as any expectafor the environment and climate, social conditions and emtions of the work in the future in each policy area. ployee relations, respect for human rights, and anti-corrup• Reporting in accordance with Section 99a must be reviewed tion and bribery. For each area, it must be stated whether by the auditor, to ensure that the company fulfils the requirethe company has a policy and what it comprises. ments. 38 ANNEX 2: CALCULATION BASIS FOR DATA SOURCES AND CO2 CALCULATIONS Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions picture in relation to the base year. ege Group's base year is an Direct emissions of greenhouse gases from sources owned or average of the 2006/2007 and 2007/2008 financial years. This controlled by ege Group. These calculations also include fuel year the emissions from Carpet Concept has been added to the extraction. base year, since we have included emissions from Carpet Concept into the greenhouse gas account for the first time. Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Indirect emissions are defined as the emissions related to purThe greenhouse gas accounts are based on a number of data chased electricity, heat and steam. These calculations also insources that make it possible to convert our energy consumpclude fuel extraction. tion to CO2 emissions. The CEMAsys calculation programme is generally applied. CEMAsys complies with international Scope 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions standards and meets the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions comprise a wide range Protocol. For electricity, the Energinet.dk declaration and the of activities that can be included. At ege Group we have decided 125% method are used to calculate Danish emissions. The disto include transport in leased vehicles, travel and freight transtrict heating plants' own emissions are used to calculate district port. heating emissions. Where possible, factors for the individual countries are applied. Transport by air and rail is divided into The result for the year in the greenhouse gas accounts is always national and international transport. Via Egencia supplies ege compared with a base year, to show the development over time. Group with environmental accounts for CO2 emissions from air If there is extraordinary activity during the financial year, e.g. due travel ordered via the head office in Herning and by Hammer to the expansion of production, the emissions related to the exCarpets. To calculate freight transport for Herning and Gram, traordinary activities are accounted for separately and added we have applied the Climate Compass, which is an Internetto or deducted from the base year's greenhouse gas accounts. based calculation model developed by the Confederation of This means that the greenhouse gas accounts still give a real Danish Industry, the Danish Business Authority and FORCE. Produced 100 % biodegradable by KLS PurePrint A/S, binding excluded 39 ege inhouse 0718 – 8054024 – 1st edition EG E TÆPPER A /S · I N D U STRIVE J N O R D 25 · D K-740 0 H ERN I N G · TEL : +4 5 97 11 88 11 · E-MAI L : EG E@ EG E. D K · W W W. EG ECAR PE TS .C O M
