United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 CONTENT 3 About the report 4 CEO statement 5 INTRODUCTION 5 Company profile 7 Our sustainability framework 8 Approach 9 Stakeholders 10 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 10 Management structure 10 Internal control and risk management systems 11 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY 11 Empowerment and support 13 Protecting human and labour rights 18 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 18 Product safety and restricted list 18 Energy consumption performance 20 Environmental initiatives 21 BUSINESS ETHICS 21 Corruption and bribery 21 Data privacy 22 CONCLUDING REMARKS WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 2 About the report This report represents William Demant Management’s commitment to ensuring good corporate governance and business ethics as well as upholding social and environmental responsibilities of the Group. The reported numbers are representative of the Group and the policies encompass all companies in William Demant Holding A/S, which also includes our joint venture Sennheiser Communications A/S. Encompassing our joint venture means that we will pin out specific numbers and initiatives from Sennheiser Communications here and there in the report. The structure of this report is based on the Group’s own sustainability framework and activities as our Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact. It also functions as William Demant Holding’s statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act. In addition, this report represents the statutory report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and 99b. This report is published annually and it covers the solar year 2017 from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. With William Demant, Vice President of Corporate Communication & Relations Trine Kromann-Mikkelsen is responsible for coordinating the CSR policies and activities and the liaison between the organisation and the executive management board (see page 10 on Corporate Governance). Contact information: Trine Kromann-Mikkelsen, +45 5117 6873, trkr@demant.com WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 3 CEO STATEMENT In 2017, the Board of Directors announced the decision to pass health and well-being, decent work and economic growth as on the torch of CEO of William Demant Holding to me after the well as innovation. 25 years’ of successful leadership by Niels Jacobsen. The first top management transition in a quarter of a decade was a sigIn response to SDG no. 3 “good health and well-being”, we nificant event for the Group and the process has been entirely take pride in improving the accessibility, quality and technolpositive for William Demant and for the people involved. Our key ogy of our products and focusing on the social, psychological objectives in the transition were to secure our continued comand physical issues caused by hearing loss. By supporting petitiveness and both readiness to change as well as continuity. and collaborating on various hearing healthcare projects and I feel truly privileged to represent William Demant and in this initiatives, we strive to build awareness in the field of audiology context walk you through our CSR stories for this year as we are and increase the general understanding of living with hearing actively stepping up our commitment to the UN Global Compact, impairment and treating hearing loss. its 10 principles and its Sustainable Development Goals. With regard to SDG no. 8 “decent work and economic growth”, Care for other people has always been the core and the very we are a people-centred company and we always pay close foundation of our company and the desire to make a life-changattention to the sustainability of our workplace. People are at ing difference to people suffering from hearing loss is still the the heart of everything we do, and we highly prioritise the dedefinite centre of our business and the vision which follows us velopment of our employees. Having highly engaged employees to work every morning. and the best-in-class managers is essential for our business success, and it has allowed us to develop as the strongest and Evidence show that hearing care is healthcare, and as the only most innovative company in this industry. In 2017, we rolled out company in world representing all areas of hearing healthcare, an engagement survey in parts of our global organisation which we know that, in combination, patient understanding, dialogue helps us to understand and enhance engagement level across and modern hearing technology positively change the lives of the Group. We also extended the reporting of female managers people living with hearing loss. The severity and hardness of life and diversity to include more countries and management levels. with a hearing loss is not a quick fix; only by allowing people Moreover, we have been working on reviewing and updating right access to hearing care with professional caregivers on their our diversity policy. From 2018 onwards, we will roll out both side, can we significantly improve their complete experience the engagement project and the diversity policy to a larger scale and quality of life. It is my mission and responsibility as CEO of and cover more companies under our organisation globally. It this company to continue to spread this important message to is our long-term and ambitious goal to create the best working the healthcare communities around the world. environment for our employees. In addition to our responsibility to improve the lives of hearing William Demant is a company which firmly believes in innoimpaired, we also have an ambition to generally conduct vation and we always encourage and support R&D activities, business in a responsible way, as we believe it will lead us to which corresponds well to SDG no.9 “innovation”. Every year continue to drive a prosperous company in the future. At William we sponsor a wide scope of research projects and educational Demant, we are committed to ensuring the highest degree of institutes to energize and boost the innovation in audiology and business ethics, which is anchored in our Business Ethics Policy. related topics. By investing in innovation, we believe that we We believe that in a global and competitive market, our busican unlock new opportunities for our end-users and customers ness can only flourish on a sound basis of business ethics. As an in new and better ways. example of new ethical activities of 2017, a data privacy project has been set up to raise awareness of data privacy protection These are just some of our focus areas. I am proud of the great across the Group, to facilitate compliant commercial activities achievements we have made in 2017. Our vision to making a and to ensure our compliance with the new EU regulation. life-changing difference to people suffering from hearing loss offers us both the opportunity and the responsibility to make We are also dedicated to upholding environmental and social a difference and be a responsible global partner. I hope this responsibilities, and continuously aspire for business results report will inspire our readers to support the UN Global Compact that are financially viable, socially balanced and environmentally and contribute to a more sustainable future for the world. sustainable. In 2015, the UN member nations jointly developed and agreed on the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The SDGs are encouraging and have set new directions and Søren Nielsen inspiration for our very own CSR activities. We have seen a natPresident & Chief Executive Office ural development in William Demant to improve and contribute towards the sustainable goals 3, 8 and 9 which focus on good WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 4 INTRODUCTION Company profile BAL DISTRIBUTION GLO The William Demant Group is a global market leader in hearing Hear nts healthcare. We develop, manufacture and sell products and pla ing Im De equipment that help people with hearing loss connect and g Hear es communicate with the world around them. in vic RASTRUCTUR INF E William Demant Holding, the parent company of the Group, is VA NO TI listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen as part of the C25 index conIN ON sisting of 25 of the largest and most frequently traded Danish shares. The Oticon Foundation is the majority owner of William Demant Holding through the investment company William Demant Invest. A copy of William Demant Holding’s annual report for 2017 can be found online at: www.demant.com/About/Business-activities. D ia ts gnos m en We focus on three business activities: Hearing Devices, Hearing tic I nst r u Implants and Diagnostic Instruments. By utilising technology from our hearing devices and knowhow from the Group, we also develop and expand our Personal Communication business activity in a growing market of headsets for unified communication and leisure through our joint venture Sennheiser Communications. Hearing Devices Hearing Devices represents our main focus area. In our journey Our companies collaborate in many areas and to a wide extent to improve life of people suffering from hearing loss, we target share resources and technologies as well as infrastructure and all sales channels and customer segments striving to deliver the distribution channels. These synergies will help millions of peobest products possible and state-of-the-art technology. ple experience the joy of hearing for many years to come just as they also facilitate smarter ways of working and decrease the Group’s general impact and footprint. Hearing Implants Hearing Implants comprises bone anchored hearing systems William Demant operates globally employing more than 13,000 and cochlear implants, and we aim to improve the life of people people through local subsidiaries in more than 30 countries and who are profoundly deaf or have severe hearing loss. with an extended presence through our trusted distributors in more than 130 countries. Our main volume production is based in Poland and we are present with chip production in Denmark Diagnostic Instruments and custom production or service and repair in Denmark, the Diagnostic Instruments helps diagnose and measure patients Americas (US, Canada, Mexico), EMEA region (Poland, Italy, affected by hearing loss and balance problems. Turkey) and Asia Pacific (Australia, China, Japan and Korea). We aim at bringing true innovation to the market in an efficient manner. Sharing knowledge and expertise across our Group also implies using our shared services function, infrastructure and common distribution to increase cost efficiency and stay highly competitive. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 5 INTRODUCTION In the financial year 2017, total revenues was a little above DKK 13 billion. 9% 4% 7% 87% 4% 41% 7% Hearing Devices Europe Diagnostic Instruments 41% North America Hearing Implants Pacific Asia Other countries Revenue by business activity Revenue by geographic region Vision Our vision is to make a life-changing difference to people suffering from hearing loss. Mission The aim of all our businesses is to become each customer’s preferred supplier of state-of-the-art solutions and to create a platform for continued organic growth. We strive to meet end-user needs by maintaining a high level of innovation and constantly expanding our global infrastructure. Identity All companies in the William Demant Group seek to promote a stimulating and rewarding working environment through a flexible, knowledge-based organisation. Moreover, each company has its own position and unique business model. Everybody is committed to high standards of ethics, quality and fairness and dedicated to meeting our environmental and social responsibilities. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 6 INTRODUCTION Our sustainability framework 6) We provide a safe and healthy working environment where employees can perform to their full potential and where We organise our work within Corporate Social Responsibility in initiative is encouraged. a Sustainability framework which consists of 4 priorities and 14 7) We recognise our employees’ rights to freedom of associaprinciples. In addition, we support the UN Global Compact, its tion and collective bargaining. 10 principles and its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in 8) We strive to maintain good relations with neighbours and their ambition to achieve a better world for all. the surrounding society through involvement and open communication. The Sustainability framework provides guidance for our management and all employees. William Demant additionally recogPlease read more on page 11. nises the responsibility to promote similar practices among suppliers and external business partners. The Sustainability framework is reviewed and updated if necessary by William 3. Environmental protection Demant Management on a yearly basis. William Demant endeavours to protect the environment for future generations by monitoring and reducing the environmental 1 Corporate governance impact of our business activities. Furthermore, various projects and initiatives across the Group are undertaken to promote and 2. People and society practice environmental responsibility. 3. Environmental protection 9) We use materials efficiently and strive to optimize packaging as well as waste handling. 4. Business ethics 10) We limit the use of hazardous substances in products and processes. 11) We monitor our impact on the climate and aim to reduce 1. Corporate governance energy consumption. The Board of Directors and Management of William Demant review corporate governance on an ongoing basis and regularly Please read more on page 18. assess whether amendments of the Company’s Articles of Association or managerial processes are required. 4. Business ethics 1) We maintain an accountable and efficient management We believe that in a competitive market the Group’s business structure. can only flourish if based on sound business ethics. The Group 2) We communicate in an open, transparent, impartial and adheres to the United Nations Convention against Corruption timely manner with the stock market about the Group’s and the UK Bribery Act. Most of the Group’s activities can be strategy, objectives and risks. characterised as “relationship business”, which frequently 3) We maintain adequate internal control mechanisms with a involves close interaction with clients, including consulting, view to monitoring, managing and mitigating any material training and collaborating with hearing care professionals, for risks associated with our business. instance audiologists, hearing aid dispensers, ear-nose-andthroat specialists and clinic owners. Please read more on page 10. 12) We are committed to abide by the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate. In the absence of 2. People and society adequate laws and regulations, we refer to recognised The Group makes a positive contribution to individuals and international standards and industry norms. communities by job generation, economic growth, tax payment 13) We work against bribery and other forms of corruption, both and the marketing of products that strive to enhance people’s directly and indirectly through our business partners, and quality of life. William Demant supports the Universal Declawe strive to avoid facilitation payments. ration of Human Rights and ILO’s Declaration of Fundamental 14) To benefit the users of our products is our primary goal. Principles and Rights at Work, the UK Modern Slavery Act. We therefore avoid actions that may influence business decisions to the disadvantage of the end users. 4) We treat our employees with respect and dignity, encourage diversity and ensure fair treatment. Please read more on page 21. 5) We do not use and prohibit the use of forced or child labour. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 7 INTRODUCTION Approach In addition, our Sustainability framework and CSR activities also contribute to the achievement of the UN Sustainable DevelopUN Global Compact ment Goals, which have been developed and agreed globally The 14 principles stated above imply our commitment to the UN since 2015. We especially recognise our CSR focus in SDG no.3, Global Compact’s 10 principles which are integrated as a part 8 and 9 (see below) by means of improving good health and of our business strategy and daily operations. The 10 principles people’s quality of life, generating sustainable business growth of UNGC touch upon 4 main areas: human rights, labour rights, and encouraging innovation in technology and beyond. While environment and anti-corruption. Our compliance with the we have our main SDG focus, we also directly or indirectly conprinciples can be found in the report as below: tribute to the other goals through our business operations and CSR initiatives, also listed below. Human rights: page 14-15 Labour rights: page 15-17 Our projects and initiatives corresponding to the SDGs can be Environment: page 18-20 found all across this report. Anti-corruption: page 21 Sustainable Development Goal, first priority William Demant’s contribution SDG 3. Good health and well-being – ensure healthy lives • Alleviating hearing loss in distant areas, page 11-13 and promote well-being for all at all ages SDG 8. Decent work and economic growth – promote sus• Protecting human rights and labour rights, page 13-17 tained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and • Running stress management, page 14-15 productive employment and decent work for all • Rolling out a global engagement project, page15 • Investing in talents, page 15 • Formulating a policy to avoid harassment and bullying, page 15 SDG 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure – build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable • Supporting education, institutions and research projects in industrialization and foster innovation the field of audiology and encouraging innovation, page 12 • Hosting the Audio Explorers Challenges, page 12 • Hosting the Eriksholm Summer Camp, page 12 SDG 4. Quality Education – ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportuni• Supporting to improve the conditions of hearing impaired ties for all children, page 11-12 • Supporting to create inclusive communities and learning environment in schools, page 12-13 • Supporting otologic training in the developing world, page 12 Sustainable Development Goal, second priority SDG 5. Gender equality – achieve gender equality and em• Establishing a global policy of diversity, page 16-17 power all women and girls SDG 13. Climate action – take urgent action to combat • Responsible production, page 18 climate change and its impact SDG 17. Partnerships for the goals – strengthen the means • Cooperating with various organisations like Børns Læring, of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for IDA and Velkommen Hjem etc, page 12-13 sustainable development WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 8 INTRODUCTION UK Modern Slavery Act We strive to maintain an active and open dialogue with the In order to comply with the British legislation of March 2016 that media and provide quick, current, correct and relevant answers organisations are required to publish an annual statement setting to requests in a professional and respectful manner. out steps to ensure no modern slavery within their organisation or supply chains, we have included a detailed explanation of our Internally, we have the intranet Kitenet, an internal newspaper processes and policies in place on page 16. Demant Inside, and an online news portal also called Demant Inside as well as Demant Pulse, a yearly global engagement survey. Stakeholders This report is a presentation of our CSR activities based on information collected across the Group told in a simple manner yet with a comprehensive scope. It is intended for stakeholders who are interested in learning about our CSR approaches. Our main stakeholders are customers (audiologists, hearing aid dispensers, ear-nose-and-throat specialists and clinic owners), end-users, partners and suppliers, healthcare professionals and policy makers as well as shareholders, analysts, the general public and media. We also encourage our employees to study the report. In order to engage in dialogue with our stakeholders, William Demant has different channels: Investor Relations department who services analysts and investors on a daily basis by emails and phone calls as well as road shows, capital market days and on our webpage. Our product brands have direct customer communication via social media, newsletters, magazines, satisfaction surveys, events and conferences as well as direct sales meetings with customers. In 2017 we have rolled out a quality experience project for our customers in over 17 countries. The organisation sponsored by Oticon Foundation, the Ida Institute, has direct dialogue with healthcare professionals and academics. We have several industry organisation memberships in e.g. Denmark (Dansk Industri), Europe (EHIMA) and US (HIA). Our supplier dialogue regarding CSR is via our code of conduct and audit activities. Politically, we actively work on pursuing and promoting collaboration on public/private research through our participation in e.g. Vækstteam for life science, the People’s Political Meeting (Folkemøde) in Denmark and a joint project group with representatives from the industry, patient organisation and health and education system in Denmark. Around the world, we actively participate in political discussion with local authorities and make ourselves available for business/public official visits and collaboration activities. In 2017, we participated in a Danish/Japanese event in Japan to promote the countries collaboration. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 9 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In order to balance our many stakeholders’ interests, we have on a yearly basis, which the Board of Directors approves. In the established a set of processes and relations by which we control chapter on risk management activities in our annual report, we and direct our company. William Demant Holding’s Board of provide a review of the main elements of our internal control Directors and Management consider corporate governance on and risk management systems in connection with the financial an ongoing basis and regularly assess whether amendments to reporting process. the Company’s Articles of Association or managerial processes are required. From a financial reporting process and internal control point of view, once a year we carry through a very detailed planning and William Demant Holding is subject to the Danish Recommenbudgetary process. Any deviations from the plans and budgets dations on Corporate Governance laid down by the Danish resulting from this process are carefully monitored month by Committee on Corporate Governance in respect to the way in month. which we adhere to the recommendations. As a listed company, the Group thrives to maintain an accountable and efficient manTo ensure high quality in the Group’s financial reporting sysagement structure and communicate in an open, transparent, tems, the Board of Directors and Executive Board have adopted impartial and timely manner with the stock market about the policies, procedures and guidelines for financial reporting and Group’s strategy, objectives and risks. Control mechanism are in internal control to which the subsidiaries and reporting units place with a view to monitoring, managing and mitigating any must adhere, including: material risks associated with our business as explained below. • Continuous follow-up on results achieved compared to the approved budgets; • Policies for IT, insurance, cash management, procurement 1.1 Management structure etc.; • Reporting instructions as well as reporting and finance William Demant Holding has a two-tier management structure manuals; consisting of a Board of Directors and an Executive Board. The responsibility for maintaining sufficient and efficient internal Under the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board of Direccontrol and risk management in connection with financial retors must consist of four to six Board members elected by the porting, governance and corporate social responsibility lies with shareholders at the general meeting in addition to staff-elected the Executive Board. As such, the Executive Board is responsible Board members. Currently, the Company’s Board of Directors for shaping and supporting the corporate social responsibility has eight members: five elected by the shareholders and three mission and activities of the Group and the responsibility of elected by our employees in Denmark. coordinating, aligning and reporting to the Executive Board lies with William Demant Corporate Communication & Relations. The Company’s Executive Board presently consists of two executives: President & CEO and Chief Financial Officer. The Executive Board has the overall responsibility for the activities and the 1.3 Reporting on corporate governance day-to-day operations of the Company. The tasks, responsibilities and scope of the Executive Board as well as the guidelines When reporting on corporate governance, we follow the “comply in respect of the delegation of duties between the Board of or explain” principle, which means that failure to comply with Directors and the Executive Board are stipulated in the Instruca recommendation does not constitute a breach, as long as tions for the Executive Board. we explain why we have chosen not to follow a given recommendation and also explain what we do instead. The two cases The annual general meeting is the supreme authority in all where we have chosen to deviate from a recommendation are company matters. The Company has one ultimate shareholder, well-founded, and we explain what we do instead. To further the Oticon Foundation, which directly or indirectly holds 55-60% increase transparency, we have decided to provide suppleof the shares and voting rights at the annual general meeting. mentary and relevant information, even when we follow the recommendations. 1.2 Internal control and risk management systems A complete schematic presentation of the recommendations and our compliance, Corporate Governance 2017 – Statutory The Board of Directors and the Executive Board are in an onreport on corporate governance, cf. section 107 b of the Danish going dialogue on the identification, description and handling Financial Statements Act, is available at www.demant.com/meof the business risks to which the Company may be exposed. dia/#media-document Any material risks are described in the Annual Plan and Budget WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 10 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY As noted earlier, care for other people is the very foundation of Our growth strategy of the Group (see Company Profile) also our company. The founder Hans Demant started the company plays a positive role in our work with CSR. With an increased out of sheer passion to help his hearing impaired wife and other attention to CSR, various teams across the organisation have people in need live a better life. More than 100 years later, this taken action and initiated projects to better contribute to our care for other people on which the company was founded and people and society. Aside from this, the Oticon Foundation, developed is still the core of everything we do. We aspire to the majority owner of William Demant, is a charitable business help people hear better, have conversations with their loved foundation whose main purpose is to secure and expand the ones and be a part of the society again. commercial activities of the Group, to investment in society and to donate money to charitable causes. With the income derived “I feel like I’m alive again. I can particifrom its investment in William Demant, the Oticon Foundation sponsors social and educational programmes, publications, pate in all the discussions that I previously conferences, cultural activities and campaigns for researchers, wasn’t a part of.” hearing care professionals and the general public. One of the reasons for channelling our philanthropic activities and some End-user of Oticon Opn hearing aid, Eugene Goetz of our CSR work through the Oticon Foundation is to separate sponsoring and grant activities from the commercial activities of “In the past 20 years, I’ve worked in this the companies of William Demant. field, I never encountered such a big We believe that an independent foundation will enable us to breakthrough.” best allocate resources that serves the purpose of empowering and supporting people and society. Following this vision, two Hearing care professional and end-user of Oticon Opn hearing experts specialized in audiology and related disciplines work aid, Roland Zweers jointly with the Oticon Foundation to ensure applications are reviewed in a strict and professional manner. “The cochlear implant had a huge impact In 2017, the Oticon Foundation in total donated DKK 98 million on my mental well-being. I insist on wearto projects in such areas as research, education, culture ing my sound processor all the time.” and care. DKK 60 million was donated to projects aiming at alleviating hearing loss all over the world and to education and End-user of Neuro One sound processor, Karin research projects within hearing healthcare and the rest of the DKK 98 million went to a variety of projects, e.g. culture activiTo better illustrate the stories, we will unfold this topic in two ties, exhibitions and humanitarian healthcare projects. sections: Empowerment and Support and Protecting Human and Labour Rights. In both sections, we will elaborate on the policies, actions and outcomes. 2.1.1 Alleviating hearing loss in distant areas Supported by the Oticon Foundation, the research project IHEAR Empowerment and Support focuses on the topics including was initiated to ensure that no child with hearing impairment is alleviating hearing loss, contributing to education and research left behind in school. Many of the companies in the William Deand empowering people through rehabilitation and hearing care mant Group support the project with the time and work of dedprogrammes. icated employees. The project focuses on children with hearing impairment in state and private schools. By investigating methProtecting Human and Labour Rights elaborates on our poliods for children to overcome challenges, the unique cross-discicies, actions and outcomes regarding human rights and labour plinary project involves children, parents, patient organisations, rights, child labour, code of conduct, modern slavery, sustainaschools and public communication centres as well as hospitals bility in the work place and female leadership. and the hearing healthcare industry. The project, which will run for four years, follows 48 children, who will get auditory-verbal practice to ensure that they reach the same academic level as 2.1 Empowerment and support their peers – and thus get the same opportunities in life. We take pride in empowering and supporting individuals and Last year, the Oticon Foundation has donated funds to a communities not only directly through our products, but also programme in Mongolia run by the Global Foundation for through our projects and initiatives with the aim of improving Children with Hearing Loss. With the funding and support from people’s life. the Foundation, the programme establishes national newborn WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 11 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY hearing screening in Mongolia and builds expertise among local out among the participants, giving them the chance to learn professionals in order to support babies and young children about audiology. with hearing loss. During the programme period, hearing screening devices were purchased and supplied to three materFor several years, the Oticon Foundation has funded the Ida nal hospitals, the general hospital and the children’s hospital in Institute and has contributed with DKK 24 million to the work of Ulaanbaatar, and a series of training programs were carried out the Institute in 2018-2019. The Ida Institute is an organisation for local doctors and nurses. working to integrate person-centred care in hearing rehabilitation. The work of the institute aims to enable people with Sponsored by the Oticon Foundation, the Maternity Foundahearing loss to take an active role in their care by expressing tion ran a project to enhance maternal and newborn health in their needs and preferences. Together with hearing care profesEthiopia in 2017. With a joint effort, the project contributes to imsionals around the world, the Ida Institute develops free tools proving maternal and neonatal health by increasing the quality, and resources to strengthen the counselling process. availability, acceptability and accessibility of MNC services at facility and community levels in West Wollega Zones in Ethiopia. The Oticon Foundation has a long history of funding projects To empower the local women to make informed choices about that promote research and the dissemination of knowledge in their health, the project offers various activities including audiology. In 2017, the Foundation financed three PH.D. projects training, community conversations and reproductive health and 17 research projects within the field of audiology and clubs. Moreover, initiatives like loan associations are adopted to hearing. These sponsored projects are strictly selected among a improve livelihood opportunities there. number of applications submitted on 1 December 2016. Another great initiative the Foundation supported in 2017 is run In 2017, the Oticon Foundation has donated a total of DKK 20 by the Human Practice Foundation in Nepal, with the purpose million to leading universities around the world in for instance to improve and implement social impact management activities the Netherlands, the US, France, the UK, Switzerland, Germany and re-enforce existing school construction and quality educaand in the Nordic countries. Approximately DKK 10 million was tion projects. donated to Danish universities. 2.1.2 Education and research 2.1.3 People empowerment Supporting education, institutions and research projects in the William Demant supports various philanthropic activities by field of audiology is an important part of the Oticon Foundaboth the Oticon Foundation and initiatives across the Group. tion’s activities. In 2017, the Oticon Foundation supported an organisation called For the second year in a row, the Audio Explorers Challenge Børns Læring (Children’s Learning) to improve the conditions for was carried out successfully in 2017. Supported by the Oticon hearing impaired children in Greenland. By inviting audiological Foundation, Oticon hosted a nationwide competition aiming at experts to give lectures and visits, the project aimed at educatengineering students with an interest in mechanical, electrical ing parents and teachers in schools and improving the general or software development. In the spring, 25 highly talented level of competencies with respect to language acquisition, students who won the challenge flew to New York together with hearing impairment and hearing aids. the Oticon crew for a study trip. During the trip, they experienced audiological lectures given by renowned professionals The Oticon Foundation also funded the ORL Sans Frontieres and helped with mapping the sound levels in the urban space to support otologic (diseases and anatomy of the ear) training in order to find out if it can be damaging to the hearing – and in activities in the French speaking developing world. Established the long run – do comparative studies in other large cities. three years ago, the organisation works with ENT doctors to teach training programmes dedicated to hearing consultation Another enriching educational initiative sponsored by the and examination for general practitioners, nurses and medics Oticon Foundation is the Eriksholm Summer Camp. In 2017, the working in primary medical care. With the sponsorship from the 12th Eriksholm Summer Camp invited 65 young audiologists Foundation, the activity will be expanded into a larger scope to from 23 countries to participate a programme packed with intercontribute to improving otologic treatment. esting lectures and social activities with leading scientists from Eriksholm Research Centre, guest experts, Oticon audiologists In 2017, supported by the Oticon Foundation, District School and specialists. The theme for last year’s summer camp was Smørum has cooperated with Phonic Ear to improve the Hearing in the Brain, and lectures and workshops exploring the learning environment for both students and teachers in order link between hearing and other cognitive processes were carried to create inclusive communities. Another meaningful initiative WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 12 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY sponsored by the Foundation last year is to purchase hearing our suppliers and external partners, we ensure they comply with diagnostic testing equipment for a vocational education proour code of conduct and execute audits if necessary. gramme run by the Southern Denmark College. With regard to governing our principles and policies protecting The Engineering Association IDA has launched a project Prohuman and labour rights, we have implemented a global/local fessional Engineering Academy aiming at providing refugees approach in our global organisation. William Demant Holding with an engineering and science background the optimal centrally formulates policies and guidelines and the local manprerequisites for entering the Danish labour market and better agement has the mandate and responsibility of daily operation integrated into the society. In 2017, William Demant supported as well as solving, reporting and taking actions according to this project by offering one engineering refugee with an 8-week both the company policies and local legislation. Furthermore, internship. During this internship, a daily mentor was assigned we have adopted a code of conduct to improve and encourage to this colleague and his work was testing print boards. high human and labour rights standards for our suppliers, which will be explained further in the following section. Besides, the Another exciting project in 2017 is the project Velkommen Hjem Group has taken various approaches to contribute to and work (Welcome Home). The organisation works with private compaon protecting human rights and labour rights respectively. For nies to help war veterans through mentorships. With the aim instance, we always aspire to achieve workplace sustainability to help the society with an important social task – to reinstate and create a rewarding, respectful and safe working environwar veterans into the Danish job market – William Demant ment for our employees to thrive professionally and personally, worked jointly with Velkommen Hjem to successfully match four and we have adopted approaches like stress management, volunteered employees with four veterans with a mentorship for engagement project and diversity strategy to achieve that. six months. During this period, the mentor helped the veteran Our focus and actions on protecting human and labour rights covert and interpret his/her strengths into civilian competenhave fuelled William Demant to grow in a responsible and suscies. One of the four veterans has finished the mentorship tainable way and develop into a successful global company. programme and started his career life recently. 2.2.1 Code of conduct 2.2 Protecting Human and Labour rights All new suppliers must sign a comprehensive code of conduct that lists criteria, governing aspects of human rights, labour William Demant always strives to fulfil our responsibilities rights, the environment as well as anti-corruption. The code of for the people and organisations we work with and for the conduct is to help our suppliers improve social and environmensurroundings where we have an influence through our business. tal standards and is the guidance for our suppliers to contribute Therefore, William Demant supports the Universal Declaration of to the protection of human and labour rights. Human Rights and ILO’s Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The code of conduct has been used since 2010 throughout the Group, and in 2017, 379 out of 576 have signed the code of William Demant practices the evaluation on potential adverse conduct, which was increased by 5% compared to 2016. Furtherimpacts on human rights and labour rights on an on-going basis more, we are continuously working on inactivating suppliers and we have not identified any critical or significant risk embedthat we no longer do business with and consolidating expense. ded in our operations and business network. Nevertheless, we If only active suppliers are considered, 348 out of 481 active always uphold and respect the universally-accepted human and suppliers have signed the code of conduct (72%) in 2017, which labour rights principles and have in place our principles, poliis a high percentage we are proud of. cies, internal systems and approaches to ensure our compliance and contribution. We select and assess our suppliers based on this code. The suppliers are grouped in three categories according to the level Our five human and labour rights principles (see Sustainability of risk of breaching our code of conduct. The risk assessment is Framework) are set as our guidance for operations, business based on William Demant’s own methodology. It is subject to activities and relationships. independent audit and based on the supplier’s geographical presence, sector, management practices and strategic imporIn the recent years, we have established a strategic global HR tance for William Demant. The categorisation of suppliers helps Board, which functions as an activity coordinating body in terms us to prioritise the resources needed for further dialogue with of HR strategy, organisational and leadership development as the suppliers. well as deployment of HR systems. The board can be activated in case of urgency or breach of company policies. In terms of If we find a risk that a supplier does not live up to our code of WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 13 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY conduct, we carry out an audit and prepare a report, listing the our business ethics and policy. items that need to be addressed before we can initiate or continue cooperation with that supplier. In 2017, three CSR audits to Where local legislation does not naturally protect human rights our suppliers were performed. In addition, seven external CSR and labour rights, we apply our code of conduct to ensure that audits have been performed by Sennheiser Communications. high standards are met when doing business and dealing with The external audits were followed up by internal audits, to enstakeholders (e.g. suppliers), which are beyond the boundaries sure that initiatives stated in prior action plans had been carried of our own company. out, and to take actions on the results of the audits. The most common non-compliances among suppliers are: All in all, we endeavour to support the protection of internation• Too many working hours per week ally proclaimed human rights within and beyond the corporate • Lack of one day off per week boundaries. Even though it can hardly be justified as protection • Fines to workers for breaking internal rules, e.g. violation of of human rights, William Demant tries to exercise a positive smoking prohibition spill-over effect and improve conditions for people less fortu• Lack of evidence of CSR audits of subcontractors nate, with a specific focus on our core business and mission: • Emergency exits blocked health and hearing care. • Lack of exit signs • Lack of training in fire extinction and emergency handling Sustainability in the workplace • Lack of written emergency plans The occupational health and safety team makes sure our company is run in a safe environment. Our initiatives include: safety evaluations at work, risk assessment, safety training for employ2.2.2 Human rights ees, safety instructions at the workplace, protective measures William Demant respects the protection of human rights and relevant consultancy. through the implementation of the established principles and regulations contained in its business ethics policy and code of To ensure that our employees develop in the best possible way conduct. The policies can be found on our website at: http:// and thrive within the organisation, managers evaluate their www.demant.com/media/#media-documents competences, performances and career plans on a yearly basis by development dialogues, and the Group has established an When we look into our productions, operations and business education platform called Demant Training Academy which network, we haven’t identified any significant process that imoffers a broad variety of training opportunities. plicates adverse impact or human rights violation. For example, the production of hearing aids is not identified as a dangerous A healthy lifestyle and work-life balance is one of our company’s or risky manufacturing activity, since employees are not exposed emphases. In some of our premises, we have built gym areas to dangerous procedures, materials or environments. Therefore in the office for our employees. In our headquarter, employees we do not see any significant risk from our productions and we can sign up for our canteen schemes, which serve freshly made have a good record on low production accident rate. In 2017, the meals 65% of organic food. A variety of leisure activities and global accident report from our production and service sites in sport clubs are also offered to our employees. Denmark, Poland, Mexico and the US shows only 21 accidents among 3500 employees, none of which was severe or critical. Stress management Dealing with stress is a part of our responsibility as a modern At William Demant, more than 90% of our turnover comes from and accountable company and for this reason we actively the OECD countries; this does not mean we absolutely avoid the engage employees in preventing and dealing with stress. The risk of human rights violation; however, it still has a consideracompany has established a stress policy in this regard, and have bly low potential of risk. In countries where protection of human defined prevention initiatives, courses and toolbox. The purpose rights is covered by local legislation, we act in accordance to the of our stress policy is to clarify what is expected of each of us UN Global Compact Principles. On top of this, we have in place in our various roles and not least, during the different phases the implementation of principles and policies from our code of of cases of stress. The policy should be treated as a guideline conducts and business ethics policy. for what we must do depending on the role(s) we have in the company. Most of our production sites are located in OECD countries. When we operate in countries outside of OECD we mitigate the It is our ambition to keep stress to an absolute minimum and risk by making sure we only employ and conduct business with to constantly strive to keep it minimized for the benefit of highly skilled labour to handle our products. Violating proemployees and the company. Top Management expects that claimed human rights is against our business model and against leaders in the company, as a part of their duties, know when a WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 14 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY member of their staff is suffering from stress. In these cases, the Policy to avoid harassment and bullying leader must take the necessary action normally in cooperation William Demant is committed to providing a safe work environwith HR. Top Management also expects that leaders have made ment for all employees, free from discrimination on any ground themselves familiar with company stress policy and the tools and from harassment at work, including sexual harassment. described in the Stress Toolbox. William Demant will operate a zero tolerance policy for any form of bullying or sexual harassment in the workplace, and will treat In 2012, we experienced a significant increase in the number of all incidents seriously and promptly investigate all allegations of our employees affected by stress. By developing a policy and sexual harassment. In 2017, we have developed and formutaking actions, we have managed to decrease the occurrence lated a policy to avoid harassment and bullying. The policy is in of stress cases significantly, as shown by the table below. The accordance with Danish legislation, which states that the employer numbers include all occurrences from minor, short-term situais responsible for protecting the employees from harassment and tions to longer, monthly leave of absence. They cover employees violence at work. All complaints of bullying, violence or sexual at our locations in Denmark. harassment will be taken seriously and treated with respect and in confidence. No one will be victimized for making such a complaint. In 2017, we see a further decrease compared to the previous years. This encourages us to keep our strong focus. In peer Graduate programme and talent investment to peer analysis, we only find few other companies with as In order to attract new talents and to train them within the organcomprehensive policies and actions as us and we trust our conisation, William Demant has developed a Graduate Programme tinuous commitment to the stress management policy to keep scheme starting in 2014. The Graduate Programme is a two-year us on the right track. scheme where young candidates explore William Demant and develop their personal and professional skills throughout four job Percentage of employees affected by stress rotations. The programme has now developed to the following streams: General Business, Global Finance, Global Operations, Engineering and Diagnostics Business. The graduates have rotations 6,0 in organisations like: Finance, Operations, IT, Sales & Marketing, Quality and R&D, Retail, Wholesale US, Sales Denmark and William Demant Holding. 4,0 To secure and plan for future recruitment of engineers, which is always a top priority for William Demant, we have invested in the 2,0 Polish market and established a development centre in 2016 called Demant Technology Centre. In 2017, we have further expanded the 0,0 research and development division in Warsaw. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2.2.3 Labour rights Engagement project Having the deeply engaged employees and the best in class Protecting labour rights managers is paramount in our journey to develop William William Demant Holding has signed collective agreements with Demant as the strongest and most innovative Group in this relevant labour unions. Subsequently, we negotiate and sign industry. We have in 2017 taken the first steps to perform a local agreements, duly considering local conditions, thus further yearly, global engagement survey including parts of the global improving terms regarding salary, working hours, salary increments, organisation and expanding this to the rest of the William education, etc. Demant Group globally over the next two years. This provides us with valuable information on the engagement level across our We respect the individual’s membership of labour unions. global business, while, at the same time, enabling us to work with engagement in a far more professional manner. It is our Engagement against child labour ambition to make William Demant a Group where each company As declared in our business ethics policy and code of conduct, and or organisation offers an environment where we can all do our likewise implemented by our suppliers, we uphold the effective best in our daily work no matter in which part of the world we abolition of child labour and condemn its usage. work or which part of the organisation we belong to. Since there are certain requirements to handle our products and services, the vast majority of our employees and the employees of WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 15 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY the companies with which we conduct business are highly skilled of law by our commitment to the UN Global Compact and we with years of training and/or education. Thus, we have concluded report on relevant topics via our annual CSR report. that the risk of negative impact or child labour in our business activities is considerably low. This report covers our focus, policy and progress on female leadership. More details are available on our website: www. Statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act demant.com/about/responsibility Last year we updated our reporting in order to adhere to the new British legislation on Modern Slavery. We stand by building awareWe continuously work on encouraging more female employees ness of modern slavery and against exploitation of labour, slavery, to seek opportunities for executive and managerial positions. servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking. This commitment is anchored with the Board of Directors and the We consider the risk of human trafficking in our supply chain Management. In 2012, we defined a diversity policy and specific to be very mild. Our revenue model has a predominant base initiatives for increasing the ratio of female managers in the in OECD countries, where the government has a higher level of Group, which is called ‘More Female Managers’. On an on-going control over human rights, labour rights and modern slavery basis, various initiatives will be developed to support the policy, enforcement. In terms of production and assemblies of our from communication to recruitment and leadership. Furthermore, products, the company operates predominantly in Europe, there will be on-going update with William Demant management North and Latin America, where the risks are contained. on their decision to expand reporting and update policies. We tackle the risk of exploitation in the labour market by workIn terms of gender equality in the Board of Directors, a female ing with suppliers, entities, sales subsidiaries and distributions Board member was elected at the annual general meeting in April network that comply and abide with our code of conduct, 2014, which also means that the Board reached its first target regulations on human rights, labour rights and business ethics. within one year after the target was set. In 2016, the Board set a A significant size of our collaborators have to undergo formal new target on female leadership: by the end of 2020, the Board of education and training scheme, and this reduces even more the Directors aims to have at least two female members. In 2017, we risk associated with human trafficking. had full focus on implementing historic management changes in the Group. The former CEO of William Demant Niels Jacobsen was More details about our statement on the UK Modern Slavery appointed vice chairman of the Board, which is the reason for not Act can be found on our website at: www.demant.com/about/ reaching the target in 2017. responsibility For our joint venture Sennheiser Communications, there is no Diversity and gender equality female board member currently, but a target has been set to have Diversity at management level addresses age, gender and naone female board member by 2020. Since the target was set in tionalities. In recent years, soft law and statutory requirements 2016, and a candidate with the right qualifications hasn’t been have focused specifically on gender equality. On 1 April 2013, found yet, the target has not been reached yet. new rules for the gender-specific composition of top management in all large Danish companies became effective. The rules Relevant approaches have been adopted to enhance female aim to ensure that the percentage of females in managerial employment and leadership in the Group: positions in large companies is increased significantly in the • In job advertisements, employer branding material and comcoming years. The rules oblige companies to set a target for the munication, we always strive to balance the tone between representation of the under-represented gender on the compamale and female connotations and visuals. ny’s board and to set a deadline for reaching this target. • Regarding recruitment, we require qualified female candidates in the second round when cooperating with external Moreover, companies must establish policies in place on how recruiting agencies. In terms of external recruitment events, they will enhance women’s access to managerial positions relevant departments in the Group must prioritise sending based on the assumption that more women in managerial pofemale employees to job fairs. sitions will – generally speaking – lay the foundation for future • From a talent management perspective, our managers make recruitment of female board members. an effort to guide and nudge female talents towards pursuing opportunities for promotion. The rules also require that once a year the company must Since we started tracking these numbers in 2009, the male/female announce its targets regarding gender equality in top manmanager ratio in our Danish companies has improved from 89/11 agement and incorporate its policies and progress either in in 2009 to 73/27 in 2017. In middle and first-line management, the company’s annual report or on its corporate website. As a the ratio has increased from 84/16 in 2009 to 71/29 in 2017. From responsible company, William Demant complies with the rules a global perspective, our companies in Australia, Switzerland, WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 16 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY Poland and South Arica have a relatively high female manager ratio compared to the other countries in 2017 (see below for detailed numbers). In our Danish companies, the percentage of female managers has been relatively stable for the past four years. We will continuously work on our recruitment process to address gender equality and employ more talented females into the Group. Moreover, we are planning a workshop in 2018 to dedicate focus and effort in defining and expanding our view on diversity and how to be even more inclusive in the recruitment process as part of the global HR strategy. Regarding our joint venture Sennheiser Communications, in 2017, the ratio of male and female managers in top management is 2/0, which remained unchanged from last year; and the ratio of male and female managers until 2nd management level is 28/5, which was increased from 28/1 in 2016. Please note that organisational levels in Denmark were redefined in 2016 and actual numbers may not be directly comparable with previous years. Development in male-female leadership 2009-2016 100 80 60 40 20 % 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Female Male Development in male-female leadership 2009-2016 100 80 60 40 20 % ark a d y ce UK ds nd d ica ali an an n an ala lan Afr nm str erl rm Fra erl Ze Po De Au itz Ge th w uth Sw Ne N e S o Female Male WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 17 ENVIROMENTAL PROTECTION On the basis of our sphere of influence, we are committed to phthalates and natural rubber latex. Working with the restricted minimising our impact and footprint on the environment and list ensures full transparency on the use of hazardous substancundertaking initiatives that advocate environmental responsibiles, compliance with relevant directives and the opportunity to ity. Moreover, we encourage the development and diffusion of set a higher bar than the external required or recommended environmentally friendly technologies in the Group. standards. Naturally, we comply with all current environmental rules and regulations in all the countries where we operate. Through an 3.2 Energy consumption performance internal risk evaluation to assess our environmental impact, we have concluded that there is no significant environmental risk We started tracking our energy consumption from 2008, in William Demant. Our product-related environmental impact is providing us with a means of measuring and recording our considerably limited and we have not identified any significant environmental impact and footprint. For a couple of years we environmental risks arising from our business activities. The have reported to the Carbon Dioxide Project, but in 2017, we production of hearing aids does not involve significant amount made the decision not to continue the CDP reporting. Instead, of material or water and we strictly comply with our product we will expand the reporting of our energy consumption persafety rules and restricted list. By way of example, one single formance with a more comprehensive scope in this report, the hearing aid weighs only 2-6 grams and contains no hazardous UNGC progress report (see p. 19). Reports about former energy substances. consumption performance are available on our website under: demant.com/media/#media-documents 3.1 Product safety and restricted list Management continuously seeks to minimise any financial consequences of damage to corporate assets, including any Although the use of raw material is limited in our manufacture operating losses incidental to potential damage. Major risks, compared to other industries, we still enforce a precautionary which cannot be adequately minimised, are identified by the approach to environmental challenges. We have implementCompany’s Management who will ensure that appropriate ined the use of ‘restricted list’, which provides instruction and surance measures are implemented on a continuous basis. The information on the utilisation and categorisation of substances Group’s global insurance programme makes sure that measures and material. The aim is to ensure that the Group complies with are taken out with high credit ratings companies and recogrelevant law regulations related to specific substances. In the nised credit-rated insurance brokers. The Directors review the restricted list, all relevant components and materials that are Company’s insurance policies once a year, including coverage of banned or restricted are listed. identified risks. The Company has not identified any significant risks and/or opportunities arising from climate changes. It is mandatory for our suppliers to comply with the restricted list, which is controlled through a declaration of conformity and/ Our emission rates both in total and per employee are considor audits. The list is based on the following regulations: erably low that we do not consider it relevant to set up specific • Restriction of Hazardous Substances (ROHS) reduction targets. The most significant emissions come from • Toys directive the electricity in our buildings. Hence, we consider the emission • Conflict minerals that are subject to the requirements of factor every time we make minor or major physical changes and Dodd-Frank Section 1502 act accordingly and responsively. • Registration, and the Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals directive (REACH) We experience increasing growth rates throughout the William Substances are categorised as below: Demant Group, both in financial terms and number of employ• Class I: Prohibited (not to be introduced in the production or ees. This growth is both organic and related to acquisitions, be presented in any products put on the market by compaand it has mirrored in a slight growth in emissions; yet, we seek nies of William Demant) to minimise the growth in emissions as much as possible by • Class II: Restricted (for restricted use only) making wise choices along the way. • Class III: Subjected to special deliberation (can be used, but under observation) • Class IV: Under observation (can be used after thorough risk 3.2.1 Environmental risk management assessment) The Company has not identified any significant risks and/or opportunities arising from climate changes. However, when preOn top of the mandatory requirements according to laws, we paring the strategic, budgetary and annual plans, the directors have enforced extra specifications, e.g. ban on the use of al always consider all risks identified by the Company. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 18 ENVIROMENTAL PROTECTION Due to the fact that the Group’s scope 1 (direct Greenhouse Gas) In 2017, William Demant Group CO2 emissions are split among and scope 2 (indirect Greenhouse Gas) emissions are relatively electricity accounting for 67%, heating of buildings for 10%, and low and that energy costs only account for a minor part of total cars for 23%. costs, we do not anticipate any future regulation regarding direct Greenhouse Gas emissions to significantly impact our For the first time, we have included the energy consumption operations. Among the general regulatory risks, which are not results from our retail entities in France, the USA, Canada, only applicable to William Demant, but to most manufacturing Poland and Australia. The selected retail entities’ CO2 emiscompanies, are: stricter energy efficiency requirements for sions reached 23,406 tonnes, representing 7,01 CO2 tonnes per offices and factories, higher taxation on energy consumption employee. While a sampling methodology was adopted, the leading to higher production and logistics costs and mandatory selected retail entities represent over 60% of our shops. After energy standards for manufacturing equipment. benchmarking with other companies in the industry, the energy consumption of our retail entities is aligned with the common We believe that customers, investors and potential employees expectation within the industries. prefer to work with companies like William Demant whose sustainability concerns are integrated into the Group’s daily In 2017, including retail entities, the total CO2 emissions of the business operations. Focus on climate change and CSR in Group is 37,671 tonnes, and the CO2 emissions per employee is general presents an opportunity for us to attract talented staff, 3,50 tonnes. long-term investors and possibly also customers. In addition, our responsible business practice ensures continued access to Emissions breakdown by GHG energy scope (retail entities not the increasing number of investors signing up for the UN Princiincluded) ples for Responsible Investments. Finally, as products become increasingly similar in technological capabilities, the conduct of the companies behind may gain importance when customers Scope CO2 emissions (tonnes), 2017 select supplier of products and services. As our customers do Scope 1: direct Greenhouse Gas 3,298 not currently consider climate changes when selecting products, Scope 2: indirect Greenhouse Gas 10,967 the timescale for materialisation of such opportunities may be long-term. Acting responsibly towards our stakeholders globally Emissions breakdown by country (retail entities not included) has always been part of our mission statement, be they customers, staff, investors or other groups. For us, taking environmental responsibility means ensuring that our companies limit any Selected countries CO2 emissions (kg), 2017 adverse impacts on the external environment, including climate Poland 5,122,756 changes, as much as possible. United States of America 4,426,744 Denmark 1,766,443 Germany 636,628 3.2.2 CO2 emissions Australia 382,678 In 2017, our Group’s CO2 emissions reached 14,266 tonnes, repFrance 377,131 resenting 1.92 CO2 tonnes per employee (including Sennheiser Italy 237,431 Communications). This is a decreasing trend compared to 2016, Canada 218,987 when emissions reached a total of 14,973 tonnes representing United Kingdom 208,015 an amount of 2.32 CO2 tonnes per employee. As a company in China 173,269 growth, we are satisfied with our ability to decrease our footprint Japan 159,262 by 5% in total and by 17% per employee compared to 2016, Turkey 141,400 which is a result of locations merging of several offices, higher Brazil 134,744 utilization of green power like LED lighting and change of energy Korea 128,156 suppliers. While hiring more talents into the company, we also Malaysia 82,054 pay attention to our contribution to protect the environment. For Singapore 41,928 Sennheiser Communications the emission has increased from Switzerland 26,446 0.95 CO2 tonnes per employee to 1.15 CO2 tonnes per employee. South Africa 1,468 The total CO2 emission for Sennheiser Communications reached 232 tonnes compared to 165 tonnes in 2016. The increase of energy consumption is due to a car energy switch from diesel to gasoline. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 19 ENVIROMENTAL PROTECTION 3.3. Environmental initiatives metres, which is more than the distance around the earth and is also an outstanding outcome compared to other Danish teams 3.3.1 In-house environmental initiatives – facility, IT, participated. employee activities At William Demant, we aspire to act in a responsible way and arouse the awareness across the Group by developing innova3.3.2 Offshore windmills farm tive initiatives and optimizing our solutions to contribute to the Another example of our environmental initiatives is our stake environment. Besides paying attention to product safety matters in the offshore windmills farm in the German North Sea, which and our energy consumption performance, we also stress the was commissioned in 2017. It is an investment that is capable of importance in environmental friendly initiatives in our daily producing electricity to the equivalent consumption of 320,000 workplace. We believe that seemingly trivial actions may result households with all 78 wind turbines operated. in a collectively huge impact on our energy consumption and hence on our environmental footprint. The investment of DKK 1.7 billion was made in early 2012 by the Oticon Foundation via William Demant Invest (WDI), the majority We have actively adopted various approaches regarding facility owner of William Demant. Our majority stakeholder and WDI’s in the offices to reduce energy consumption. At our headquarinterest in the windmills farm constitutes about 18.5%. The ter, a cooling system that helps saving energy was installed in corresponding production of green power will be more than five the summer of 2017. Sun protection films were applied to the times the total corporate consumption of electricity. In 2018, the skylight windows in our main buildings and it positively reduces revenue of the windmills farm is estimated to be DKK 250,000 the energy consumption used by cooling during summer time. with the production budgeted at 1,289GWh. In our sound studios in Denmark, we have installed LED lights to reduce electricity consumption. In order to achieve and maintain optimal waste management, William Demant has collaborated with WastePartner Management to establish an educational training programme called WasteAcademy. With a joint effort, our employees are offered continued training in correct waste management and gain an overview of our entire waste management system, containers, fractions, disposed amounts and the cost. In 2018, we will continuously work on innovative way to recycle waste with the purpose to achieve better environmental contribution and optimize cost saving. For instance, we are investigating the possibility to turn our coffee waste from the huge coffee consumption in the office into some energy resource which could in return support our energy consumption. Regarding IT infrastructure, we aim to optimize business agility and deliver IT solitons with lower energy consumption. We regularly review the need to update IT equipment for our investments and solutions when setting the direction for the data centre infrastructure. With applying a variety of upgrade solutions, we usually adopt the more effective options which also play a positive role in our goal to save energy. In the summer of 2017, we partnered up with the Danish Cyclists’ Federation to organise a campaign called Bike to Work. The purpose is to encourage more employees to use their bikes for everyday transportation, which both improves health and reduces impact to the environment. One person can reduce CO2 emissions by 450 kilos per year by biking six kilometres every day. At William Demant, the employees who biked have biked 1,709 days together adding up to a staggering 42,992 kiloWILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 20 BUSINESS ETHICS 4.1 Corruption and Bribery 4.2 Data Privacy We are convinced that our business can only flourish if based By May 2018, a new EU regulation on data privacy will come into on sound business ethics. We develop innovative, high-quality effect with increased requirements on how companies collect products and our primary goal is for the users to benefit from and handle personal data of customers, end-users, employees our products. We therefore have no interest in supporting busietc. Besides, there is increasing focus from US authorities on ness conduct that contributes to distorting market mechanisms. the US regulation on the handling of health information. Data Equally, we want to protect any end-user data that we process. privacy is among our top priorities regarding business ethics. We are aware and highly respectful of the sensitive nature of the In 2010, we adopted a formal business ethics policy that applies personal data that our customers, end-users, employees and to all Group companies. The policy outlines how we want to act other stakeholders trust us to process, and we are committed and how we want to be perceived, when it comes to the ethical to protecting such personal data through high levels of security aspects of doing business and interacting with customers. Spemeasures and responsible policies. Our goal is to raise the cifically, the policy provides guidelines as to what is appropriate awareness regarding data privacy throughout Group and to and inappropriate marketing, hospitality and other interaction have a reasonable level of compliance to minimize risks while at with hearing healthcare professionals. the same time ensuring freedom to operate for the business. We do not offer, give, accept or receive bribery in any form and A data privacy project has been set up since 2016 and we aspire we discourage facilitation payments. Along these lines, it is to establish a Global Data Privacy Policy framework with guiding important to note that situations where corruption is prevalent principles and good practices for working with personal data. often occur in third-world countries in connection with public Moreover, a Breach Policy will be in place on how to handle tenders and that these tenders represent a very limited part a data breach, for instance if devices with personal data are of our total revenue. By the nature of our business, challenges stolen, passwords are compromised etc. regarding corruption are thus extremely rare. Nevertheless, according to the policy, we have incorporated business ethics In 2017, a project group and a steering committee were set up principles into contracts with third parties where relevant, and for the preparation and the launch of the data privacy prowe have applied a set of principles to avoid misuse of payments ject. After comprehensive researches on different levels and and financial transactions. organisations of the Group globally, a network in every corner of the Group was built. In order to turn our data privacy policies Furthermore, we make an effort to communicate our business into practice and raise the awareness globally, we will build a ethics to all our companies, thus making ethics a natural part of network of local Data Privacy Champions, who will be the local all managers’ meetings and internal training sessions. data privacy experts for a certain business area and/or region. New policies and framework for data privacy were developed The Group adheres to the United Nations Convention against and a toolbox of templates such as privacy notices and data Corruption and the UK Bribery Act. Most of the Group’s activities processing agreements has been created. With the collaboracan be characterised as “relationship business”, which frequenttion with the local data champions, the project group was able ly involves close interaction with clients, including consulting, to assess the process and generate input on mitigating actions training and collaborating with hearing care professionals, for for business. In 2018 and going onwards, William Demant instance audiologists, hearing aid dispensers, ear-nose-andwill run continuous assessments of new process and systems throat specialists and clinic owners. and set up training programs as part of on-boarding new data champions. The Group’s strong focus on ensuring the highest degree of business ethics possible has resulted in the fact that the Group has not received any reports on cases of either corruption or bribery in 2017. We believe that this is a direct result of the significant attention paid to the business ethics policy by employees and managers on all levels of the Group. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 21 CONCLUDING REMARKS Taking a look back at 2017 regarding initiatives, processes, assessment and enabling systems, we are proud to say that we are in full compliance with the market standard in a spectrum of comparable companies. We have defined the below initiatives that we will continue working on in 2018 and beyond: • Update our supplier risk assessment system with the objective of getting more transparency on supplier compliance • Update our Code of Conduct to lift content and processes to new level and include new standards, e.g. conflicting minerals • Analyse our compliancy with anti-bribery legislation and based on the conclusion of the analysis potentially roll-out an internal training system • Based on the extended reporting in 2017, update policies and goals on diversity and female managers and launch new initiatives accordingly • Extend the reporting of energy consumption and include more retail entities In 2017, William Demant has achieved good results in becoming more sustainable and responsible. Not only have we continued many excellent and valuable projects into 2017, we have also developed new and better initiatives in and beyond the Group. In the past year, we took a closer look in our CSR activities and structure under the guidance of the UN Global Compact and its SDGs, and we have better defined the areas that we will continue to put emphasis on. This report complements William Demant’s Annual Report 2017 which presents the Group’s strategy and consolidated results regarding financial, social and environmental performance. In addition, our reporting resembles the requirements such as company profile, a clear explanation of our processes, risk assessments and KPIs. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2017 22
