PURSUING DIALOGUE for patient care 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT including the Annual Financial Report SUMMARY INTRODUCTION 2 3.3 Company financial statements 2017 126 3.3.1 Summary document 126 INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES 3 3.3.2 Notes to the annual financial statements 128 3.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial statements 141 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 5 3.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity 144 1.1 Group’s overview and strategy 6 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company 6 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES 1.1.2 Group Strategy 7 AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 149 1.2 Group’s activity and corporate structure 9 4.1 Human resources 150 1.2.1 The Group’s products 9 4.1.1 Group workforce 150 1.2.2 Major Contracts 14 4.1.2 The Group’s Human Resources policy 152 1.2.3 Research and Development 18 4.2 Environment, Health and Safety 154 1.2.4 Intellectual Property 22 4.2.1 Regulatory Issues 154 1.2.5 Main Markets 25 4.2.2 EHS Policy 156 1.2.6 Regulations 25 4.2.3 EHS 2017 Performance 157 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure 26 4.2.4 Internal resources 164 4.2.5 2017 Ipsen UN Global Compact Communication 2 RISKS AND CONTROL 29 on Progress 165 2.1 Risks Factors 30 4.3 Social & societal information 168 2.1.1 Specific Risks to the Group and its Structure 30 4.3.1 Social relations 168 2.1.2 Risks Associated with the Pharmaceutical Industry 32 4.3.2 Societal information 169 2.1.3 Legal Risks 35 2.1.4 Financial Risks 37 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 179 2.1.5 Industrial and Environmental Risks 38 5.1 Board of Directors and Executive Management 180 2.1.6 Insurance and Protection Against Risks 39 5.1.1 Board of Directors and Executive Management 181 2.2 Internal control or Risk management 40 5.1.2 Compensation of Company officers 209 2.2.1 Organization 40 5.1.3 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated 2.2.2 Information management 42 agreements and commitments 223 2.2.3 Risk Management framework 43 5.2 Information related to the Company 2.2.4 Control activities 44 and its share capital 226 2.2.5 Review and assessment of internal control 45 5.2.1 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association 226 5.2.2 Share Capital 228 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 47 5.2.3 Shareholding 234 3.1 Management report for the financial year 48 6 ANNEXES 241 3.1.1 Significant events during the year 48 6.1 Person responsible 242 3.1.2 Analysis of results 49 6.1.1 Attestation of the person responsible 3.1.3 Net cash flow and financing 55 for the registration document 242 3.1.4 Appendices 58 6.1.2 Person responsible for financial information 242 3.1.5 Subsequent events 65 6.1.3 Person responsible for account audit and fees 242 3.1.6 Group outlook 65 6.2 Third party information, statements by experts 3.2 Consolidated financial statements 2017 66 and declarations of interests 243 3.2.1 Consolidated income statement 66 6.3 Consultation of legal documents 243 3.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation 6.4 Cross-reference tables 243 of net profit 68 6.4.1 Cross-reference table for the registration document 243 3.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow 69 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report cross-reference table 246 3.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ 6.4.3 Cross-reference table of the Management Report equity 70 and of the Board of Directors’ Report 3.2.5 Notes annexes 72 on Corporate Governance 247 3.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated 6.4.4 Cross-reference table for the filing financial statements 122 of the financial statements 249 This registration document has been established in accordance with the Appendix 1 of the European Commission Regulation n°809/2004 dated April 29, 2004. Société anonyme with a share capital of 83,782,308 euros Registered office: 65 quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt 419 838 529 R.C.S. Nanterre 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT including the Annual Financial Report Pursuant to the provisions of its general regulations, in particular article 212-13, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) has registered this registration document on 23 March 2018. This document may not be used in support of any financial operation unless it is accompanied by a prospectus approved by the AMF. This document has been prepared by the issuer, and its signatories assume responsibility for its contents. Pursuant to the provisions of article 28 of EC regulation 809/2004 of 29 April 2004, readers are referred to the Document de Référence for Ipsen recorded by the AMF on 27 March 2017 under number D.17-0231 for the 2016 financial year and on 29 March 2016 under number D.16-0216 for the 2015 financial year, for the following financial information, prepared under IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standard): historical and consolidated financial statement (including the auditors’ reports). INTRODUCTION In this registration document, unless stated otherwise, Investors are urged to pay careful attention to the risk factors the terms “Company” and “Ipsen” refer to Ipsen S.A. and described in paragraphs 2.1.1; 2.1.2; 2.1.3; 2.1.4; 2.1.5 and the term “Group” refers to Ipsen and its subsidiaries and 2.1.6 of this registration document before making their shareholdings. investment decision. One or more of these risks may have an adverse effect on the Group’s activities, condition, results of This registration document contains for ward-looking operations or on its targets and forecasts. Furthermore, other statements about the Group’s targets and forecasts, risks not yet identified or considered as significant by the especially in Chapter 3.1.6. Such statements may in certain Group could have the same adverse effects. cases be identified by the use of the future or conditional This registration document also contains details of the markets tense or by forward-looking words including but not limited in which the Group operates. This information is notably taken to “believes”, “targets”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “should”, from research produced by external organizations. Given the “aims”, “estimates”, “considers”, “wishes” and “may”. These very rapid pace of change in the pharmaceutical sector in statements are based on data, assumptions and estimates that France and the rest of the world, this information may prove to the Company considers to be reasonable. They are subject to be erroneous or out of date. change or adjustment owing to uncertainties arising from the vagaries inherent in all research and development activities, Forward-looking statements, targets and forecasts shown in as well as in the economic, financial, competitive, regulatory this registration document may be affected by risks, either and climatic environment. In addition, the Group’s business known or unknown, uncertainties or other factors that may activities and its ability to meet its targets and forecasts may lead to the Group’s future results of operations, performance be affected if certain risk factors described in Chapter 2.1 – and achievements differing significantly from the stated or “Risk factors” of this registration document arise. In addition, implied targets and forecasts. These factors may include attainment of the targets and forecasts implies the success changes in economic or trading conditions and regulations, of the strategy presented in section 1.1.2 – “Strategy” of this as well as the factors set forth in Chapter 2.1 – “Risk factors” registration document. of this registration document. The Company makes no undertaking and gives no guarantee as to the attainment of the targets and forecasts shown in this registration document. 2 2017 Ipsen Registration document INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES 2017 Group sales by therapeutic areas 2017 Group sales by geographic areas Major Western Specialty European Care Oncology countries 83.4% 62.1% Other 33.8% European Countries 20.7% Rares diseases 3.9% Neuroscience 17.4% Consumer Healthcare North America Rest of the World 16.6% 24.5% 21.0% Core Operating Income (in millions of euros) and core Core consolidated net profit (in millions of euros) operating margin (as % of sales) 503.6 363.9 362.7 26.4% 263.6 23.0% 2016 2017 2016 2017 Ownership of the Company’s share capital Dividend per share paid for the financial year (in euros) at 31 December 2017 0.85 0.85 FCPE Mayroy SA 0.2% 56.4% Treasury shares 1.4% Other registered shareholders 0.9% Directors Free Float (ex. Mayroy SA) 0.2% 2016 2017 40.9% 2017 Ipsen Registration document 3 INTRODUCTION: KEY FIGURES Share price performance on the stock exchange Ipsen has implemented a Sponsored Level I American Shares in Ipsen S.A. have been traded on the Eurolist by Depositary Receipt (ADR) program and trades on the overEuronext™ market (Compartment A) since 7 December 2005, the-counter market in the United States under the symbol when the IPO (Initial Public Offering) price was €22.20 per share. IPSEY. Ipsen shares joined the Deferred Settlement System on 28 March 2007 and joined the SBF120 index on 24 December 2007. Share information 2017 trading data ISIN Code FR0010259150 Average share price €102.0 Euronext Code IPN.PA Highest price (22/06/2017) €128.1 ADR Code IPSEY Lowest price (02/01/2017) €68.3 SRD / PEA Eligibility Yes / Yes Stock market capitalization (1) €8,324.0M Total Shares (1) 83.6 M Average daily volume 127,188.1 (1) As of 31 December 2017. Comparison between Ipsen’s share price performance and the principal stock market indicators between 2 January 2017 and 29 December 2017 (Source: Reuters) Price (€) Volume 200 3,500,000 3,000,000 180 2,500,000 160 2,000,000 140 1,500,000 120 1,000,000 100 500,000 80 0 January 17 February 17 March 17 April 17 May 17 June 17 July 17 August 17 September 17 October 17 November 17 December 17 Volumes Ipsen SBF 120 S&P Pharma CAC Mid 60 4 2017 Ipsen Registration document 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1.1 GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 6 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company 6 1.1.2 Group Strategy 7 1.2 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 9 1.2.1 The Group’s products 9 1.2.2 Major Contracts 14 1.2.3 Research and Development 18 1.2.4 Intellectual Property 22 1.2.5 Main Markets 25 1.2.6 Regulations 25 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure 26 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 1.1 GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY 1.1.1 History and Development of the Company ■■1.1.1.1 Legal Entity Overview • Neuroscience (17.4% of Ipsen’s sales) with the key product Dysport® for therapeutic and aesthetic indications; Registered name Ipsen • Rare Diseases (3.9% of Ipsen’s sales) with Nutropin®, a liquid formulation of recombinant human growth hormone and Registered office Increlex®, a recombinant insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) of 65 Quai Georges Gorse, 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt cedex human origin. Telephone number Consumer Healthcare +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00 The Consumer Healthcare business is the historical business Legal Form and applicable laws of the Group with several strong regional brands. It generated sales of 316.8 million euros in 2017, or 16.6% of the Group’s The Company is a limited liability company incorporated sales. China, France and Russia account for 60.4% of under French law with a Board of Directors governed by the Consumer Healthcare sales. provisions of Book II of the French Commercial Code. Registration details The Consumer Healthcare business is transforming from a prescription-based promotional model to a combination of The Company is registered in the Trade and Companies prescription and over-the-counter (OTx). Registry in Nanterre under registration number 419 838 529. Main brands include Smecta®, a naturally extracted purified Date of incorporation and term clay for the symptomatic treatment of acute diarrhea; The Company was incorporated on 28 July 1998, for a fixed Tanakan®, a standardized extract from the leaves of Ginkgo period, except in the case of early dissolution or extension, biloba for the treatment of various neurological and neuroof ninety-nine years from its registration in the Register of sensorial disorders; Forlax®, an osmotic laxative indicated Commerce and Companies, or until 18 August 2097. for the symptomatic treatment of constipation in adults and children; and Fortrans®, a colon cleansing solution indicated ■■1.1.1.2 Group Overview for patients in preparation for endoscopic, radiological examinations or colonic surgery. Ipsen is a global specialty-driven biopharmaceutical group focused on innovation and specialty care. The Group develops and commercializes innovative medicines ■■1.1.1.3 History and Development in three key therapeutic areas – Oncology, Neuroscience and of the Company Rare Diseases. Its commitment to oncology is exemplified through its growing portfolio of key therapies for prostate The Group started in 1929 when Doctor Henri Beaufour set up cancer, neuroendocrine tumors, renal cell carcinoma, and Laboratoires Beaufour in Dreux for the launch of Romarène®, pancreatic cancer. Ipsen also has a well-established Consumer a naturally-occurring product derived from rosemary for the Healthcare business. With total sales of €1,908.7 billion in treatment of digestive disorders. The 1970s was a period of 2017, Ipsen sells more than 20 drugs in over 115 countries, expansion for the Group’s activities in organic products during with a direct commercial presence in more than 30 countries. which Ipsen launched Tanakan® and Smecta®, which remain major products for the Group. Specialty Care During the 1970s, the Group focused its activities on Ipsen has built its strength in Specialty Care through solid engineering peptide products and set up Biomeasure (now long-term partnerships with leading international research known as Ipsen Bioscience, Inc.), which was the Group’s hubs and a robust portfolio of drugs for several cancers. peptide product research facility based close to universities The Specialty Care business generated sales of 1,591.9 million around Boston. Through Biomeasure, relationships were euros in 2017, or 83.4% of the Group’s sales. The Group established and fostered with several American universities. focuses on: These partnerships led to the marketing of Decapeptyl®, which was launched in 1986 and drove the Group’s international • Oncology (62.1% of Ipsen’s sales) with Somatuline ®, a expansion. best-in-class somatostatin analog for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors; Cabometyx®, the only single-agent In the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Group continued its treatment with significant improvement across all three international expansion by setting up subsidiaries and offices key efficacy endpoints in second-line renal cell carcinoma; outside of France and acquiring foreign companies. Onivyde ®, a differentiated product with overall survival benefit addressing a high unmet medical need in pancreatic In 1994, the Group acquired the UK-based company cancer; and Decapeptyl ®, an established and growing Speywood (known at the time as Porton International), which product in Europe and China for prostate cancer; is responsible for developing Dysport® and in 1995, the Group 6 2017 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY launched its second sustained-release peptide, Somatuline® Recently, the Group completed two important transactions to in France. accelerate the evolution towards becoming a leading global biopharmaceutical company: The Group went public in December 2005 on the Eurolist market of Euronext™ in order to accelerate and support its • In 2016, the Group acquired the exclusive commercialization growth in Specialty Care and to enter the world’s largest rights for current and potential future cabozantinib pharmaceutical market in the United States. indications outside of the United States and Japan; During the 2010s, the Group increased its focus and • In early 2017, the Group acquired Onivyde®, the oncology investment in its toxins research platform. The Group‘s active asset from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals. policy to build partnerships allows it to obtain the resources for programs it does not wish to finance independently or to ■■1.1.1.4 Group’s Main Products create value through the licensing of products that arise from its research but are not deemed as part of its core business The following table presents the main therapeutic indications (see part 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). for the Group’s main products. 2017 sales Product name Therapeutic area (1) (in millions Principal therapeutic indications (2) of euros) Specialty Care: 83.4% of full year sales Somatuline® Oncology 702.5 Neuroendocrine tumors; acromegaly Cabometyx ® Oncology 51.7 Renal cell carcinoma Onivyde ® Oncology 56.9 Metastatic pancreatic cancer Decapeptyl® Oncology 348.7 Advanced metastatic prostate cancer; uterine fibroids; precocious puberty; endometriosis; female sterility (in vitro fertilization) Dysport® Neuroscience 328.2 Motor disorders and muscular spasticity (cervical dystonia; cerebral palsy; blepharospasms and hemifacial spasms) NutropinAq® Rare Diseases 51.8 Growth failure in children due to growth hormone (GH) deficiency, Turner syndrome or chronic renal failure and GH deficiency in adults Increlex® Rare Diseases 22.9 Long-term treatment of growth failure in children and adolescents with severe primary insulin-like growth factor-1 deficiency (severe primary IGFD-1) Consumer Healthcare: 16.6% of full year sales Smecta® Gastroenterology 115.5 Chronic and acute diarrhoea; symptomatic treatment of pain linked to oesogastroduodenal conditions and colic Forlax® Gastroenterology 42.1 Constipation Fortrans / Eziclen ® ® Gastroenterology 32.1 Intestinal cleaning Etiasa ® Gastroenterology 17.8 Inflammatory bowel diseases Tanakan® Cognitive disorders 41.4 Mild cognitive impairment related to age; pathophysiological deficiencies; vertigo; retinal deficits; acute or chronic hearing impairment; tinnitus (1) Products are classified into therapeutic areas based on their primary indications. (2) Therapeutic indications of products vary from country to country. For more details about the sales geographical breakdown, see the management report (part 3.1.2 “Analysis of results”). 1.1.2 Group Strategy ■■1.1.2.1 The Group’s vision and ambition Strong Foundation Ipsen is built on a strong foundation with a nearly 90-year Ipsen is a dynamic and growing global specialty-driven heritage of family ownership and a solid and diversified biopharmaceutical group focused on innovation and specialty portfolio with a fast-growing and dynamic Specialty Care care that is improving people’s lives through differentiated and business, a stable Consumer Healthcare business, and with innovative medicines in Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare significant competitive advantages: Diseases. The strong position in Specialty Care, combined with the heritage in Consumer Healthcare, provides the • Proven financial strength through a significant and recurring Group with the scale, expertise and stability needed to make cash flow and strong balance sheet; a sustainable difference for people in the quickly evolving • A global footprint in over 100 countries, with close to 50% healthcare environment. of revenues generated outside Europe. The Group entered 2017 Ipsen Registration document 7 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY the U.S. market in 2008 which now represents the fastest has focused its internal resources and efforts on becoming a growing region and the top affiliate in terms of sales. The Development Powerhouse while turning more toward external Group also benefits from an important historical presence sourcing for new assets. in emerging markets such as China and Russia; Ipsen is built around a culture of open innovation, which drives • Proven expertise in cutting-edge technologies, such as research, development and commercialization. The Group toxin engineering and advanced drug delivery systems, identifies, develops and integrates innovative products that which can be employed together at an early stage of are a strategic fit for its portfolio and that deliver value for development; patients. It brings together the best minds to tackle some of • The geographic proximity of its research, development and the most difficult diseases and it does it by developing long innovation teams based in the United States (Cambridge, lasting, mutually beneficial partnerships and through open MA) and in Europe (Milton Park – Oxford, United Kingdom and smart collaborative innovation. – Dublin, Ireland – Berlin, Germany – Dreux and Les Ulis, Paris Saclay, France) to highly-regarded university research Open innovation (see part 1.2.3.1 “Research and Development centers that enable the Group to benefit from available Activities”) is a key tenet of Ipsen’s business model. This along scientific expertise and to hire highly qualified personnel; with its strong track record and its growing U.S. presence has positioned the Group as a partner of choice from early • A recognized ability to secure and manage large-scale stage development and academic partnerships, through partnerships with the world’s leading and innovative to late stage and product commercialization. With an open pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies such as innovation model in mind, the Group has placed its three R&D Exelixis, Lexicon, Shire, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Roche centers at the heart of three internationally reputed scientific (through co-development strategies for cabozantinib), Teijin hubs: Paris-Saclay in France, Oxford in the United Kingdom in Japon, Galderma and Menarini in Italy; and Cambridge in the United States. • An effective management team with significant experience in the pharmaceutical industry. The Group’s biotech mindset, combined with the scale and advantages of a global pharmaceutical company, has A New Era established it as a development and commercial powerhouse Innovation is driving the business in a rapidly transforming in its core focus areas, with a proven ability to bring new, life healthcare environment. The Group’s global footprint and changing therapies to market. the recognized leadership across the core focus areas of Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases position it to take This approach is core to its ambition to launch at least on the challenges that patients and caregivers face. one new drug or meaningful indication every year and the Group has established a R-D-C (Research-DevelopmentSpecialty Care: Commercialization) model to accelerate growth in Specialty In Specialty Care, Ipsen is focused on three key therapeutic Care. areas, Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare Diseases, where Business Development Ipsen can establish a leadership position and leverage its expertise from drug development to commercialization. Ipsen will continue to invest in business development in its • Specialty Oncology where the Group currently has products three key therapeutic areas. The Group continues to be active for neuroendocrine tumors, renal cell carcinoma, pancreatic in its business development efforts. In the near term, Ipsen will cancer, and prostate cancer; target early and mid-stage assets in its key therapeutic areas to build the pipeline and then in the longer term, it will consider • Neuroscience in both the therapeutics segment which is later stage de-risked assets. currently focused on spasticity and the aesthetics segment through the partnership with Galderma; The criteria for all transactions are that they are strategically • Rare Diseases, with a small presence today and the desire aligned, financially viable and the Group’s ability to integrate to expand further with new opportunities. the asset and obtain synergies. Consumer Healthcare: ■■1.1.2.2 2020 Financial Targets In Consumer Healthcare, the Group maintains a sustainable In May 2017, Ipsen provided updated 2020 financial targets: and growing business. To do so, Ipsen will complete the OTx (1) model transformation and leverage the three main market• Sales greater than €2.5 billion, including Specialty Care leading brands through consumer innovations, capture sales growth of greater than 14% per year over the period the underlying market growth in emerging markets and 2016-2020 and Consumer Healthcare sales growth strengthen the European business. between 4% and 6% per year; A Development and Commercial Powerhouse driven • Core Operating Income margin greater than 30% of sales. by innovation This guidance excludes the impact from any fur ther Building an innovative and sustainable pipeline is essential for business development and covers the impact from potential continued growth and a key objective for the Group. Ipsen Somatuline® competitive threats. (1) Combination of prescription and over-the-counter. 8 2017 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.1 The Group’s products ■■1.2.1.1 Specialty Care products acromegaly. In 2014, Somatuline® Depot® was approved for the anti-proliferative treatment of GEP-NET in adults with Oncology unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease. The Somatuline® and Somatuline® Autogel® / Depot® label was extended in September 2017 for the treatment of Active substance and indications carcinoid syndrome associated with neuroendocrine tumors. Somatuline® Depot® became the first and only somatostatin Somatuline® is a somatostatin analog made from the active analog FDA-approved for these two last indications. substance lanreotide which inhibits the secretion of growth hormones and certain other hormones by the digestive system. Somatuline ® Depot® received Orphan Drug Designation in the U.S. for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors with Somatuline® Autogel®, a new galenic formulation, is the first exclusivity until 2021. semi-solid formulation for injection without any polymeric excipient since the active substance itself controls the As of 31 December 2017, Somatuline ® Autogel ® / Depot ® sustained release. Somatuline® Autogel® releases the active was marketed in 57 countries (including 27 in Europe) for the substance over the duration of at least 28 days, thus requiring treatment of acromegaly and neuroendocrine tumors. just one deep subcutaneous injection per month when compared with the two or three injections previously required. In 2017, Somatuline ® Autogel ® / Depot ® was the first and This unique formulation allows the product to be presented in fastest growing product of the Group with sales amounting a pre-filled, ready-to-use syringe (single use only) for easier €702.5 million, of which 48.1% we re ge ne rated in administration and was launched in 2001. More recently, a North America. pre-filled ready-to-use device was launched in 2011 with a Somatuline ® Autogel ® / Depot ® is prescribed mainly by retractable needle enabling the safe delivery of the full dose endocrinologists, oncologists, gastroenterologists, and at every injection. digestive surgeons. The main indications of Somatuline ® and Somatuline ® Competition Autogel® / Depot® are the following: The main competitor of Somatuline® Autogel® is Sandostatin® • Neuroendocrine tumors LAR®, a somatostatin analog called octreotide developed by –– Treatment of symptoms associated with carcinoid Novartis for the treatment of acromegaly and neuroendocrine syndrome related to neuroendocrine tumors. Somatuline® tumors. However, the approved indications are not inhibits the production of certain hormones secreted in identical as Sandostatin does not have the anti-proliferative excess by these tumors; indication for GEP-NET in the U.S. Other competitors in the acromegaly market are: Somavert®, a growth hormone –– Treatment of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine receptor antagonist developed by Pfizer, and Signifor® LAR® tumors (GEP-NETs) in adult patients with unresectable developed by Novartis. locally advanced or metastatic disease to improve progression free survival (PFS); Cabometyx® • Acromegaly Active substance and indications Treatment of acromegaly when circulating levels of growth Cabometyx ® (active substance: cabozantinib) is a small hormone and /or Insulin-like Growth Factor-1 remain molecule administered orally in the form of tablets that acts as abnormal after surgery and/or radiotherapy, or in patients a targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). who otherwise require medical treatment. Somatuline ® With a unique mechanism of action targeting MET and AXL inhibits growth hormone release and thus improves control beyond VEGFR (Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor), of this disorder by relieving the symptoms associated with Cabometyx® has the potential to overcome the resistance elevated levels of this hormone. induced by prior antiangiogenic therapies. The mechanism of Marketing action for Cabometyx® has been shown to inhibit angiogenesis and the migration and proliferation of tumor cells. Somatuline ® was initially launched in France in 1995 and the Somatuline ® Autogel ® formulation in 2001 for the Cabometyx ® is indicated for the treatment of advanced treatment of acromegaly and carcinoid syndrome associated renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in adults following prior vascular with neuroendocrine tumors. In 2015, the EMA approved endothelial growth factor (VEGF) targeted therapy. Somatuline® Autogel® for the treatment of GEP-NET in adults Cabometyx® is the first and only targeted therapy in second with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic disease. line RCC to demonstrate clinically and statistically significant Somatuline ® Depot ® was first approved by the U.S. Food improvement across three endpoints (PFS, OS and ORR), and Drug Administration in 2007 for the treatment of with a convenient regimen of one tablet daily. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 9 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Marketing the U.S. and retains exclusive U.S. commercialization rights The European launch of Cabometyx® was initiated in Germany to potential future indications for the drug. Shire has ex-U.S. in late 2016, and was also made accessible in most Western commercialization rights to Onivyde® and PharmaEngine has European countries through a managed access program. commercialization rights in Taiwan. At the end of 2017, Cabometyx® was available in EU5 (France, From April to December 2017, Onivyde ® sales reached Germany, Italy, United Kingdom and Spain), Benelux, Nordics €56.9 million. and other CCE countries and registered sales of €51.7 million. Onivyde® is prescribed by oncologists. At 31 December 2017, Cabomet y x ® had marketing Competition authorizations in over 30 countries, including 28 in Europe. The main competitors of Onivyde ® are fluorouracil-based Cabometyx is prescribed primarily by oncologists. ® combination regimens of generic chemotherapy agents including: Folfirinox® (fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan and Cabomet y x ® stems from a par tnership with E xelixis oxaliplatin), Folfox® (fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin), (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). and Folfiri® (fluorouracil, leucovorin, and irinotecan). Competition Oniv yde ® is indicated following gemcitabine-based In second line RCC, five other treatments are approved in therapy. The most common gemcitabine-based therapy is Europe. Three products have been marketed for several gemcitabine in combination with Abraxane®, a microtubule years: Nexavar ® (Bayer), Afinitor ® (Novartis), and Inlyta ® inhibitor, developed and marketed by Celgene, indicated (Pfizer). Two products received approval in 2016: Opdivo® in combination with gemcitabine as first-line treatment for (BMS), and Kisplyx® (Eisai) in combination with Afinitor®. advanced pancreatic cancer. In the most recent ESMO RCC guidelines, only Cabometyx® Decapeptyl® and Opdivo® are considered standard of care therapies in second line post-TKI. Nexavar ®, Afinitor ®, and Inlyta ® are Active substance and indications only considered as treatment options, while Kisplyx ® in Decapeptyl® is a synthetic hormone with active ingredient combination with Afinitor® was not included. triptorelin, a decapeptide analog of GnRH (Gonadotrophin Releasing Hormone). GnRH is a hormone secreted by the Onivyde® (irinotecan liposome injection) hypothalamus, which initially stimulates the release of pituitary Active substance and indications gonadotrophins (hormones produced by the pituitary gland) Onivyde® is a unique encapsulation formulation of irinotecan. and in turn controls hormonal secretions by the testicles and The sucrose octasulfate salt in a long-circulating liposomal ovaries. form is designed to increase the length of tumor exposure to The indications of Decapeptyl® are as follows: irinotecan and its active metabolite SN-38. • Treatment of locally advanced or metastatic prostate cancer: Irinotecan, a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor, is a derivative of In this indication, Decapeptyl® temporarily increases the camptothecin that relieves torsional strain in DNA by inducing concentration of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone, single-strand breaks, rotating the cleaved strand around but continuous administration paradoxically leads to a the double helix axis and re-ligating the cleaved strand to reduction in plasmatic testosterone concentration. After re-establish intact duplex DNA. Both irinotecan and its active two to three weeks of treatment, testosterone is reduced metabolite SN-38 bind reversibly to the topoisomerase to levels below the castration threshold, thereby depriving I-DNA complex and prevent re-ligation of these single-strand prostate tumors of one of the main hormones promoting breaks. The liposome is a unilamellar lipid bilayer vesicle, tumor development; approximately 110 nm in diameter, which encapsulates an • Uterine fibroids: Decapeptyl ® is used to reduce the risk aqueous space containing irinotecan. of blood loss following ablative surgery to remove uterine Onivyde ® is indicated, in combination with fluorouracil and fibroids and to relieve symptoms such as abdominal pain, leucovorin, for the treatment of patients with metastatic dysmenorrhoea (painful menstruation), and menorrhagia adenocarcinoma of the pancreas after disease progression (excessive menstrual bleeding) associated with uterine following gemcitabine-based therapy. fibroids through the reduction in their hormonal stimulation; • Endometriosis: Decapeptyl® is used as a treatment aimed Marketing at suppressing oestrogen secretion, which deprives the Oniv yde ® was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug ectopic endometrial tissue of the critical stimulus it needs Administration in 2015, and in the EU in 2016, for the treatment to grow; of metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas after disease • In vitro fertilization: Decapeptyl® is used in association with progression with gemcitabine-based therapy, in combination gonadotrophins to induce ovulation for in vitro fertilization with 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin. Onivyde® was developed followed by embryo transfer; by Merrimack Pharmaceuticals. • Precocious puberty: Decapeptyl® is used to inhibit overThe acquisition of Onivyde® from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals secretion of hormones by the pituitary gland, which closed in April 2017. The Group currently markets Onivyde® in improves the height age/bone age ratio. 10 2017 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE • Endoc r i ne -re sp onsi ve e a r ly-stag e bre ast c a nce r: On 20 July 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products Decapeptyl® monthly is used in pre-menopausal women for Human Use ( CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, at high risk of recurrence following chemotherapy, in recommending the granting of a marketing authorization for combination with tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor. the medicinal product Xermelo®, intended for the treatment Triptorelin leads to ovarian function suppression, which in of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea in combination with a combination with tamoxifen (anti-œstrogen) or aromatase somatostatin analog. inhibitor (inhibitor of œstrogen synthesis) deprives the breast On 18 September 2017, the product received EMA approval tumor of the main hormones promoting its development. for the indication cited above. Decapeptyl® is available in daily, monthly, quarterly, and semiAs of 31 December 2017, Germany launched with temporary annual sustained-release formulations. reimbursement and other countries were negotiating Marketing reimbursement with their local authorities, with commercial availability planned during 2018 and 2019. Decapeptyl® was the Group’s second largest product in terms of sales in 2017 with Major Western European countries (G5) Xermelo® is prescribed by the same physicians that prescribe accounting for 81.4% of total sales and China representing a Somatuline® and other somatostatin analogs (endocrinologists, large portion of Decapeptyl® sales. oncologists, gastroenterologists, and digestive surgeons), as the treatment is an add-on to this therapy. At 31 December 2017, Decapept yl ® had marketing Xe r m e l o ® s te m s f ro m a p a r t n e r s h i p w i t h L ex i c o n authorizations in over 66 countries, including 29 in Europe. Pharmaceuticals (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). Decapeptyl ® is prescribed primarily by the following Competition specialists: urologists, oncologists, radiotherapists, paediatric endocrinologists, gynaecologists, obstetricians, and in vitro Xermelo® currently has no direct competition as it is a first-infertilization specialists. class drug, with little or no other validated therapies available in this particular patient segment. Decapeptyl ® stems from a partnership with Debiopharm Hexvix® (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). Active substance and indications Competition Hexvix ® (hexaminolevulinate, 85 mg) is a photosensitizing Competitors’ products vary depending on therapeutic agent used in blue-light cystoscopy as adjunct to standard indications. For prostate cancer, the main competitors are: white contributing to the diagnosis and management of Enantone® (Takeda/Wyeth/ Abbott), Zoladex® (AstraZeneca), bladder cancer. Hexvix® enhances the detection and guides Eligard ® (Astellas) and, for in vitro fertilization, Cetrotide ® the resection of tumors in patients with known or a high (Merck Serono) and Orgalutran® (MSD). suspicion of bladder cancer. Xermelo® Marketing Active substance and indications H ex v i x ® ste ms f ro m a pa r tn e r s hip w i th Photo cu re (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). The Group is responsible Xermelo ® is a novel, orally administered, inhibitor of the for the commercialization of Hexvix® outside Scandinavia and enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH). Through inhibition the United States. of TPH, the rate-limiting step in the synthesis of serotonin, Xermelo® is designed to reduce the production of serotonin Cometriq® within neuroendocrine tumors, thus reducing the presence of Active substance and indications some of the symptoms associated with carcinoid syndrome, Cometriq ® (active substance: cabozantinib) is a small in particular diarrhea and the secretion of 5HIAA. molecule administered orally in the form of capsules that acts Xermelo® is indicated for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome as a targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). diarrhea in patients inadequately controlled by somatostatin Cometriq® targets three important intracellular pathways in analog therapy. medullary thyroid cancer (MTC): RET, VEGFR, and MET. The mechanism of action for Cometriq® has been shown to Marketing inhibit angiogenesis and the migration and proliferation of In 2014, Ipsen and Lexicon announced that they had tumor cells. Cometriq® has also been found to disrupt tumor entered into an exclusive licensing agreement for Ipsen to vasculature and induce tumor cell death in preclinical models. commercialize Xermelo ® (telotristat ethyl) in all territories Cometriq® was approved in the US and Europe based on the excluding the United States and Japan, where Lexicon retains Phase III, international, multicenter, randomized, doubleblind the rights. On 28 February 2017, Lexicon received U.S. Food study (EXAM). and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for Xermelo® as the first and only orally-administered therapy for the treatment of This study demonstrated a statistically significant and clinically carcinoid syndrome diarrhea in combination with somatostatin meaningful improvement in progression free survival with analog (SSA) therapy in adults inadequately controlled by SSA Cometriq ® as compared to placebo, corresponding to a therapy. decrease of 72% of the risk of disease progression in patients 2017 Ipsen Registration document 11 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE with progressive locally advanced (not amenable by surgery) In the United States, on 30 April 2009, the FDA approved or metastatic MTC. the Biologics License Application (BLA) for Dysport ® in cervical dystonia and for the temporary improvement in the Cometriq® is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with appearance of moderate to severe glabellar lines in adults progressive, unresectable, locally-advanced or metastatic aged 65 years and under. In July 2015, the FDA approved medullary thyroid carcinoma. Cometriq® has orphan drug status Dysport ® in the symptomatic treatment of focal spasticity and fulfils an unmet medical need in medullary thyroid cancer. affecting adult upper limbs. In July 2016, the FDA approved Marketing Dysport® in the symptomatic treatment of lower limb spasticity in pediatric patients two years of age and older. As of 31 December 2017, Cometriq ® obtained marketing authorization in 27 countries, with Germany representing the In aesthetics, from 2007 the Group granted Galderma largest amount of product sales. the exclusive right to develop, promote, and distribute its botulinum toxin type A product for aesthetic indications in Cometriq ® is prescribed primarily by oncologists and some European countries (under the brand name Azzalure®) endocrinologists. Cometriq® stems from a partnership with and in other territories including the United States and Exelixis (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). Canada in 2014 (these agreements are presented in detail in Competition section 1.2.2 of this registration document). The main competitor for the product is Caprelsa® (Sanofi In June 2017, Ipsen entered into an exclusive, three-year Genzyme) which is used to treat patients with MTC that agreement with Saol Therapeutics to promote Dysport ® cannot be removed through surgery or that has spread to for approved therapeutic indications in adult spasticity and other parts of the body. pediatric lower limb spasticity in the United States. Neuroscience Dyspor t ® is prescribed by experienced physicians : neurologists, physical rehabilitation specialists, Dysport® neuropediatricians, orthopedic surgeons, ENT specialists, Active substance and indications ophthalmologists, dermatologists, and plastic surgeons. Dysport® is a botulinum neurotoxin type A product, which is Competition a substance derived from a bacteria that inhibits the effective Dysport®’s main competitor is Botox® (Allergan) and to a much transmission of nerve impulses and thereby reduces muscular lesser extent, Xeomin® (Merz). Lanzhou Biologics Institute has contractions. also launched a botulinum toxin A under the brand names Dysport ® is used in therapeutics and aesthetics for the Prosigne ®, Lantox ® or BTXA® in Asia, Russia, and Latin following indications: America. Medy-tox, Inc. has launched Medytoxin® in South • Treatment of local spasticity in adult upper and/or lower Korea in 2006 and continues its geographical expansion limbs. Spasticity is characterized by uncontrollable muscle in Asia, Latin America, and Eastern Europe under different contractions that are often accompanied by pain and brand names (Neuronox®, Botulift®, Siax®). reduced muscle function, e.g. difficulty walking and reduced use of the hands or the entire upper limb. Spasticity can Rare Diseases appear after a stroke, in patients suffering from multiple NutropinAq® sclerosis, in spinal cord and trauma brain injury patients, Active substance and indications and in adult patients suffering from cerebral palsy; NutropinAq ® is a liquid formulation of recombinant human • Treatment of lower limb spasticity in pediatric patients two growth hormone administered using the “NutropinAq ® years of age and older. Pediatric spasticity mainly occurs Pen”. Growth hormone is involved in several physiological in children suffering from cerebral palsy or brain damage; processes, such as growth in stature and bone development • Treatment of Cervical Dystonia (CD). CD is characterized in children. by abnormal contraction of neck muscles, which leads to a deviated neck that causes pain; NutropinAq® is a ready-to-use liquid formulation in the form of powder to be reconstituted. • Treatment of blepharospasm & hemifacial spasm. Blepharospasm is the involuntary closing of the eyes NutropinAq® is indicated for the following: caused by a spasm of the muscles surrounding the eyes. • Long-term treatment of growth failure in children due to Hemifacial spasm is a benign and involuntary contraction of inadequate secretion of endogenous growth hormone; muscles located on one side of the face (hemifacial); • Long-term treatment of growth failure associated with • In aesthetics, Dysport ® is indicated for the treatment of Turner syndrome; glabellar lines. • Treatment of growth failure in pre-pubescent children Marketing associated with chronic renal failure ahead of kidney Dysport® was initially launched in the United Kingdom in 1991 transplantation; and had marketing authorization in more than 80 countries at • Treatment of adults with growth hormone deficiency of 31 December 2017. either childhood or adult onset. 12 2017 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Marketing also be dispensed without prescription under pharmacist In 2002, Genentech granted the Group exclusive marketing advice or as an OTC self-medication for patients. To position rights for NutropinAq ® worldwide outside North America, Smecta® as an OTC self-medication product, Ipsen launched Mexico, Canada, and Japan. a media campaign in France, Eastern Europe and Russia, along with new products such as a liquid formulation of As of 31 December 2017, the Group had obtained marketing Smecta®. authorizations in 34 countries. The product has been launched in 23 countries across Europe since 2004. Competition Smecta’s ® main competitors are Imodium ® (Johnson & Growth hormones are prescribed by pediatric and adult Johnson), Ercéfuryl® (Sanofi), Ultralevure ® (Biocodex), and endocrinologists. Tiorfan® (Bioproject Pharma). NutropinAq ® stems from a partnership with Genentech LP 299V® (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). In April 2016, Ipsen signed a license and supply agreement Competition with Probi for the commercialization of its probiotic strain Six other companies have marketed recombinant growth Lactobacillus plantarum 299v (LP299V®). Probi is a Swedish hormones for several years: Pfizer (Genotropin ® ), Eli Lilly publicly traded bioengineering company that develops (Humatrope ® ), Novo Nordisk (Norditropin® ), Merck Serono effective and well-documented probiotics. The agreement (Saizen ® ) and Ferring (Zomacton ® ). Omnitrope ® (Sandoz), covers in total 18 markets, many with high growth potential, a biosimilar product to Pfizer’s Genotropin®, was launched with an option to include additional countries. more recently. In 2017, the product was launched in France, Czech Republic, Increlex ® Romania, and the Baltics. Active substance and indications Forlax® The active substance in Increlex ® (mecasermin) is a Active substance and indications recombinant insulin-like growth factor of human origin Forlax® is an oral osmotic laxative, designed and developed (IGF-1). IGF-1 is the direct hormonal mediator of stature by Ipsen, and indicated for the treatment of constipation in and bone growth and must be present for normal growth of both adults and children. The active substance in Forlax® is bones and cartilage in children. The only indication filed for Macrogol 4000, a linear polymer of polyethylene glycol (PEG) Increlex® is the treatment of severe primary IGF-1 deficiency of high molecular weight. in children and adolescents. Marketing Increlex ® stems from a par tnership with Genentech (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). Forlax® was first registered in France in 1995. The marketing authorization was later extended to 21 other EU countries Marketing through a mutual recognition procedure. Increlex® has been marketed in the United States since the As of 31 December 2017, Forlax ® was granted marketing beginning of 2006. It was granted orphan drug status by authorizations in about 50 countries. In 2017, 48.8% of Forlax® the EMA in April 2006, and marketing authorization in the sales were generated in France. European Union in August 2007. Forlax ® is primarily prescribed by general practitioners, ■■1.2.1.2 Consumer Healthcare products gastroenterologists, gynecologists and pediatricians. Smecta® Competition Active substance and indications Forlax’s ® main competitors are other osmotic laxatives, Smecta is an oral formulation of pharmaceutical clay ® including lactulose products such as Duphalac ® (Solvay indicated in the treatment of acute diarrhea in both adults Pharma), other PEGs such as Transipeg® (Roche Nicholas) and children, and the symptomatic treatment of digestive and Movicol® (Norgine Pharma), and stimulant laxatives (i.e. pain and chronic diarrhea in adults. The active substance in bisacodyl) such as Dulcolax® (Boehringer Ingelheim). Smecta® is diosmectite, a natural clay processed and purified In France, two generics of Forlax® were marketed by Mylan for therapeutic use. and Qualimed in March 2009. Today, Ipsen produces two Marketing generic products marketed by Biogaran and Sandoz. As of 31 December 2017, Smecta® had market authorization Fortrans® in about 60 countries. In 2017, Smecta® sales represented Active substance and indications 6.0% of total Ipsen sales, of which 75.9% were generated in China, France, and Russia, the product’s main markets. Fortrans® is aimed at intestinal cleaning before endoscopy procedure (coloscopy), surgery, or radiology. The active Smecta® is Ipsen’s leading Consumer Healthcare product in substance in Fortrans® is Macrogol 4000, a linear polymer terms of sales. Smecta® is prescribed by general practitioners, of polyethylene glycol (PEG) of high molecular weight with gastroenterologists, and pediatricians. The product can added electrolytes. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 13 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Marketing Tanakan® is indicated for the treatment of cognitive disorders Fortrans is considered as the “gold standard” for bowel ® (memory or attention deficit) in the elderly. cleansing preparation before coloscopy. As of 31 December The active substance in Tanakan ® – EGb 761® – is 2017, Fortrans ® held marketing authorizations in about a standardized extract from the leaves of Ginkgo biloba 50 countries. (dioecious tree in the Ginkgoaceae family) cultivated and extracted under controlled conditions. Fortrans® is available in more than 40 countries. Russia and Poland are the two largest markets, which represent 40.2% Marketing of Fortrans® sales. As of 31 December 2017, Tanakan ® was approved in Eziclen® approximately 50 countries, mainly in Europe, Russia, and Asia. Active substance and indications In 2017, 20.7% of Tanakan® sales were generated in Russia, Eziclen® is a next-generation osmotic laxative, indicated in where the product is offered as a self-medication OTC adults, for cleaning the bowel before endoscopy procedure product. (coloscopy), surgery or radiology. Adenuric® Marketing Active substance and indications In 2009, Ipsen acquired from Braintree the exclusive manufacturing, marketing and distribution rights of the Adenuric® (febuxostat) 80 mg and 120 mg (tablets) is indicated proprietary formulation BLI-800 for the European Union, for the treatment of chronic hyperuricaemia with clinical the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), some manifestations of urate deposition (including a history or Asian countries (including China) and some North African and presence of tophus and/or gouty arthritis). South American countries. In 2015, some indications were added for Adenuric® 120 mg On 31 December 2017, Eziclen was marketed by Ipsen or its ® for the prevention and treatment of hyperuricaemia in local partners in 20 countries. adult patients undergoing chemotherapy for haematologic malignancies at intermediate to high risk of Tumor Lysis Etiasa® Syndrome (TLS). Active substance and indications Marketing Etiasa ® (mesalazine) is indicated in Inflammatory Bowel In 2009, Ipsen gained EU Marketing Authorization, and on Diseases (Ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s Disease), for the 20 October 2009, the Group granted exclusive licensing treatment of mildly to moderately active condition and rights to the Menarini Group for Adenuric® in 41 countries. In maintenance of remission. addition, Ipsen continues to promote the product in France together with Menarini. Marketing Prontalgine®, Buscopan®, Suppositoria Glycerini, and In 2015, Ipsen renewed its exclusive agreement with Ethypharm to promote and distribute Etiasa® in China. The Mucothiol® and Mucodyne® drug is now manufactured by Ethypharm in its Shanghai In February 2017, Ipsen entered into a definitive agreement to subsidiary. The drug’s principal competitors in China are other acquire a portfolio of select Consumer Healthcare Products 5-ASA products such as Pentasa®, Salofalk ®, Mesalazine from Sanofi. generic, and Sulfasalazine. The most significant product was Prontalgine®, an analgesic Tanakan® for the treatment of moderate to severe pain, which was available only in France. The portfolio also included Active substance and indications Buscopan ®, an antispasmodic; Suppositoria Glycerini, a Tanakan® is indicated for the treatment of various neurological laxative; and Mucothiol® and Mucodyne®, expectorants for and neuro-sensorial disorders. Tanakan ® contains natural cough and flu. Combined, these regional brands span a substances with antioxidant and neuro-protective properties. geographic scope of eight European countries. 1.2.2 Major Contracts The Group markets its products either directly through its and NutropinAq ®. In certain cases the Group has entered sales force or through third parties to whom it has entrusted into agreements with third party companies to manufacture responsibility for selling its products under licensing or drugs or raw materials. other agreements. Furthermore, the Group has earned the T he Group complements the implementation of its confidence of third parties that have entrusted it with selling internal Research and Development program by entering their products such as Cabometyx®, Decapeptyl®, Hexvix®, into partnership agreements with university teams and 14 2017 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. These This agreement includes the rights to Cometriq ® currently partnerships help the Group gain access to cutting-edge approved in the United States and the European Union (EU) for technologies in complex areas of expertise. the treatment of adult patients with progressive, unresectable, locally-advanced or metastatic medullary thyroid cancer This partnership strategy helps the Group to finance the (MTC), and Cabometyx® also currently approved in the U.S. development of its products while extending its range of for the treatment of 1L RCC and the European Union (EU) for existing products. The Group is constantly looking to forge the treatment patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma high-quality, complementary, and long-lasting marketing, (RCC) who have received first-line antiangiogenic therapy. research and development partnerships. Under the agreement Exelixis received a $200 million upfront payment and a $60 million milestone upon the approval of ■■1.2.2.1 Agreements in Specialty Care cabozantinib in Europe for advanced renal cell carcinoma 1.2.2.1.1 Agreements in Oncology (RCC). Exelixis will receive $50 million upon the filing and approval of cabozantinib in Europe for advanced hepatocellular Debiopharm (Lausanne, Switzerland) carcinoma (HCC), as well as additional regulatory milestones The Group has maintained an ongoing relationship with for potential further indications. The agreement also includes Debiopharm since 1983 when it entered into its first licensing up to $545 million of potential commercial milestones and deal to manufacture and market Decapeptyl ® in locally provides for Exelixis to receive tiered royalties up to 26% on advanced cancer or metastatic prostate cancer. This Ipsen’s net sales of cabozantinib in its territories. licensing agreement was renewed in 2002 and in 2007. Photocure (Oslo, Norway) The agreement covers Debiopharm’s expertise and patents related to the active substance triptorelin and its various On 26 September 2011, the Group signed a marketing and salts (particularly the pamoate formulation), which are sold supply agreement with Photocure, a specialty pharmaceutical under the Decapeptyl ® and Pamorelin ® trademarks, both company specializing in photodynamic technologies applied of which were assigned to Ipsen in 2010. The daily, oneto cancer and dermatology. Under the agreement, the Group month, and three-month acetate and pamoate formulations was granted an exclusive license to commercialize the of Decapeptyl ® are no longer protected by any invention product for the diagnosis and resection of bladder cancer patents. under the Hexvix® trademark, a brand owned by Photocure. Ipsen obtained the exclusive license worldwide, except in The licensing agreement with Debiopharm grants the the United States, the Nordics, and certain other countries Group the right to manufacture and market Decapeptyl ® where Ipsen may decide to return the rights to Photocure worldwide with the exclusion of North America and certain under certain conditions. The product is designed to improve other countries, principally Israel, Japan, and Englishthe detection and resection of non-invasive bladder cancer speaking African countries. Pursuant to the agreement, the by inducing specific fluorescence in malignant cells in the Group commercializes Decapeptyl® under a daily formulation bladder during a cystoscopic procedure. The product was as well as under monthly, 3-month, and 6-month sustainedapproved in Sweden in 2004 and was subsequently approved release formulations. in many European countries as well as in the United States. This licensing agreement has no termination date. Each 1.2.2.1.2 A greements in Neuroscience party may terminate the agreement entirely or on a countryPublic Health England (PHE) (former Health Protection by-country basis at any time as of 31 December 2020, Agency (HPA)) (Porton Down, United Kingdom) with a 2-year notice and an effective termination date as of The licensing agreement entered into by the Group in 1994 31 December 2022 at the earliest. with the PHE covers the botulinum toxin type A complex, In addition, on 30 April 2008, the Group and Debiopharm which is the active substance in Dysport®. Until December entered into a license agreement granting the Group the 2036, the Group holds an exclusive worldwide license to use exclusive right to commercialize triptorelin under the trade and sell the botulinum neurotoxin type A produced by the PHE names Salvacyl®, Salvacyl LP®, Moapar®, and Salvapar® for and the co-exclusive right with the PHE to manufacture this the treatment of paraphilia (sexual perversions) in the same toxin using the PHE processes. Further to a 2001 amendment, territories as for Decapeptyl® with the exclusion of Switzerland the Group began producing botulinum toxin type A in 2004. and Liechtenstein in which the commercialization right is The Group is now discharged from the obligation to purchase granted to Debiopharm. botulinum toxin from PHE. Exelixis (California, USA) Under this agreement, the Group pays the PHE royalties based on revenues generated from the sale of products In 2016, the Group and Exelixis Inc. signed an exclusive containing botulinum toxin type A, particularly those realized licensing agreement for the commercialization and further under the Dysport ® brand name, together with minimum development of cabozantinib, Exelixis’ lead oncology asset. royalty clauses. The parties have agreed to collaborate on the development of cabozantinib for current and potential future indications, Galderma (Lausanne, Switzerland) and Ipsen has exclusive commercialization rights worldwide In February 2007, under the terms of a development and outside the United States and Japan. distribution agreement, Ipsen granted Galderma Pharma S.A., 2017 Ipsen Registration document 15 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE a Swiss company currently owned by Nestlé, exclusive rights these products for a period of 20 years starting from the date to develop, promote, and distribute specific formulations on which NutropinAq® was launched on the market. of its botulinum toxin type A product in aesthetic medicine indications in the European Union and certain Eastern The Group agreed to pay Genentech milestone payments European countries and Central Asia. The Group also granted when certain net sales figures are reached. The Group Galderma first rights of negotiation for aesthetic medicine also agreed to pay royalties based on the total amount of indications outside Galderma territories. annual sales of each product in the territory covered by the distribution agreement. The European patent owned by The product is distributed in Europe under the Azzalure ® Genentech protecting the product expired on 29 July 2013. trademark owned by Galderma. A z zalure ® is mainly Increlex® Agreements commercialized in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Portugal, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, and Poland. Ipsen owns The Group and Genentech entered into two Increlex® (IGF-1) all regulatory approvals and all data arising from development license agreements: in 2002 for the U.S. and 2003 for the rest activities. of the world. Under these agreements, the Group is granted the exclusive global right to develop, manufacture, and commercialize In December 2007, the Group also granted to Galderma IGF-1 in all indications except central nervous system diseases. exclusive rights, until 2017, to promote and distribute under Under the terms of these contracts, Genentech is granted an the trademark Dysport ® certain formulations of botulinum option to develop and commercialize the product jointly with toxin in aesthetic and dermatological indications in Brazil Ipsen in all non-orphan indications and diabetes. and Argentina. In 2014 the term was extended until 2036. Exclusive promotion and distribution rights in the aesthetic In consideration for these rights, the Group shall pay certain and dermatologic indications were expanded to Australia in amounts to Genentech dependent on sales reaching certain 2012 and Mexico in 2013 for an initial five-year period and levels and royalties on sales. subsequently extended until 2036. Teijin (Tokyo, Japan) In July 2014, the Group and Galderma expanded their The Group granted Teijin exclusive rights in Japan to develop agre e me nt to collaborate on the deve lopme nt and and market Somatuline ® Autogel ® for the treatment of commercialization of new neurotoxins, including their acromegaly, SSTR-2 for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy, respective liquid formulations. Under the terms of the and BIM 44058 (PTHrP analogue) in the treatment of severe agreement, the Dysport distribution rights in the U.S. and osteoporosis. Canada, initially held by Valeant, were granted to Galderma. In June 2012, Teijin received marketing approval in Japan for In addition, the rights granted for the U.S., Canada, and Somatuline® 60/90/120 mg for subcutaneous injection for the Europe were extended until 2036. treatment of acromegaly and pituitary gigantism. Ipsen gained control of the intellectual proper ty for On 3 July 2017, Teijin received approval from the Japanese Galderma’s liquid toxin in the U.S., Canada, Brazil, and Ministr y of Health, L abour and Welfare for Ipsen's Europe, while Galderma retained commercialization rights. In subcutaneous drug Somatuline® (lanreotide) for the treatment December 2014, the expanded partnership set up in July 2014 of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP NET). was enlarged to include Mexico, Argentina, Australia, and New Zealand. Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (The Woodlands, TX, USA) In January 2016, the Group and Galderma expanded their In October 2014, the Group entered into an exclusive licensing partnership to China, India and South Korea. The partnership agreement with Lexicon Pharmaceuticals for Ipsen to was expanded in 2017 to include Hong Kong, Macau and commercialize Xermelo ® (telotristat ethyl) outside of North Taiwan until 2036. America and Japan, with a focus on the treatment of carcinoid syndrome. Through an amendment in March 2015, Ipsen was The Group supplies the finished product to Galderma, and granted exclusive rights in Canada. Lexicon retains sole rights to Galderma pays Ipsen royalties based on sales of the product. commercialize Xermelo® (telotristat ethyl) in the U.S. and Japan. 1.2.2.1.3 Agreements in Rare Diseases Under the agreement, Lexicon is eligible to receive up to $148.5 million, comprising a $24.5 million upfront payment Genentech (San Francisco, CA, USA) and additional payments contingent upon achievement of Distribution agreement covering NutropinAq® clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones. In addition, Lexicon is eligible to receive royalties on net sales of Xermelo® The exclusive distribution agreement reached in 2002 by (telotristat ethyl) in the licensed territory. the Group with Genentech covers NutropinAq ®, a liquid formulation of human growth hormone for daily use produced On 28 February 2017, Lexicon announced that the U.S. using recombinant DNA technology. Under this agreement, Food and Drug Administration approved Xermelo® (telotristat the Group has the exclusive right to market worldwide (with ethyl), for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea in the exception of North America, Mexico, Brazil, and Japan) combination with somatostatin analog (SSA) therapy in adults NutropinAq ® and the NutropinAq ® Pen Cartridge ® (i.e. the inadequately controlled by SSA therapy. The drug was then configuration used for the daily administration of the liquid approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) on formulation of NutropinAq®) and any improvement made to 19 September 2017. 16 2017 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE In addition to this European submission, Ipsen continues the separate the two development programs. Motus Therapeutics implementation of its global regulatory filing applications for was acquired by Allergan in 2016. Allergan (formerly Rhythm marketing authorization in the territories where the Group Pharmaceuticals) is developing the peptide ghrelin agonist, operates. The Marketing Authorization Application was relamorelin, for the treatment of diabetic gastroparesis and submitted to SwissMedic (Switzerland’s regulatory agency) other GI functional disorders, while Rhythm Pharmaceuticals on 5 July 2016. (formerly Rhythm Metabolic) is developing setmelanotide, an MC4 receptor agonist for the treatment of rare genetic Radius (Cambridge, MA, USA) disorders of obesity. In 2005, the Group signed a licensing agreement with Radius under the terms of which the Group granted Radius the exclusive ■■1.2.2.2 Agreements in Consumer Healthcare right to develop, manufacture, and distribute a compound Teijin (Tokyo, Japan) belonging to the Group known as BIM 44058 using the sustainedrelease formulation technology developed by the Group for the In July 2006, the Group and Teijin signed a distribution and development of a drug for the treatment of osteoporosis. promotion agreement which determined the definitive terms of Ipsen’s exclusive rights to febuxostat in Europe. Febuxostat’s This license was granted globally, with the exception of Japan development costs in Europe are the responsibility of the (except for manufacturing), where the Group has already Group, except for any costs associated with conducting granted an exclusive license to this compound to the Japanese clinical trials that may be requested by the regulatory group Teijin. Furthermore, the Group has the option of authorities prior to the registration of febuxostat in Europe, promoting and selling the finished product on a co-marketing which are shared between Teijin and the Group. basis with Radius in France. Radius is responsible for the overall development of the compound and incurs all the In October 2009, the Group has sublicensed to Menarini relevant costs. Radius is responsible for manufacturing the Group its exclusive development and commercialization compound and also holds the marketing authorizations and rights for Adenuric® in Europe, including Russia and certain the responsibility for marketing the product. In November 2015, CIS countries. In addition, in France, Ipsen continues to Radius submitted a marketing authorization application to the promote the product together with Menarini. EMA following positive results of Phase III studies. Febuxostat was launched by Menarini in 2010 in Europe Radius will pay the Group different fixed sums depending on the and 2017 in Russia, under the trade mark Adenuric ®. The success of the various development phases and registration of product was launched in the United States by Takeda in the end product, as well as royalties based on the level of sales March 2009 under the trademark Uloric ® and in Japan by generated by the product. The licensing agreement will end Teijin in May 2011. upon (i) the expiry of the last remaining patent covering the Schwabe (Karlsruhe, Germany) product or (ii) the expiry of a period of ten years from the date on which the product was first sold, whichever is later. Upon The Group has longstanding links with Schwabe, particularly expiry of the agreement, Radius is set to benefit from a free and concerning Ginkgo biloba extracts and EGb 761®, the active perpetual license to the licensed rights. substance in Tanakan®. The relationship between the Group and Schwabe are based notably on the 2005 cooperation In October 2016, the Group initiated proceedings against agreement concerning, among other things, the procurement Radius before the International Court of Arbitration of the and supply of Ginkgo biloba leaves, and the manufacture of International Chamber of Commerce based on potential Ginkgo biloba extracts, notably EGb 761®. breach of various provisions of the license agreement, including the Group’s option to co-promote the finished product with Braintree Laboratories (Braintree, MA, USA) Radius in France and on the license related to Japan (See In September 2009, the Group signed a licensing agreement section 2.1.3.2.2 “Legal and Administrative Proceedings”). with Braintree Laboratories Inc., a U.S. company specialized in the development, manufacturing, and marketing of specialty Rhythm (Boston, MA, USA) pharmaceuticals. Pursuant to the agreement, the Group In 2010, the Group granted Rhythm an exclusive worldwide acquired exclusive distribution, marketing and manufacturing license for the research, development and commercialization rights to Braintree’s proprietary formulation, BLI 800, in colonic of Ipsen’s compounds and intellectual property related to cleansing before colonoscopy, a diagnostic procedure for analogs of the peptide hormones ghrelin and MSH, which colorectal cancer screening. This agreement covers countries regulate food intake, energy homeostasis, and gastrointestinal within the European Union, Russia and certain Commonwealth function. Under the terms of the license agreement, Ipsen of Independent States, selected Asian countries (including will receive progressive payments of up to $80 million upon China), and some North African and Latin American countries. the achievement of certain development and commercial milestones and royalties on future sales of the products. Rhythm Braintree is to receive payments from the Group upon the will continue to use Ipsen’s recognized formulation expertise to achievement of certain milestones such as product launches develop innovative delivery systems for the peptide programs. and commercial sale thresholds. Additionally, Braintree will receive royalties on Ipsen’s sales. The product is marketed In 2013, Rhythm was split into two subsidiaries, Motus under the Eziclen ® trademark in most countries of the Therapeutics (formerly Rhythm Pharmaceuticals) and Rhythm European Union and under the Izinova® trademark in some Pharmaceuticals (formerly Rhythm Metabolic), in order to other countries, including France and the United Kingdom. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 17 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.3 Research and Development ■■1.2.3.1 Research and Development Activities Pharmaceutical development is located at the Dreux site and aims to design and develop formulations and innovative The Group’s R&D efforts aim to respond to unmet medical delivery systems for new chemical entities or for marketed needs developing innovative therapeutic approaches and products. These converging technologies are able to optimize utilizing an entrepreneurial, collaborative approach in order to the efficacy of active ingredients while improving the quality build a sustainable value portfolio. of life of patients and facilitating the use of these products by Research and Development primarily focuses on two areas: health care professionals. • Discovery, development, and regulatory approval of new Investment in translational sciences molecular entities; Research and Development strives to be at the forefront of • Lifecycle management of products marketed by the Group major advances emerging in science and medical practice through: such as the progression of molecular medicine and biomarkers –– Extension of labelled indications; which are revolutionizing the diagnosis and prognosis of diseases and the selection of the best treatment leading to –– Development of new formulations and delivery systems; the emergence of personalized medicine. This commitment –– Registration in new geographical areas. to translational sciences is reflected in a willingness to invest in biobanking during clinical trials, bioinformatics predictive Additionally, the Group partners on in-licensing opportunities biometry based on simulation modelling and requiring large when appropriate to deliver its strategy. data banks (a partnership has been signed with IBM-Watson As of 31 December 2017, about 300 Group employees were to that extent), in-depth knowledge of pathophysiological/ assigned to Research and Development with an additional molecular mechanisms of diseases and from the outset to 200 contributing through Pharmaceutical Development. identify biomarkers which will accompany the development of candidate drugs with the potential to become companion In 2017, the Group spent e265.8 million on Research and diagnostics. Resources in translational Oncology have been Development which represents 13.9% of the Group’s net increased since June 2017, following the shift from drug consolidated sales. discovery to translational sciences. N ove l p e ptide dr u g dis c ove r y in O nc olo g y a n d Partnership policy and open innovation Endocrinology: as of June 2017, new peptide drug discovery activities in Oncology and Endocrinology were stopped Internal Research and Development ef for ts are also and efforts shifted to the characterization of in-licensed supported through an active partnership policy, which is led or partnered molecules, as well as evaluation of external by the scientific affairs group, from basic research through opportunities. The engineering of peptides was mainly carried clinical development. The Group’s partnership philosophy out in the Research and Development center in Cambridge, stems from the recognition that Ipsen’s R&D staff members MA (USA), in partnership with Les Ulis (Paris-Saclay) and/or are highly skilled in their fields but are a tiny fraction of the in collaboration with international academic research centers expertise available worldwide in the scientific community. and biotechs. Thus, it is essential to look for synergies between internal projects and skills and those of other leading-edge players in N ove l b otulinu m tox in ba s e d dr u g dis c ove r y in medical and pharmaceutical R&D in the context of a strongNeuroscience: R&D activities on botulinium toxins have willed open innovation policy. been intensified to better cope with new product needs with an increased efficacy and safety profile. Ipsen provides the At the research stage, the Group has established numerous foundation for the next generation of recombinant botulinum academic collaborations with Massachusetts General toxin-based drugs. Hospital, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical The engineering of new botulinum toxins is primarily carried School in Boston, and Inserm in France. Since 2008, Ipsen has out in Milton Park (Oxford, UK), in partnership with Les been involved in a long-term partnership with the prestigious Ulis (Paris-Saclay) and/or in collaboration with academic Salk Institute (La Jolla, California) on basic research in areas research centers and biotechs. Botulinum toxin has a unique of Ipsen’s interest. The Group has also forged partnerships on potential for very broad therapeutic applications in many specific projects with innovative biotechs, thereby accessing areas including: neurology, urology, oncology, endocrinology, new compounds and promising technologies for the discovery regenerative medicine, etc. The R&D team in Milton Park has of new drug candidates. a wealth of experience in botulinum toxin biology supported Ipsen is considering different ways to invest in innovation and by an extensive patent portfolio. Additionally, the Group is in 2017 contributed to a venture capital fund investing in preone of the few to master the manufacturing and testing of IND (Investigational New Drug) to late clinical phase assets. botulinum toxin at its plant in Wrexham (United Kingdom) as well as the technologies needed to explore new applications A detailed description of par tnerships is provided in and to develop new toxin-based products. chapter 1.2.2 “Major Contracts” of this document. 18 2017 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE ■■1.2.3.2 Research and Development Centers ■■1.2.3.3 The Portfolio of Research and The Group has strategically established an international Development Projects network of research and development centers in geographical 1.2.3.3.1 The research and development process areas where it has access to world class expertise in scientific and clinical research. The Group believes its Research and At the end of the research stage that results in the selection Development programs and the geographical distribution of a candidate molecule for development, the process of of its Research and Development centers allow it to attract securing approval for this new molecule or compound by the talented scientists, which makes the Group highly competitive regulatory authorities may take eight to twelve years and is in the field of pharmaceutical R&D compared with other typically broken down into five stages: the pre-clinical stage groups of similar size. and clinical trial Phase I (or first-in-man study) to assess safety and pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics of the compound; The Research and Development Center Paris-Saclay Phase II to characterize safety and efficacy across a dose(France) range of the tested compound in patients; Phase III to confirm Ipsen Innovation, the Research and Development Center both safety/efficacy and therapeutic benefit in a large patient in Les Ulis, located in the Paris-Saclay hub, was opened in population and Phase IV (post-approval). 1969 and a new facility was built in 1996. The scientists are focused on novel medicines in the fields of Neuroscience and During the research stage, which usually lasts three to oncology. Notably, the Pharmacodynamic and Metabolism five years, the Group’s researchers synthesize innovative group in Les Ulis has expanded to support Ipsen projects molecules and study their effects on cell systems or isolated from discovery to market. The Group has also established a organs, in vitro, or in animal subjects, to better understand pre-clinical and clinical development organization together their pharmacological, pharmacokinetic, and toxicological with the Global Regulatory Affairs, Pharmacovigilance and properties. An analysis of the study results makes it possible Quality departments to support the design and execution of to select the compound that meets the set treatment goals to the worldwide development strategy to bring to market the move forward in development. new compounds developed by Ipsen. The pre-clinical stage of development aims to gather the The Research and Development Center in Cambridge pre-clinical safety toxicological and pharmacokinetic data (Massachusetts, United States) essential for initial administration in humans and for preparing Ipsen Bioscience is located in the heart of the Cambridge the regulatory dossier to start clinical trials that are subject to biotech hub in order to allow broader access to external approval from regulatory authorities and ethics committees. resources in terms of innovative molecules. Cambridge is a “Center of Innovation” combining activities of research and The development continues with clinical trials that are assessment of these new molecules based on a strategic principally intended to provide evidence of the safety and and operational partnership between R&D and the Business efficacy of the drug in humans. When the results support the Development teams. targeted indication, a registration dossier is then submitted to the regulatory authorities to assess and decide on its The Group has clinical research and development teams marketing authorization. whose task is to coordinate and perform clinical research in North America related to Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare At Ipsen, after a clinical candidate has been selected, the next Disease, and a dedicated regulatory group that focuses on stage of project centric and cross-functional development the Group’s regulatory activities with the FDA. approaches are conducted. The scope of the Exploratory Development phase (PROVE) is up to the clinical proof of The Research and Development Center in Milton Park concept (PoC). Once both early efficacy and short-term safety (Oxford, UK) have been established from the PoC and meet the Product In 2015, Ipsen initiated a project to relocate the UK R&D team Target Profile, the drug can proceed to the confirmatory to a new facility within a leading innovation hub at the Milton development phase (CONFIRM). Exploratory Development Park campus in Oxfordshire. benefits from innovative question-based development plans, adaptive design, modeling and simulation, biomarkers, and The new site, Ipsen Bioinnovation, represents Ipsen's translational science/medicine. technological platform for toxins, with expertise in engineering recombinant toxins for new therapeutic solutions in This approach allows: 1) shortening of the time to decision Neuroscience and co-locates research scientists with the (Go/No-Go) to proceed to confirmatory trials using a parallel major R&D activities of clinical development, scientific affairs, rather than sequential development path, 2) de-risking regulatory affairs, pharmacovigilance, project management, projects before large investments are made, and 3) more and publication. efficient management of the project portfolio. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 19 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.3.3.2 The research programs The Group currently has several innovative molecules in the research phase. The table below and the following explanations summarize the major programs currently undertaken by the Group: Research Programs Indications New Neuroscience Drugs Long acting toxin rBoNT/A Multiple indications Long acting toxin rBoNT/A’ Multiple indications LRRK2 (partnership with Oncodesign) Parkinson’s disease (ended March 2017continued by Oncodesign) 1.2.3.3.3 The development programs of a technical or administrative event beyond the Group’s The table below lists the Group’s clinical programs. This table reasonable control. A summary of risks is described in is subject to change depending on numerous factors that chapter 2.1 “Risk Factors” of this document and a detailed can be extremely unpredictable. The Group might experience description of the products development programs is given in delayed completion of clinical trials, treatment failures, chapter 1.2.1 “The Group’s Products”. absence of marketing authorization, and the occurrence The molecule portfolio in development is the following: Product under development Indications Development stage Oncology Somatuline® Autogel® Prolonged Release Formulation (PRF) – Acromegaly Phase II Prolonged Release Formulation (PRF) – GEP NET Phase I Acromegaly – China Phase III Lung NET Phase III Decapeptyl® 3M Endometriosis – China Phase III 1M Central Precocious Puberty – China Phase III Cabometyx® Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) 1L Registration Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) 2L Phase III Cabometyx® in combination with Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) 1L Phase III nivolumab (1) Cabometyx® in combination with Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) 1L/2L Phase I/II nivolumab (1) Cabometyx® in combination with Solid tumors Phase I atezolizumab (2) Onivyde® Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC) 2L Phase II Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) 1L Phase II Breast cancer Phase I Satoreotide GEP NET Phase I/II Satoreotide Non-NET indications Preclinical IPN-01087A Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma Preclinical Neuroscience Dysport® Paediatric upper limb spasticity (PUL) Phase III Neurogenic Detrusor Overactivity (NDO) Phase III Glabellar Lines – China Phase III New indications (3) Phase II Dysport® Solution ((liquid) Glabellar Lines Phase III Cervical Dystonia (CD) Phase III VSN16R (option to acquire) Spasticity in multiple sclerosis Phase IIa (Canbex Sponsored) Short acting toxin rBoNT/E First-in-human clinical trials Phase I (1) Study sponsored by Exelixis and Bristol Myers Squibb. Ipsen opted in to co-fund this study. (2) Study sponsored by Exelixis and Roche. Ipsen opted in to co-fund this study. (3) Studies planned but not initiated. 20 2017 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Oncology United States and Japan as a treatment for advanced HCC Somatuline® Autogel® in patients who have been previously treated. The Group continues to develop lanreotide, working on a The Group also opted to participate in the funding of prolonged-release formulation development program as well several trials with Exelixis and other partners to explore the as additional devices to improve patient care. combination of cabozantinib with other agents in different solid tumors: Decapeptyl® The Group continues to develop new indications and • Cabozantinib in combination with nivolumab in firstformulations of Decapeptyl® in China. line advanced RCC. The Phase III CheckMate 9ER study, sponsored by Exelixis and Bristol Myers Squibb, was Cabometyx® initiated in July 2017. This trial evaluates Cabometyx® in In 2016, the Group and Exelixis Inc. signed an exclusive combination with Opdivo® versus sunitinib in patients with licensing agreement for the commercialization and further previously untreated, advanced or metastatic renal cell development of cabozantinib, Exelixis’ lead oncology asset. carcinoma (RCC). The parties have agreed to collaborate on the development of cabozantinib for current and potential future indications, • Cabozantinib in combination with atezolizumab in and Ipsen has exclusive commercialization rights worldwide locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors. The doseoutside the United States and Japan (paragraph 1.2.2 “Major escalation stage of a Phase I trial sponsored by Exelixis and Contracts”). Roche was initiated in June 2017 to evaluate cabozantinib in combination with atezolizumab (Tecentriq®) in patients with Future commercial indications for cabozantinib could locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) or include: renal cell carcinoma (RCC). • First-line advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma ( RCC ), • Cabozantinib in combination with nivolumab in the indication investigated in CABOSUN, a randomized advanced hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . This Phase II trial of cabozantinib in patients with previously Phase I/II trial is sponsored by Exelixis and Bristol Myers untreated advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) with Squibb. intermediateor poor-risk disease per the International Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Database Consortium In addition, numerous investigator-sponsored studies are (IMDC). Data were presented at the European Society ongoing to explore Cabometyx ® in monotherapy and in for Medical Oncology (ESMO) 2017 which included the combination with other treatments for different types of analysis from a blinded independent radiology review cancer. committee (IRC), and confirmed the primary efficacy endpoint results of investigator-assessed progressionfree survival (PFS), as well as an updated investigatorOnivyde® assessed analysis. In April 2017, the Group completed its acquisition of global The Group submitted to the EMA the regulatory dossier for oncology assets from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, in cabozantinib as a treatment for first-line advanced RCC in Cambridge, MA., focusing on Onivyde® (irinotecan liposome the European Union on 28 August 2017. On 8 September injection) for the treatment of patients with metastatic 2017, Ipsen announced that the EMA validated the adenocarcinoma of the pancreas after disease progression application. following gemcitabine-based therapy, in combination with fluorouracil and leucovorin. Ipsen has gained exclusive • Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma ( HCC ), the commercialization rights for the current and potential future indication investigated in CELESTIAL, an E xelixisindications for Onivyde ® in the U.S., as well as the current sponsored Phase III pivotal trial studying cabozantinib licensing agreements with Shire for commercialization rights versus placebo in patients with advanced HCC who ex-U.S. and PharmaEngine for Taiwan. The acquisition also have been previously treated with sorafenib. Top-line includes the Merrimack commercial and manufacturing results were published in October 2017 showing that infrastructure for Onivyde ®, and generic doxorubicin HCl CELESTIAL met its primary endpoint of overall survival liposome injection. (OS), with cabozantinib providing a statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in median OS The Group continues to advance the Onivyde ® clinical c o m pa re d to p l ac e b o in pati e nts w i th ad va nc e d development program, including clinical studies in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The independent data previously untreated, metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma, monitoring committee for the study recommended that patients with small cell lung cancer who have progressed on the trial should be stopped for efficacy following review of or after platinum-based first line therapy, and patients with the second planned interim analysis. metastatic breast cancer. In the first half of 2018, the Group expects to file a variation In addition, numerous investigator-sponsored studies of the initial application to the EMA and other relevant are ongoing to explore Onivyde ® in monotherapy and in regulatory agencies and to evaluate potential next steps combination with other treatments for different types of in the development strategy for cabozantinib outside the cancer. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 21 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Satoreotide on spasticity. The indication for pediatric upper limb spasticity The Group acquired these molecules with the acquisition of (PUL) is the last Phase III trial currently under development. OctreoPharm Sciences in June 2015. OctreoPharm Sciences This meets a FDA request for all neurotoxins manufacturers. was a private German life sciences company focusing on the In addition, in 2016 Ipsen is conducting two Phase III clinical development of innovative radioactive labelled compounds for trials assessing Dysport ® in the treatment of Neurogenic molecular imaging diagnostics and therapeutic applications. Detrusor Overactivity ( NDO ) in patients with urinar y Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy (PRRT) uses the incontinence not adequately managed by anticholinergics. ability of one single peptide to target specific receptors to Furthermore, the Group is also developing a liquid, ready-todeliver a radionuclide directly to a tumor aiming to either to use formulation of Dysport®, Dysport® Solution. diagnose or the treat, depending on the radioactive agent. This targeting approach provides an exciting theranostic VSN16R opportunity for both detection and treatment of the disease VSN16R results from the call option granted to the Group by with the possibility to reach precision medicine and to Canbex Therapeutics in February 2015. differentiate as per other current therapeutic solutions available. VSN16R is a novel, orally-active small molecule compound intended for the treatment of spasticity in MS and other 68 Ga-Satoreotide is an NET imaging tool utilizing positron disorders. Preclinical and Phase I clinical studies have emission tomography (PET, PET/CT) and is currently in clinical demonstrated that VSN16R has the potential to provide development, and 177Lu-Satoreotide is a PRRT therapeutic. substantially better patient care than existing systemic antispastic treatments. Spasticity is a debilitating and painful IPN-01087A symptom of MS that consists of involuntary spasms of limbs In 2016, the Group entered into a licensing agreement and torso musculature. With VSN16R, Canbex aims to set a with 3B Pharmaceuticals a German company, to develop new standard in the treatment of spasticity and to improve novel radiopharmaceuticals in oncology. Ipsen acquired the lives of people worldwide with this serious and incurable exclusive worldwide rights to develop and commercialize disorder. a novel small molecule radiopharmaceutical targeting the neurotensin receptor-1. The program is currently in preclinical VSN16R was shown to be safe and well-tolerated in the Phase I development for the treatment of pancreatic adenocarcinoma clinical safety trial. In the Phase I study, 72 healthy volunteers and potentially other oncology indications. were enrolled in a placebo-controlled, single ascendingand multiple-ascending dose design. A Phase IIa proof of clinical Neuroscience concept study is ongoing under the sponsorship of Canbex. Dysport® The Group has started several Phase III trials in the United States since 2011 to reinforce therapeutic indications, focusing 1.2.4 Intellectual Property ■■1.2.4.1 Patents initially designated countries which are considered important for the Group. As a result, the 48 applications in Europe and The Group’s intellectual property strategy consists of seeking the 14 PCTs currently filed are likely to yield a significantly protection for patents, copyrights, and brand names related higher number than the 62 national patents already issued. to its products and processes and to defend its intellectual property rights vigorously throughout the world. In countries where the Group seeks legal protection through patents, the duration of legal protection for a particular The Group considers that protection of patented technologies product is generally 20 years from the Group’s filing date. This and products is essential to the success of its businesses. As protection may be extended in some countries, particularly in of 31 December 2017, the Group held 2,181 patents, 1,030 the European Union and the United States. The protection, of which were issued in European countries and 120 in the which may also vary by country, depends on the type of United States (in the majority of cases, each international patent and its scope. In most industrialized countries, any new application includes several national applications and one active substance, formulation, indication, or manufacturing European application upon expiry of the 30-month priority process may be legally protected. The Group conducts period). ongoing checks to protect its inventions and to act against As of the same date, the Group had 473 patent applications any infringement of its patents and/or trademarks. pending. The expiry dates of patents currently held by the Group for The European patent applications and international patent its main products are listed in the table below. The Group applications by definition designate a large number of countries benefits from protection in terms of intellectual property rights in which protection can be obtained later. In practice, many of through licensing agreements for products and compounds these applications will result in the issuance of patents in the that have been patented by other companies. 22 2017 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Product Patent holder Patent expiration date Specialty Care Oncology Somatuline® Autogel® – formulation Ipsen Patent expired (Europe) and 2020 (USA)(1) – preparation process Ipsen 2031 Europe (if patent granted) and 2032 (USA) Somatuline® Tulane University Patent expired Decapeptyl ® – Pamoate formulation Debiopharm Patent expired – Acetate formulation Syntex Patent expired Decapeptyl® 6 month formulation Debiopharm 2028 (Europe) (2) Cabometyx® – compound Exelixis 2024 (Europe) (3) – polymorphic form Exelixis 2030 (Europe) (4) – process/formulations Exelixis 2030-2032 (Europe) (if patent granted) Cometriq® – compound Exelixis 2024 (Europe) (3) – polymorphic form Exelixis 2030 (Europe) (4) – process/formulations Exelixis 2030-2032 (Europe) (if patent granted) Hexvix® – Medical use Photocure 2016 (5) – Medical use École Polytechnique Lausanne 2019 Onivyde® – composition Ipsen 2025 (Europe) (6) and 2025-2028 (USA) (7) – indications Ipsen 2033 (Europe and USA); 2035-2037 (Europe and USA) (if patents granted) – formulation Ipsen 2036 (Europe and USA) (if patents granted) Xermelo ® – compound Lexicon 2027 (Europe) – polymorphic form Lexicon 2028 (Europe) – preparation process and Lexicon 2028 (Europe) intermediates – dosage forms Lexicon 2032 (Europe) (if patent granted) Neuroscience Dysport®(8) – No patent filed Dysport liquid formulation ® Ipsen 2025 (Europe (9) and USA) Rare Diseases NutropinAq® Genentech Patent expired (Europe) Increlex® – Medical use Genentech Patent expired – Medical use Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals 2024 (Europe) and 2025 (USA) (previously known as Tercica) – Formulation Genentech Patent expired (USA) – Manufacturing process Genentech 2018 (USA) (1) In the United States, an extension (PTE) has been granted which extends the patent term until March 2020. (2) Oppositions have been filed against the EP patent. One opposition has been withdrawn. (3) Based on this EP patent, an extension has been filed via the filing of Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) in a number of European countries (Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Great Britain) which will extend the patent term until 2029 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. (4) Oppositions have been filed against the EP patent. At the end of the opposition procedure, the EP patent has been maintained under an amended form which still covers the product. Opponents appealed the decision. (5) The European patent is extended (via SPC) in a number of European countries until 2021 in Switzerland and 2019 in the other countries (Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Germany, Spain, France, Great Britain, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands and Portugal). (6)  Applications for an extension via a SPC have been filed in Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Germany, Spain, France, the United Kingdom, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden, Slovenia, Denmark, Poland, and Portugal, which will extend the patent term until 2030 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. (7) Applications for Patent Term Extension have been filed for two US patents which, if granted, would extend the patent life until either 2027 or 2029, depending upon which patent is chosen for extension. (8) There is no patent on the indications and formulation currently marketed but applications are pending in the field of botulinum toxin. (9) Oppositions were filed against two European patents. The first patent has been maintained by the opposition division under an amended form; this decision has been confirmed in 2017 by the EPO’s Board appeal. The second patent has also been maintained in an amended form by the opposition division; this decision can be subject to appeal. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 23 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Product Patent holder Patent expiration date Consumer Healthcare Smecta® – process Ipsen 2025 (if patent granted) – new aroma formulation Ipsen 2028 (Europe and USA) – new formulation Ipsen 2031 (if patent granted) Forlax® – No patent filed Tanakan® Schwabe / Indena Patent expired (Europe and USA) Nisis et Nisisco : ® ® – active substance Ciba Geigy Patent expired (France) – preparation process of oral Novartis Patent expired (France) formulation Adenuric® – active substance Teijin Patent expired (Europe) – polymorphic form 2019 (Europe) (1) – solid composition 2023 (Europe) (2) Eziclen® / Izinova® Braintree 2023 (Europe) (3) (1) An extension has been filed via the filing of SPC in a number of European countries (Albania, Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Great Britain) which will extend the patent term until 2023 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. (2) Based on this EP patent, a SPC has been granted in Estonia which extends the patent term of one month until 2023. (3) An extension has been filed via the filing of SPC in a number of European countries (Belgium, Czech Republic, Germany, Spain, Estonia, France, Great Britain, Greece, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal and Romania) which will extend the patent life until 2028 in countries wherein the SPC will be granted. The Group deems it appropriate to clarify the terms of review The Group’s key products, namely Somatuline ® (and for patent applications: Somatuline ® Autogel ® ), Decapeptyl ® (and Diphereline ® ), (1) Submission of the patent application. Cabometyx® and Cometriq®, Dysport®, Onivyde®, Xermelo®, Smecta ® (and Smectago ® and Smebiocta ® ), Tanakan ®, (2) Review of the application by the patent offices (e.g. the Forlax ®, Fortrans®, Eziclen® and Izinova®, and the number National Institute of Industrial Property – INPI – France of trademarks held by the Group (or under licence) at or The European Patent Office – EPO). Patent offices are 31 December 2017, are shown in the table below. independent and do not give visibility on the timing of examination or on the status of requests. In general, the Number review of a patent application takes between three and Brands and trademarks of applications six years. Somatuline® / Somatuline® Autogel® 300 (3) O nce the review is completed, offices grant patents Decapeptyl® / Diphereline® 259 or reject the application. Rejection can be appealed, a Cabometyx® / Cometriq®(1) 183 procedure which can take two more years, again without Dysport® 332 visibility on the timing of the boards of appeal that exist in patent offices. Onivyde® 31 Xermelo®(2) 65 As a result, the Group is not able to give more information on Smecta® / Smectago® / Smebiocta® 993 the schedules of patent applications under review. Tanakan® 257 ■■1.2.4.2 Brand Names and Trademarks Forlax® 275 Brand name and trademark protection vary from country to Fortrans® 113 country. In some countries, this protection is based primarily Eziclen® / Izinova® 131 on the use of the brand name, while in others it results (1) The Trademarks Cabometyx® and Cometriq® are owned by the from its registration. Trademark rights are obtained under company Exelixis, Inc. national trademarks, international registrations or EU-wide (2) The Trademark Xermelo® is owned by the company Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. trademarks. Registrations are generally granted for a period of ten years and are indefinitely renewable, although in some The Group also holds registrations for the company names cases, their maintenance is related to the continued use of that make up the Group as well as the slogan and logo which the trademark. constitute its graphic charter. Regarding trademarks, the Group, in particular, holds the The Group defends its trademark rights by filing oppositions product names used. These trademarks provide protection against applications of identical or similar trademarks and for pharmaceutical products included in Class 5 of the initiates, if such is the case, legal actions to have its rights International Classification of Products and Services. recognized. Registrations protect not only the product names in Latin ■■1.2.4.3 Domain Names characters but also the product names in local characters (Cyrillic, Chinese, etc.). As of 31 December 2017, the Group had 1,775 domain names (reserved or in the process of being reserved). 24 2017 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.5 Main Markets ■■1.2.5.1 Market Data ■■1.2.5.2 Competitive Position Sectorial information for therapeutic area and region is The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. In recent detailed in section 3 of this registration document for the 2017 years, the pharmaceutical industry has experienced an and 2016 financial years. increasing level of horizontal and vertical concentration. Within this competitive environment, the Group faces The Group develops and commercializes innovative medicines competition from other companies to develop and secure in three key therapeutic areas Oncology, Neuroscience and marketing authorizations for new pharmaceutical specialties Rare Diseases. Its commitment to oncology is exemplified in targeted therapeutic areas, as well as for specific products through its growing portfolio of key therapies for prostate that generate similar therapeutic results to those generated cancer, neuroendocrine tumors, renal cell carcinoma by medicines marketed by the Group. Numerous companies and pancreatic cancer. Ipsen also has a well-established that compete with the Group to develop and secure marketing Consumer Healthcare business. The Group’s main drug authorizations for new medicines are significantly larger than markets and their sizes are detailed in section 1.2.1 of this the Group and are accordingly able to invest more resources registration document (“The Group’s Products”). in Research and Development as well as in marketing, which Additionally, in terms of marketing, this strategy has led may provide them with the advantage of offering a larger the Group to concentrate its efforts on key prescribing range of products and having access to larger sales forces. physicians, mainly specialists, who are responsible for drug For example, Dysport ® faces competition from Botox ® prescriptions or who may induce such a prescription from (Allergan ), a well-established botulinum toxin, while other practitioners. By developing a strong reputation with Somatuline® faces competition from Sandostatin® (Novartis). these prescribing specialists in highly specific and specialized The Group also competes with other pharmaceutical areas, the Group believes it is able to direct its marketing companies in its search for suitable partners to ensure activities selectively and cost efficiently, thereby reducing the the growth of its research and development and marketed need for a large sales force. products portfolio. The Group’s competitive position is detailed in section 1.2.1 of this registration document. 1.2.6 Regulations The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. Regulation reimbursement policies and price setting in most of covers nearly all aspects of the Group’s activities from the countries in which the Group operates, particularly in Research and Development to manufacturing facilities, Europe. Measures intended to curb direct costs come in processes, and marketing. In each country where Ipsen various forms, which include mandatory price cuts (or a markets its products or conducts research, the Group has to refusal to accept price increases), a larger share of the comply with the standards of local regulatory authorities and cost being covered by the patient (reduction in the amount by any other national regulatory authority. These authorities reimbursed by the third party), the withdrawal of certain namely include the European Medicines Agency (EMA), products from the lists of reimbursable products, the the French Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health alignment of reimbursed prices with the lowest product price Products (ANSM), the Medicines & Healthcare Products in a given therapy category, analysis of the cost/benefit ratio Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United Kingdom, and the of drugs prescribed, and efforts to promote growth in the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the United States as generic drugs market as the co-pay regulation (“tiers-payant well as various other regulatory bodies, depending on the contre génériques”) introduced in July 2012 in France. relevant market. In some European countries, governments also influence Price-setting and control the prices of drugs indirectly through control of national Regulation may cover the setting and control of selling prices health systems that fund a significant portion of costs related in certain countries in which the Group markets its products. to these products. In France, for instance, a government These controls are implemented pursuant to law or because authority sets the price of reimbursable drugs taking into the government or other healthcare agencies in a given account the product’s value. The price set for a drug depends country are the principal purchasers of products or reimburse notably on the improvement in medical performance of the purchasers for their cost. Price control mechanisms vary new drug with existing treatments. In addition, when fixing the in the way they operate from country to country. This may price of a product, the national agency takes into account the lead to significant differences between markets, which may price of the same drug in other countries. be amplified by exchange rate fluctuations. These pricing The governments of many countries in which the Group differences may also be exploited by parallel import companies operates continue to introduce new measures to reduce which buy branded products in markets where prices are low public health expenses, some of which have affected the and sell them in markets where prices are higher. Group sales and profitability in 2017. In recent years, ef for ts by government authorities to curb healthcare spending have led to tighter controls on 2017 Ipsen Registration document 25 1 PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE 1.2.7 The Group’s Legal Structure Ipsen S.A. acts as a holding company with regards to As indicated in chapter 5.2.3, Ipsen S.A. is controlled by its affiliated companies and has no operational activities. a company incorporated in Luxembourg, Mayroy SA. Certain senior managers are employed by Ipsen S.A. under Description of this company and its shareholding is to be certain conditions and invoicing provisions described in found in chapter 5.2.3. paragraph 3.3.4. The Group comprises 50 affiliates, which are consolidated as shown in note 29 in chapter 3.2.5. ■■1.2.7.1 Organizational Structure These companies are categorized as research and development, The stated percentages indicate the proportion of share manufacturing, management, or commercialization entities. capital and voting rights (1) held in each company. Group Organization chart as of 31 December 2017 Mayroy S.A. Free Float Luxembourg Other 40.87% 56.45% 2.68% IPSEN S.A. France 100% IPSEN PHARMA S.A.S. France 0,0001% 0.0001% 35.76% 64.24% 1% BEAUFOUR IPSEN INDUSTRIE S.A.S. 100% IPSEN PRODUTOS 75% SUTREPA S.A.S. IPSEN POLAND LLC France FARMACEUTICOS S.A. France 99% Poland 0.0001% Portugal 24.99% 100% IPSEN RÉ S.A. IPSEN FARMACEUTICA BV IPSEN MANUFACTURING Luxembourg 100% IPSEN SpA The Netherlands 100% IRELAND Ltd 100% Italy Ireland IPSEN BIOPHARMACEUTICALS Inc. 100% INSTITUT PRODUITS United States 100% IPSEN KOREA SYNTHESE (Ipsen) IPSEN PHARMA GmbH 100% South Korea Sweden 100% Germany IPSEN PHARMA BIOTECH S.A.S. 10% 100% France 100% 100% IPSEN OOO BEAUFOUR IPSEN Int. H.K. Ltd Russia OCTREOPHARM SCIENCES GmbH ST JEAN D’ILLAC S.C.A. 90% Hong Kong Germany France 50% 100% IPSEN PHARMACEUTICALS Ltd 100% SOCAPHARMA S.A.S. Ireland IPSEN UKRAINE SERVICES LLC 1% IPSEN INNOVATION S.A.S. France Ukraine 100% 100% 99% France 89.85% IPSEN BIOSCIENCE Inc. 0,003% IPSEN N.V. IPSEN PHARMA KAZAKHSTAN 50% United States PETERSFIELD Ltd Belgium 50% Kazakhstan Hong Kong 50% 10.14% 100% IPSEN Ltd BEAUFOUR IPSEN TIANJIN United Kingdom ELSEGUNDO Ltd LINNEA S.A. PHARMACEUTICALS Co. Ltd Ireland 50% 100% Switzerland 96% China 99.97% IPSEN PHARMA TUNISIE SARL 39.75% 100% 100% Tunisia 0.03% 0.001% WALLINGSTOWN COMPANY 10% LINNEA Inc. IPSEN TIANJIN IPSEN E.p.E Ireland United States PHARMACEUTICAL TRADE Co. Ltd Greece 80% 0.10% China 0.399% GARNAY Inc. 50% IPSEN BIOPHARMACEUTICALS WALLINGSTOWN COMPANY Ltd United States 50% BEAUFOUR IPSEN 99.99% CANADA Inc. Ireland FARMACEUTICA LTDA 100% NAIAPHARM S.A.S. 0.01% Canada 90% Brazil France 100% 99.96% OLISAPHARM S.A.S. PERECHIN COMPANY IPSEN MEXICO S. DE RL DE CV France 100% IPSEN (BEJING) PHARMACEUTICAL 0.04% Mexique Mexico Ireland SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY Co. Ltd 100% 10% China 100% IPSEN BIOPHARM Ltd IPSEN DEVELOPMENTS Ltd 90% United Kingdom PORTPIRIE COMPANY United Kingdom IPSEN PHARMA SINGAPORE 100% Ireland Singapore 100% 100% IPSEN Pty Ltd IPSEN PHARMA S.A. Spain 25% CARA PARTNERS 10% Australia 75% 0.399% Ireland 100% POTHOLD Ltd STERIX Ltd 0.001% United Kingdom 100% 39.75% United Kingdom 0.10% BB & Cie S.A.S. 100% SPECWOOD Ltd IPSEN BIOINNOVATION LIMITED France 9.16% United Kingdom 100% United Kingdom 90.84% MONTANA Ltd 50% Ireland (1) The stated percentages for Ipsen SA shareholders indicate the proportion of share capital. 26 2017 Ipsen Registration document PRESENTATION OF IPSEN AND ITS ACTIVITY 1 GROUP’S ACTIVITY AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE ■■1.2.7.2 Acquisitions and Discontinuation company Suraypharm SAS was dissolved by transfer of all In order to facilitate and encourage the development of the of its assets to its sole shareholder, Ipsen Pharma SAS, and Group’s activity on a local scale, a company has been created deregistered from the Trade and Companies Register on in Kazakhstan, Ipsen Pharma Kazakhstan. 2 January 2017. From this date, Ipsen Pharma SAS is the sole shareholder of the company Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc. Moreover, in the context of simplification and rationalization of the Group’s legal and administrative organization, the 2017 Ipsen Registration document 27 28 2017 Ipsen Registration document 2 RISKS AND CONTROL 2.1 RISKS FACTORS 30 2.1.1 Specific Risks to the Group and its Structure 30 2.1.2 Risks Associated with the Pharmaceutical Industry 32 2.1.3 Legal Risks 35 2.1.4 Financial Risks 37 2.1.5 Industrial and Environmental Risks 38 2.1.6 Insurance and Protection Against Risks 39 2.2 INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT 40 2.2.1 Organization 40 2.2.2 Information management 42 2.2.3 Risk Management framework 43 2.2.4 Control activities 44 2.2.5 Review and assessment of internal control 45 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISKS FACTORS 2.1 RISKS FACTORS The Group operates in a rapidly evolving environment that an unfavorable impact on its business, financial situation, or poses many risks to the Group, some of which are outside of results. its control. Investors are advised to carefully review each of the Within the Legal Division the Group has a “Risk and Insurance” risks described below as well as all the information contained function that reports directly to the General Counsel. Within in this registration document. The risks and uncertainties set this registration document this function is described in out below are not the only ones faced by the Group. Other section 2.2.3 of the report relating to the organization of Board risks and uncertainties of which the Group is not currently activities and section 2.2 on the Group’s internal control aware or of which it does not consider material may also have procedures. 2.1.1 S  pecific Risks to the Group and its Structure ■■2.1.1.1 Dependence on products 2.1.1.2.2 To manufacture certain products Although the Group currently manufactures active substances A significant part of the Group sales and results relies on for several of its products, it subcontracts the production a few major products. The three main ones: Somatuline ®, of certain of these active ingredients to third parties or Decapeptyl ®, and Dysport ® represented 72.3% of 2017 purchases finished products directly from its partners or consolidated Group sales, respectively 36.8%, 18.3% and their subcontractors. The Group is therefore exposed to the 17.2%. The major development, marketing and competency risk of a supply shortage if its suppliers experience financial challenges for each of those products are described or operational difficulties such that they were no longer able in the detailed presentation of the Group’s products (see to manufacture all or part of the required quantities of the section 1.2.1 “The Group’s products”). product. If a supply shortage occurs as a result of difficulties with subcontractors, this could adversely impact the Group’s ability to meet the market demand for its products and, in ■■2.1.1.2 Dependence on third parties particular, could have impact for patients or could damage the 2.1.1.2.1 T  o ensure the Research and Development Group’s reputation and its relations with its customers, which portfolio success could in turn have a negative impact on the Group’s business, financial situation, or results (see paragraph 2.1.2.5). The Group is dependent on the support of third parties 2.1.1.2.3 To develop and market certain products to ensure the success of its Research and Development The Group depends on third parties to develop and market portfolio, and the inability to secure such support or any some of its products. Although this type of business shortcoming in its control over such third parties could have a generates substantial royalties for the Group, these third negative impact on the Group. parties could behave in ways that are damaging to the Group’s business. The Group enters into collaborative agreements with third parties to enhance its Research and Development portfolio. The Group develops and markets some of its products in The Group depends on the technology and expertise of collaboration with other pharmaceutical companies. The third parties both to undertake research in new molecules Group has entered into significant collaboration agreements and to carry out pre-clinical and clinical trials. The Group’s (see paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). The royalties success depends on the quality of the partners it manages received by the Group from some of these partners could or to attract and the performance of those partners in fulfilling currently make a substantial contribution to the Group’s net their obligations under these collaboration agreements. operating income and cash flow. Where the Group markets The Group could find itself unable to maintain its current its products under the terms of collaboration agreements, collaboration agreements on acceptable terms or to enter into it exposes itself to the risk that certain decisions, such as new collaboration agreements on satisfactory commercial the preparation of budgets and promotional strategies, terms. If the Group was unable to maintain or enter into such may be controlled by its partners and that those decisions agreements, it would have to develop products at its sole made by the Group’s partners may have a negative impact expense. Such a situation would have the effect of increasing on the Group’s business carried-out under the terms of the Group’s capital requirements or limiting or delaying its those agreements. The Group cannot be certain that its development in other areas. In addition, the Group’s partners partners will fulfil their obligations and may be unable to could fail to fulfil their obligations or perform them in an obtain any benefit from those agreements. In addition, the unsatisfactory manner, which potentially could cause delays Group’s partners could choose to develop their existing new and expenses for the Group. products, rather than products marketed in collaboration 30 2017 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 RISKS FACTORS with the Group. Finally, although it has legal remedies against use. Some of the Group’s main products are manufactured its partners in the event that they cause Ipsen damage, the and/or marketed under licenses from third parties (see Group is not in a position to ensure that its partners have paragraph 1.2.2 “Major Contracts”). Although the Group sufficient insurance to cover fully their liabilities for their currently maintains good relationships with these third parties overall business, especially as its relates to other third parties and has taken the necessary steps to protect its interests or the Group. If partners did not to have sufficient insurance, in the related agreements, Ipsen cannot guarantee that it the Group could be forced to bear, either directly or indirectly, will be able to continue to benefit from these intellectual a substantial portion of any damage thus caused, which property rights or that the provisions of these contracts will potentially could entail an adverse impact on its business, be respected. For example, the Group could find itself in financial situation, or results. the future unable to negotiate new licensing agreements or collaboration agreements, or the Group could have difficulty The failure of any of the Group’s par tners or intense maintaining the current terms of agreements that could lead competition could result in some of the Group’s products: to less favorable terms. Furthermore, the future development (i) having their development programs delayed or stopped, and sale of certain products could depend on license terms. (ii) not being approved by the competent authorities, having Finally, the Group’s ability to grant exclusive patent licenses or their approval delayed or being approved for indications patent sub-licenses to third parties could be limited by rights which are more restrictive than those originally anticipated, held by other third parties in respect of those same patents or (iii) generating lower than expected sales and/or other or other patents. revenue. Such situations could have a negative impact on the Group’s business, financial situation, or results. 2.1.1.2.5 Dependence on certain managing executives and scientists, and social relations 2.1.1.2.4 Related to intellectual property The Group’s success depends in large part on certain • Group’s intellectual property essential managing executives and scientists. The departure The Group’s collaboration with third parties exposes the of these senior employees could damage the Group’s Group to the risk that those third parties might claim the competitiveness and compromise its ability to achieve benefits from intellectual property rights for the Group’s its objectives. In addition, the Group is convinced that its inventions or might not ensure that the Group’s unpatented continued expansion in sectors and activities that require technology remains confidential. additional expertise and resources (such as marketing, clinical trials, and regulatory licenses) will require it to recruit The Group works with numerous partners (universities and new executive management and scientists. The Group could other public and private bodies) and exchanges information find itself unable to attract or retain the required executive and data with them in various forms in order to research, management and scientists. develop, produce, and market its products. In spite of precautions taken by the Group vis-à-vis these bodies, The Group’s success also depends on the motivation of its particularly through contractual precautions, the partners (or employees at all of its operational sites. Maintaining positive some of their members) could claim ownership of intellectual social relationships within its varied entities is an important property rights arising from trials carried out by their factor in implementing the Group’s policy. However, changes employees or any other intellectual property rights related to in economic conditions in the pharmaceutical industry the Group’s products. In addition, where their own intellectual could lead some Group sites to envisage or embark on property rights are concerned, these partners could refuse reorganization or restructuring operations that could have an to grant licenses to the Group on acceptable terms for Ipsen. adverse impact on employee motivation and on the quality of social relations in the Group. Any negative impact on The Group is also dependent on unpatented technology, employee motivation or the quality of social relations could methods, expertise, and data that it considers to be industrial jeopardize the achievement of some Group targets related secrets. This information is protected often by confidentiality to research, production, or marketing activities and lead to agreements between the Group and its employees and a corresponding impact on the Group’s results or financial consultants as well as among some of its subcontractors. The position. Group cannot be certain that these agreements or any other type of protection in respect to its industrial secrets will be ■■2.1.1.3 Risks associated with the Group’s effective or that satisfactory means of redress will be available in the event of any breach. international activities The Group operates throughout the world, including countries • Third party intellectual property other than the European Union Member States and the United The Group is dependent on intellectual property rights held by States. Specifically, these include China, Russia, and other third parties in order to manufacture and market several of its Central and Eastern European countries. As such, the Group products, including six of its main products. faces various risks specific to its international activities, in particular, the following: Intellectual property rights (including patents, expertise, and trademarks) are covered by licensing agreements that • Risks arising from unexpected regulatory changes and are granted to the Group by third parties who are either the such as changes in tax regulations and regulations on trade owners of those rights or are authorized to sub-license their and tariffs; 2017 Ipsen Registration document 31 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISKS FACTORS • Risks arising from difficulties in interpreting or implementing • Risks arising from the absence of an international agreement certain specific regulations; on regulatory standards. • Risks arising from limitations on the repatriation of earnings; ■■2.1.1.4 R  isks related to acquisition and • Risk of financial default on the part of certain public and integration activities private operators with which the Group conducts business; To build a sustainable pipeline of innovative assets, the Group is transforming the R&D model by accelerating focused • Risks arising from exchange rate fluctuations; internal projects, de-prioritizing select internal programs and • Risks arising from the validity of various intellectual property externally sourcing assets. In this respect, the Group invests rights being deferred; in business development through innovative deal structures with a focus on early to mid-stage assets in the three key • Risks arising from various labor regulations; therapeutic areas. Despite dedicated processes in place, those acquisitions could fail or underperform in case of • Risks arising from political or economic changes affecting a inappropriate due diligence or unsuccessful integration. given region or country; • Risks arising from increased difficulties in recruiting staff ■■2.1.1.5 Risks associated with information and managing operating entities abroad; systems • Risks arising from failure by the Group’s employees to The Group’s activities are largely dependent on information observe the ethical principles laid down by the Group (see systems. Despite the procedures and security measures in section 2.2 of this registration document, “Internal control place internally and at the providers with which the Group procedures”); operates, the Group may have to deal with incidents, notably connected to malicious acts against such information • Risks arising from the occurrence of natural disasters in the systems, such as cyber-attacks that could lead to activity areas at risk in which the Group and/or its major partners disruptions, the loss or alteration of critical data, or the theft do business; or corruption of data. 2.1.2 R  isks Associated with the Pharmaceutical Industry ■■2.1.2.1 R  isks associated with market addition to their ability to develop safer, more effective or less competition expensive products than those of the Group, the Group’s competitors could also manufacture, market, and distribute The Group operates in well-stablished, rapidly-evolving, and their products more efficiently than the Group is able to do for intensely-competitive markets. The Group’s competitors its own products. Finally, rapid technological developments include major international pharmaceutical groups whose introduced by competitors could make the Group’s new size, experience, and capital resources exceed those of the or future products obsolete before Ipsen has been able to Group. Consequently, the Group cannot be certain that its recover the costs incurred in the research, development, and new products: marketing of those products. • will be able to obtain the required regulatory approval Details of the competitive environment of the Group’s main or be brought to market more quickly than those of its products are set out in section 1.2.1 of this registration competitors, document. • will be able to compete sustainably with safer, more effective, or less expensive products marketed by certain ■■2.1.2.2 Dependence on drug prices and their major competitor groups, inclusion on the list of reimbursable • will adapt quickly enough to new technologies and scientific drugs advances, The Group is dependent on prices that are set for drugs and is vulnerable to the potential withdrawal of certain drugs • will be preferred by medical centers, doctors, or patients from the list of reimbursable products by governments and over existing treatments used for the same pathologies, the relevant regulatory authorities in the countries in which it • will be able to compete effectively with other products used operates. to treat the same pathologies. In general terms, the Group is faced with uncertainty related New developments are expected both in the pharmaceutical to the prices set for its products, since pharmaceutical industry and in public and private research facilities. In prices have come under severe pressure over the last few 32 2017 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT years as a result of various factors. These factors include and Development efforts bear fruit, its competitors could the following: develop more effective products or successfully bring a larger number of new products to market. In 2017, the Group spent • a tendency for governments and suppliers of medical care €265.8 million on Research and Development, representing to recommend the use of generic drugs in several countries around 13.9% of consolidated sales. The Group’s current by way of laws on generic substitution, which authorize investments related to the launch of new products and the or require pharmacists dispensing drugs to substitute, as research and development of future products could entail much as possible, less expensive generic drugs for those higher costs without a proportionate increase in the Group’s manufactured by the original pharmaceutical company, revenues. • a tendency for governments and private medical insurance The Research and Development process is long and there is a organizations to lower prices or reimbursement rates for substantial risk that products may not succeed. certain drugs marketed by the Group in the countries in which it operates, or even to remove those drugs from lists The Research and Development process typically lasts eight of reimbursable drugs, to twelve years from the date of a discovery to a product being brought to market. The R&D process involves several stages. • other restrictive measures that limit increases in the cost of At each stage there is a substantial risk that the Group could medical services, fail to achieve its objectives and be forced to abandon its • parallel imports that enable wholesalers to take advantage efforts on products in which it has invested significantly. of price differentials by buying drugs at lower prices in Thus, in order to develop viable products from a commercial certain markets and reselling them in other markets at perspective, the Group must demonstrate that the molecules higher prices. in question are effective and are not harmful to humans The commercial success of the Group’s products depends through pre-clinical and clinical trials. partly on the proportion of the drug’s price that is reimbursed by private medical insurance companies, health insurance The Group cannot be certain that favorable results obtained bodies, and public healthcare programs. during pre-clinical trials will subsequently be confirmed during clinical trials or that clinical trial results will be sufficient to The continued sale of a drug as an over-the-counter product demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the product in question after its delisting does not necessarily prevent a decline in in order to obtain the required marketing licenses. In the event its sales. The decisive factor in the drug’s continued sales is of the failure of certain Research and Development projects, whether patients themselves agree to bear the cost of their the Group cannot be assured to find new, equivalent projects treatment. On the basis of experience with other drugs delisted to replace them, whether from Ipsen’s own research activities in France and in other European countries, products affected or from research carried out under partnerships. If this was by such measures usually experience a decline in sales. to happen, the Group’s Research and Development pipeline could dry up, and the Group would not have a sufficient As such, if a drug that is marketed by the Group and number of drugs to market in the longer term, which could represents a significant proportion of its sales were to be have an adverse impact on its results or financial position and delisted, the delisting would likely have an unfavorable impact also on the value of its shares. on the Group’s business, financial situation, or results. The Group would nevertheless retain the option of entering into an Following the Research and Development phase, the Group agreement with a partner to market delisted drugs over the has to invest substantial additional resources to obtain the counter. Such an agreement may partially limit the unfavorable required government authorizations in a number of countries impact of any delisting on the Group’s business, financial without any guarantee that these authorizations will be position or performance. granted. ■■2.1.2.3 Risks associated with Research Before a given product can be sold on the relevant market, the Group must obtain and retain the required regulatory and Development failures approvals for its drugs from the European Union, the United In order to maintain competitiveness, the Group invests States, and other regulatory authorities. The submission of an substantial amounts in Research and Development. Ipsen will application for an authority’s approval does not guarantee that be unable to recover these investments if clinical trials of the marketing approval will be granted for the product in question. Group’s products are not as successful as anticipated or if Each authority is free to impose its own requirements, which such products do not receive the required regulatory approval. may include the requirement to carry out local clinical studies, In order to remain competitive, the Group has to invest large and can delay or refuse marketing approvals even when amounts in Research and Development. the product has already been authorized in other countries. The procedure for obtaining marketing approvals for new In order to remain competitive in the highly competitive products in the Group’s main markets is complex and lengthy. pharmaceutical industry, the Group must allocate substantial The time taken to obtain the required marketing approvals resources to Research and Development every year in order varies by country, although it is generally between six months to develop new products. Even if the Group’s Research and two years from the date of application. In addition, where 2017 Ipsen Registration document 33 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISKS FACTORS a marketing approval is granted, the approval may include • the Group’s products may not find market acceptance, limitations on the uses for which the product in question may • the Group’s competitors could develop products that be marketed or a requirement to carry out further trials after are more effective or which for other reasons are more the product’s registration. Marketed products are also subject successful at obtaining market acceptance, to ongoing monitoring after the initial approval is granted. The subsequent discovery of problems, which were unknown at • new products could render the Group’s products obsolete, the time of applying for a marketing approval, or any failure to • the Group could fail to sell its products at prices that enable comply with regulatory requirements, can result in restrictions the products to generate a satisfactory return on investment, being placed on the marketing of the product in question or its withdrawal from the market in addition to legal penalties. In • the Group could fail to comply with non-anticipated new addition, the Group is subject to rigorous official inspections regulations. of the manufacture, labelling, distribution, and marketing of its products. All these factors can increase the costs ■■2.1.2.5 Risks associated with supply shortages associated with developing new products and the risk that and other disruptions those products may not be marketed successfully. Despite a strong end-to-end supply chain organization, security stocks and business continuity plans, the marketing ■■2.1.2.4 U  ncertainty as to the approval of certain products by the Group has been and could be & marketing of products under affected by supply shortages and other disruptions. development and as to new regulations Such difficulties may be of both a regulatory nature (e.g. for marketed products the need to correct certain technical problems in order Some products developed by the Group are still in the very to bring production sites into compliance with applicable early stages of development, and even when products are regulations) and a technical nature (e.g. difficulties obtaining in more advanced stages of development, the Group cannot supplies of satisfactory quality, difficulties manufacturing be certain that they will be gain approval from the relevant active ingredients, or drugs complying with their technical regulatory authorities and be successfully brought to market. specifications on a sufficiently reliable and uniform basis at the required volume). This situation may have impacts for If products developed by the Group were not approved patients and may result in a significant reduction in the sales during pre-clinical and clinical trials or were not approved of one or more products. by the regulatory authorities, this would have a negative impact on the Group’s growth. The approval of a product can ■■2.1.2.6 R  isks associated with the sale take several years, and the Group may not bring all its new products to market. New products may also appear promising of products for unauthorized uses during the early stages of development or after clinical trials, and to generic drugs but either never be brought to market or fail to sell. This can The Group must or may have to face competition from: happen for various reasons, including the following: (i) generic products, particularly in relation to Group products • products may prove ineffective or cause side-effects that which are not protected by patents, (ii) products that, although outweigh their therapeutic benefits during pre-clinical or not strictly identical to the Group’s products or which have clinical trials, not demonstrated their bioequivalence, may be granted marketing licenses for indications similar to those of the • the Group could fail to devise appropriate clinical trials for Group’s products pursuant to the bibliographic reference products which perform satisfactorily during pre-clinical regulatory procedure (well-established medicinal use) before trials or in the very early stages of clinical trials, the patents protecting its products expire, (iii) products sold • the Group could fail to obtain licenses from the relevant for unauthorized uses once the protection afforded to the regulatory authorities to allow it to carry out the required Group’s products and those of its competitors by patent clinical trials or could be forced to repeat trials in order to law expires, and (iv) from generic products of the Group’s comply with regulations in different jurisdictions, competing products. • the Group could fail to obtain the required licenses from the Such a situation could result in the Group losing market share, relevant regulatory authorities to sell its products on certain which could in turn affect the Group’s ability to maintain its markets or on any markets, current level of sales growth or profitability. In order to avoid or reduce the impact of such situations, the Group could • it could prove too costly or difficult to manufacture new seek to protect its rights by bringing legal action against products on a large scale, counterfeiters. • the marketing of certain products could be prohibited as Because producers of generic products do not have to incur a result of third parties holding intellectual property rights, the costs associated with the various stages of the drug’s • the Group could fail to find distributors to market its development to prove that the products are not dangerous products, or its partners on jointly developed products and are fit for their intended purpose, generic producers could decide not to market its products, can sell their products at prices lower than those at which 34 2017 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 RISKS FACTORS the Group sells its products. The Group’s products could treatments causing the Group to be unable to maintain its lose market share due to competition from these alternative current level of sales growth or profitability. 2.1.3 Legal Risks ■■2.1.3.1 Reference shareholder exposed to legal action, claims, or government investigations that could prevent or delay its products being marketed or As of 31 December 2017, the Company’s main shareholder, affect its operations, profitability, or cash flow and thus have Mayroy, held 56.45% of the Company’s equity and 72.49% a negative impact on the Group’s business, financial position, of actual voting rights. This means that it can control the or earnings. passing of resolutions at Shareholders’ Meetings, which could have a material unfavorable impact on the Company’s In October 2016, the Group initiated proceedings against share price. This concentration of capital and voting rights Radius before the International Court of Arbitration of the in the hands of a single shareholder, and that shareholder’s International Chamber of Commerce based on potential ability to freely dispose of all or part of its shares in the breach of various provisions of the license agreement, Company, could have a material unfavorable impact on the including the Group’s option to co-promote the finished Company’s share price. product with Radius in France and on the license related to Japan. The Group claims damages valued at €50 million. ■■2.1.3.2 General business risks In response, Radius filed counterclaims in January 2017 for alleged contractual breaches by letting expire certain 2.1.3.2.1 Undesired disclosure of critical information patents and for allegedly granting manufacturing rights to The Group is involved in Research activities leading to the a third party. The Group filed its answer denying Radius’ filing of numerous patents and exchange of information with counterclaim. The decision of the arbitral tribunal is expected numerous third parties in the normal course of its Development during the first half of 2018. The outcome of the case cannot or Marketing activities. be predicted at this stage of the proceedings, however the Group intends to fully defend and vindicate its rights against The Group has set up procedures to control the dissemination Radius’ allegations. of this information to protect either the confidentiality of sensitive information, particularly to protect its intellectual On 13 February 2017 Galderma Brazil filed for ICC arbitration property or competitive positions, or to ensure that privileged in São Paulo against Ipsen Brazil for alleged violation of the information is disseminated to investors in a manner that distribution agreement following supply interruption caused complies with the legislation in force. However, the Group by Anvisa’s (Brazilian Health Authorities) decision to suspend cannot be certain that it will not be faced with undesired or its GMP certificate for the manufacturing of Dysport®. Ipsen uncontrolled disclosure of critical or strategic information, has in turn filed a counterclaim for Galderma’s breach of its which might adversely affect the company’s financial position, obligations under the same agreement. The arbitral tribunal competitive situation, or share value. has been constituted in Q3 2017 and both parties have filed their first written submissions in Q4 2017 (October). The 2.1.3.2.2 Legal and administrative proceedings outcome of the case cannot be predicted at this stage of the In the normal course of business, the Group is or may be proceedings, however Ipsen Brazil intends to fully defend and involved in legal or administrative proceedings. Financial vindicate its rights against Galderma’s allegations. claims are or may be brought against the Group in connection 2.1.3.2.3 Dependence on the Group’s intellectual with some of these proceedings. Provisions have been property rights raised in respect to such claims in accordance with IFRS accounting standards (a description of these provisions is The expiration of a product’s patent may result in substantial provided in note 21.1 to the consolidated financial statements competition due to the emergence of a generic drug, notably in chapter 3 of the registration document). These provisions in the United States, and in turn lead to a sharp reduction amounted to a total of €22.3 million as of 31 December 2017. in sales of the product that received patent protection. In These provisions are estimated on the basis of the most some cases, however, the Group may continue to derive likely assumptions on the reporting date. commercial benefits from the manufacturing secrets of a product, process patents, and intermediate elements for The Group considers the amount of resources set aside for the economical manufacture of active ingredients, patents these risks, litigation, and disputes either known or currently covering special formulations of the product, administration in progress are sufficient to ensure that its consolidated methods as well as the transformation of the active ingredients financial position should not suffer a material adverse into over-the-counter medicines. In some countries, some of impact in the event of an unfavorable outcome. However, the Group's products may also benefit from a marketing the Company cannot guarantee that the Group will not be exclusivity period of five to ten years. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 35 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISKS FACTORS On the other hand, if the Group fails to protect its intellectual 2.1.3.2.5 Risks associated with the counterfeiting of property rights, it may not be competitive and cannot gain Group products profits. The Group's success depends on its ability to obtain, The sale of counterfeit products could damage the Group’s retain, and protect its patents and other intellectual property reputation and affect customers’ confidence in the Group’s rights. Patent law, as it relates to the scope of claims in the products. pharmaceutical sector in which the Group operates, is an area of law that is constantly changing and involves some As a manufacturer of medication, the Group is exposed to uncertainty. the risk that third parties might attempt to counterfeit its products and sell counterfeit products as if they were the Consequently, the Group cannot be certain that: Group’s products. Counterfeit products are not approved • it will be able to develop other patentable inventions, by the competent regulatory authorities and could prove dangerous. To the extent that counterfeit products are sold • patents for which it has applied will be granted, as being those of the Group, its reputation could be affected and the patients’ confidence in the Group’s products could • any patents granted to it or that are the subject of licenses be undermined. In addition, some of the Group’s products granted to it will not be challenged and judged to be invalid could be withdrawn from the market if counterfeit products or unenforceable, are sold. If the confidence of patients or prescribers on the • the protection afforded by a patent will be sufficiently broad Group’s products are damaged, or if the Group were forced so as to exclude competitors, to withdraw products from the market, the Group could see a decline in its sales and profitability. • other persons or entities will not claim rights including ownership rights over patents and other intellectual property 2.1.3.2.6 Risks associated with product liability rights owned by the Group or which are the subject of The Group’s businesses expose it to product liability risk, licenses granted to it. and its insurance coverage could be insufficient to protect it against such risks should the need arise. Product liability The information related to the patents held by the Group is constitutes a substantial risk for the Group and one that could detailed in section 1.2.4.1 (“Patents”); increase if the Group’s business expands into new markets 2.1.3.2.4 Risks associated with patent infringement and continues to grow in the United States (where the costs The Group’s competitors could infringe its patents or associated with product liability claims can be particularly circumvent them through innovations in design. In order to onerous). Considerable damages have been awarded against prevent infringements, the Group could engage in patent pharmaceutical companies in certain countries as a result litigation, which is both costly and time-consuming. It is difficult of physical harm allegedly caused by the use of certain to monitor unauthorized use of the Group’s intellectual property products. Certain pharmaceutical companies have recently rights, and the Group could find itself unable to prevent its had to withdraw products from the market as a result of intellectual property rights from being unlawfully appropriated. product liability claims. Although the Group is not currently involved in any substantial proceedings arising from product In addition, in view of the development of the pharmaceutical liability and including significant damages claims, it is possible industry, an increasing number of patents are being issued, that such proceedings could be initiated in the future. The including some which apply to all therapeutic areas; and there Group has insurance policies covering up to a certain amount; is an increasing risk that the Group’s activities and its use of however, there remains the risk of potential claims based on certain technologies could entail the infringement of patents product liability. Given that product liability insurance in the belonging to third parties. This risk is inherent in the business pharmaceutical industry is a narrow market, it is impossible of any pharmaceutical company and is usually resolved by to predict the cost of future insurance. The Group may be way of license agreements or cross-license agreements unable to obtain or retain insurance coverage on acceptable where this potential overlap materializes. Given that patent terms, and the insurance coverage held by the Group may applications are not generally published until 18 months after not provide adequate protection against potential risks of the the date of the priority application (or even, in certain cases, type in question. until the patents in question are issued), the Group cannot guarantee that third parties have not been the first to invent The Group could be faced with the risk of claims related to certain products or to file patent applications for inventions the safety of its products, and in particular products relating that are the subject of pending patent applications filed by to neurology (marketed under the brand names Dysport® and the Group. In addition, patents in the United States can be Azzalure ®) which may cause, or appear to cause, serious issued based on the date of invention (i.e. the first inventor). side-effects or potentially dangerous interactions with other This distinction can enable parties to benefit from patents drugs if misused or not properly prescribed. The Group is related to inventions for which they were not the first to file subject to pharmacovigilance obligations that require it to applications. report to the regulatory authorities any events in the course of which its products are associated with serious side-effects If the Group to find itself unable to patent its technologies, it including patient death or serious harm. Such events could, could be forced to obtain licenses from third parties to use in particular, result in additional regulatory constraints, such their patents, terminate certain activities, or gain access to as additional requests from the regulatory authorities when alternative technologies. reviewing marketing applications in various countries, leading 36 2017 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 RISKS FACTORS to potential delays in launching products onto new markets; Furthermore, any adverse publicity associated with such the need to conduct costly post-approval clinical studies; events could cause consumers to seek alternatives to the changes to marketing authorization; limits on prescribed uses Group’s products, thus causing sales to decline, even if it or patient populations; or even the withdrawal of products were ultimately demonstrated that the Group product in from the market. Such events would harm product sales and question had not caused the side-effects reported to the have a negative impact on the Group’s financial position. regulatory authorities. 2.1.4 Financial Risks ■■2.1.4.1 Market risks The financial impact of interest rate risks is described in note 23 (“Derivative Financial Instruments”) to the consolidated The Group mainly manages financial risks through control financial statements as of 31 December 2017 in chapter 3 of procedures that Group Finance puts into place by working with the registration document. the relevant subsidiaries and the Group’s specialist departments responsible for arranging and managing such procedures. ■■2.1.4.4 Liquidity and counterparty risks The Group mainly makes use of traditional, controlled-risk instruments to hedge its exposure to exchange rate and The Group’s policy consists in diversifying its counterparties interest rate fluctuations. The financial impact of market risks is so as to avoid excessive concentration and in dealing with first described in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements as rate counterparties. of 31 December 2017 in chapter 3 of the registration document. As of 31 December 2017, the Group’s cash and cash equivalents amounted to €228.0 million largely invested in ■■2.1.4.2 Exchange rate risks term accounts and term deposits. A significant share of sales comes from countries where the Group’s reporting currency, the euro, is the functional More detailed analysis of the Group’s liquidity position is currency. However, due to its international business, the described in section 3.1.3.2 related to the Group’s net cash Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates that may position. impact its results. ■■2.1.4.5 Risks associated with economic and Several types of risks can be distinguished: financial crisis • the transactional exchange rate risk related to business and The Group operates in cer tain geographical regions operational activities; whose governmental finances, local currencies, or inflation rates could be affected by crisis. A crisis could erode the • exchange rate risk associated with financing contracted in a local competitiveness of the Group’s products relative to currency different from functional currencies; competitors operating in local currency, be detrimental to the • exchange rate risk on net investments in foreign operations Group’s margins in those regions where the Group’s drugs whose impacts are recorded as a change in consolidated are billed in local currencies, or compromise the Group’s equity. ability to recover receivables from public or private bodies with which the Group does business. The Group’s policy is to hedge against the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on its net income compared to its budget. In a number of countries, the Group markets its drugs via distributors or agents. Some of these partners’ financial Exposure to currency risk is assessed by the subsidiaries strength could be impacted by a crisis that could potentially before being forwarded to the Treasury Department. The subject the Group to difficulties recovering its receivables in Group hedges, based on the estimates, the major currencies full. Furthermore, in certain countries in which crisis threatens “trade” (USD, RUB, GBP, BRL, CNY/CNH, PLN, CZK, HUF, financial equilibrium and where the Group sells its drugs RON, AUD, CHF) and “operational” (USD, GBP, CNY/CNH, directly to hospitals, the Group could be forced to lengthen its CAD, PLN, AUD, CHF). payment terms or could experience difficulties in recovering its receivables in full. Moreover, the Group may also be unable To reduce its exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates, to protect itself against the risk of certain customers defaulting Ipsen uses derivative instruments such as forward sales or on payments due to the lack of active offers of credit insurance purchase contracts and currency swaps, “vanilla” options, in these geographical regions. Additionally, patients in some and NDF (Non-Deliverable Forward). geographical areas fund their own medication needs in the absence of any social security system. Such patients ■■2.1.4.3 Interest rate risks could find that their financial resources adversely affected Given its level of long term debt as of 31 December 2017 during a financial crisis. Finally, in those countries in which (note 22 to the consolidated financial statements), the Group public or private health coverage is provided, the impact has limited exposure to interest rate risks. of financial crisis could cause medical insurance agencies 2017 Ipsen Registration document 37 2 RISKS AND CONTROL RISKS FACTORS to place added pressure on drug prices, increase financial • announcements by competitors or announcements contributions by patients, or adopt a more selective approach concerning the pharmaceutical industry; to reimbursement criteria. All of the above risks could affect the Group’s future ability to achieve its financial targets. • announcements regarding changes in the Group’s executive team or key personnel. ■■2.1.4.6 T  he Company’s share price may fluctuate Despite being inherent to any listed company, the Group believes that, with its limited float, the stock price fluctuation The Company’s share price may fluctuate significantly and could risk is higher for Ipsen than for companies with greater floats. be affected by a wide variety of events affecting the Company, Furthermore, in the last few years, the financial markets its competitors, the pharmaceutical sector or financial markets in have experienced significant volatility which, at times, has general. The Company’s share price could fluctuate significantly no relation to the financial performance of listed companies. in response to the following types of events: Market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, • changes in the Group’s or its competitors’ financial may affect the Company’s share price. performance from one period to another; • the announcement by the Group or one of its partners of ■■2.1.4.7 Financial risks related to climate the success or failure of one of the Group’s Research and change Development programs conducted either on its own or in conjunction with a third party; Refer to section 4.2.3, “EHS 2017 Performance”. • the announcement by the Company or one of its partners of the success or failure of the commercial launch of a new product; 2.1.5 Industrial and Environmental Risks ■■2.1.5.1 Use of dangerous substances Health, and Safety is committed to the implementation of preventive and precautionary measures. The Group uses dangerous substances in performing its business; and any claim relating to the improper handling, In the event of an accident, the Group could be held liable storage, or treatment of such substances could prove for any resulting damage; and the liability incurred could costly. exceed the maximum amount of any insurance coverage subscribed by the Group or even not be covered at all. The The Group’s Research and Development programs, Group could find itself unable to maintain insurance cover preclinical and clinical trials, and manufacturing and on satisfactory terms or to obtain any insurance. distribution activities involve the controlled storage, handling, The Group could incur substantial costs to comply with use, and processing of dangerous substances, toxins, current or future environmental or health and safety laws chemical, and biological agents and radioactive molecules. and regulations. As a result, the Group is exposed not only to environmental risks related to environmental contamination but also to health ■■2.1.5.2 Environmental risks risks (occupational diseases) linked to the fact that Ipsen’s employees handle active or toxic substances in the course of Environmental responsibilities and the associated compliance their research or production activities. These risks also exist costs could have a negative impact on the Group’s earnings. for third parties with which the Group works. Environmental laws in various countries impose real and potential obligations on the Group with regard to repairing The Group is subject to laws and regulations governing environmental damage or refurbishing contaminated sites. the use, production, storage, handling, and processing of such substances and waste. The Group considers that its These obligations could relate to sites of which the Group is safety measures governing the handling and processing of or was the owner, sites where it performs or has performed dangerous substances do satisfy the standards laid down by its business activities, or sites where waste from its activities applicable laws and regulations. The Group also believes these has been deposited. These environmental obligations could safety measures enable its employees and subcontractors to have a considerable adverse impact on the Group’s operating carry on their activities under favorable environmental, health, performance. The Group could be involved in judicial or and security conditions. However, the risk of accidental administrative proceedings arising from environmental contamination or occupational disease linked to handling disputes. Should any such proceedings have an outcome that dangerous substances cannot be completely eliminated. was unfavorable to the Group, the proceedings could have a Accordingly, the Group’s Department of Quality, Environment, substantial negative impact on its profitability. Stricter laws 38 2017 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 RISKS FACTORS relating to the environment, health, and safety as well as more a breakdown or process capabilities issue at a production site rigorous enforcement measures than those in force currently could result in an interruption of production for 3 to 24 months could generate considerable liabilities and costs for the Group while pending the replacement of parts or entire equipment, and make the Group’s handling, production, use, reuse, followed by its requalification and validation, or could result in or processing of substances or pollutants subject to more the use of subcontractors. Any such interruption in production rigorous inspection measures than those currently observed. could have a negative impact on the Group’s business, Consequently, compliance with such laws could involve financial position, or performance. considerable capital expenditures as well as other costs and Depending on the products concerned, the return of sales to responsibilities that would affect the Group’s business and their previous levels could prove difficult, which could have a profitability. If any of the Group’s production units were closed negative impact on the Group’s business, financial position, for reasons connected with the application of environmental or performance. laws, the Group could be subject to temporary interruptions in the production of some of its products; and it could be Furthermore, at several of its production sites, the Group uses some time before the Group obtained the required regulatory dangerous and inflammable substances and powders that authorizations to reopen and recommence operations of its could lead to an explosion, a fire, or the potential exposure reserve production lines. If such a situation persists for an of its employees to such substances. The Group regards extended period, interruptions of this nature could have a its safety measures governing the handling and processing negative impact on Group sales. of dangerous substances as able to satisfy the standards required under applicable laws and regulations while enabling The Group’s EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) policy is its employees and subcontractors to perform their activities described in section 4.2.2. under favorable environmental, health, and security condition. However, the risks associated with handling, storing, and using ■■2.1.5.3 Dependence on production facilities these dangerous substances cannot be completely eliminated The Group is dependent on its production facilities to and could lead to the partial or total destruction of one or more maintain and develop its sales. The group may have to of its production sites, which could entail an interruption in face unanticipated growth of volumes. Moreover, some production for several years potentially. Depending on the site production equipments at several of its sites is critical and and products concerned, the return of sales to their previous unique and some production processes are complex. levels could prove difficult, which could negatively impact the Despite the business continuity management policy in place, Group’s ability to achieve its financial targets in the future. 2.1.6 Insurance and Protection Against Risks The Group has put in place worldwide insurance coverage In order to mitigate risk volatility of product liability risk in the with top-ranking insurance companies. insurance market, a part of the Group’s liability insurance program is financed through its reinsurance subsidiary. The Product liability insurance covers all the products manufactured, reinsurance subsidiary is a regulated company ruled by the marketed, and sold by the Group as well as all clinical trials Luxembourg Control authorities. that the Group conducts. The level of coverage for clinical trials generally exceeds that required under applicable local The Group also maintains insurance cover relative to its regulations. Furthermore, the Group’s insurance includes general activities, which include business interruptions as well specific coverage for product recalls costs. as environmental liability insurance. Product liability Insurance in the pharmaceutical industry In order to determine the level of coverage, the Group has is difficult with few insurers offering coverage. As such, attempted to assess the maximum foreseeable loss in terms it is impossible to predict the cost of such insurance in of damage to property and loss of gross profit arising from a the future or if it will always be possible to receive desired business interruption. coverage. If the Group cannot receive an insurance policy at a The Group’s policies carry certain restrictions, exclusions, reasonable price or cannot receive adequate terms to protect limitations, and deductibles that are common practice for against potential claims linked to product liabilities, the Group policies of this type. could expose itself to risks and may not have the ability to commercialize its products in time or at a competitive price. The Group considers the limitations of its insurance coverage as reasonable and conservative given the Group’s business Regarding product liability claims, for example, if a judgment activities and the potential risks. with punitive damages is issued, the Group’s insurance policies may not cover the corresponding amounts. In such circumstances the Group may not have sufficient resources to finance such legal penalties. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 39 2 RISKS AND CONTROL INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT 2.2 INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT Ipsen aims to continuously improve its internal control and risk • Implementation of the instructions and directives provided management environment to be compliant with the “Cadre de by the Executive Leadership Team; Référence” issued by “l’Autorité des marchés financiers” (AMF). • Effectiveness of Group internal processes, notably those Introduction aimed at protecting Group assets; Risk management objectives are to: • Reliability of financial data and, more generally, of all data included in published statements. • Secure the general Group objective to improve patient health and quality of life by providing effective therapeutic The Group’s internal control rules apply to all Company solutions for unmet medical needs; entities under exclusive control within the meaning of the IFRS standards. The main internal control components that are • Create and preserve the value, assets and reputation of the further explained in this report are as follows: Group; • An organization that gives a clear definition of responsibilities, • Make decisions and processes secure to reach Group with competent and adequate resources using appropriate objectives by taking into account risk factors; information systems, procedures, processes, tools and • Ensure consistency between actions and Group values; rules; • Mobilize employees around a shared vision of the • Reliable and relevant information management that enables Company’s main risks and around the specific risks in their every employee, whatever his/her level to fulfil his/her own area of activity; responsibilities; • Protect Group employees and the environment. • A risk management framework; • Control activities aimed at monitoring risks and securing Internal control and Compliance is implemented by objectives; operational management and employees to provide Executive Management and shareholders with reasonable assurance • A regular review and assessment of the internal control about the achievement of the following objectives: framework. • Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations; 2.2.1 Organization General framework –– validate annual budget; If necessary, local management is in charge of applying, • Act as an efficient decision body: adapting and supplementing Group procedures. The constant collaboration between Global Quality, Risk and Insurance, –– monitor financial performance and review divisions/ Global Internal Audit and Ethics & Compliance departments functions corrective action plan, endorse recommended at various levels and on numerous subjects is an important financial communication and guidance, consistency factor for internal control. –– align the organization, process, talents and capabilities to deliver on Ipsen annual objectives , Operational Committees –– assess talents and ensure succession planning, Executive Leadership Team (ELT) The ELT is leading the strategic direction of Ipsen and its –– endorse the launch of key cross-functional projects, fund implementation. The ELT is chaired by the Chief Executive them adequately and monitor progress made on a regular Officer and meets on a monthly basis. basis, –– be responsible for implementing Deal Review Board Scope of responsibility of the ELT: (DRB) decisions on Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A) / • Set Ipsen strategy and ambition: Business Development and Licensing (BD&L) deals; –– set Ipsen long-term strategy and ambition and endorse • Promote ef ficient governance and decision-making the corresponding 10 year strategic plan and 5 year process: business plan in line with the strategy, –– Ensure Ipsen policies and procedures are consistent, –– approves R&D pipeline priorities, built on ethical principles, appropriate organizational –– translate Ipsen strategic vision and ambition into annual structures, well-defined responsibilities and demonstrated objectives for the organization, competencies, 40 2017 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT –– Coordinate with Global Ethics & Compliance, Global • Monitor the enforcement of these standards within the EHS, Global Quality, Global Internal Audit functions and Group entities; Enterprise Risk Management, to ensure adequate level of • Develop and maintain Ethics & Compliance Due Diligence risk mapping and mitigation, for Third Parties; –– Monitor deployment of enterprise wide robust and • Develop a continuous improvement approach with the effective internal control and audit, quality and risk update of these standards; management systems, • Act as the point of contact for anyone who would like to –– Monitor performance achieved in Ethics & Compliance, address Ethics and Compliance issues, and to investigate EHS and Global Quality. in a confidential manner. Each ELT member has set up his/her own leadership team. The Ethics & Compliance team covers all geographical scope Pe r m a n e nt m e m b e r s a re: C h i ef E xe c u ti ve O f f i c e r, where the Group operates. EVP Research & Development / Chief Scientific Officer, The Group Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer periodically EVP Technical Operations, EVP and President Specialty Care reports on the state of progress of the Ethics and Compliance Commercial Operations International & Global Franchises, program to the Board of Directors Ethics Committee. EVP and President North America Commercial Operations, EVP Human Resources, EVP Legal/ General Counsel, Risk Management organization EVP Corporate Strategy and Business Development, The following organization supports the framework described EVP Finance/Chief Financial Officer, EVP and President in section 2.2.3. Consumer Healthcare Division, EVP Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, ELT Secretary. Risk Management and Insurance department Deal Review Board (DRB) Reporting to the Executive Vice-President General Counsel, the Risk Management and Insurance department’s role is The DRB is responsible for decision-making for M&A and to guarantee that a relevant process of identification and Corporate Business Development activities. management of the Group major risks is in place. Its main Permanent members: EVP CS&BD, EVP Finance / Chief objectives are: Financial Officer, EVP Legal/General Counsel, EVP R&D / • The distribution of a culture of risk management to ensure Chief Scientific Officer, EVP Technical Operations, EVP and an homogeneous approach to risk management, in President Specialty Care Commercial Operations International compliance with the Group policies. This objective includes & Global Franchises, EVP and President North America elaborating the Group Risk Map; Commercial Operations, EVP and President Consumer • Providing methodological and technical support to the Healthcare Division for CHC deals. divisions (risk identification, analysis and processing, Specialty Care Innovation Board (SCIB) engineering prevention and protection, risk exposure monitoring); The SCIB is responsible for decision-making on Ipsen R&D Portfolio within budget / 5Y Business Plan envelope as • The definition of the transfer policy of residual risks to the approved by ELT. insurance market, the conception and the management of the Group insurance programs such as described in the The SCIB is co-chaired by the EVP R&D and EVP and President paragraph 2.1.6; Specialty Care Commercial Operations International & Global Franchises. • The piloting of a crisis management process and of corporate security organization. Ethics & Compliance Risk Committee A Code of Ethical Conduct governs all Group employees. The Code of Ethical Conduct is one of the key elements of The Risk Committee includes individuals representing the Ethics and Compliance program which is more precisely transversal Group functions with its members connected to defined through Policies, Procedures and Education. The either a member of the ELT or directly to the Chief Executive Company’s Ethics and Compliance department, reports Officer. The Risk Committee’s mission is to facilitate the directly to the Chief Executive Officer. Its missions are to: implementation of the risk management approach and to control its efficiency. The Risk Committee members meet at • Maintain an effective compliance and ethics program least once a quarter. that ensures a culture of integrity enabling the Company to conduct its global business with the highest ethical Quality and Safety standards, in full compliance with all applicable laws and Global Quality Function regulations and the Group Code of Conduct; The Company has one Global Quality Function that reports • To regularly review and improve our compliance and to the Executive Vice-President, Technical Operations, with a ethics program to ensure it remains current with respect to dotted reporting to the Chief Executive Officer. This function significant risks, developments and trends; supports the research, development, manufacturing and • Communicate and train employees and relevant third distribution activities across the product life cycle and is parties to these standards; accountable for Good Practices (GXP) compliance across 2017 Ipsen Registration document 41 2 RISKS AND CONTROL INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT the Group. Its role is to establish, improve and maintain an by a Senior Vice-President, who is also the European Union integrated global Quality Management System that complies Qualified Person for Pharmacovigilance. With patient safety with good laboratory practices (“GLP”), good clinical practices as central to our work, the Global Patient Safety department (“GCP”), good manufacturing practices (“GMP”), good ensures the proactive evaluation and communication of distribution practices (“GDP”) and good pharmacovigilance evolving safety knowledge about all Company drug products, practices (“GVP”) for clinical and commercial products. so that benefit-risk is optimized for our patients, both in clinical development and after market launches. To do this we Each manufacturing plant and development unit has a Quality maintain a sustainable cross-functional Pharmacovigilance Group that is on site and is responsible for assuring site GMP System that is compliant with pharmacovigilance legislation and GDP compliance. These manufacturing plants have a worldwide. The Pharmacovigilance System, described local auditing program, integrated with the global program, in detail in the Pharmacovigilance System Master File, and site-specific procedures and processes that are aligned operates throughout the full life cycles of our products and with the Group Quality Manual. Site Quality heads have a extends across the entire company, including all Affiliate functional reporting to the Senior Vice-President, Quality. staff, specifically, but not limited to, for those with direct pharmacovigilance responsibilities. Quality Governance A Group Quality Council meets on a semi-annual basis Quality Systems Evaluation Board (QSEB) to discuss quality vision and strategy for the Company. It The QSEB is chaired by the Senior V ice-President includes the Chief Executive Officer, ELT members and the Global Quality. The European Union Qualified Person for Senior Vice-President for Quality. Pharmacovigilance is also a permanent member of this Board. QSEB’s role is to decide on non-routine global issues Quality Management system that impact the Quality and/or Safety of Company products The Quality Management System is described in the Group that require awareness beyond the site level. The QSEB: Quality Manual which: • Ensures resolution of critical product Quality issues; • Gives an overview of the Company’s Quality Management • Ensures reporting of relevant issues to key stakeholders; System; • Ensures or propose corrective actions; • Defines the GXP policies and procedures used to ensure that the Company’s products and services meet GXP • Ensures follow up on relevant actions; regulatory requirements and business objectives in a • Ensures issues are communicated to the ELT and CEO. consistent, compliant and reliable manner; Expenditures and Cash control financial framework • Defines the Quality governance structure, which includes a Group Quality Council, a Quality Leadership Team, Financial authorization manufacturing site Quality Councils, Global R&D Quality The financial authorization procedure lays down the financial and Commercial Operations Quality Councils; approval levels for managers who are authorized to enter into • Defines the GXP documentation system; commitments. • Defines the roles of Group GXP personnel as well as senior Financing and Treasury management. The Company has a centralized cash management system to optimize its financial assets and liquidity. Exchange rate and The Group Quality Manual is co-signed by the Chief Executive interest rate risk exposures are centralized by the Treasury Officer and Senior Vice-President of Quality. department, in order to cover the risks related to commercial Pharmacovigilance and industrial activities, the variations of perimeter and/or financing structure. The Global Patient Safety (pharmacovigilance) department is part of the Research and Development Division that reports A Treasury charter defines the rules and principles for to the Senior Vice-President Chief Medical Officer, and is led managing financing, treasury, and risks. 2.2.2 Information management Reliable and relevant information, provided to the right people of Directors Audit Committee. Operational and finance at the right time is a key element in the internal control and risk management are informed annually of existing coverage and management. procedures. Information on Risk Management and Insurance Information on Audit findings and conclusions A major risk mapping for the Company validated by the Internal Audit reports are communicated as presented in ELT and reported once a year for approval by the Board section 2.2.4. 42 2017 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT Information on products Quality and Safety department also ensures that all Company entities produce consistent information that complies with the Company Information on products Quality and Safety is ensured by the accounting policies. A Finance Handbook is made available to Quality and Safety functions as presented in paragraph 2.2.1. all employees’ to provide them with the reference information Financial information they need. Reporting to the Finance Division, internal control over The Group Finance department also verifies that the financial financial reporting is responsible for: and accounting information reported externally by the • Preparing consolidated financial statements in accordance Company is fair and comprehensive. with the applicable laws and regulations; The Company has implemented an ERP system, which • Managing the budgeting and forecasting processes; is contributing to the optimization of financial processes and activity management. This ERP system has been • Reviewing Group performance and any variance against implemented across the majority of the Company’s research forecasts and providing the ELT with the relevant Key and commercial entities. Further deployment is planned in the Pe r fo r m a n c e I n d i c ato r s to s u p p o r t th e s tr ate g y coming years to extend ERP’s geographical coverage. implementation; • Reviewing periodical management reporting for each of the External Communications committees Company’s entities; The Investor Relations department, which is overseen by • Managing fiscal affairs; the Executive Vice-President Finance, and the Corporate Communications department, which is overseen by the Chief • Ensuring effective treasury management and financing for Executive Officer, are both responsible for preparing external all Company entities; communications documents for the approval of the Chief • Controlling the integrity of financial reporting. Executive Officer, ELT and the Chief Medical Officer. Preparation of consolidated financial statements The Corporate Disclosure Committee meets as required to prepare communications and statements related to The Group Finance department centralizes information unforeseen events, which could potentially have a significant reported by the Finance department of each Company entity impact on the value of Company shares, and to decide, when and produces consolidated financial statements for the appropriate, if those communications must be postponed. Group. Financial controlling The financial statements reported by each Company entity are analysed before consolidation. Financial controlling is organized on the basis of the Group’s business activities. The Group Finance department issues The financial statements are reconciled with the management budgets and forecasts instructions and controls the quality indicators monitored by the Group Finance department. of information related to the Actuals and Planning exercises. As part of its responsibility for producing consolidated The Group’s Finance department analyses the Group actual financial statements, the Group Finance department draws performance and variances against forecasts and identifies up accounting manuals, management reporting packages and quantifies the risks and opportunities involved in budget and the chart of accounts to be used for preparing the and forecast information. The Finance deparment also advises consolidated financial statements. The Group Finance the operational managers on financial matters. 2.2.3 Risk Management framework The Risk Management framework described below has Risk identification and analysis been defined in accordance with measures described in the Risks are identified and analysed through an annual risk mapping COSO II standard (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations process that documents the main risks of the Group’s divisions of the Treadway Commission) and refers to the “Cadre de and prioritizes them in terms of impact and level of control. Référence de l’AMF”. Risk mapping now covers all entities and critical processes Risk Management Components within the Group. The Group’s Risk Management Policy Statement and Framework describes Risk Management objectives and Once a year, a Group Major Risks Map is validated by the ELT terminology, defines roles & responsibilities, and documents and submitted for approval by the Chief Executive Officer and approaches to risk identification, assessment, prioritization, the Board of Directors Audit Committee. treatment, and monitoring. Risk factors The Risk Management organization is described in The Group’s main risk factors are described in chapter 2.1 of section 2.2.1. this registration document. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 43 2 RISKS AND CONTROL INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT Risk action plans • Counterpart and liquidity risks: For every major risk identified, an owner is designated to Within the scope of its activities, the Finance Department monitor it and to ensure that the corrective action plan is makes forecasts regarding the Group application of funds implemented. The process and all related information are and resources and implements financial instruments coordinated by the Group’s Risk Management and Insurance aligned with these forecasts, which are duly submitted to department. and approved by the Board of Directors. On 31 December Financial Risk Management 2016 the Group had a net positive cash position. This cash Financial Risk Management hedges the following risks: position is mainly centralized and the selection of investment options is carried out by the Treasury Department in • Foreign exchange risks: pursuance of a formalized charter which defines: Due to its global business, the Group is exposed to –– the treasury management objectives; fluctuations in exchange rates that may impact its results. The Group hedges the budgeted amount of foreign –– the criteria in terms of asset allocation and risk currencies cash-flow to mitigate the effect of currency rate diversification; changes through standard currency derivatives. Detailed –– the methodology for monitoring the performance and information can be found in section 2.1.4.2 of this report. position of the Group cash flow. A “Market committee” managed by the Vice-President Treasury and composed also of the Executive ViceIn accordance with its treasury charter, the Group Treasury President Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice-President Department is in charge of optimizing the Group liquidity, General Counsel and Vice-Président Chief Risk Officer overseeing the selection of banking establishments with meets every semester, or upon request of any of its which it subscribes to foreign exchange derivatives, and members, to review and approve the forex policy, provide ensuring financial asset allocation is safe and liquid. guidelines, and validate the hedging strategy. Within the scope of its commercial operations, the In 2017, the Group hedged the budgeted amount of foreign Group Treasury Department ensures that the credit limits currencies cash-flow to mitigate the effect of currency rate applicable to its international customers are respected changes. (notably distributors and agents), in particular upon the receipt of new orders. It also monitors the overall status of In 2017, the Group Treasury department bought currency average payment timescales of customers in its entities. derivatives (forward exchange contracts and “plain vanilla” options). The instruments purchased to hedge exposure are Within the scope of its partnerships, and with the support of primarily denominated in USD, RUB, GBP, BRL, CNY/CNH, the Group’s Legal Department and respective Development PLN, CZK, HUF, RON, AUD, CHF. The Group Policy is to Departments, the Group’s Finance Department approves hedge for the budget period to come. Detailed information contractual provisions that aim to protect the Group from can be found in section 2.1.4.2 of this report. the potential negative consequences of the possible failure • Interest rate risks: of its partners. As part of its interest rate risk management, the debt of the Group is mainly composed by fixed interest rate following the issuance of public bond in June 2016 for €300 million. 2.2.4 Control activities Audits operating effectively. Global Internal Audit reports to the Chief The pharmaceutical industry is regulated at both the national Executive Officer and to the Chief Financial Officer. Global and international level. A strict framework of laws and Internal Audit also has direct and regular access to the Audit standards govern all Company business activities. These laws Committee of the Board. govern the Group’s research and development, manufacture of active substances and drugs, promotion and distribution As part of Global Internal Audit governance, an Audit Charter into the global market, financial reporting, and business ethics (approved by the Chief Executive Officer and the Audit and compliance requirements. Global audits within Ipsen are Committee) is in effect. This Audit Charter defines the Global conducted by two functions; Global Internal Audit and Quality Internal Audit’s scope of audit services as covering all areas of Audit. In addition, industrial and research and development Ipsen’s activities, functions, and processes. These audits may sites are responsible for their own site level audit plans. include, but are not limited to, audits of country managed units, Group functions, internal control frameworks, compliance Global Internal Audit requirements, Information Technology, Environmental, Global Internal Audit provides the independent assurance Health and Safety and independent assessments of the that key business risks are being managed appropriately and effectiveness of Ipsen’s Good Quality Systems across the that the risk management and internal control frameworks are Good Pharmaceutical Practices (GXPs) where GXPs apply 44 2017 Ipsen Registration document RISKS AND CONTROL 2 INTERNAL CONTROL OR RISK MANAGEMENT (Note: in this case GXPs refer to the quality systems related the SVP Global Quality, Technical Operations. GXP Quality to Good Manufacturing Practices, Good Clinical Practices, Audit assures audits of all GXP (Good Practices) areas are Good Laboratory Practices,Good Distribution Practices and performed, including on many of the Group sites as well as Good Pharmacovigilance Practices). The GXP good practices service providers and suppliers where GXPs apply. Audit audits (quality audits) are covered under the GXP Quality Audit frequencies are proceduralized using a risk-based approach. program as described below. Annual audit schedules are determined at the start of the year. Critical audit observations are escalated for prompt attention. The Global Internal Audit plan is risk-based and developed Corrective and Preventative Action plans are developed and using a variety of inputs including the Group Risk Map and owned by management in response to audit observations inputs from Global Ethics and Compliance and the ELT. This and the status of all quality audit action plans are tracked to audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee on an annual completion. basis. Audit compliance to quality targets is measured routinely and Audit repor ts containing findings and specific Global Internal Audit is provided with regular status updates recommendations are generated and distributed to relevant from the Quality Audit program. management with a copy to the relevant ELT members responsible for the audited areas. Key findings and main The GXP Quality Audit group also coordinates with the conclusions are communicated within an Executive Summary Global Internal Audit department to assure efficiencies are report to the Board of Directors Audit Committee (the maximized. “Audit Committee”) and to ELT members. Corrective and External Audit Preventative Action plans are developed and owned by management in response to audit observations and the status In accordance with the law, Group financial statements of all actions is tracked to completion. are audited by Statutory Auditors. Their responsibility encompasses all Group companies included in the scope of Global Internal Audit works with other internal assurance type consolidation. Each company, with the exception of certain functions such as Risk Management, Ethics and Compliance companies which are not material to the consolidated financial and Quality Audit to enable consistency of objectives. Global statements, is subject to an audit or limited review as required. Internal Audit liaises with the Company’s external Statutory Auditors on a periodic basis to ensure their respective work Apart from the legal requirements, the Statutory Auditors will be complementary. produce a report on their work summarizing all key audit points identified and their resolution, as well as recommendations on GXP Quality Audit the Group internal control system. The Statutory Auditors’ G XPs refer to the qualit y systems related to Good Report is presented to the Audit Committee and the Board Manufacturing Practices, Good Clinical Practices, Good of Directors. Laboratory Practices, Good Distribution Practices and Good In addition, Group manufacturing plants, clinical research Pharmacovigilance Practices. programs and information systems are also frequently The GXP Quality Audit (Quality Audit) Group reports into the inspected by regulatory agencies and periodically by the VP of Quality System, Technical Operations who reports to Company’s partners. 2.2.5 Review and assessment of internal control Global Internal Audit periodically presents a summary of key including dashboard and trend data, on the progression of observations and trend analysis resulting from its internal the respective audit plans along with an assessment as to the audit assignments to the ELT. Global Internal Audit is also overall level of internal control. responsible for providing a summary update on the Quality Statutory Auditors and Global Internal Audit met periodically Audit program to the Audit Committee. The SVP Quality is throughout 2017 including as part of the Audit Committee responsible for providing regular updates on quality audit updates. outcomes to the ELT. Global Internal Audit met with the Audit Committee twice in 2017 and provided summary reports and status updates, 2017 Ipsen Registration document 45 46 2017 Ipsen Registration document 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3.1 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 48 3.1.1 Significant events during the year 48 3.1.2 Analysis of results 49 3.1.3 Net cash flow and financing 55 3.1.4 Appendices 58 3.1.5 Subsequent events 65 3.1.6 Group outlook 65 3.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 66 3.2.1 Consolidated income statement 66 3.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit 68 3.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow 69 3.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ equity 70 3.2.5 Notes annexes 72 Note 1 Significant events and transactions during the period having an impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2017 74 Note 2 Changes in the scope of consolidation 75 Note 3 Accounting principles and methods, and compliance statement 75 Note 4 Operating segments 85 Note 5 Personnel 87 Note 6 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses 92 Note 7 Other operating income and expenses 93 Note 8 Restructuring costs 93 Note 9 Net financial income 93 Note 10 Income taxes 94 Note 11 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 96 Note 12 Goodwill 96 Note 13 Other intangible assets 99 Note 14 Property, plant & equipment 101 Note 15 Equity investments 102 Note 16 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 103 Note 17 Other non-current assets 103 Note 18 Detail of the change in working capital requirement 104 Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents 106 Note 20 Consolidated equity 107 Note 21 Provisions 109 Note 22 Bank loans and financial liabilities 111 Note 23 Derivative financial instruments 112 Note 24 Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet 113 Note 25 Information on proportionally consolidated entities 115 Note 26 Information on related parties 116 Note 27 Commitments and contingent liabilities 117 Note 28 Post closing events with no impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2017 119 Note 29 Consolidation scope 119 Note 30 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors 121 3.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 122 3.3 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 126 3.3.1 Summary document 126 3.3.2 Notes to the annual financial statements 128 Note 1 Significant events during the year 128 Note 2 Accounting principles and valuation methods 128 Note 3 Notes to the balance sheet 130 Note 4 Notes to the income statement 134 Note 5 Other information 136 Note 6 Subsidiaries and affiliates 139 Note 7 Cash flow statement 140 Note 8 Subsequent events 140 3.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial statements 141 3.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity 144 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.1 Significant events during the year All press releases are available on the Group’s website endpoint results of investigator-assessed progression-free (www.ipsen.com). survival (PFS) from the CABOSUN randomized Phase II trial of cabozantinib as compared with sunitinib in patients with Acquisitions and Agreements previously untreated advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 9 January 2017 – Ipsen announced that it had entered into with intermediateor poor-risk disease per the International a definitive agreement to acquire the global oncology assets Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma Database Consortium from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, including its key marketed (IMDC). product Onivyde ® (irinotecan liposome injection) for the 10 July 2017 – Ipsen announced that its partners Exelixis treatment of patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the and Bristol-Myers Squibb initiated Phase III trial of Opdivo® pancreas after disease progression following gemcitabinein combination with CABOMETYX® or Opdivo® and Yervoy® based therapy, in combination with fluorouracil and leucovorin. in combination with CABOME T Y X ®, versus Sunitinib 31 January 2017 – Ipsen announced that it had signed an in previously untreated advanced or metastatic renal cell agreement to take an equity stake in Akkadeas Pharma carcinoma. with the option to take control of the company in the future. 10 September 2017 – Ipsen and its partner Exelixis announced Akkadeas Pharma is a privately-held consumer health care updated results from the CABOSUN randomized Phase II company in Italy with a diversified gastrointestinal-focused trial of cabozantinib in patients with previously untreated portfolio including probiotics, medical devices and food advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) with intermediateor supplements. As part of the transaction, Akkadeas Pharma poor-risk disease per the International Metastatic Renal Cell becomes Ipsen’s Italian distributor for Smecta® (Diosmectal®). Carcinoma Database Consortium (IMDC). 13 February 2017 – Ipsen announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire from Sanofi five consumer 16 October 2017 – Ipsen and its partner Exelixis announced healthcare products in certain European territories. The that its global Phase III CELESTIAL trial met its primary most significant product is Prontalgine®, an analgesic for the endpoint of overall survival (OS), with cabozantinib providing a treatment of moderate to severe pain. statistically significant and clinically meaningful improvement in median OS compared to placebo in patients with advanced 3 April 2017 – Ipsen announced that it had completed hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). its acquisition of global oncology assets from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, in Cambridge, MA., focusing on Onivyde® Regulatory (irinotecan liposome injection) for the treatment of patients 13 March 2017 – Ipsen announced that the Medicines and with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas after Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the UK, disease progression following gemcitabine-based therapy, in in coordination with fourteen other European regulatory combination with fluorouracil and leucovorin. agencies, had approved a new indication for Decapeptyl ® 8 May 2017 – Ipsen announced that it had completed as adjuvant treatment in combination with tamoxifen or its previously announced acquisition of a portfolio of five an aromatase inhibitor, of endocrine-responsive earlyconsumer healthcare products from Sanofi. stage breast cancer in women at high-risk of recurrence who are confirmed as pre-menopausal after completion of 30 June 2017 – Ipsen announced that its US affiliate entered chemotherapy. into an exclusive, three-year agreement with Saol Therapeutics Inc. to promote Dysport® (abobotulinumtoxinA) for injection 16 June 2017 – Ipsen announced that the U.S. Food and for approved therapeutic indications in adult spasticity and Drug Administration (FDA) has expanded the approved use of pediatric lower limb spasticity in the United States. Dysport® (abobotulinumtoxinA) for injection for the treatment of spasticity in adults, based on its supplemental Biologics Research and Development License Application (sBLA) in lower limb spasticity. 27 February 2017 – Ipsen’s partner Exelixis announced 3 July 2017 – Ipsen and Teijin Pharma Limited, the clinical collaboration with Bristol Myers Squibb for late-stage core company of the Teijin Group’s healthcare business combination trial in first-line renal cell carcinoma. announced that Teijin Pharma had received approval from the 15 June 2017 – Ipsen announced that its partner Exelixis Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for Ipsen’s initiated Phase Ib trial of cabozantinib in combination with subcutaneous drug Somatuline® (lanreotide) for the treatment atezolizumab in patients with locally advanced or metastatic of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP NET). solid tumors. 21 July 2017 – Ipsen announced that the Committee for 19 June 2017 – Ipsen and its partner Exelixis announced that Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), the scientific the analysis of the review by a blinded independent radiology committee of the European Medicines Agency (EMA), review committee (IRC) had confirmed the primary efficacy adopted a positive opinion recommending the approval of 48 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Xermelo® (telotristat ethyl) 250 mg three times a day (tid) for the 2 March 2017 – Ipsen announced the appointment of Benoit treatment of carcinoid syndrome diarrhea in combination with Hennion as Executive Vice President and President, Primary somatostatin analogue (SSA) therapy in adults inadequately Care, effective 13 March 2017. Mr. Hennion reports directly to controlled by SSA therapy. David Meek, CEO of Ipsen, and joins the Executive Leadership Team. 16 August 2017 – Ipsen announced that its partner Exelixis completed the submission of a supplemental New Drug 14 April 2017 – Ipsen announced the appointment of Dr. Application (sNDA) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Alexandre Lebeaut as Executive Vice-President, R&D, and (FDA) for CABOMETYX® (cabozantinib) tablets as a treatment Chief Scientific Officer. for patients with previously untreated advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Other 8 September 2017 – Ipsen announced that the European 11 May 2017 – Ipsen hosted an Investor Day at which the Medicines Agency (EMA), the European regulatory authority, management team provided a comprehensive update on its validated the application for variation to the Cabometyx ® current business, corporate strategy and outlook. In Specialty (cabozantinib) marketing authorization for the addition of a Care, Ipsen is focused on three key therapeutic areas, new indication in first-line treatment of advanced renal cell Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare diseases, where Ipsen can carcinoma. establish a leadership position and leverage its expertise from drug development to commercialization. To build a sustainable 18 September 2017 – Ipsen announced that the U.S. Food pipeline of innovative assets, Ipsen will transform the R&D and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved a supplemental model and continue to invest in business development. In indication for Somatuline® Depot (lanreotide) Injection 120 mg Consumer Healthcare, to establish a sustainable and growing for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome. business, Ipsen will complete the OTx model transformation 19 September 2017 – Ipsen announced that the European and leverage the three main market-leading brands through Commission approved Xermelo ® (telotristat ethyl) 250 mg consumer innovations, capture the underlying market growth three times a day for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome in emerging markets and strengthen the European business. diarrhea in combination with somatostatin analogue (SSA) Ipsen provided updated 2020 financial targets of Sales greater therapy in adults inadequately controlled by SSA therapy. than €2.5 billion and Core Operating Income margin greater than 30% of sales. Governance 8 June 2017 – Ipsen announced that it had appointed Natixis 20 January 2017 – Ipsen announced the appointment of to purchase 160,000 Ipsen SA shares, or about 0.2% of the Harout Semerjian as President, Head of Specialty Care share capital, for a period of at least 2 months. The shares International Region & Global Franchises1, effective 2 February purchased under this agreement will be mainly allocated to 2017. He reports to David Meek, CEO of Ipsen, and will be a cover its free performance share allocation plan. member of the Executive Leadership Team. 3.1.2 Analysis of results ■■3.1.2.1 Comparison of Consolidated Sales for the Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2017 and 2016 Sales by therapeutic area and by product (1) Note: Unless stated otherwise, all variations in sales are stated excluding foreign exchange impacts. Currency effects are established by recalculating net sales for the relevant period at the exchange rates used for the previous period. (1) New sales reporting according to main therapeutic indication of each product 2017 Ipsen Registration document 49 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR The following table shows sales by therapeutic area and by product for the fourth quarter and full year 2017 and 2016: 4th Quarter Full Year % % (in millions euros) % Variation % Variation 2017 2016 2017 2016 variation at constant variation at constant currency currency Oncology 325.2 247.3 31.5% 35.2% 1,185.2 904.9 31.0% 32.4% Somatuline® 189.2 146.5 29.2% 33.9% 702.5 538.3 30.5% 31.9% Decapeptyl ® 89.6 88.0 1.8% 3.2% 348.7 339.8 2.6% 3.6% Cabometyx® 20.6 7.2 NA NA 51.7 7.2 NA NA Onivyde® 19.7 0.0 NA NA 56.9 0.0 NA NA Other Oncology 6.2 5.7 8.0% 8.6% 25.4 19.5 30.2% 30.5% Neuroscience 88.2 71.9 22.6% 25.4% 331.6 286.7 15.7% 14.8% Dysport ® 87.2 71.2 22.5% 25.3% 328.2 284.7 15.3% 14.5% Rare Diseases 17.7 20.5 -13.6% -11.8% 75.1 81.5 -7.8% -7.1% NutropinAq® 12.3 14.0 -12.2% -12.1% 51.8 57.7 -10.2% -9.9% Increlex® 5.0 6.5 -22.7% -17.2% 22.9 23.7 -3.5% -1.9% Specialty Care 431.1 339.8 26.9% 30.3% 1,591.9 1,273.0 25.1% 25.9% Smecta® 33.3 31.6 5.6% 8.3% 115.5 111.0 4.0% 4.1% Forlax® 10.4 10.2 1.9% 2.6% 42.1 39.3 7.1% 7.0% Tanakan® 14.8 15.8 -6.7% -6.6% 41.4 43.6 -4.9% -6.0% Fortrans/Eziclen® 8.7 7.8 11.3% 12.3% 32.1 26.8 19.8% 16.5% Etiasa® 3.1 11.5 -72.7% -70.8% 17.8 29.3 -39.3% -37.2% Other Consumer Healthcare 17.6 13.5 31.0% 28.9% 67.8 61.5 10.2% 9.8% Consumer Healthcare 88.0 90.4 -2.6% -1.6% 316.8 311.6 1.7% 1.4% Group Sales 519.2 430.2 20.7% 23.6% 1,908.7 1,584.6 20.5% 21.1% Full year 2017 sales highlights Decapeptyl® – Sales totaled €348.7 million, up 3.6% yearGroup sales reached €1,908.7 million, up 21.1%, driven by on-year, positively impacted by good volume growth across the 25.9% growth of Specialty Care sales and 1.4% growth of Europe, notably in France and Spain, and in Algeria, as well as Consumer Healthcare sales. a good sales trend in China despite some continued pricing pressure. Specialty Care sales amounted to €1,591.9 million, up 25.9%. Oncology and Neuroscience sales grew by 32.4% and Cabometyx® – Sales reached €51.7 million, driven by good 14.8%, respectively, while Rare Diseases sales decreased performance in Germany and France which accounted for the by 7.1%. Over the period, the relative weight of Specialty majority of sales, as well as volume growth in the Netherlands Care continued to increase to reach 83.4% of Group sales, and in the UK. In the fourth quarter 2017, sales were up 44.4% compared to 80.3% in 2016. versus the third quarter 2017. In Oncology, sales reached €1,185.2 million, up 32.4% yearOnivyde® – Sales amounted to €56.9 million, representing on-year, driven by the launches of Onivyde® and Cabometyx® three quarters of sales in the U.S. following the completion as well as the continued strong performance of Somatuline®. of the acquisition from Merrimack in April 2017. In the fourth Over the period, Oncology sales represented 62.1% of total quarter of 2017, sales were up 10.8% versus the third quarter Group sales, compared to 57.1% in 2016. 2017. Somatuline® – Sales reached €702.5 million, up 31.9% yearIn Neuroscience, sales of Dysport® reached €328.2 million, on-year, driven by strong volume growth in North America up 14.5%, driven by the good performance of Galderma in as well as strong performance in most European countries, North America, as well as strong growth in the Middle East notably in the UK, Germany and France. The U.S. represented and some Eastern European countries. In addition, the Good 46.7% of total Somatuline® sales in 2017, with a 62.1% growth Manufacturing Practices (GMP) certificate was reissued in rate over 2016. Brazil in January 2018. Over the period, Neuroscience sales 50 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR represented 17.4% of total Group sales, compared to 18.1% during the third quarter of 2017) and by the Diosmectal ® in 2016. launch in Italy and the Smebiocta ® launch in France and Eastern Europe. In R a r e D is e a s e s , s a le s of NutropinAq ® re ac he d €51.8 million, down 9.9% year-on-year, impacted by lower Forlax® – Sales reached €42.1 million, up 7.0% year-on-year, volumes across Europe, especially in Germany and France. driven by growing sales to partners. Sales of Increlex® reached €22.9 million, slightly down 1.9% year-on-year, impacted by lower prices in Poland. Over the Tanakan® – Sales reached €41.4 million, down 6.0% yearperiod, Rare Diseases sales represented 3.9 % of total Group on-year, mainly impacted by a continued market slowdown in sales, compared to 5.1% in 2016. France, while performance in Russia remains in line with 2016. Consumer Healthcare sales reached €316.8 million, up Fortrans/Eziclen® – Sales reached €32.1 million, up 16.5% 1.4% year-on-year or up 3.2% adjusted for the impact of year-on-year, due to the good performance in China and the Etiasa® contractual setup in China, driven by the good Europe and by a favorable basis of comparison due to performance of Smecta® and Fortrans/Eziclen® as well as the shortage issues in the first half of 2016. contribution of the newly acquired OTC products (including Etiasa® – Sales reached €17.8 million, down 37.2% year-onProntalgine ® and Buscopan®). Over the period, Consumer year, impacted by the new contractual set up in China which Healthcare sales represented 16.6% of total Group sales, started to take effect in the third quarter of 2017, and by a compared to 19.7% in 2016. negative inventory impact. Smecta® – Sales reached €115.5 million, up 4.1% year-onOther Consumer Healthcare – Sales reached €67.8 million, year, driven by a good volume trend in China reflecting the up 9.8% year-on-year, supported by the newly-acquired commercial efforts deployed to support the implementation products Prontalgine® and Buscopan® slightly offset by some of the OTx strategy, (partly offset by the destocking impact pressure on Nisis®/Nisisco® after the January 2017 price cut. Sales by geographical area Group sales by geographical area in the fourth quarter and full year 2017 and 2016: 4th Quarter Full Year % % (in millions euros) % Variation % Variation 2017 2016 2017 2016 variation at constant variation at constant currency currency France 64.9 61.5 5.6% 5.6% 247.7 225.5 9.8% 9.8% Germany 43.3 31.6 37.1% 36.5% 152.1 123.2 23.5% 23.5% Italy 22.5 18.8 19.8% 19.8% 90.7 81.2 11.8% 11.8% United Kingdom 22.3 18.2 22.6% 24.6% 80.3 72.8 10.2% 17.9% Spain 20.5 18.5 10.6% 10.6% 73.6 69.2 6.4% 6.4% Major Western European 173.6 148.6 16.8% 17.0% 644.4 571.9 12.7% 13.7% countries Eastern Europe 53.9 50.6 6.4% 4.7% 196.4 176.2 11.5% 6.3% Others Europe 54.7 47.1 16.0% 16.7% 199.0 173.0 15.0% 15.7% Other European Countries 108.5 97.7 11.0% 10.6% 395.3 349.2 13.2% 10.9% North America 127.7 83.3 53.3% 64.6% 467.0 273.0 71.1% 74.5% Asia 55.5 62.8 -11.7% -6.9% 205.7 218.8 -6.0% -3.3% Other countries in the Rest 54.0 37.7 43.0% 45.5% 196.3 171.7 14.3% 12.5% of the world Rest of the World 109.4 100.5 8.8% 12.5% 401.9 390.5 2.9% 3.7% Group Sales 519.2 430.2 20.7% 23.6% 1 908.7 1 584.6 20.5% 21.1% Sales in Major Western European countries reached sustained growth of Somatuline®, the positive sales trend of €644.4 million, up 13.7% year-on-year. This represents 33.8% Decapeptyl® and the contribution of Prontalgine®. of total Group sales, compared to 36.1% in 2016. Germany – Sales reached €152.1 million, up 23.5% year-onFrance – Sales reached €247.7 million, up 9.8% year-onyear, driven by the Cabometyx® launch contribution and the year, driven by the Cabometyx ® launch contribution, the strong growth of Somatuline®. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 51 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Italy – Sales reached €90.7 million, up 11.8% year-on-year, Sales generated in North America reached €467.0 million, up mainly driven by the launch of Diosmectal® in Italy following 74.5% year-on-year, driven by the continued strong growth of the equity stake in Akkadeas Pharma in January 2017 and the Somatuline®, partially attributed to new contracts, as well as good performance of Somatuline®. the Onivyde® launch contribution and the good performance of Dysport® in therapeutics and by Galderma in the aesthetics United Kingdom – Sales reached €80.3 million, up 17.9% market. Over the period, sales in North America represented year-on-year, driven by the strong performance of Somatuline® 24.5% of total Group sales, compared to 17.2% in 2016. and the first sales contribution of Cabometyx®. Sales in the Rest of the World reached €401.9 million, up Spain – Sales reached €73.6 million, up 6.4% year-on3.7% year-on-year, driven by the resupply of Dysport ® in year, driven by the good performance of Somatuline ® and Brazil in 2017, the good performance of Dysport® in Australia, Decapeptyl®, as well as the first sales of Cabometyx®. and the growth of Somatuline ® in certain countries. These Sales in Other European countries reached €395.3 million variances were partly offset by the Etiasa® performance in up 10.9% year-on-year, supported by the strong growth of China (mainly impacted by the new contractual set up and Dysport ®, the launch of Cabometyx ® in certain countries, a negative inventory impact). Over the period, sales in the Onivyde ® sales to Ipsen’s partner, as well as the solid Rest of the World represented 21.0% of total Group sales, performance of Somatuline ® and Decapeptyl ®. Over the compared to 24.6% in 2016. period, sales in the region represented 20.7% of total Group sales compared to 22.0% in 2016. ■■3.1.2.2 Comparison of Core consolidated income statement for 2017 and 2016 Core financial measures are performance indicators. Reconciliation between these indicators and IFRS aggregates is presented in Appendix 3.1.4.5 “Bridges from IFRS consolidated net profit to Core consolidated net profit” 31 Decembre 2016 31 Decembre 2017 Restated (1) % (in millions % (in millions % variation of euros) of sale of euros) of sale Sales 1,908.7 100% 1,584.6 100% 20.5% Other revenues 103.0 5.4% 86.5 5.5% 19.1% Revenue 2,011.8 105.4% 1,671.1 105.5% 20.4% Cost of goods sold (385.6) -20.2% (351.1) -22.2% 9.8% Selling expenses (715.9) -37.5% (592.0) -37.4% 20.9% Research and development expenses (265.8) -13.9% (231.3) -14.6% 14.9% General and administrative expenses (140.8) -7.4% (125.6) -7.9% 12.1% Other core operating income 0.4 0.0% 0.9 0.1% -57.4% Other core operating expenses (0.5) 0.0% (8.0) -0.5% -93.9% Core Operating Income 503.6 26.4% 363.9 23.0% 38.4% Net financing costs (8.1) -0.4% (5.0) -0.3% 62.8% Other financial income and expense (18.4) -1.0% (9.3) -0.6% 98.6% Core income taxes (115.7) -6.1% (88.0) -5.6% 31.5% Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted 1.4 0.1% 1.9 0.1% -26.5% for using the equity method Core consolidated net profit 362.7 19.0% 263.6 16.6% 37.6% – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 362.1 19.0% 262.9 16.6% 37.7% – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.6 0.0% 0.6 0.0% 0.1% Core EPS fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. 4.36 3.18 37.0% shareholders (in e per share) (1) As part of the effort to implement its new organization, the Group reviewed the presentation of its financial statements and changed the classification of certain items on its income statement, with the view that the new presentation would provide more relevant information to financial statement readers. These reclassifications had no impact on Operating income or Consolidated net profit. The impact of the various reclassifications on the consolidated income statement for the period ended 31 December 2016 is presented in Appendix 3.1.4.2. 52 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Reconciliation from Core consolidated net profit to IFRS consolidated net profit 31 Decembre 2016 (in millions of euros) 31 Decembre 2017 Restated (1) Core consolidated net profit 362.7 263.6 Amortization of intangible assets (excl. software) (37.6) (5.1) Other operating income or expenses (33.6) (4.4) Restructuring (13.0) (1.1) Impairment losses 12.8 (32.1) Other (18.5) 5.7 IFRS consolidated net profit 272.9 226.6 IFRS EPS fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders (in e per share) 3.28 2.73 (1) As part of the effort to implement its new organization, the Group reviewed the presentation of its financial statements and changed the classification of certain items on its income statement, with the view that the new presentation would provide more relevant information to financial statement readers. These reclassifications had no impact on Operating income or Consolidated net profit. The impact of the various reclassifications on the consolidated income statement for the period ended 31 December 2016 is presented in Appendix 3.1.4.2. Sales The Group increased development costs in Oncology, I n 2017, th e G ro u p’s c o n s o l i d ate d s a l e s c a m e to especially for Cabometyx ®, Onivyde ® and the peptide €1,908.7 million, up 20.5% year-on-year and up 21.1% receptor radionuclide therapy program, while discontinuing excluding the impact of foreign exchange. during the year internal investments in peptide discovery and in Neuroscience, mainly for the short acting toxin program Other revenues and the development of new indications for Dysport®. O ther reve nue s for the f inancial ye ar 2017 totaled General and administrative expenses €103.0 million, up 19.1% versus €86.5 million in 2016. In 2017, General and administrative expenses came to The evolution was attributable to higher royalties received €140.8 million, compared to €125.6 million in 2016. The from Group partners, mainly Galderma for Dysport®, Menarini increase resulted primarily from investments to support for Adenuric® and Shire for Onivyde®. Other revenues were the Onivyde ® launch in the United States and Ipsen’s also positively impacted in 2017 by the new contractual set-up overall growth as well as the impact of the Group’s positive for Etiasa® in China. performance on variable compensation. Cost of goods sold Other core operating income and expenses In 2017, Cost of goods sold amounted to €385.6 million, representing 20.2% of sales compared to €351.1 million, or At year end 2017, Other core operating income was in line 22.2% of sales in 2016. with last year. The growth in Specialty Care sales drove a favorable product In 2017, Other core operating expenses totaled €0.5 million, mix that improved the cost of goods sold as a percentage of versus €8.0 million in 2016. This evolution is mainly due to the sales. impact of the currency hedging policy. Royalties paid to partners increased due to Group sales Core Operating Income growth. Core Operating Income in 2017 came to €503.6 million, Selling expenses representing 26.4% of sales, compared to €363.9 million In 2017, Selling expenses came to €715.9 million, representing in Core Operating Income in 2016, representing 23.0% of 37.5% of sales, up 20.9% versus 2016. The increase reflects sales. The strong performance of Specialty Care including the the commercial efforts deployed to support the Cabometyx® contribution from new products Cabometyx® and Onivyde®, launch in Europe, the growth of Somatuline® in the United the continued performance of Somatuline®, combined with States as well as the commercial investment for Onivyde® in higher commercial and R&D investments enabled the Group the United States following the closing of the acquisition in to increase its profitability by 3.4 points. Core Operating April 2017. Income increased by 38.4% compared to 2016. Research and development expenses Net financing costs and Other financial income and expense For the financial year 2017, Research and development expenses totaled €265.8 million, compared to €231.3 million In 2017, the Group incurred net financial expenses of in 2016. €26.6 million, versus €14.3 million in 2016. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 53 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR Net financing costs amounted to €8.1 million versus Impairment losses €5.0 million in 2016, driven by the full year impact of interest In 2017, a net reversal of impairment of €14.8 million before expenses on the bond issued in 2016 and by financing costs tax was recognized at the Group level mainly related to: related to the debt raised for the acquisitions completed during 2017. • the reversal of the IGF-1 / Increlex ® impairment for €50.4 million following the completion of the transfer to In 2017, Other financial income and expense amounted to an the new manufacturing site, approved by both the EMA expense of €18.4 million, compared to €9.3 million in 2016, (European Medicines Agency) and the FDA (Food and Drug mainly attributable to the cost of hedging implemented to Administration), securing the production of Increlex®; mitigate the foreign exchange risk of the Group. • the impairment of Prontalgine® for €33.9 million following Core income taxes the consequence of the decree announced by the French In 2017, Core income tax expense of €115.7 million resulted Ministry of Health on 12 July 2017, including all medicines from a core effective tax rate of 24.3% on profit before tax containing codeine, dextromethorphan, ethylmorphine compared to a core effective rate of 25.2% in 2016. or noscapine on the list of medicines available only by prescription. Core consolidated net profit For the year ended 31 December 2017, Core consolidated net In 2016, Ipsen recorded a €42.9 million impairment charge profit increased by 37.6% to €362.7 million, with €362.1 million before tax on several intangible assets (OctreoPharm, MCNA fully attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders. This compares from Telesta Therapeutics and Canbex Therapeutics). to Core consolidated net profit of €263.6 million, with Other €262.9 million attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders, in 2016. In 2017, Other items amounted to an expense of €18.5 million Core Earning per share and were mainly related to the negative impact of the newly In 2017, Core EPS fully diluted came to €4.36, up 37.0% signed U.S. tax reform on U.S. tax losses carried forward versus €3.18 per share in 2016. offset by the recognition of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets in the U.S. as well as to discontinued operations. ■■3.1.2.3 F  rom Core financial measures to IFRS In 2016, Other items amounted to an income of €5.7 million, reported figures mainly comprised of €5.3 million in dividends from Rhythm Reconciliations between IFRS 2016 / 2017 results and the Holding, €2.4 million in dividends from the InnoBio fund as Core financial measures are presented in Appendix 3.1.4.5. well as the Spirogen earn-out payment. In 2017, the main reconciling items between Core consolidated As a consequence, IFRS reported indicators are: net income and IFRS consolidated net income were: Operating income Amortization of intangible assets (excluding software) In 2017, Operating income totaled €397.2 million versus Amortization of intangible assets (excluding software) for €304.7 million in 2016, with an Operating margin at 20.8%, up 2017 amounted to €53.3 million before tax, compared to 1.6 points compared to 2016. €7.7 million before tax in 2016, mainly due to the amortization of intangible assets from Cabometyx®, Onivyde® and assets Consolidated net profit acquired from Sanofi. Consolidated net profit was €272.9 million at 31 December Other operating income and expenses and 2017, an increase of 20.5% versus 2016 at €226.6 million. Restructuring costs Earning per share Other non-core operating income and expenses for 2017 amounted to €48.9 million before tax and Restructuring costs Fully diluted EPS was €3.28 in 2017 versus €2.73 in 2016. came to €18.8 million before tax. ■■3.1.2.4 Operating segments: Core Operating These expenses consisted mainly of integration costs related to the Onivyde ® acquisition, the adaptation of the R&D Income by therapeutic area structure and programs, a settlement with a partner in Japan Segment information is presented according to the Group’s and a reorganization plan in Europe. two operating segments, Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare. In 2016, Other non-core operating expenses totaled €6.8 million before tax and consisted mainly of costs from the All costs allocated to these two segments are presented in change in the Group’s corporate governance and costs from the key performance indicators. Only corporate overhead the move to the new research and development site in Oxford, costs and the impact of the currency hedging policy are not UK. Restructuring costs were €1.9 million before tax in 2016. allocated to the two operating segments. 54 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR The Group uses Core Operating Income to measure its segment performance and to allocate resources. Sales, Revenue and Core Operating Income are presented by therapeutic area for the 2017 and 2016 financial years in the following table. Variation (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Change % Specialty Care Sales 1,591.9 1,273.0 319.0 25.1% Revenue 1,643.1 1,308.0 335.1 25.6% Core Operating Income 570.6 415.0 155.6 37.5% % of sales 35.8% 32.6% Consumer Healthcare Sales 316.8 311.6 5.2 1.7% Revenue 368.7 363.1 5.5 1.5% Core Operating Income 91.8 99.6 (7.9) -7.9% % of sales 29.0% 32.0% Total Unallocated Core Operating Income (158.8) (150.7) (8.1) 5.4% Group total Sales 1,908.7 1,584.6 324.1 20.5% Revenue 2,011.8 1,671.1 340.7 20.4% Core Operating Income 503.6 363.9 139.7 38.4% % of sales 26.4% 23.0% In 2017, Specialty Care sales grew to €1,591.9 million, up Eziclen ® and despite the new contractual set up in China 25.1% over 2016 (or 25.9% at constant exchange rates), for Etiasa®. In 2017, Core Operating Income for Consumer reaching 83.4% of total consolidated sales at 31 December Healthcare amounted to €91.8 million, representing 29.0% 2017, versus 80.3% a year earlier. In 2017, Core Operating of sales in comparison of 32.0% in 2016. This variance Income for Specialty Care amounted to €570.6 million, reflects the commercial efforts deployed to support the representing 35.8% of sales. This compares to €415.0 million implementation of the OTx strategy as well as an increase in in the prior-year period, representing 32.6% of sales. The medical study expenses. improvement reflects the continued growth of Somatuline® In 2017, Unallocated Core Operating Income came to a in the United States and Europe and the contribution of negative €158.8 million, compared to a negative €150.7 million Cabometyx® and Onivyde®, along with increased commercial in the year-earlier period. The evolution is mainly attributable investments to support growth and the commercial launches. to the Group’s positive performance on higher variable In 2017, Consumer Healthcare sales came to €316.8 million, compensation and investments to support Ipsen’s growth. up 1.7% year on year (or 1.4% at constant exchange rates), These expenses consisted mainly of unallocated corporate driven by the good performance of Smecta® and Fortrans/ expenses and the impact from the currency hedging policy. 3.1.3 Net cash flow and financing In 2017, the Group had a net cash decrease of €531.9 million after the acquisition of the Onivyde® assets, the OTC product portfolio from Sanofi and the equity stake in Akkadeas Pharma, bringing closing net debt to €463.3 million. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 55 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■3.1.3.1 Analysis of the consolidated net cash flow statement (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Opening net cash / (debt) 68.6 186.9 Core Operating Income 503.6 363.9 Non-cash items 18.1 15.6 Change in operating working capital requirement (45.2) (2.8) (Increases) / decreases in other working capital requirement 40.1 12.1 Net capex (excluding milestones paid) (94.7) (84.0) Dividends received from entities accounted for using the equity method 0.9 2.3 Operating Cash Flow 422.8 307.1 Other operating income and expenses and restructuring costs (cash) (53.4) (20.8) Financial income (cash) (16.8) (3.1) Current income tax (P&L, excluding provisions for tax contingencies) (53.0) (65.5) Other operating cash flow 9.4 11.1 Free Cash Flow 309.0 228.8 Dividends paid (70.6) (70.3) Net investments (business development and milestones) (789.2) (252.9) Share buyback (18.1) (24.0) FX on net indebtedness 33.8 – Other (discontinued operations and financial instrument) 3.3 0.1 Shareholders return and external growth operations (840.9) (347.2) CHANGE IN NET CASH / (DEBT) (531.9) (118.4) Closing net cash / (debt) (463.3) 68.6 Operating cash flow for higher variable compensation. Other WCR decreased by In 2017, Operating Cash Flow totaled €422.8 million, up €12.1 million in 2016. €115.7 million (38.3%) versus 2016. The increase was driven Net capital expenditure amounted to €94.7 million at by higher Core Operating Income, partially offset by an 31 December 2017, compared with €84.0 million in 2016. increase in working capital requirement (WCR) and net capital These investments included mainly capital projects to support expenditure (excluding milestones paid). increased production capacity at industrial sites in the United Working capital requirement for operating activities increased Kingdom, the United States and France as well as corporate by €45.2 million in 2017, compared with an increase of investments in Information Technology and Digital. €2.8 million in 2016. The change at 31 December 2017 Free cash flow stemmed mainly from the following: In 2017, Free Cash Flow came to €309.0 million, up • a €38.2 million increase in inventories during the year, in €80.2 million (+35.0%) versus 31 December 2016. This step with business growth and recent acquisitions; evolution is mainly driven by an improvement in Operating Cash Flow, partially compensated by higher Other operating • a €84.6 million increase in trade receivables, in line with income or expenses and restructuring costs, and increased sales growth over the last quarter, compared with a Financial expenses. €42.7 million increase in trade receivables in 2016; • a €77.6 million increase in trade payables at 31 December Other non-core operating income and expenses and 2017, in correlation with the phasing of operating restructuring costs of €53.4 million included Onivyde ® expenses mainly to support the growth of the business. At integration costs, the adaptation of the R&D structure and 31 December 2016, trade payables rose by €47.6 million. programs, a settlement with a partner in Japan and costs arising from the change in corporate governance. At the In 2017, other WCR need decreased by €40.1 million, end of December 2016, €20.8 million of such payments mainly driven by the positive seasonality on working capital were primarily comprised of costs arising from the change components at the end of the year notably due to the provision in corporate governance, as well as payments for earlier 56 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR restructuring plans that were staggered over several fiscal Merrimack Pharmaceuticals on 3 April 2017 for €665 million, periods. corresponding to the purchase price and future earn-outs The €16.8 million in financial expenses paid at the end of (discounted and probabilized under IFRS), the acquisition of December 2017 resulted from a full year of interest on the Consumer Healthcare products in European territories from bond issued in June 2016, financing costs related to the Sanofi for €86 million, and the equity stake in Akkadeas debt raised for acquisitions completed during this year and Pharma for €5 million, as well as additional milestones paid hedging costs. In comparison, the €3.1 million in financial to Exelixis for €26 million following the exclusive license income paid at the end of December 2016 resulted mainly agreement signed in 2016 and to Lexicon for €10 million. from the collection of dividends, an earnout payment related This was partially offset by milestone payment received from to the sale of Spirogen shares and realized foreign exchange Radius and from Galderma for the territory extension in Asia gains. for a total of €15 million. The change in current income tax stemmed mainly from At 31 December 2016, net financial investments mainly the reimbursement of the 3% tax on dividends partially encompassed a €184 million upfront payment to Exelixis compensated by the temporary surtax in France. for the exclusive licensing agreement for Cabometyx® and a €5 million upfront payment to 3B Pharmaceuticals GmbH, Shareholders return and external growth operations partially offset by regulatory milestone payments received At 31 December 2017, the dividend payout to Ipsen S.A. from Acadia and Radius (€10 million) and by scheduled shareholders amounted to €70.2 million. payments related to the agreement signed with Galderma in December 2015 for Asia-Pacific markets (collection of net Net investments at 31 December 2017 amounted to €6 million). €789 million, including the acquisition of Onivyde ® from ■■3.1.3.2 Reconciliation of cash and cash equivalents and net cash (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Current financial assets (derivative instruments on financial operations) 1.4 – Closing cash and cash equivalents 209.3 422.5 Bonds (297.5) (297.1) Other financial liabilities (**) (102.8) (17.8) Non-current financial liabilities (400.3) (314.8) Credit lines and bank loans (46.0) (4.0) Current financial liabilities (**) (227.6) (35.1) Current financial liabilities (273.6) (39.1) Debt (673.9) (353.9) Net cash / (debt) (*) (463.3) 68.6 (*) Net cash / (debt): derivative instruments booked in financial assets and related to financial operations, cash and cash equivalents, less bank overdrafts, bank loans and other financial liabilities and excluding financial derivative instruments on commercial operations. (**) Financial liabilities mainly exclude €20.4 million in derivative instruments related to commercial operations in 2017, compared with €18.2 million in 2016. Analysis of Group cash €600 million and to extend its maturity until 17 October 2022. On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued a €300 million unsecured At 31 December 2017, €42 million were drawn on this facility. seven-year public bond loan with an annual interest rate of On 27 June 2017, Ipsen S.A. increased its program of 1.875%. “NEU CP – Negotiable EUropean” Commercial Paper, from In addition, €300 million in bilateral long-term bank loans were €300 million to €600 million, among which €202 million were contracted with a maturity of 6.5 years. At 31 December 2017, issued on 31 December 2017. none of the bank loans were drawn down. On 6 June 2017, Ipsen S.A. amended its syndicated loan to increase the facility amount from €300 million to 2017 Ipsen Registration document 57 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.4 Appendices ■■3.1.4.1 Consolidated income statement 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 Restated Sales 1,908.7 1,584.6 Other revenues 103.0 86.5 Revenue 2,011.8 1,671.1 Cost of goods sold (1) (385.6) (351.1) Selling expenses (1) (715.9) (592.0) Research and development expenses (1) (265.8) (231.3) General and administrative expenses (1) (140.8) (125.6) Other operating income 3.1 6.9 Other operating expenses (105.5) (28.6) Restructuring costs (18.8) (1.9) Impairment losses 14.8 (42.9) Operating Income 397.2 304.7 Investment income 1.1 0.9 Financing costs (9.2) (5.8) Net financing costs (8.1) (5.0) Other financial income and expense (18.4) (1.6) Income taxes (101.4) (73.5) Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity method 1.4 1.9 Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 270.7 226.5 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 2.3 0.1 Consolidated net profit (loss) 272.9 226.6 – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 272.3 225.9 – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.6 0.6 Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 3.27 2.74 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 3.25 2.73 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.03 0 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.03 0 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 3.3 2.74 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 3.28 2.73 (1) As part of the effort to implement its new organization, the Group reviewed the presentation of its financial statements and changed the classification of certain items on its income statement, with the view that the new presentation would provide more relevant information to financial statement readers. These reclassifications had no impact on Operating income or Consolidated net profit. The impact of the various reclassifications on the consolidated income statement for the period ended 31 December 2016 is presented in Appendix 3.1.4.2. ■■3.1.4.2 R  econciliation of the income statement statement, with the view that the new presentation would reported at 31 December 2016 provide more relevant information to financial statement readers. published in 2016 and the restated income statement at 31 December 2016 In order to better reflect the substance of the operations related published in 2017 to global medical affairs, the Group has decided starting from 2017 to recognize global medical affairs expenses As part of the effort to implement its new organization, the in “Research and development expenses”. These costs, Group reviewed the presentation of its financial statements which amounted to €26.7 million in 2016, were previously and changed the classification of certain items on its income recognized in “Selling expenses”. 58 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR The allocation of internal costs within the various functions These reclassifications had no impact on the Operating result was revised in the consolidated income statement. As a and on the Net profit. result, certain support function expenses were reclassified On 31 December 2017, the Group restated the comparison within the income statement, a move deemed by the Group to reporting periods in accordance with IAS 1 Revised. be more relevant given the activity of the concerned services and the new organization. The impact of the various reclassifications on the consolidated income statement for the period ended 31 December 2016 is presented in the following table: 31 December 2016 Presentation 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Restated restatement Published Sales 1,584.6 1,584.6 Other revenues 86.5 86.5 Revenue 1,671.1 1,671.1 Cost of goods sold (351.1) 2.1 (353.3) Selling expenses (592.0) 16.4 (608.4) Research and development expenses (231.3) (22.3) (208.9) General and administrative expenses (125.6) 3.8 (129.4) Other operating income 6.9 6.9 Other operating expenses (28.6) (28.6) Restructuring costs (1.9) (1.9) Impairment losses (42.9) (42.9) Operating Income 304.7 – 304.7 Investment income 0.9 0.9 Financing costs (5.8) (5.8) Net financing costs (5.0) (5.0) Other financial income and expense (1.6) (1.6) Income taxes (73.5) (73.5) Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the 1.9 1.9 equity method Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 226.5 – 226.5 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 0.1 0.1 Consolidated net profit (loss) 226.6 – 226.6 – Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 225.9 225.9 – Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.6 0.6 Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 2.74 2.74 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 2.73 2.73 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.00 0.00 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.00 0.00 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 2.74 2.74 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 2.73 2.73 2017 Ipsen Registration document 59 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■3.1.4.3 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 ASSETS Goodwill 389.0 357.2 Other intangible assets 930.2 380.1 Property, plant & equipment 418.9 379.0 Equity investments 43.3 21.2 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 14.7 15.6 Non-current financial assets 112.7 0.2 Deferred tax assets 142.0 213.2 Other non-current assets 4.8 6.7 Total non-current assets 2,055.6 1,373.1 Inventories 167.4 113.3 Trade receivables 437.2 363.5 Current tax assets 58.0 66.3 Current financial assets 29.6 6.6 Other current assets 96.3 75.2 Cash and cash equivalents 228.0 425.5 Total current assets 1,016.4 1,050.4 TOTAL ASSETS 3,072.0 2,423.5 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital 83.7 83.6 Additional paid-in capital and consolidated reserves 1,171.7 998.5 Net profit (loss) for the period 272.3 225.9 Foreign exchange differences (2.3) 50.9 Equity attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 1,525.4 1 358.9 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 10.5 3.3 Total shareholders’ equity 1,535.9 1 362.2 Retirement benefit obligation 67.6 58.4 Non-current provisions 33.3 21.6 Non-current financial liabilities 400.3 314.8 Deferred tax liabilities 21.5 14.6 Other non-current liabilities 71.7 90.6 Total non-current liabilities 594.3 500.0 Current provisions 16.6 27.8 Current financial liabilities 294.7 58.6 Trade payables 319.1 241.5 Current tax liabilities 2.4 4.1 Other current liabilities 290.2 226.4 Bank overdrafts 18.7 3.0 Total current liabilities 941.8 561.3 TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES 3,072.0 2 423.5 60 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■3.1.4.4 Cash flow statements 3.1.4.4.1 Consolidated statement of cash flow (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Consolidated net profit (loss) 272.9 226.6 Share of profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity method before (0.5) 0.4 impairment losses Net profit (loss) before share from entities accounted for using the equity 272.4 227.0 method Non-cash and non-operating items – Depreciation, amortization, provisions 105.8 39.1 – Impairment losses included in operating income and net financial income (14.8) 42.9 – Change in fair value of financial derivatives (1.3) 9.7 – Net gains or losses on disposals of non-current assets 2.7 (2.3) – Share of government grants released to profit and loss (0.1) (0.4) – Foreign exchange differences 16.9 (13.7) – Change in deferred taxes 48.3 8.1 – Share-based payment expense 10.1 5.6 – Other non-cash items 3.9 2.7 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 444.0 318.7 requirement – (Increase) / decrease in inventories (38.2) (7.7) – (Increase) / decrease in trade receivables (84.6) (42.7) – Increase / (decrease) in trade payables 77.6 47.6 – Net change in income tax liability 6.6 10.5 – Net change in other operating assets and liabilities 17.4 (8.6) Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities (21.2) (0.9) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 422.9 317.8 Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (84.9) (81.2) Acquisition of intangible assets (155.9) (291.1) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 0.4 3.6 Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies (1.6) (1.0) Payments to post-employment benefit plans (0.6) (1.3) Impact of changes in the consolidation scope (549.5) – Deposits paid (0.1) 1.8 Change in working capital related to investment activities 20.5 12.2 Other cash flow related to investment activities (5.4) (0.1) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (777.2) (357.1) Additional long-term borrowings 1.5 327.9 Repayment of long-term borrowings (3.3) (3.9) Net change in short-term borrowings 218.3 – Capital increase 6.9 12.7 Treasury shares (17.5) (17.7) Dividends paid by Ipsen S.A. (70.2) (70.0) Dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests (0.4) (0.4) Change in working capital related to financing activities (0.1) 3.4 NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES 135.2 252.0 CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (219.1) 212.7 Opening cash and cash equivalents 422.5 214.0 Impact of exchange rate fluctuations 5.9 (4.2) Closing cash and cash equivalents 209.3 422.5 2017 Ipsen Registration document 61 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.4.4.2 Consolidated statement of net cash flow (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 décembre 2016 Opening net cash / (debt) 68.6 186.9 CORE OPERATING INCOME 503.6 363.9 Non-cash items 18.1 15.6 (Increase) /decrease in inventories (38.2) (7.7) (Increase) / decrease in trade receivables (84.6) (42.7) Increase / (decrease) in trade payables 77.6 47.6 Change in operating working capital requirement (45.2) (2.8) Change in income tax liability 6.6 10.5 Change in other operating assets and liabilities (excluding milestones received) 33.5 1.6 Other changes in working capital requirement 40.1 12.1 Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (84.9) (81.2) Acquisition of intangible assets (excluding milestones paid) (19.2) (13.3) Disposal of fixed assets 0.4 3.6 Change in working capital related to investment activities 8.9 6.9 Net capex (excluding milestones paid) (94.7) (84.0) Dividends received from entities accounted for using the equity method 0.9 2.3 Operating Cash Flow 422.8 307.1 Other operating income and expenses and restructuring costs (cash) (53.4) (20.8) Financial income (cash) (16.8) (3.1) Current income tax (P&L, excluding provisions for tax contingencies) (53.0) (65.5) Other operating cash flow 9.4 11.1 Free Cash Flow 309.0 228.8 Dividends paid (including payout to non-controlling interests) (70.6) (70.3) Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies (1.6) (1.0) Acquisition of other financial assets (5.4) – Impact of changes in consolidation scope (a) (671.1) – Milestones paid (b) (39.3) (272.5) Milestones received (c) 14.7 20.7 Other Business Development operations (86.5) – Net investments (business development and milestones) (789.2) (252.9) Share buybacks (18.1) (24.0) FX on net indebtedness 33.8 – Other (discontinued operations and financial instrument) 3.3 0.1 Shareholders return and external growth operations (840.9) (347.2) CHANGE IN NET CASH / (DEBT) (531.9) (118.4) Closing net cash / (debt) (463.3) 68.6 (a) Impact of change in consolidation scope reflects the recent acquisition of Onivyde ® assets from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals and the equity stake in Akkadeas Pharma. (b) Milestones paid correspond to payments subject to the terms and conditions set out in the Group’s partnership agreements. The €26 million milestone paid to Exelixis and the €10 million paid to Lexicon accounted for the majority of the milestones paid at 31 December 2017. The amounts paid were recorded as an increase in intangible assets on the consolidated balance sheet. The transactions were included in the “Acquisition of intangible assets” line item in the consolidated statement of cash flow (see Appendix 3.1.4.4.1). (c) Milestones received are amounts collected by Ipsen from its partners. The €15 million milestone received at 31 December 2017 were comprised of €8 million paid by Radius and €7 million paid by Galderma. The amounts were recorded as deferred income in the consolidated balance sheet and then recognized in the income statement as “Other revenues”. Milestones received were included in the “Net change in other operating assets and liabilities” line item in the consolidated statement of cash flow (see Appendix 3.1.4.4.1). 62 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ■■3.1.4.5 B  ridges from IFRS consolidated net profit to Core consolidated net profit IFRS Other CORE Amortization of operating Impairment (in millions of euros) 31 December intangible assets Restructuring Other 31 December income or losses 2017 (excl softwares) 2017 expenses Sales 1,908.7 1,908.7 Other revenues 103.0 103.0 Revenue 2,011.8 – – – – – 2,011.8 Cost of goods sold (385.6) (385.6) Selling expenses (715.9) (715.9) Research and development expenses (265.8) (265.8) General and administrative expenses (140.8) (140.8) Other operating income 3.1 (2.7) 0.4 Other operating expenses (105.5) 53.3 51.7 (0.5) Restructuring costs (18.8) 18.8 – Impairment losses 14.8 (14.8) – Operating Income 397.2 53.3 48.9 18.8 (14.8) – 503.6 Net financing costs (8.1) (8.1) Other financial income and expense (18.4) (18.4) Income taxes (101.4) (15.7) (15.4) (5.9) 1.9 20.7 (115.7) Share of net profit (loss) from entities 1.4 1.4 accounted for using the equity method Net profit (loss) from continuing 270.7 37.6 33.6 13.0 (12.8) 20.7 362.7 operations Net profit (loss) from discontinued 2.3 (2.3) – operations Consolidated net profit 272.9 37.6 33.6 13.0 (12.8) 18.5 362.7 – Attributable to shareholders 272.3 37.6 33.6 13.0 (12.8) 18.5 362.1 of Ipsen S.A. – Attributable to non-controlling 0.6 0.6 interests Earnings per share fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 3.28 0.45 0.40 0.16 (0.15) 0.22 4.36 (in € per share) The reconciliation items between Core consolidated net paragraph “From Core financial measures to IFRS reported profit and IFRS consolidated net profit are described in the figures”. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 63 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR IFRS Other CORE Amortization of 31 December operating Impairment 31 December (in millions of euros) intangible assets Restructuring Other 2016 income or losses 2016 (excl softwares) Restated expenses Restated Sales 1,584.6 1,584.6 Other revenues 86.5 86.5 Revenue 1,671.1 – – – – – 1,671.1 Cost of goods sold (1) (351.1) (351.1) Selling expenses (1) (592.0) (592.0) Research and development expenses (1) (231.3) (231.3) General and administrative expenses (1) (125.6) (125.6) Other operating income 6.9 (6.1) 0.9 Other operating expenses (28.6) 7.7 12.9 (8.0) Restructuring costs (1.9) 1.9 – Impairment losses (42.9) 42.9 – Operating Income 304.7 7.7 6.8 1.9 42.9 – 363.9 Income from cash and cash 0.9 0.9 equivalents Gross cost of financial debt (5.8) (5.8) Net financing costs (5.0) – – – – – (5.0) Other financial income and expense (1.6) (7.7) (9.3) Income taxes (73.5) (2.6) (2.5) (0.8) (10.7) 2.1 (88.0) Share of net profit (loss) from entities 1.9 1.9 accounted for using the equity method Net profit (loss) from continuing 226.5 5.1 4.4 1.1 32.1 (5.6) 263.6 operations Net profit (loss) from discontinued 0.1 (0.1) – operations Consolidated net profit 226.6 5.1 4.4 1.1 32.1 (5.7) 263.6 – Attributable to shareholders 225.9 5.1 4.4 1.1 32.1 (5.7) 262.9 of Ipsen S.A. – Attributable to non-controlling 0.6 0.6 interests Earnings per share fully diluted – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 2.73 0.06 0.05 0.01 0.39 (0.07) 3.18 (in € per share) (1) As part of the effort to implement its new organization, the Group reviewed the presentation of its financial statements and changed the classification of certain items on its income statement, with the view that the new presentation would provide more relevant information to financial statement readers. These reclassifications had no impact on Operating income or Consolidated net profit. The impact of the various reclassifications on the consolidated income statement for the period ended 31 December 2016 is presented in Appendix 3.1.4.4.1. 64 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 MANAGEMENT REPORT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 3.1.5 Subsequent events There were no significant subsequent events. 3.1.6 Group outlook 2018 Financial guidance 2020 Outook Consistent with its 2020 ambition, the Group has set the In May 2017, Ipsen provided updated 2020 financial targets: following financial targets for 2018: • Sales greater than €2.5 billion, including Specialty Care • Group sales growth year-on-year at constant currency sales growth of greater than 14% per year over the period greater than +16.0%, fueled by the continued momentum 2016-2020 and Consumer Healthcare sales growth of Specialty Care and the sustained growth of Consumer between 4% and 6% per year; Healthcare. Based on the current level of exchange rates, • Core Operating Income margin greater than 30% of sales. sales growth at current exchange rates should be negatively impacted by approximately 4%; This guidance excludes the impact from any fur ther business development and covers the impact from potential • Core operating margin greater than 28.0% of net sales. Somatuline® competitive threats. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 65 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 3.2.1 Consolidated income statement 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Notes 31 December 2017 Restated Sales 4.2 & 4.3 1,908.7 1,584.6 Other revenues 4.4 103.0 86.5 Revenue 2,011.8 1,671.1 Cost of goods sold (385.6) (351.1) Selling expenses (715.9) (592.0) Research and development expenses (265.8) (231.3) General and administrative expenses (140.8) (125.6) Other operating income 7 3.1 6.9 Other operating expenses 7 (105.5) (28.6) Restructuring costs 8 (18.8) (1.9) Impairment losses 6 14.8 (42.9) Operating Income 4.1 397.2 304.7 Investment income 9 1.1 0.9 Financing costs 9 (9.2) (5.8) Net financing costs 9 (8.1) (5.0) Other financial income and expense 9 (18.4) (1.6) Income taxes 10.1 (101.4) (73.5) Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity method 16 1.4 1.9 Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 270.7 226.5 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 11 2.3 0.1 Consolidated net profit 272.9 226.6 Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 272.3 225.9 Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.6 0.6 Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 20.2 3.27 2.74 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 20.3 3.25 2.73 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 20.2 0.03 0.00 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 20.3 0.03 0.00 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 20.2 3.30 2.74 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 20.3 3.28 2.73 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The consolidated income statement was restated to reflect changes in presentation. See note 3.2 for details 66 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comprehensive income statement (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Consolidated net profit 272.9 226.6 Actuarial gains and (losses) on defined benefit plans, net of taxes (4.6) (7.7) Other items of comprehensive income that will not be reclassified to the (4.6) (7.7) income statement Revaluation of financial derivatives for hedging, net of taxes 16.0 (2.8) Foreign exchange differences, net of taxes (57.5) (6.7) Financial assets available for sale, net of taxes 12.9 (3.0) Other items of comprehensive income likely to be reclassified to the income (28.6) (12.5) statement Comprehensive income: Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and (losses) 239.7 206.3 recognized directly in equity Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 239.2 205.7 Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.5 0.6 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 67 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.2 Consolidated balance sheet before allocation of net profit (in millions of euros) Notes 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 ASSETS Goodwill 12 389.0 357.2 Other intangible assets 13 930.2 380.1 Property, plant & equipment 14 418.9 379.0 Equity investments 15 43.3 21.2 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method 16 14.7 15.6 Non-current financial assets 112.7 0.2 Deferred tax assets 10.2 142.0 213.2 Other non-current assets 17 4.8 6.7 Total non-current assets 2,055.6 1,373.1 Inventories 18.2.1 167.4 113.3 Trade receivables 18.1 437.2 363.5 Current tax assets 18.1 58.0 66.3 Current financial assets 18.2.2 29.6 6.6 Other current assets 18.2.3 96.3 75.2 Cash and cash equivalents 19.2 228.0 425.5 Total current assets 1,016.4 1,050.4 TOTAL ASSETS 3,072.0 2,423.5 EQUITY & LIABILITIES Share capital 20.1 83.7 83.6 Additional paid-in capital and consolidated reserves 1,171.7 998.5 Net profit (loss) for the period 272.3 225.9 Foreign exchange differences (2.3) 50.9 Equity attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 1,525.4 1,358.9 Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 10.5 3.3 Total shareholders' equity 1,535.9 1,362.2 Retirement benefit obligation 5.3.2.2 67.6 58.4 Non-current provisions 21 33.3 21.6 Non-current financial liabilities 22.1 400.3 314.8 Deferred tax liabilities 10.2 21.5 14.6 Other non-current liabilities 18.2.4 71.7 90.6 Total non-current liabilities 594.3 500.0 Current provisions 21 16.6 27.8 Current financial liabilities 22.1 294.7 58.6 Trade payables 18.1 319.1 241.5 Current tax liabilities 18.1 2.4 4.1 Other current liabilities 18.2.4 290.2 226.4 Bank overdrafts 19.1.2 18.7 3.0 Total current liabilities 941.8 561.3 TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES 3,072.0 2,423.5 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 68 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.3 Consolidated statement of cash flow (in millions of euros) Notes 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Consolidated net profit 272.9 226.6 Share of profit (loss) from companies accounted for using the equity method 16 (0.5) 0.4 before impairment losses Net profit (loss) before share from companies accounted for using the 272.4 227.0 equity method Non-cash and non-operating items Depreciation, amortization, provisions 6.1 105.8 39.1 Impairment losses included in operating income and net financial income 6.2 (14.8) 42.9 Change in fair value of financial derivatives (1.3) 9.7 Net gains or losses on disposals of non-current assets 2.7 (2.3) Share of government grants released to profit and loss (0.1) (0.4) Foreign exchange differences 16.9 (13.7) Change in deferred taxes 10.2 48.3 8.1 Share-based payment expense 10.1 5.6 Gain or (loss) on sales of treasury shares (0.0) (0.0) Other non-cash items 3.9 2.7 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 444.0 318.7 requirement (Increase)/decrease in inventories 18.1 (38.2) (7.7) (Increase)/decrease in trade receivables 18.1 (84.6) (42.7) Increase/(decrease) in trade payables 18.1 77.6 47.6 Net change in income tax liability 18.1 6.6 10.5 Net change in other operating assets and liabilities 18.1 17.4 (8.6) Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities (21.2) (0.9) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 422.9 317.8 Acquisition of property, plant & equipment 14.1 (84.9) (81.2) Acquisition of intangible assets 13.1 (155.9) (291.1) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets and property, plant & equipment 0.4 3.6 Acquisition of shares in non-consolidated companies (1.6) (1.0) Payments to post-employment benefit plans 5.3.2.6 (0.6) (1.3) Impact of changes in the consolidation scope (549.5) (0.0) Deposits paid (0.1) 1.8 Change in working capital related to investment activities 18.1 20.5 12.2 Other cash flow related to investment activities (5.4) (0.1) NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (777.2) (357.1) Additional long-term borrowings 22.1 1.5 327.9 Repayment of long-term borrowings 22.1 (3.3) (3.9) Net change in short-term borrowings 22.1 218.3 Capital increase 6.9 12.7 Treasury shares (17.5) (17.7) Dividends paid by Ipsen S.A. 20.5 (70.2) (70.0) Dividends paid by subsidiaries to non-controlling interests (0.4) (0.4) Change in working capital related to financing activities (0.1) 3.4 NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES 135.2 252.0 CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (219.1) 212.7 OPENING CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 19.1.1 422.5 214.0 Impact of exchange rate fluctuations 5.9 (4.2) CLOSING CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 19.1.2 209.3 422.5 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 69 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.4 Statement of change in consolidated shareholders’ equity Reserves Equity related to Cash flow Net profit attributable (in millions Share Share Consolidated Treasury Total Group Total retirement hedge (loss) for to nonof euros) capital premiums reserves shares equity equity benefit reserves the period controlling obligations interests Balance at 83.6 732.9 411.2 (28.1) (1.4) (65.2) 225.9 1,358.9 3.3 1,362.2 1 January 2017 Consolidated – – – – – – 272.3 272.3 0.6 272.9 net profit (loss) Gains and (losses) recognized – – (44.5) (4.6) 16.0 – – (33.0) (0.2) (33.2) directly in equity (1) Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and losses – – (44.5) (4.6) 16.0 – 272.3 239.2 0.5 239.7 recognized directly in equity Allocation of net profit (loss) from – – 225.9 – – – (225.9) – – – the prior period Capital increases 0.2 6.2 (0.0) – – (0.1) – 6.2 – 6.2 (decreases) Share-based – – 10.1 – – 0.8 – 10.9 – 10.9 payments Own share purchases and – – – – – (19.6) – (19.6) – (19.6) disposals Dividends – – (70.2) – – – – (70.2) (0.5) (70.8) Other changes – – – – – – – – 7.2 7.2 Balance at 31 December 83.7 739.1 532.5 (32.7) 14.6 (84.1) 272.3 1,525.4 10.5 1,535.9 2017 (1) Detailed in the note “Comprehensive income statement” 70 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Reserves Equity related to Cash flow Net profit attributable (in millions Share Share Consolidated Treasury Total Group Total retirement hedge (loss) for to nonof euros) capital premiums reserves shares equity equity benefit reserves the period controlling obligations interests Balance at 83.2 720.1 299.6 (20.4) 1.3 (51.2) 189.9 1,222.5 3.1 1,225.6 1 January 2016 Consolidated – – – – – – 225.9 225.9 0.6 226.6 net profit (loss) Gains and (losses) recognized – – (9.7) (7.7) (2.8) – – (20.2) (0.0) (20.2) directly in equity (1) Consolidated net profit (loss) and gains and losses – – (9.7) (7.7) (2.8) – 225.9 205.7 0.6 206.3 recognized directly in equity Allocation of net profit (loss) from – – 189.9 – – – (189.9) – – – the prior period Capital increases 0.3 12.8 (3.8) – – 7.1 – 16.4 – 16.4 (decreases) Share-based – – 5.6 – – 3.1 – 8.7 – 8.7 payments Own share purchases and – – – – – (24.2) – (24.2) – (24.2) disposals Dividends – – (70.0) – – – – (70.0) (0.4) (70.3) Other changes – – (0.3) – – – – (0.3) – (0.3) Balance at 31 December 83.6 732.9 411.2 (28.1) (1.4) (65.2) 225.9 1,358.9 3.3 1,362.2 2016 (1) Detailed in the note “Comprehensive income statement” The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 71 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.5 Notes annexes NOTE 1 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND TRANSACTIONS 3.32.4 Research tax credits 84 DURING THE PERIOD HAVING AN IMPACT 3.33 Other operating income and expenses 84 ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.34 Taxes 84 AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 74 3.35 Earnings per share 84 1.1 Acquisition of Oncology Assets from Merrimack NOTE 4 OPERATING SEGMENTS 85 Pharmaceuticals 74 1.2 Acquisition of a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare 4.1 Core operating income by operating segment 85 products from Sanofi 74 4.2 Sales by geographical region 85 1.3 Launch of Cabometyx® and new indications 74 4.3 Sales by therapeutic area and product 86 4.4 Other revenues 86 NOTE 2 CHANGES IN THE SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION 75 4.5 Other information 86 2.1 2017 financial year 75 NOTE 5 PERSONNEL 87 2.2 2016 financial year 75 5.1 Headcount 87 NOTE 3 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND METHODS, 5.2 Employee expenses 87 AND COMPLIANCE STATEMENT 75 5.3 Long-term employee benefits 87 3.1 General principles and compliance statement 75 5.3.1 Benefit plans 87 3.2 Changes in the presentation of certain income 5.3.1.1 Retirement benefit obligations 87 statement items 75 5.3.1.2 Other long-term benefits 87 3.3 Other standards and interpretations that became 5.3.2 Measurement and recognition of liabilities 87 applicable as of 1 January 2017 76 5.3.2.1 Assumptions used 88 3.4 Standards, amendments and interpretations adopted 5.3.2.2 Reconciliation of balance sheet assets and liabilities 88 by the European Union and not adopted early 5.3.2.3 Reconciliation of income statement expenses 88 by the Group 76 5.3.2.4 Movements in net liability recognized 3.5 Standards, amendments and interpretations in the balance sheet 88 published but not yet approved by the European Union 77 5.3.2.5 Movements in defined benefit plan obligations 89 3.5.1 IASB publications not yet approved 5.3.2.6 Movements in plan assets 89 by the European Union 77 5.3.2.7 Allocation of plan assets 90 3.5.2 IASB publications 77 5.3.2.8 Future probable plan benefits 90 3.6 Measurement bases used in preparing 5.4 Share-based payments 90 the consolidated financial statements 77 5.4.1 Share option plans granted by Ipsen 90 3.7 Use of estimates 77 5.4.1.1 Details of share option plans 90 3.8 Consolidation methods 77 5.4.1.2 Valuation of plans 91 3.9 Business combinations 77 5.4.1.3 Change in number of options outstanding 91 3.10 Operating segments 78 5.4.2 Bonus share plans 91 3.11 Translation of financial statements in foreign currencies 78 5.4.2.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans 91 3.12 Translation of receivables, payables, transactions, 5.4.2.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans 92 and flows denominated in foreign currencies 78 3.13 Exchange differences with respect to intra-group NOTE 6 DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION, transactions and cash flows 78 PROVISIONS AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES 92 3.14 Other intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 79 3.15 Property, plant & equipment 79 6.1 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment 3.16 Leases 79 losses included in the cash flow statement 92 3.16.1 Finance leases 79 6.2 Impairment losses 92 3.16.2 Operating leases 79 6.2.1 2017 financial year 92 3.17 Impairment of assets 79 6.2.2 2016 financial year 92 3.17.1 Type of asset tested 79 3.17.1.1 Goodwill 80 NOTE 7 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES 93 3.17.1.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life 80 3.17.1.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life 80 NOTE 8 RESTRUCTURING COSTS 93 3.17.1.4 Tangible fixed assets and long-term financial assets 80 3.17.2 Impairment tests methods used by the Group 80 NOTE 9 NET FINANCIAL INCOME 93 3.17.2.1 Goodwill 80 3.17.2.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life 80 NOTE 10 INCOME TAXES 94 3.17.2.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life 80 3.18 Government grants 80 10.1 Tax expense 94 3.19 Financial assets 81 10.1.1 Effective tax rate 94 3.19.1 Financial assets at fair value through the income 10.1.2 Reconciliation between the effective and nominal statement 81 tax expense 94 3.19.2 Group-issued loans and receivables 81 10.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 95 3.19.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 81 10.3 Type of deferred taxes recognized on the balance 3.19.4 Determination of fair value 81 sheet and the income statement 96 3.20 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 81 NOTE 11 NET PROFIT (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED 3.21 Inventories 82 OPERATIONS 96 3.22 Securities held for sale 82 3.23 Cash and cash equivalents 82 NOTE 12 GOODWILL 96 3.24 Stock option plans 82 12.1 Net goodwill carried in the balance sheet 96 3.25 Retirement benefit obligations 82 12.1.1 Purchase price analysis on assets acquired 3.25.1 Post-employment benefits 82 from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals 97 3.25.2 Other employee benefits 82 12.1.2 Purchase price analysis of Akkadeas Pharma 98 3.26 Provisions 82 12.2 Impairment of goodwill 98 3.27 Financial liabilities 82 3.28 Derivative financial instruments 82 NOTE 13 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 99 3.29 Sales 83 3.30 Other revenues 83 13.1 Movements 99 3.31 Cost of sales 83 13.2 Breakdown of intangible assets by asset type 101 3.32 Research and Development 83 3.32.1 Internal research and development work 83 NOTE 14 PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT 101 3.32.2 Research and development acquired separately 84 14.1 Breakdown by asset type 101 3.32.3 Research and development acquired in a business 14.2 Breakdown by currency of property, plant combination 84 and equipment, net of depreciation 102 72 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 15 EQUITY INVESTMENTS 102 NOTE 24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS REPORTED IN THE BALANCE SHEET 113 NOTE 16 INVESTMENTS IN COMPANIES ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD 103 NOTE 25 INFORMATION ON PROPORTIONALLY CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES 115 NOTE 17 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS 103 25.1 Balance sheet items 115 25.1.1 Balance sheet at 31 December 2017 115 NOTE 18 DETAIL OF THE CHANGE IN WORKING CAPITAL 25.1.2 Balance sheet at 31 December 2016 115 REQUIREMENT 104 25.2 Income statement items 115 18.1 Movements 104 25.2.1 Income statement at 31 December 2017 115 18.2 Breakdown 105 25.2.2 Income statement at 31 December 2016 115 18.2.1 Inventories 105 NOTE 26 INFORMATION ON RELATED PARTIES 116 18.2.2 Current financial assets 106 18.2.3 Other current assets 106 26.1 Director and executive compensation 116 18.2.4 Other current and non-current liabilities 106 26.2 Transactions with related parties 116 26.2.1 In the income statement at 31 December 2017 116 NOTE 19 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 106 26.2.2 In the income statement at 31 December 2016 116 19.1 Net cash and cash equivalents 106 26.2.3 On the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 116 19.1.1 Opening net cash and cash equivalents 106 26.2.4 On the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 117 19.1.2 Closing net cash and cash equivalents 106 26.2.5 Off-balance sheet commitments 117 19.2 Cash and cash equivalents 107 NOTE 27 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 117 NOTE 20 CONSOLIDATED EQUITY 107 27.1 Operating commitments 117 20.1 Share capital 107 27.1.1 Operating commitments given 117 20.2 Basic earnings per share 107 27.1.2 Operating commitments received 117 20.3 Diluted earnings per share 107 27.2 Financial commitments 117 20.4 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 108 27.3 General risks 118 20.4.1 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 27.4 Liquidity risk and counterparty risk 118 to calculate basic earnings per share 108 27.5 Other commitments 118 20.4.1.1 Weighted average number of shares 27.5.1 Capital expenditure commitments 118 at 31 December 2017 108 27.5.2 Commitments related to rental agreements 118 20.4.1.2 Weighted average number of shares 27.5.3 Risk of acceleration of borrowings 119 at 31 December 2016 108 27.5.4 Endorsements, pledges and guarantees given 119 20.4.2 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 27.5.5 Commitments arising from research to calculate diluted earnings per share 109 and development agreements 119 20.5 Dividends paid 109 NOTE 28 POST CLOSING EVENTS WITH NO IMPACT NOTE 21 PROVISIONS 109 ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 119 21.1 Movements 109 21.2 Impact on consolidated income in 2017 110 21.3 Impact on consolidated income in 2016 110 NOTE 29 CONSOLIDATION SCOPE 119 29.1 Fully consolidated companies 120 NOTE 22 BANK LOANS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 111 29.2 Proportionally consolidated companies 121 22.1 Movements 111 29.3 Companies consolidated using the equity method 121 22.2 Breakdown by maturity and currency 112 NOTE 30 FEES PAID TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS 121 NOTE 23 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 112 23.1 Interest rate risk hedging 112 23.2 Exchange rate risk hedging 112 23.2.1 Exposure to exchange rate risk 112 23.2.2 Transactional foreign exchange risk 113 23.2.3 Financing foreign exchange risk 113 23.3 Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet 113 2017 Ipsen Registration document 73 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 S  ignificant events and transactions during the period having an impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2017 ■■1.1 A  cquisition of Oncology Assets from The French Ministry of Health on 12 July 2017 issued a decree Merrimack Pharmaceuticals effective immediately making medicines derived from codeine, dextromethorphan, ethylmorphine, or noscapine available On 3 April 2017, Ipsen completed the acquisition of Merrimack solely through prescription to prevent misuse. Accordingly, Pharmaceuticals’ global oncology assets, including its key the Group revised down its sales forecast for Prontalgine®, marketed product Onivyde® for the treatment of patients with which led to a €33.9 million impairment of intangible assets in metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. In accordance the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2017 with the terms of the agreement announced on 8 January (see notes 6 and 13). 2017, Ipsen gained the exclusive commercialization rights for the current and potential future Onivyde ® indications in ■■1.3 Launch of Cabometyx® and new the U.S., as well as the current licensing agreements with Shire for commercialization rights ex-U.S. and PharmaEngine indications for Taiwan. The transaction also included Merrimack’s Cabometyx ®, acquired as part of the licensing agreement commercial and manufacturing infrastructure, and generic with U.S.-based Exelixis in 2016, continued to be registered doxorubicin HCl liposome injection. in various countries in 2017 as a second-line treatment for advanced renal cell carcinoma (aRCC), its main indication. Under the terms of the agreement, Ipsen paid Merrimack $580 million upfront and could pay up to $450 million upon Further, on 8 September 2017, the European Medicines the approval of potential additional indications for Onivyde® in Agency (EMA) validated the application for a variation to the U.S. The transaction was fully financed by Ipsen’s existing the Cabometyx® (cabozantinib) marketing authorization for cash and lines of credit. the addition of a new indication in first-line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma (aRCC). The filing was based The asset acquisition was treated as a business combination on the results of CABOSUN, a Phase II trial demonstrating in accordance with IFRS 3 Revised (see note 12), since that Cabometyx® prolongs progression-free survival (PFS) in Ipsen acquired a standalone business. Accordingly, Ipsen treatment-naive patients with intermediateor poor-risk aRCC recognized an intangible asset totaling €466.6 million and a compared to sunitinib, the standard of care for more than 10 goodwill amounting to €45.7 million. years. ■■1.2 Acquisition of a portfolio of Consumer Lastly, Ipsen announced on 16 October 2017 that the global Healthcare products from Sanofi Phase III CELESTIAL trial met its primary endpoint of overall survival (OS), with cabozantinib providing a statistically On 8 May 2017, Ipsen completed the acquisition of a portfolio significant and clinically meaningful improvement in median of five Consumer Healthcare products marketed in certain OS compared to placebo in patients with advanced European territories from Sanofi. The most significant product hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Ipsen, in collaboration with is Prontalgine®, an analgesic for the treatment of moderate to Exelixis, is evaluating potential next steps in the development severe pain, which is available only in France. The portfolio and regulatory strategy for cabozantinib outside the United also includes Buscopan®, an antispasmodic; Suppositoria States and Japan as a treatment for advanced HCC in Glycerini, a laxative; and Mucothiol ® and Mucodyne ®, patients who have been previously treated. expectorants for cough and flu. Together, these regional brands cover a geographical territory of eight European countries. Ipsen paid €83 million upon closing for the products, in line with the terms of the agreement, and recognized €86.5 million in intangible assets in the consolidated financial statements. 74 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 2 Changes in the scope of consolidation ■■2.1 2017 financial year ■■2.2 2016 financial year As part of the Group’s effort to simplify and streamline its At 31 December 2016, Ipsen Pharma Singapore Pte Ltd., a legal and administrative organization, on 2 January 2017, newly established company, was 100%-owned and controlled Suraypharm S.A.S. was wound up after its assets were by the Group and included in the scope of consolidation. transferred to its sole shareholder, Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. On 23 January 2017, Ipsen took the control of Akkadeas Pharma, which was included in the scope of consolidation and fully consolidated. Note 3 Accounting principles and methods, and compliance statement Preliminary remarks: A ll the tex ts adopte d by the Europe a n Union a re availa ble on the Europe a n C ommis sion’s we bsite: • All amounts are expressed in millions of euros, unless h t t p s://e c.e u ro p a .e u / i n fo/ b u s i n e s s e c o n o mye u ro/ otherwise stated; company-repor ting-and-auditing/company-repor ting/ • The closing date of the consolidated financial statements financial-reporting_en#ifrs-endorsement-process. is 31 December of each year. Individual statements incorporated into consolidated statements are prepared ■■3.2 Changes in the presentation of certain at the closing date of the consolidated statements, i.e. income statement items 31 December, and cover the same period; As part of the effort to implement its new organization, the Group reviewed the presentation of its financial statements • The Group’s consolidated financial statements were and changed the classification of certain items in its income approved by the Board of Directors on 14 February 2018 statement, with the view that the new presentation would and will be submitted for approval at the Shareholders’ provide more relevant information to financial statement Meeting scheduled for 30 May 2018. readers. ■■3.1 G  eneral principles and compliance To better reflect the nature of transactions related to core statement medical activities, the Group decided to present the expenses related to those activities in “Research and development The main accounting methods used to prepare the consolidated costs” as of the 2017 financial year. Those costs totaled €26.7 financial statements are described below. Unless otherwise million in 2016, and were previously posted under “Selling stated, these methods were used systematically for all financial expenses”. years presented. The allocation of internal costs within the various functions In compliance with European regulation n°1606 / 2002 adopted was also revised on the consolidated income statement on 19 July 2002 by the European Parliament and the European following the implementation of the new organization. As a Council, the Group’s consolidated financial statements for the result, certain support function expenses were reclassified in year ending 31 December 2017 were prepared in accordance the income statement, a move deemed by the Group to be with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as more relevant given the activity of the concerned services. endorsed by the European Union on the date of preparation. The These changes in presentation had no impact on Operating IFRS as adopted by the European Union differ in certain aspects income or Consolidated net profit. with the IFRS published by the IASB. On 31 December 2017, the Group applied the new income International accounting standards include International Financial statement format, which complies with IAS 1 Revised, and Reporting Standards (IFRS), International Accounting Standards restated the comparison reporting periods in accordance with (IAS), as well as the interpretations issued by the Standing the new presentation. Interpretations Committee (SIC), and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC). 2017 Ipsen Registration document 75 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The impact of the various reclassifications on the consolidated income statement for the period ended 31 December 2016 is presented in the following table: 31 December 2016 Presentation 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Restated restatements Published Sales 1,584.6 1,584.6 Other revenues 86.5 86.5 Revenue 1,671.1 1,671.1 Cost of goods sold (351.1) 2.1 (353.3) Selling expenses (592.0) 16.4 (608.4) Research and development expenses (231.3) (22.3) (208.9) General and administrative expenses (125.6) 3.8 (129.4) Other operating income 6.9 6.9 Other operating expenses (28.6) (28.6) Restructuring costs (1.9) (1.9) Impairment losses (42.9) (42.9) Operating Income 304.7 – 304.7 Investment income 0.9 0.9 Financing costs (5.8) (5.8) Net financing costs (5.0) (5.0) Other financial income and expense (1.6) (1.6) Income taxes (73.5) (73.5) Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the 1.9 1.9 equity method Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 226.5 – 226.5 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations 0.1 0.1 Consolidated net profit 226.6 – 226.6 Attributable to shareholders of Ipsen S.A. 225.9 – 225.9 Attributable to non-controlling interests 0.6 – 0.6 Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 2.74 – 2.74 Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 2.73 – 2.73 Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.00 – 0.00 Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.00 – 0.00 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 2,74 – 2,74 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 2,73 – 2,73 ■■3.3 O  ther standards and interpretations that Union for which the application was not mandatory on became applicable as of 1 January 2017 1 January 2017, namely: • IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments The mandatory standards, amendments and interpretations published by the IASB and applicable as of the 2017 financial • IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers year are listed below. • Amendments to IFRS 15 – Clarifications • Amendments to IAS 12 – Recognition of Deferred Tax • IFRS 16 – Leases. Assets for Unrealized Losses Following a review of the main impacts of IFRS 15 – Revenue • Amendments to IAS 7 – Disclosure Initiative related to from contracts with customers, the standard’s only impact financing activities on the Group’s consolidated financial statements is expected • Amendments to IFRS 12 – Annual Improvements – 2014to concern the recognition of revenue from static licenses. 2016 Cycle. Previously, such revenue was spread over the life of the licensing agreement. It will now be recognized at a single A review of these amendments showed that their application point in time in Other revenues as soon as it arises. For had a non-material impact on the Group’s annual financial information, the impact of the first-time application of IFRS 15 statements, which accordingly were not restated. on the Group’s consolidated financial statements would increase the consolidated equity by €15 million before tax. ■■3.4 Standards, amendments and Furthermore, the standard’s impact on Other revenues and interpretations adopted by the European Operating income in the consolidated financial statements at Union and not adopted early by the Group 31 December 2017 would be below €10 million. The Group did not opt for early adoption of the standards, Following a review of the main impact of IFRS 9 – Financial amendments and interpretations adopted by the European Instruments, the standard is not expected to have a material 76 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements. The some of the Group’s partners and make it difficult to estimate impact will involve recognizing changes in the fair value of future outlook. investment funds held by the Group in the income statement The estimates were made based on information available at instead of in equity. For information, the standard’s impact on the closing date, after taking into account post closing events. net financial result in the consolidated financial statements as at 31 December 2017 would have been below €1 million. The main material estimates made by management concern employee benefits (see note 5), any impairment of goodwill A review of IFRS 16 – Leases impacts is under way by the (see note 12) or intangible assets (see note 13), deferred tax Group at the end of 2017. At this writing, the main leases asset assessment (see note 10), and provisions (see note 21). impacted by the standard included property leases, vehicle leases and photocopier leases. ■■3.8 Consolidation methods Subsidiaries over which the Group exercises control are fully ■■3.5 Standards, amendments and consolidated. interpretations published but not yet Companies controlled jointly with a limited number of outside approved by the European Union partners are proportionately consolidated. 3.5.1 IASB publications not yet approved by the European Union Companies over which the Group exercises significant influence and joint ventures are accounted for using the Standards, amendments and interpretations published but equity method. not yet approved by the European Union are listed below: • Amendments to IFRS 2 – Share-based Payment If the accounting methods used by subsidiaries, joint operations, joint ventures, and companies accounted for • Amendments to IFRS 9 – Prepayment Features with using the equity method do not comply with those used by Negative Compensation the Group, all necessary changes are made to ensure that the • IFRS 14 – Regulatory Deferral Accounts financial statements of those companies are compliant with • IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transaction and Advance the Group’s accounting principles. Consideration Investments in companies that are not consolidated, despite • IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments meeting the above conditions, are recognized as equity • Amendments to IAS 40 – Clarifying transfers of property to, investments. or from, investment property when there is evidence of a change in use. ■■3.9 Business combinations A review of these standards, amendments and interpretations Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase was under way by the Group at the close of the 2017 method. The cost of an acquisition is based on the fair value consolidated financial statements. of the assets acquired, instruments of equity issued, and liabilities incurred or assumed from the previous owners at the 3.5.2 IASB publications date of the combination. The costs directly attributable to the Standards and interpretations published by the IASB since combination are accounted for as other operating expenses the closing date and the approval of the consolidated financial in the period during which they are incurred. statements are listed below: On first-time consolidation of an exclusively controlled • IAS 19 – Employee Benefits. company, identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities A review of these standards, amendments and interpretations are valued at their fair value except exceptions specifically was under way by the Group at the close of the 2017 provided for by IFRS 3 (Revised) – Business Combinations. consolidated financial statements. Goodwill recorded in the consolidated balance sheet is the difference between: ■■3.6 M  easurement bases used in preparing the consolidated financial statements • the total amount of the following elements: The consolidated financial statements were prepared using –– the cost of acquisition at the acquisition date; the historical cost principle, with the exception of certain asset –– the total of non-controlling interests in the acquired and liability classes in accordance with IFRS. The related company determined either at fair value at the acquisition assets and liabilities are described in the notes below. date (full goodwill method), or on the basis of their share ■■3.7 Use of estimates in the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities assumed (partial goodwill method). This option To prepare its financial statements, the Group is required to is open on a transaction-by-transaction basis; make certain estimates and assumptions with respect to the carrying value of assets and liabilities, income and expense –– and for business combinations achieved in stages, of the items, and information given in the notes to the financial fair value at the acquisition date of the share held by the statements. Group before the acquisition date; Management has regularly made these estimates and –– and the estimated impact of any adjustments in the assumptions on the basis of its past experience and acquisition costs, such as earnout payments. These other factors deemed reasonable. Amounts appearing contingent considerations are measured by applying in subsequent financial statements may differ materially the criteria set out in the purchase agreement, such from these estimates, should the assumptions change, or if as sales and earnings targets, to forecasts deemed actual conditions are different, particularly given the current to be highly probable. The contingent considerations economic and financial environment, which could weaken are then re-measured at each closing date, with any 2017 Ipsen Registration document 77 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS changes recognized on the income statement after the ■■3.11 Translation of financial statements acquisition date, including the one-year period following in foreign currencies the acquisition date. They are discounted over their useful life if the impact is material. Any discounting adjustments The balance sheets of subsidiaries whose functional currency to the carrying amount of the liability are recognized in is not the euro, none of which operate in hyper-inflationary “Other financial income and expense”; economies, are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the closing date. Their income statements and the items • and the net amount of identifiable assets acquired and in their statements of cash flows are translated at the average identifiable liabilities assumed, measured at their fair value rate for the year, which matches, in the absence of any at the acquisition date. significant fluctuations, the prevailing exchange rate at the date of the different transactions. If the initial accounting for a business combination can only be determined provisionally, provisional values of the assets Exchange differences are transferred to the cumulative and liabilities should be adjusted within one year from the translation reser ve, which forms an integral par t of acquisition date, in accordance with the revised version of shareholders’ equity, and to non-controlling interests for the IFRS 3 – Business Combinations. non-Group share. These differences arise from: After initial recognition, goodwill is tested for impairment at • any difference between the rates used for the opening and least once a year and whenever there is an indication that it closing balance sheets; may be impaired (see note 3.17). • any difference between the year’s average rate and closing In the case of companies accounted for using the equity rate. method, goodwill is included in the amount invested in the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising upon acquisition companies accounted for using the equity method. The costs of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the directly attributable to the combination are included in the foreign entity. Accordingly, they are expressed in the entity’s assessment of the investment acquisition price. functional currency and translated at the rate prevailing on the When the acquisition price is below the fair value of the closing date. Group’s share in the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed from the acquired subsidiary, the difference is During consolidation, exchange differences due to the recognized directly in the income statement. conversion of net investments in businesses abroad and of loans and other exchange instruments designated as ■■3.10 Operating segments hedging instruments for these investments are recognized in equity. When a foreign entity is disposed of, these conversion In accordance with IFRS 8 “Operating segments”, reported differences, initially treated as equity, are recognized in profits segment information is built on the basis of management data or losses on disposals. used for business performance analysis and for allocation of resources by the “chief operating decision maker”, i.e. the Executive Leadership Team. ■■3.12 T  ranslation of receivables, payables, transactions, and flows denominated The Group’s two operating segments are Specialty Care and in foreign currencies Consumer Healthcare. Only corporate overhead costs and the impact of the currency hedging policy are not allocated to Receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies the two operating segments. are initially translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the transaction date and then revalued at the closing rates The Group uses Core operating income to measure its prevailing on the reporting date. segment performance. Core operating income is the internally used indicator to measure operating performance and to Exchange differences on monetary assets denominated in allocate resources. foreign currencies are recognized in the income statement. Exchange differences on non-monetary assets denominated Core operating income excludes amortization expense for in foreign currencies are recognized directly in equity intangible assets (excluding software), restructuring costs, (Available-for-sale assets). impairment losses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, as well as other items arising from ■■3.13 E  xchange differences with respect to significant events that could distort the reading of the Group’s intra-group transactions and cash flows performance from one year to another. The reconciliation of Core operating income and operating income is presented Exchange differences arising from the elimination of foreign in note 4.1. currency transactions between fully consolidated companies are transferred to the cumulative translation reserve under These performance indicators are not replacements for IFRS shareholders’ equity and to non-controlling interests for the indicators and should not be viewed as such. They are used non-Group share, to eliminate their impact on consolidated in addition to IFRS indicators. Although used by the Executive results. Exchange differences arising from foreign currency Leadership Team as important factors for setting targets and cash flow movements between fully consolidated companies measuring the Group’s performance, these indicators are not are accounted for under a separate line item in the consolidated required or defined by IFRS. statement of cash flows. As internal per formance measures, these operational indicators have limitations, and management of the Group’s performance is not limited solely to these indicators. 78 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■3.14 Other intangible assets (excluding Depreciation is usually calculated on a straight-line basis over goodwill) the assets’ estimated useful lives. Some industrial assets are depreciated based on production volumes. Other intangible assets are accounted for at acquisition price or fair value for business combinations, less cumulative Estimated useful lives are as follows: amortization and any impairment losses. • Buildings, fixtures and fittings 5 to 30 years • Industrial plant and equipment 5 to 10 years An asset’s useful life is the period of time over which the Group expects to use that asset. Intangible assets with a • Other property, plant and equipment 3 to 10 years defined useful life are amortized over a period corresponding Land is not depreciated. to useful lives estimated by the Group. Amortization periods Residual values and the duration of the assets’ useful lives are are determined on a case-by-case basis depending on the revised and, if applicable, adjusted at each closing. type of asset concerned. Rights on products commercialized by the Group are amortized on a straight-line basis for the The carrying value of an asset is depreciated immediately duration of their useful lives. Useful life is determined based to bring it back to its recoverable amount when the asset’s on cash flow forecasts that take into account the underlying carrying value is greater than its estimated recoverable patent-protection period, among other factors. amount (see note 3.17). Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortized, Impairment losses on property, plant and equipment are but are systematically tested annually for impairment (see reported together with losses on intangible assets and losses note 3.17). on goodwill in a specific line item on the income statement. The accounting treatment of research and development The gains and losses on disposals of assets, included in expenses for internally generated intangible assets and other operating income and expenses, are determined by for research and development work acquired separately is comparing disposal value with the carrying value of the described in note 3.32. disposed asset. Acquired patents are recognized as intangible assets at ■■3.16 Leases acquisition price, or at fair value for business combinations, and amortized over their period of economic use, which does 3.16.1 Finance leases not exceed the period of protection. Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalized when The development costs of software developed internally are the lease contract transfers to the Group substantially all risks identified as intangible assets as soon as they comply with the and rewards incidental to ownership. Criteria used to assess criteria defined in IAS 38 – Intangible Assets. Such expenses whether a contract should be classified as a finance lease include mainly the salaries of personnel involved in the project include: and the fees of external consultants. They are amortized on a • the term of the lease compared with the useful life of the straight-line basis over the duration of their useful lives. asset, • total discounted future lease payments compared with the Identified rights regarding intellectual property are amortized fair value of the asset financed, on a straight-line basis over the estimated duration of their useful lives, which for practical purposes is often between • whether or not ownership of the asset is transferred at the 8 and 20 years. These useful life periods vary depending end of the lease term, on cash flow forecasts, which are based on the underlying • the existence of a purchase option favorable to the lessee, patent-protection period. • the specific nature of the asset leased. Software licenses are amortized on a straight-line basis over Leased assets capitalized as finance leases are depreciated the duration of their useful lives (from 1 to 10 years). over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the term of the lease contract. Impairment losses on intangible assets are reported together with losses on property, plant and equipment, and losses on ■■3.16.2 Operating leases goodwill in a specific line item on the income statement. Operating leases are lease contracts that are not classified as The gains and losses on disposals of assets are determined finance leases. Rental payments are recorded as expenses in by comparing disposal value with the carrying value of the the income statement on a straight-line basis. disposed asset. ■■3.17 Impairment of assets ■■3.15 Property, plant & equipment 3.17.1 Type of asset tested Property, plant and equipment items are accounted for at acquisition price, at fair value for business combinations, or at Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life production cost, as applicable, less cumulative depreciation (such as intangible rights acquired from a third party for and any impairment loss. drugs not yet commercialized) are tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets, at least once Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying value, a year and whenever there is an indication that the asset may or, if applicable, they are recognized as a separate asset if the be impaired. future economic benefits associated with the asset are likely to go to the Group, and the cost of the asset can be measured Indicators of impairment loss can be related namely reliably. to the success of successive phases of clinical trials, to 2017 Ipsen Registration document 79 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS pharmacovigilance, to patent protection, to the arrival of 3.17.2.1 Goodwill competing products and/or generics and the comparison of Regarding goodwill, the Group calculates recoverable actual and forecast sales. amounts of cash-generating units from their value in use. 3.17.1.1 Goodwill This is determined by discounting their estimated future cash flows to present value. These cash flow estimates For impairment testing purposes, starting from the acquisition are based on five year or, if needed, longer estimates and date, goodwill acquired under a business combination is made for each operating segment (i.e. Specialty Care and allocated to one of the two Group’s cash generating units. Consumer Healthcare) by the Group’s operating entities. In Goodwill relating to a company accounted for using the equity addition, tests are performed to assess the sensitivity of the method is included in the carrying amount of the investment recoverable amount of cash-generating units or groups of and is not separately recognized, in accordance with IAS cash-generating units to changes in certain assumptions, 28 – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. As a primarily to the discount rate (range +/1%) and to the sales consequence, it is not tested for impairment separately, as growth rate (range -1% to -2%). described in IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets. The full carrying 3.17.2.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life amount of the investment, including goodwill, is tested for impairment. In line with paragraph 23 of IAS 28 – Investments When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of in Associates and Joint Ventures, appropriate adjustments a particular fixed asset, the Group determines the recoverable to the Group’s share of the profits or losses after acquisition amount of the cash-generating unit that holds it. More of companies accounted for using the equity method are specifically, for an intangible right in the early development made for impairment losses related to goodwill and intangible phase, the asset is tested for impairment only if an indication assets. of loss of value arises between the date of its acquisition and the annual closing date. 3.17.1.2 Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life 3.17.2.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life i.e. mainly intellectual property rights and licenses to use intellectual For other intangible assets, the period taken into account for property rights, are tested annually for impairment and estimating cash flows is based on the economic life intrinsic whenever there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. to each intangible asset. When the economic life exceeds Group forecasts, a terminal value may be used. Tests are also 3.17.1.3 Intangible assets with a finite useful life performed to assess the sensitivity of the recoverable amount Intangible assets with a finite useful life are also tested to changes in certain assumptions, primarily to the discount annually for impairment and whenever events or changed rate (range +/1%) and to the sales growth rate (range -1% to circumstances indicate that an asset may be impaired. -2%). 3.17.1.4 Tangible fixed assets and long-term financial Cash flows are discounted to present value using the assets weighted average cost of capital of each cash-generating unit (Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare), except in specific Other non-current assets, including tangible fixed assets and cases when additional risk premiums are taken into account long-term financial assets, are also tested for impairment based on the asset tested. when events or changed circumstances indicate that an asset may be impaired. When the recoverable amount of an asset (or group of assets) or a cash-generating unit is lower than its carrying value, 3.17.2 Impairment tests methods used by the Group an impairment loss is recorded on a separate line in the Impairment tests consist of comparing an asset’s carrying income statement. When an impairment loss is identified for a value (asset groups or cash-generating units) with its cash-generating unit, it is deducted in priority from goodwill. recoverable amount. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversible. value less costs to sell and value in use. Methods and key assumptions for impairment tests for the Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows period ending on 31 December 2017 are presented for expected to be derived from continuing use of the asset, intangible assets of unlimited useful life and goodwill in notes group of assets or cash-generating unit and its ultimate 12 and 13 respectively. disposal. ■■3.18 Government grants Fair value less selling costs is the amount obtainable from the sale of the asset, group of assets or cash-generating unit in Government grants received by the Group are treated as an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing “Deferred income” and recognized in the income statement parties, less the costs of disposal. over the estimated useful life of the assets financed by the grants. 80 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■3.19 Financial assets 3.19.3 Available-for-sale financial assets Financial assets, excluding cash and derivative financial Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets, are classified in one of the four following categories: assets that are not classified in the aforementioned categories. • Financial assets at fair value through the income statement, They are included in non-current assets, unless management • Group-issued loans and receivables, expects to sell them within 12 months after the balance sheet • Financial assets held-to-maturity, closing date. • Available-for-sale financial assets. Unrealized capital gains and losses are recognized in equity Financial assets are classified upon initial recognition until the assets are sold, except for impairment losses, which according to the Group’s intention at the time of acquisition. are recognized in the income statement when determined. 3.19.1 Financial assets at fair value through the income This category mainly includes investments in non-consolidated statement companies and short-term investments that do not meet the These include assets held for the purpose of selling or definition of other categories of financial assets. They are repurchasing in the near term with the intention of making classified under other non-current assets, other current a profit, and assets voluntarily classified in this category. assets and cash and cash equivalents. Derivative instruments are also treated as held for trading, 3.19.4 Determination of fair value unless they are qualified as hedges. For investments in listed equity instruments, fair value is Such assets are measured at fair value, and any changes are the quoted market price. For investments in unlisted equity recorded as a change in fair value on the income statement. instruments, fair value is determined by reference to recent market transactions or using a valuation technique that Assets in this category are designated as current assets. provides reliable and objective price estimates used by others 3.19.2 Group-issued loans and receivables active in the market. Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets For investments in non-consolidated and unlisted companies, with a payment that is fixed or can be determined and are fair value is based on the Group’s share in each company’s not listed on an active market. They are included in current equity on the reporting date. assets, unless they mature more than 12 months after the balance sheet closing date, in which case they are included in If it is not possible to reasonably estimate the fair value of an non-current assets. asset, it is measured at cost. Loans and receivables are measured using the amortized ■■3.20 N  on-current assets held for sale cost method. and discontinued operations The balance sheet value includes principal outstanding A non-current asset, or group of assets and liabilities, is plus accrued interest. The recoverable amount of loans and classified as held for sale if its carrying value will be recovered advances is estimated whenever there is an indication that the principally through a sale transaction rather than through asset may be impaired and at least on each reporting date. continuing use. The asset or disposal group must be available If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value, an for immediate sale and the sale must be highly probable. impairment loss is recognized on the income statement. For the sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of The Group’s credit risk is fairly limited in Western European management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset (or countries. The Group sells to clearly identified wholesalers disposal group), and an active program to locate a buyer and or directly to chemists and hospitals. These parties do not complete the plan must be initiated. generally present a counterparty risk, but their payment terms may exceed 12 months. These are typical payment terms in An operation is classified as discontinued if it is a business, the Group’s sector. which the Group has sold or is classified as held for sale, and: In international markets, the Group often operates via agents • which represents a principal and distinct business line or or distributors, and may also be subject to geopolitical risks. geographic region, The Group endeavors to limit the length of customer risks • is part of a specific and coordinated plan for disposal of a and payment terms, or takes out credit insurance or invoice principal and distinct business line or geographic region, or discounting when available on the market. • is a subsidiary acquired exclusively for resale. Based on reliable default indices and the results of its monitoring and dunning procedures, the Group recognizes an impairment of trade receivables that takes into account the Group’s hedging instruments (Coface-type credit insurance). 2017 Ipsen Registration document 81 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■3.21 Inventories The liability corresponding to the employees’ vested rights is covered by: Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is determined using the weighted average cost • contributions to independent organizations (insurance method. companies) responsible for paying the pensions or other benefits; or Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the normal • balance sheet provisions. course of business, less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. For state-managed plans and other defined contribution plans, the Group records them as expenses when they The cost of finished goods includes all purchasing costs, become payable, the Group’s commitment being limited to transformation costs and other costs incurred in bringing its contributions. inventories to their present location and current condition. For defined benefit plans, the Group’s liability is estimated ■■3.22 Securities held for sale by external actuaries using the projected unit credit method. Under this method, each period of service gives rise to an This category includes short-term investments that do additional unit of benefit entitlement and each unit is valued not meet the definition of cash equivalents (as per IAS 7 separately to obtain the final obligation. – Statement of Cash Flows) but which nonetheless show limited volatility. These financial assets are measured at fair The final amount of the liability is then discounted. The main value (market value) at the closing date, and any changes are assumptions used to calculate the liability are: recognized in the income statement. • discount rate, ■■3.23 Cash and cash equivalents • inflation rate, • future salary increases, Cash includes cash on hand and demand deposits with banks. • employee turnover. Cash equivalents include short-term, highly liquid investments 3.25.2 Other employee benefits (with a maturity of less than three months) which are subject In some countries, employees are entitled to awards for long to an insignificant risk of changes in value in the event of service. The Group records a provision in the balance sheet interest rate variations. Mutual funds, UCITS and term to cover its liability in this respect. deposits therefore meet the definition of cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are classified as financial assets at fair value ■■3.26 Provisions held for transactions. They are measured at fair value and any changes are recognized in the income statement. Given the Provisions are recognized in accordance with IAS 37 – nature of these assets, their fair value is generally close to their Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets to net carrying value. cover all liabilities to third parties likely or certain to give rise to an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, provided the amount of the provision can be reliably estimated. ■■3.24 Stock option plans These provisions are estimated on the basis of the most likely Stock options and bonus share plans are awarded to executive assumptions at the closing date. officers and some employees of the Group. As required by IFRS 2 – Share-based Payments, these options and shares In the case of restructurings, a liability is recorded as soon are measured at their fair value on the date of grant. The fair as the restructuring has been announced and the Group has value is calculated with the most relevant formula regarding drawn up or started to implement a detailed restructuring the settlement and the conditions of each stock option plan plan. or share award (“Black and Scholes” or “Monte Carlo”). The Provisions are discounted if the time value is material. The fair value is recorded in personnel expenses (allocated by discount rate reflects current market assessments of the function in the income statement) on a straight-line basis over time value of money and the risks inherent to the liability. The the vesting period (period from the date of grant to maturity of provision increase resulting from the restatement at historical the plan) with a corresponding increase in equity. value is recorded as a financial expense. At each closing date, the Group re-examines the number of options likely to become exercisable and the number of ■■3.27 Financial liabilities shares likely to be awarded. If applicable, the impact of the Loans are recorded initially at their fair value. Subsequently review of the estimates is recognized in the income statement they are measured at amortized cost using the effective with a corresponding adjustment in equity. interest method. ■■3.25 Retirement benefit obligations ■■3.28 Derivative financial instruments 3.25.1 Post-employment benefits As part of its overall strategy for managing foreign exchange Depending on the laws and practices of the countries risks, the Group completed a number of transactions involving where the Group operates, employees may be entitled to the use of derivative financial instruments. The Group uses compensation when they retire or to a pension following derivatives instruments designated as cash flow hedging retirement. instruments. 82 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group buys and sells derivative financial instruments Rebates and discounts granted to customers are recorded at with a view to managing and reducing its exposure to the the same time as the sale of the goods and are classified as a risk of exchange rate fluctuations. The Group deals only deduction from consolidated sales. with first-class financial institutions. Under IAS 39 – Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, financial ■■3.30 Other revenues instruments may only be classified as hedges when the Other revenues include royalties received and milestone Group can demonstrate and document the effectiveness of payments received under partnership agreements and the hedging relationship at inception and throughout the life various service agreements. of the hedge. Royalties received are recognized as “Other revenues” based Derivative instruments recognized as hedging instruments on sales achieved by the partners and contractual royalty are measured in accordance with IAS 39 hedge accounting rates during the period. criteria. Upfront payments and, depending on the achievement of A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to cash flow certain targets, milestone payments are generally spread over fluctuations, which stems from a particular risk associated the term of the contracts. with a recognized asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, and which could affect profit or loss. Revenues generated by various services provided are Changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are recognized based on the goods or services delivered to the recognized directly in equity in the consolidated statement other contracting party. of comprehensive income for the effective portion of the hedging relationship. For the ineffective portion, changes in ■■3.31 Cost of sales the fair value of hedging instruments are recognized in “Other Cost of sales primarily includes the industrial cost of goods financial income and expense” on the income statement. sold and royalties paid under licenses. The industrial cost Aggregate changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument of goods sold encompasses the cost of the raw materials that were previously recognized in equity are recycled into consumed, including freight-in costs, direct and indirect the income statement in the same period in which the costs for production services personnel, manufacturinghedged transaction affects profit or loss. The recycled gains related depreciation, all types of external costs related and losses are recognized in “Other operating income and to manufacturing activities, such as electricity, water, expenses” for hedges related to operating activities and maintenance, and equipment costs, and indirect costs, such in “Financial income” or “Financial expense” for hedges as the share of purchasing, human resources and IT costs. related to investing or financing activities. When the hedging Production costs also include quality control, production instrument expires, the aggregate gains or losses previously quality assurance, engineering, and logistics services recognized in equity remain in equity and are recycled into expenses. the income statement only after the forecast transaction has been effectively completed. However, when the Group no ■■3.32 Research and Development longer expects the forecast transaction to be completed, Internal research costs are expensed. Internal pharmaceutical aggregate gains and losses previously recognized in equity development costs are expensed in the period during which are immediately recognized in the income statement. they are incurred as long as capitalization criteria are not deemed to be met. Derivative instruments that do not qualify as hedge accounting are initially and ultimately measured at fair value, and any 3.32.1 Internal research and development work changes in fair value are recognized as financial income or In accordance with IAS 38, internal development costs are financial expense. recognized as intangible assets only if the following six criteria have been met: ■■3.29 Sales • technical feasibility of completing the development project, The Group’s revenues are generated mainly by the sale of • intention to complete the project, pharmaceutical products. • ability to use the intangible asset, Sales are recognized when all the following conditions are • probable future economic benefit of the asset can be met: demonstrated, • there is evidence of an agreement between the parties; • availability of technical, financial and other resources to complete the project, and • the goods have been delivered or the service provided; • reliable measurement of development costs. • the price is fixed or can be determined. Due to the risks and uncertainties associated with regulatory Sales of goods are recognized when the risks and rewards approvals and the research and development process, the of ownership have passed to the buyer. Sales of goods are six criteria for intangible assets are not deemed to be fulfilled valued at the fair value of the counterparty amount received until marketing authorization for the drugs has been granted, or to be received. i.e. approval of the Marketing Authorization Application (MAA). 2017 Ipsen Registration document 83 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As a result, internal development expenses, primarily income, after the R&D expenses to which they are directly consisting of clinical study costs arising before approval linked have been deducted. of the MAA, are generally recognized in “Research and development expenses” as soon as they are incurred. ■■3.33 Other operating income and expenses Some industrial development costs are generated after the MAA Other operating income and expenses include primarily has been approved to improve the process for manufacturing amor tization expense for intangible assets (excluding an active ingredient. If the six IAS 38 criteria are deemed to have sof tware), the impact of cash flow hedges related to been met, these costs are included in the measurement of the commercial operations, capital gains and losses on asset project’s costs and recorded as “Other intangible assets” on the disposals, and any item not directly linked to operations. asset side of the balance sheet, as soon as they are incurred. Likewise, some clinical study costs, such as those arising from ■■3.34 Taxes efforts to extend the geographical access of a molecule that Deferred taxes are recorded on all temporary differences has already obtained MAA approval in a major market, may in between the carrying value and tax base of assets and certain cases meet the six intangible asset recognition criteria liabilities, and on tax loss carryforwards. under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets. In such cases, those costs The main temporary differences in the Group’s consolidated are recorded as other intangible assets on the asset side of the financial statements stem from tax loss carryforwards, balance sheet, as soon as they are incurred. restatements to eliminate internal margins on inventory and 3.32.2 Research and development acquired separately provisions for retirement benefits. Payments made to separately acquire research and development Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary work are recognized as other intangible assets when they meet differences only when it is probable that taxable profits will be the definition of an intangible asset, i.e. a controlled resource available against which the deferred tax asset can be utilized. with probable future economic benefits to the Group that is identifiable, either being separable or arising from contractual Deferred tax assets and liabilities are valued using the or other legal rights. In application of paragraph 25 of IAS expected tax rate for the period in which the asset will be 38, the first recognition criterion related to the probability of realized and the liability will be settled, on the basis of the tax the intangible asset generating future economic benefits is rates enacted or virtually enacted at the balance sheet date. presumed to be met when research and development work is Deferred tax assets are subject to a recoverability analysis acquired separately. The second recognition criterion related to based on Group forecasts. the reliable measurement of the asset is satisfied as well when Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted, in payment amounts are determined. accordance with IAS 12 – Income Taxes. Accordingly, amounts paid to third parties in the form of an Amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements upfront payment or milestone payments for proprietary drugs are calculated at the level of each tax entity included in the are recognized on the asset side of the balance sheet. These consolidation scope. rights are amortized on a straight-line basis for the duration of their useful lives beginning on the date the products are The Group elected to recognize the CVAE business tax commercialized. (Cotisation sur la Valeur Ajoutée des Entreprises) as income tax expense in the income statement. Accordingly, and in 3.32.3 Research and development acquired in a line with provisions of IAS 12, the total amount of current and business combination deferred expenses related to the CVAE is presented on the Other intangible assets related to research and development “Income Tax” line. work in progress and acquired within the scope of a business combination, and which can be reliably measured, are ■■3.35 Earnings per share identified separately from goodwill and recognized as other A basic earnings per share is calculated on the weighted intangible assets, in accordance with IFRS 3 (Revised) – average number of shares outstanding during the period. Business Combinations and IAS 38 – Intangible Assets. A related deferred tax liability is also recognized, if applicable. The weighted average number of shares outstanding is calculated according to movements in share capital, less any 3.32.4 Research tax credits treasury shares held by the Group. Research tax credits are classified as operating grants, in accordance with common practice within the pharmaceutical Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing industry. In accordance with IAS 20 – Accounting for consolidated net profit for the year attributable to equity Government Grants and Disclosure of Government holders of Ipsen S.A. by the weighted average number of Assistance, operating grants are recognized in operating ordinary shares outstanding plus any potentially dilutive ordinary shares not yet issued. 84 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 4 Operating segments Segment information is presented according to the Group’s Core operating income excludes amortization expense for two operating segments, i.e. Specialty Care and Consumer intangible assets (excluding software), restructuring costs, Healthcare. impairment losses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, as well as other items arising from All costs allocated to these two segments are presented in significant events that could distort the reading of the Group’s the key performance indicators. Only corporate overhead performance from one year to another. costs and the impact of the currency hedging policy are not allocated to the two operating segments. These performance indicators are not replacements for IFRS indicators and should not be viewed as such. They are used The Group uses Core operating income to measure its in addition to IFRS indicators. performance. Core operating income is the indicator used by the Group to measure operating performance and to allocate resources. ■■4.1 Core operating income by operating segment Consumer Other 31 December (in millions of euros) Specialty care Healthcare (unallocated) 2017 Sales 1,591.9 316.8 – 1,908.7 Other revenues 51.2 51.9 – 103.0 Revenue 1,643.1 368.7 – 2,011.8 Core operating income 570.6 91.8 (158.8) 503.6 Consumer Other 31 December (in millions of euros) Specialty care Healthcare (unallocated) 2016 Sales 1,273.0 311.6 – 1,584.6 Other revenues 35.0 51.5 – 86.5 Revenue 1,308.0 363.1 – 1,671.1 Core operating income 415.0 99.6 (150.7) 363.9 In the 2017 financial year, unallocated core operating unallocated general and administrative expenses and the income (expenses) came to (€158.8) million, compared with impact of cash flow hedges. (€150.7) million in 2016. The expenses stemmed mainly from The reconciliation of Core operating income and Operating Income is presented in the following table: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Core operating income 503.6 363.9 Amortization of intangible assets, excluding software (53.3) (7.7) Other operating income and expenses (48.9) (6.8) Restructuring costs (18.8) (1.9) Impairment losses 14.8 (42.9) Operating Income 397.2 304.7 ■■4.2 Sales by geographical region 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Amounts % share Amounts % share Major Western European countries 644.4 34% 571.9 36% Rest of Europe 395.3 21% 349.2 22% North America 467.0 24% 273.0 17% Rest of the World 401.9 21% 390.5 25% Consolidated sales 1,908.7 100% 1,584.6 100% 2017 Ipsen Registration document 85 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■4.3 Sales by therapeutic area and product (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Oncology 1,185.2 904.8 Somatuline ® 702.5 538.3 Decapeptyl® 348.7 339.8 Cabometyx® 51.7 7.2 Onivyde ® 56.9 – Other Oncology 25.4 19.5 Neuroscience 331.6 286.7 Dysport® 328.2 284.7 Rare diseases 75.1 81.5 NutropinAq® 51.8 57.7 Increlex® 22.9 23.7 Specialty care 1,591.9 1,273.0 Smecta® 115.5 111.0 Forlax ® 42.1 39.3 Tanakan® 41.4 43.6 Fortrans/Eziclen® 32.1 26.8 Etiasa® 17.8 29.3 Other Consumer Healthcare 67.8 61.5 Consumer Healthcare 316.8 311.6 Consolidated sales 1,908.7 1,584.6 ■■4.4 Other revenues (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Royalties received 62.0 44.0 Milestone payments Licenses 29.9 28.4 Other (co-promotion revenues, re-billings) 11.1 14.2 Other revenues 103.0 86.5 Other revenues for the 2017 financial year totaled €103.0 from Group partners, mainly Galderma for Dysport®, Menarini million, up 19.1% over the €86.5 million generated in 2016. The for Adenuric®, and Shire for Onivyde®. change was attributable to the increase in royalties received ■■4.5 Other information 31 December 2017 (in millions of euros) Consumer Other Total Specialty care Healthcare (unallocated) Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (61.2) (19.2) (4.5) (84.9) Acquisition of intangible assets (52.6) (87.7) (15.7) (155.9) Total investments (113.8) (106.9) (20.1) (240.8) Net depreciation, amortization and provisions (70.3) (11.3) (23.3) (104.8) (excluding financial assets) Share-based payment expenses with no impact on – – (10.1) (10.1) cash flow NB. Share-based payment expenses are not broken down by operating segment. 86 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Consumer Other Total Specialty care Healthcare (unallocated) Acquisition of property, plant & equipment (59.5) (18.6) (3.1) (81.2) Acquisition of intangible assets (280.2) (1.2) (9.7) (291.1) Total investments (339.7) (19.9) (12.8) (372.3) Net depreciation, amortization and provisions (23.2) (7.9) (7.1) (38.2) (excluding financial assets) Share-based payment expenses with no impact – – (5.6) (5.6) on cash flow NB. Share-based payment expenses are not broken down by operating segment. Note 5 Personnel ■■5.1 Headcount ■■5.2 Employee expenses At the end of 2017, the Group’s headcount totaled 5,401 Employee expenses, which are included in the cost of goods employees, compared with 4,907 at the end of 2016. sold, selling, general and administrative expenses, research and development expenses and restructuring costs encompass The average headcount in 2017 was 5,216, compared with the following items: 4,816 in 2016. (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Wages and salaries (420.2) (367.7) Employer's social security contributions and payroll taxes (137.1) (119.0) Sub-total (557.3) (486.7) Interest on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) (5.4) (0.4) Annual accounting expenses associated with share-based payments (note 5.4) (10.1) (5.5) Social security contributions on share-based payments – (0.1) Share-based payment expenses sub-total (10.1) (5.6) Employee profit-sharing (11.2) (10.3) Total (584.0) (503.1) In 2017, the average rate of employer’s social security and Ireland. In France, a limited number of employees also contributions and payroll taxes amounted to 32.6% of gross benefit from a supplementary pension plan. payroll, versus 32.3% in 2016. The Group provides these benefits via either defined The Group’s French companies have a discretionar y contribution or defined benefit plans. employee profit-sharing agreement. Employees may invest Under defined contribution plans, the Group has no their entitlement in either an interest-bearing savings account obligation other than to pay the agreed contributions, with the within the company or in a company savings plan invested in corresponding expense charged to income for the year. collective investment funds managed by a financial institution. 5.3.1.2 Other long-term benefits In 2016, a three-year incentive agreement was set up in France to supplement the above-mentioned agreement. The Group also pays out bonuses intended to reward Based on an assessment of the expected fulfillment of the employees based on length of service. These long service objectives of this incentive agreement, the impact recorded in awards relate mainly to the Group’s employees in France. the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2017 5.3.2 Measurement and recognition of liabilities came to 5.9% of gross payroll. That percentage compares to the 5.5% recorded at 31 December 2016. The Group’s liabilities related to employee benefits are calculated by an external actuary using the assumptions that ■■5.3 Long-term employee benefits are applicable in the relevant countries. 5.3.1 Benefit plans Discount rates are determined by reference to a market 5.3.1.1 Retirement benefit obligations rate based on bonds issued by first class issuers. The main benchmark index used is the iBoxx Corporate AA for the In some countries, the Group’s employees are eligible for Eurozone and the United Kingdom. supplementary pension payments paid annually to retirees, or to lump sum retirement allowances paid on retirement. The Assumptions with regard to staff turnover and mortality rates main countries concerned are France, the United Kingdom are specific to each country. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 87 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Some liabilities are covered by financial assets held in funds Unfunded liabilities and plan deficits are recognized in the invested with insurance companies (plan assets). balance sheet under “Retirement benefit obligation”. The impact on the income statement of the return on plan assets for retirement schemes is measured by applying the discount rate used for the liabilities. 5.3.2.1 Assumptions used The main actuarial assumptions applied as at 31 December 2017 are as follows: Europe (excluding United Kingdom Asia-Oceania UK) Discount rate 1.3% 2.4% 2.5% Inflation rate 1.8% 2.2% N/A Rate of increase in salaries, net of inflation Varies by SSC Plan frozen 5.6% Rate of increase in pensions 1.7% 2.2% N/A A 1.0% increase in the discount rate would lead to decreases in employee benefit obligations of 9.4% in France, 21.5% in Ireland, 20.4% in the UK, and 15.6% in Asia-Oceania. 5.3.2.2 Reconciliation of balance sheet assets and liabilities 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) PostOther long-term employment Total Total benefits benefits Breakdown of net balance sheet amount Present value of liabilities 113.2 5.3 118.5 110.3 Fair value of plan assets 51.0 – 51.0 51.9 Net liabilities (a) 62.3 5.3 67.6 58.4 Effect of asset ceiling (b) – – – – Net liability (a b) 62.3 5.3 67.6 58.4 5.3.2.3 Reconciliation of income statement expenses 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) PostOther long-term employment Total Total benefits benefits Current service costs 6.3 0.5 6.9 6.0 Contributions by plan participants (0.1) – (0.1) (0.1) Interest expense on obligations 1.7 0.1 1.7 2.3 Interest income on plan assets (0.8) – (0.8) (1.2) Past service costs (plan amendments (1.4) – (1.4) (5.6) and curtailments) Actuarial (gains) and loses recognized as expense – – – 0.2 Total 5.7 0.6 6.2 1.5 of which Operating expenses 4.8 0.5 5.4 0.4 of which Interest expense 0.8 0.1 0.9 1.1 In 2017, past service costs included a €1.4 million gain from management retirement benefits following departures. 88 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.3.2.4 Movements in net liability recognized in the balance sheet 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) PostOther long-term employment Total Total benefits benefits Opening net liability 53.5 4.9 58.4 51.2 Charge for the year (note 5.3.2.3) 5.7 0.6 6.2 1.5 Actuarial gains and (losses) recognized in other 4.2 – 4.2 7.8 comprehensive income Employer's contributions to plan assets (0.6) – (0.6) (1.3) Benefits paid from internal reserve (0.4) (0.1) (0.5) (0.7) Exchange differences (0.1) – (0.1) (0.3) Closing net liability 62.3 5.3 67.6 58.4 5.3.2.5 Movements in defined benefit plan obligations 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) PostOther long-term employment Total Total benefits benefits Opening balance 105.4 4.9 110.3 102.6 Current service costs 6.3 0.5 6.9 6.0 Interest expense on obligations 1.7 0.1 1.7 2.3 Past service costs (plan amendments and (1.4) – (1.4) (5.6) curtailments) Benefits paid from plan assets (4.0) – (4.0) (1.2) Benefits paid from internal reserve (0.4) (0.1) (0.5) (0.7) Actuarial (Gains) and losses experience 6.6 – 6.6 (6.5) adjustments Actuarial (Gains) and losses changes to discount 0.5 – 0.5 11.8 rate Actuarial (Gains) and losses changes to other (0.8) – (0.8) 3.8 assumptions Exchange differences (0.7) – (0.7) (2.3) Closing balance 113.2 5.3 118.5 110.3 At 31 December 2017, the defined benefit plan obligations broke down primarily among the following countries: 65.9% in France, 15.6% in the UK and 17.1% in Ireland. 5.3.2.6 Movements in plan assets 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) PostOther long-term employment Total Total benefits benefits Opening balance 51.9 – 51.9 51.4 Interest income on plan assets 0.8 – 0.8 1.2 Benefits paid from plan assets (4.0) – (4.0) (1.2) Employee contributions to plan assets 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 Employer's contributions to plan assets 0.6 – 0.6 1.3 Actuarial gains and (losses) 2.2 – 2.2 1.1 Exchange differences (0.6) – (0.6) (2.0) Closing balance 51.0 – 51.0 51.9 At 31 December 2017, the plan assets broke down primarily among the following countries: 42.0% in France, 29.0% in the UK and 28.3% in Ireland. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 89 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.3.2.7 Allocation of plan assets 31 December 2017 (in millions of euros) Shares Bonds Other (1) Total Europe (excluding UK) 10.4 19.6 5.8 35.8 United Kingdom 9.0 5.6 0.2 14.8 Asia-Oceania 0.3 0.1 0.3 Total 19.8 25.2 6.0 51.0 Total (as a percentage) 39% 49% 12% 100% (1) Property, cash and other. 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Shares Bonds Other (1) Total Europe (excluding UK) 9.7 21.7 5.7 37.1 United Kingdom 8.4 5.3 0.8 14.5 Asia-Oceania 0.2 0.1 0.3 Total 18.3 27.1 6.5 51.9 Total (as a percentage) 35% 52% 13% 100% (1) Property, cash and other. 5.3.2.8 Future probable plan benefits Post-employment Other long-term (in millions of euros) Total benefits benefits 2018 8.4 0.5 8.9 2019 1.6 0.6 2.2 2020 13.4 0.7 14.1 2021 1.5 0.6 2.1 2022 3.5 0.5 4.0 2023-2027 22.4 2.5 24.9 ■■5.4 Share-based payments Ipsen granted various bonus share option and bonus share At 31 December 2017, the annual charge for bonus share plans within the scope of IFRS 2 – Share-based Payment that payments came to €10.1 million, versus €5.5 million at were still vesting at 31 December 2017. 31 December 2016. 5.4.1 Share option plans granted by Ipsen 5.4.1.1 Details of share option plans Plan dated 31 March 2010 Plan dated 30 June 2011 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.1 1.2 Date granted by Board of Directors 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 Vesting date 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 30/06/2015 30/06/2013 Plan expiration date 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 30/06/2019 30/06/2019 Number of options granted 121,180 123,280 54,330 22,570 40,710 189,703 16,005 Share entitlement per option 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Exercise price €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €25.01 €25.01 “Black and Scholes” Grant method Monte Carlo “Black and Scholes” revised revised Value of shares at grant date €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €24.46 €24.46 Expected volatility 32% 32% 32% 32% 32% 31% 31% Average life of option 6 6 6 6 5 6 5 Discount rate 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.35% 2.90% 2.72% Dividends 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% 1.5% Performance condition yes yes no no no yes no Fair value per option €10.69 €10.69 €10.71 €10.71 €9.74 €7.12 €6.48 90 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.4.1.2 Valuation of plans Plan dated 31 March Plan dated 30 June (in millions of euros) Total 2010 2011 Opening valuation of active plans at 31 December 2017 3.8 1.5 5.3 2017 expense – – – 2016 expense – – – 5.4.1.3 Change in number of options outstanding Changes in the number of outstanding options under all plans are as follows: (in number of options) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Opening balance 744,771 1,142,157 Options exercised (net of adjustments) (80,213) (393,886) Options cancelled – – Options expired – (3,500) Closing balance 664,558 744,771 5.4.2 Bonus share plans On 31 May 2016 and 29 July 2016, the Board of Directors On 29 March 2017, the Board of Directors granted: granted: • 13,365 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject • 5,070 bonus shares to the non-executive Chairman, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, entity, • 10,021 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject • 28,275 bonus shares to members of the Executive to length of service conditions as well as performance Leadership Team, subject to length of service conditions conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or entity, specific to a Group entity, • 48,928 bonus shares to members of the Executive • 44,070 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its French Committee, subject to length of service conditions as subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, specific to a Group entity, • 72,208 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its French • 37,980 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its American subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, specific to a Group entity, • 64,727 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its American • 28,200 bonus shares to certain beneficiaries of other Group subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity, specific to a Group entity. • 41,336 bonus shares to certain beneficiaries of other Group subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity. 5.4.2.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated 28 March 2013 Plan dated 27 March 2014 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Number of bonus shares 79,859 78,485 21,791 9,540 34,329 65,018 56,062 19,405 21,685 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 4 2 2 2 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, before reduction €27.91 €27.91 €27.91 €27.91 €27.91 €29.75 €29.75 €29.75 €29.75 Fair value of bonus shares €23.47 €23.47 €26.28 €26.28 €23.47 €20.01 €20.01 €21.74 €20.01 1.1 Beneficiaries include the Chairman, the non-executive Chairman, the Deputy CEO, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Committee members, and Executive Leadership Team members. 1.2 Beneficiaries from the Group’s French subsidiaries. 1.3 Beneficiaries outside the Group’s French and American subsidiaries. 1.4 Beneficiaries from the Group’s American subsidiaries. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 91 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Plan dated 1 April 2015 Plan dated 1 June 2016 Plan dated 29 March 2017 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Number of bonus shares 53,021 47,572 21,484 39,970 64,019 72,208 41,336 64,727 41,640 44,070 37,980 28,200 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, before reduction € 44.99 € 44.99 € 44.99 € 44.99 € 56.69 € 56.69 € 56.69 € 56.69 € 93.40 € 93.40 € 93.40 € 93.40 Fair value of bonus shares €31.10 €31.10 €31.24 €31.24 €47.73 €47.73 €49.04 €47.73 €101.47 €97.01 €99.27 €97.00 1.1 Beneficiaries include the Chairman, the non-executive Chairman, the Deputy CEO, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Committee members, and Executive Leadership Team members. 1.2 Beneficiaries from the Group’s French subsidiaries. 1.3 Beneficiaries outside the Group’s French and American subsidiaries. 1.4 Beneficiaries from the Group’s American subsidiaries. 5.4.2.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated (in millions of euros) 30 March 28 March 27 March 1 April 1 June 29 March Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Opening valuation 4.0 5.3 3.1 4.4 10.5 13.3 40.6 2017 expense – 0.0 0.1 0.6 5.3 4.0 10.1 2016 expense 0.0 0.2 0.4 1.8 3.1 – 5.5 Note 6 Depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses ■■6.1 D  epreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses included in the cash flow statement The following table shows the amount of depreciation, amortization, provisions and impairment losses added back to determine gross cash flow from operations: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Operating excluding current assets (104.8) (38.2) Financial (0.9) (1.1) Tax (0.1) 0.1 Depreciation and amortization before impairment and excluding current assets (105.8) (39.1) Impairment losses included in operating income (note 6.2) 14.8 (42.9) Impairment losses 14.8 (42.9) ■■6.2 Impairment losses 6.2.2 2016 financial year 6.2.1 2017 financial year During the 2016 financial year, the Group recognized the During the 2017 financial year, Ipsen recognized the following following impairment losses: impairment losses and reversals: • All the intangible assets related to a radiopharmaceutical • The intangible assets related to Prontalgine , the main ® product for diagnosing neuroendocrine tumors developed product in the portfolio acquired from Sanofi, were written by OctreoPharm GmbH were written down in the amount of down in the amount of €33.9 million (see note 13); €31.8 million (see note 13); • The impairment loss related to the Increlex® IGF-1 active • The MCNA intangible asset, an exclusive license for MCNA ingredient was reversed in the amount of €50.4 million (see acquired from Telesta Therapeutics, was written down in note 13). the amount of €8.0 million (see note 13); • The option to acquire 100% of the shares in Canbex Therapeutics was written down in the amount of €5.4 million (see note 17). 92 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 7 Other operating income and expenses In 2017, other operating expenses totaled €102.4 million, In 2016, those expenses totaled €21.6 million, primarily from mainly due to the amortization of intangible assets from the impact of cash flow hedges, the change in corporate Cabometyx ®, Onivyde ® and assets acquired from Sanofi, governance, costs related to moving R&D in the UK to the integration costs related to the Onivyde ® acquisition, the new site in Oxford, and amortization expense for Cabometyx® adaptation of the R&D structure and programs, and a intangible assets initiated with the beginning of sales. settlement with a partner in Japan. Note 8 Restructuring costs In 2017, pre-tax restructuring costs came to €18.8 million, acquisition, the adaptation of the R&D structure and programs, compared with €1.9 million in the prior year. Those expenses and a reorganization plan in Europe. consisted mainly of integration costs related to the Onivyde® Note 9 Net financial income (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Total income from loans and receivables 1.1 0.9 Investment income 1.1 0.9 Interest on debt (9.2) (4.6) Interest on employee profit-sharing fund (0.0) (0.1) Total expenses on financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (9.2) (4.7) Financial expense on derivative instruments (0.0) (1.1) Total expenses on financial assets held for trading (0.0) (1.1) Financing costs (9.2) (5.8) NET FINANCING COSTS (8.1) (5.0) Other exchange differences (0.1) (0.7) Income and expenses on financial assets and liabilities at fair value (0.1) (0.7) Impairment of investments in non-consolidated companies 0.0 (0.0) Income and expenses on available-for-sale financial assets 0.0 (0.0) Financial income on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) 1.1 1.2 Interest on employee benefits (note 5.3.2.3) (2.0) (2.3) Other financial elements (17.4) (0.1) OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE (18.4) (1.6) FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) (26.6) (6.6) Of which total financial income 57.0 64.2 Of which total financial expense (83.6) (70.8) In 2017, the Group had net financial expense of €26.6 million, • In 2017, Other financial expense amounted to €18.4 million, versus net financial expense of €6.6 million in 2016. versus Other financial expense of €1.6 million in 2016. In addition to the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations, the • Net financing costs totaled €8.1 million in 2017, compared increase stemmed from cash flow hedges, which generated with €5.0 million in 2016. The increase resulted chiefly from expense of €15.0 million arising from business growth and interest expense on the €300 million in bonds issued by the the Onivyde® acquisition. In 2016, Ipsen received €5.3 million Group in June 2016 and acquisition-related financing costs in in dividends from Rhythm Holding following the disposal of 2017 (see note1). its Motus Therapeutics subsidiary to Allergan, and a total of €2.4 million from an earnout payment on the sale of Spirogen shares and dividends from the InnoBio fund. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 93 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 10 Income taxes ■■10.1 Tax expense 10.1.1 Effective tax rate (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Net profit (loss) from continuing operations 270.7 226.5 Share of net profit (loss) from entities accounted for using the equity method 1.4 1.9 Net profit from continuing operations before share of results from companies 269.2 224.5 accounted for using the equity method Current tax (53.1) (65.4) Deferred tax (48.3) (8.1) Income taxes (101.4) (73.5) Pre-tax profit from continuing operations before share of results from 370.7 298.1 companies accounted for using the equity method Effective tax rate 27.4% 24.7% In 2017, income tax expense of €101.4 million resulted in an 10.1.2 Reconciliation between the effective and nominal effective tax rate of 27.4% on pre-tax profit from continuing tax expense operations, excluding the share of profit (loss) from companies The following table shows the reconciliation between the accounted for using the equity method. This compares with effective and nominal tax expense based on pre-tax profit an effective tax rate of 24.7% in 2016. from continuing operations taxed at the standard French rate The higher effective tax rate arose notably from the unfavorable of 34.43% for the two years presented: impact of the U.S. tax reform on recognized deferred tax assets. (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Pre-tax profit from continuing operations before share of results from companies 370.7 298.1 accounted for using the equity method Group tax rate 34.43% 34.43% Nominal tax expense (127.6) (102.6) (Increase)/decrease in tax expense arising from: Tax credits 10.5 10.5 Non-recognition of tax impact on certain losses during the year (0.4) (1.8) Utilization of tax losses not recognized as deferred tax assets 0.1 0.1 Recognition of deferred tax assets (1) (33.0) 0.2 Other permanent differences (2) 48.9 20.2 Effective tax expense (101.4) (73.5) (1) The change in recognition of deferred tax assets stems mainly from the negative impact of the recently enacted U.S. tax reform on the value of tax loss carryforwards, offset by the recognition of previously unrecognized deferred tax assets in the United States since 2013 for a total of €26.3 million. (2) O ther permanent differences in 2017 resulted from difference in the Group tax rate of 34.43% and other tax rates where Group subsidiaries are based, as well as events specific to 2017, such as the recognition of receivables from the French authorities. 94 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■10.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 Deferred 31 Income (in millions of euros) December statement taxes Changes in Foreign December Other 2016 recorded SoRIE consolidation exchange 2017 income / movements directly to scope differences expense reserves Deferred tax assets 213.2 (25.1) (1.6) 0.2 0.1 (17.9) (26.8) 142.0 Deferred tax liabilities (14.6) (23.3) (8.9) (0.8) (0.8) 1.1 25.8 (21.5) Net assets / 198.6 (48.3) (10.6) (0.6) (0.8) (16.8) (1.0) 120.5 (liabilities) A breakdown of deferred tax assets / (liabilities) by type is • The recognition of an €11.1 million gain from the use of tax presented in note 10.3. loss carryforwards in Germany. The €48.3 million decrease recognized in “Income statement At 31 December 2017, the Group recognized €84.1 million income / expense” stems primarily from: in deferred tax assets on tax-loss carryforwards (including • A €46.0 million expense arising from the unfavorable impact €72.9 million in the U.S.), versus €141.5 million at 31 December of the recently enacted tax reform in the United States 2016 (see note 10.3). Deferred tax assets are recognized on the value of tax-loss carryforwards. This expense was based on results forecasts for each tax consolidation group. partially offset by recognizing €19.7 million in previously These forecasts are in line with Ipsen’s long and medium-term unrecognized deferred tax assets in the United States; plans and take into account the timeframes notably in relation to the duration of the tax-loss carryforwards and the specific • The use of €23.6 million in tax-loss carryforwards in the situation of each tax consolidation group. United States; Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 Deferred 31 Income (in millions of euros) December statement taxes Changes in Foreign December Other 2015 recorded SoRIE consolidation exchange 2016 income / movements directly to scope differences expense reserves Deferred tax assets 217.7 (17.9) – (0.5) – 8.4 5.6 213.2 Deferred tax liabilities (23.1) 9.8 4.4 0.0 – 0.9 (6.5) (14.6) Net assets / 194.6 (8.1) 4.4 (0.5) – 9.3 (1.0) 198.6 (liabilities) The €8.1 million decrease recognized in “Income statement carryforwards not used at 31 December 2016. They were not income / expense” stems primarily from: recognized because the companies concerned were unable to determine whether the tax assets could be used based on • the use of €13.4 million in tax loss carryforwards in France their earnings forecasts. and €14.7 million in tax-loss carryforwards in the United States; At 31 December 2016, the Group recognized €141.5 million in deferred tax assets on tax-loss carryforwards, versus • €8.9 million in deferred tax assets arising from the impairment €163.9 million a year earlier (see note 10.3). These were loss on the Ga-Satoreotide asset, an OctreoPharm GmbH mainly tax-loss carryforwards in the United States, where the product; time limit for using them was nearing expiration. Deferred tax • €9.4 million in deferred tax assets generated by the assets are recognized based on results forecasts for each elimination of margins on inventory. tax consolidation group. These forecasts are in line with Ipsen’s long and medium-term plans and take into account At 31 December 2016, unrecognized deferred tax assets the time frames notably in relation to the duration of the tax amounted to €74.7 million. That amount corresponds loss carryforwards and the specific situation of each tax primarily to the Group’s unused R&D tax credits and tax loss consolidation group. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 95 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■10.3 Type of deferred taxes recognized on the balance sheet and the income statement Movements during the year 31 Deferred 31 Income (in millions of euros) December statement taxes Changes in Foreign Other December 2016 recorded SoRIE consolidation exchange 2017 income / movements directly to scope differences expense reserves Inventories 47.8 4.9 – – – (1.7) – 51.0 Tax loss carryforwards 141.5 (41.3) – – – (15.0) (1.1) 84.1 Provision for retirement 12.9 1.0 – (0.5) – (0.0) – 13.4 and other benefits Other (3.6) (13.0) (10.6) (0.1) (0.8) (0.1) 0.0 (28.0) Net assets / (liabilities) 198.6 (48.3) (10.6) (0.6) (0.8) (16.8) (1.0) 120.5 The €0.8 million in net liabilities from changes in the scope of consolidation corresponds to Akkadeas Pharma’s entry into the scope of consolidation during the 2017 financial year. Movements during the year 31 Deferred 31 Income (in millions of euros) December taxes Changes in Foreign December statement 2015 recorded SoRIE consolidation exchange 2016 income / directly to scope differences expense reserves Inventories 37.7 9.4 – – – 0.6 47.8 Tax loss carryforwards 163.9 (27.8) – – – 6.4 141.5 Provision for retirement 13.6 (0.6) – (0.5) – (0.1) 12.9 and other benefits Other (20.7) 10.8 4.4 – – 2.3 (3.6) Net assets / (liabilities) 194.6 (8.1) 4.4 (0.5) – 9.3 198.6 Note 11 Net profit (loss) from discontinued operations In 2017, net profit from discontinued operations totaled Inspiration assets in 2013, and corresponds to the rebilling €2.3 million, compared to €0.1 million in net profit from of production costs for OBI-1 clinical samples as well as discontinued operations in 2016. The net profit from royalties from the sales of that product received from Baxalta, discontinued operations arose from agreements to sell a company spun off from Baxter International. Note 12 Goodwill ■■12.1 Net goodwill carried in the balance sheet Octreopharm GmbH in 2015, and the goodwill generated The Group’s two operating segments are Specialty Care and by the acquisition of Onivyde® in the first half of 2017, was Consumer Healthcare. Accordingly, goodwill is allocated to allocated to the Specialty Care CGU. these two Cash Generating Units (CGUs) in accordance with Goodwill related to taking control of Akkadeas Pharma in the the Group’s organization. first half of 2017 was allocated to the Consumer Healthcare Goodwill totaling €135.3 million related to the Group’s 1998 CGU. structuring operations was allocated to the Specialty Care Changes in goodwill in 2017 can be broken down as follows: and Consumer Healthcare segments in proportion to the • the acquisition of oncology assets from Merrimack sales generated. Pharmaceuticals (see note 1.1) recognized in line with IFRS 3 The €53.5 million in goodwill arising from the end of the (Revised) – Business Combinations. The goodwill generated Group’s 2004 structuring operation, with the acquisition of by this transaction amounted to $48.8 million, or €45.7 million. BB et Cie, was allocated in full to the Consumer Healthcare It was allocated to the Specialty Care operating segment (see business. note 12.1.1); • the acquisition of Akkadeas Pharma, which generated The goodwill related to the acquisition of Vernalis Inc. and goodwill totaling €8.6 million. It was allocated to the Consumer Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc. in the second half of 2008, as Healthcare operating segment; well as the goodwill related to the acquisition of BioInnovation • (€22.8) million in foreign exchange differences on gross Ltd in 2013, the goodwill arising from the acquisition of goodwill and €0.3 million on impairment losses. 96 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements during the year 31 December Changes in Foreign 31 December (in millions of euros) 2016 Increase consolidation Decrease exchange 2017 scope differences Gross goodwill 365.7 – 54.3 – (22.8) 397.3 Impairment losses (8.6) – – – 0.3 (8.2) Net goodwill 357.2 – 54.3 – (22.4) 389.0 Changes in goodwill in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 December Changes in Foreign 31 December (in millions of euros) 2015 Increase consolidation Decrease exchange 2016 scope differences Gross goodwill 363.2 – – – 2.5 365.7 Impairment losses (10.0) – – – 1.4 (8.6) Net goodwill 353.3 – – – 3.9 357.2 12.1.1 P  urchase price analysis on assets acquired from The Group mandated an outside expert to help identify Merrimack Pharmaceuticals and measure the business combination’s main assets and On 3 April 2017, Ipsen completed the acquisition of Merrimack liabilities. Pharmaceuticals’ global oncology assets, including its The Onivyde acquisition is fully in line with the Group’s key marketed product Onivyde ®. Under the terms of the strategic directions, strengthening Ipsen’s positioning in agreement, Ipsen gained the exclusive commercialization both the U.S. market and the oncology field. Accordingly, the rights for the current and potential future Onivyde® indications acquisition of the Onivyde® product holds strategic, financial in the U.S., as well as the current licensing agreements and operating advantages that contribute to advancing the with Shire for commercialization rights ex-U.S. and Pharma Group’s ambitions. Onivyde ®, commercialized in the U.S. Engine for Taiwan. The transaction also included Merrimack’s since 2015, is a differentiating product used to treat patients commercial and manufacturing infrastructure, and generic with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. doxorubicin HCl liposome injection. In addition to the acquired product, whose value is shown as Ipsen paid $580 million to Merrimack upfront and could pay an intangible asset, the Onivyde® acquisition strengthens the up to $450 million upon the approval of potential additional Group’s development potential and position in oncology and indications for Onivyde® in the U.S. The transaction was fully the U.S., which are not reflected in the cash flow generated by financed by Ipsen’s existing cash and lines of credit. the product or the recognized goodwill. Although the transaction was contractually an asset deal, it The €45.7 million in goodwill generated by the Onivyde ® was treated as a business combination in accordance with acquisition was recorded under “Changes in consolidation IFRS 3 Revised, since Ipsen acquired a standalone business. scope” and breaks down as follows: (in millions of euros) Cash paid for the acquisition 546.3 Fair value of deferred payments to Merrimack Pharmaceuticals 43.1 Fair value of deferred payments to Pharma Engine 75.8 Fair value of deferred payments to be received from Shire (122.6) Valuation of the Onivyde acquisition 542.6 Fair value of acquired net assets and liabilities: Intangible assets 466.6 Tangible assets 1.3 Working capital requirement and other items 29.0 Total 496.9 Goodwill arising after allocation period 45.7 2017 Ipsen Registration document 97 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The impact of the business combination arising from the additional indications) with Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, acquisition of the Onivyde® business led the Group to: Shire and Pharma Engine. The fair value of these probability measured and discounted future payments resulted in • recognize a €466.6 million intangible asset corresponding the recognition of a €122.6 million financial asset and a to the value of the intellectual property acquired and the fair €118.9 million financial liability; value of the royalty rights related to the partnerships with Shire and Pharma Engine in territories outside the United • recognize intangible assets as well as working capital States; requirement reassessed at their fair value. Inventories were notably reassessed in the amount of €6.0 million to • measure the fair value of additional payments that could arise recognize their market value less distribution costs. from achieving development and commercial milestones (meeting certain sales thresholds or FDA registration of Breakdown of acquired Onivyde® related assets and liabilities: (in millions of euros) Opening balance sheet Assets Goodwill 45.7 Other intangible assets 466.6 Property, plant & equipment 1.3 Non-current financial assets 122.6 Current assets 37.3 Cash and cash equivalents (546.3) Total assets 127.2 Liabilities Non-current financial liabilities 118.9 Current liabilities and miscellaneous items 8.3 Total liabilities 127.2 12.1.2 P  urchase price analysis of Akkadeas Pharma ■■12.2 Impairment of goodwill On 31 January 2017, Ipsen announced that it had taken an For impairment testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to equity stake in Akkadeas Pharma with an option to acquire the cash-generating units defined by the Group. The cash100% of the company in the future. generating units identified for the allocation and performance of goodwill-related impairment tests correspond to the Ipsen acquired a 49% interest in the entity through several operating segments. The Group’s two operating segments payments totaling €4.9 million and also holds a call option are Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare. Accordingly, exercisable in 2018 on the remaining 51% of the company’s goodwill is allocated in line with the Group’s organization (see equity. note 12.1). After entering the entity into the scope of consolidation, Ipsen The recoverable value of the respective cash-generating units opted to apply the full goodwill method. The goodwill came to corresponds to the value in use based on discounting the €8.6 million and was allocated to the Consumer Healthcare related estimated future cash flows. These cash flows are CGU. based on short-term, medium-term and long-term estimates The goodwill stems from the company’s valuation of (such as forecasts, annual budgets, five-year strategic €12.1 million, less the fair value of the net assets and liabilities plans, and long-term plans specific to product life cycles) acquired. for the identified operating segments, i.e. Specialty Care and Consumer Healthcare. The impact of the business combination arising from the Akkadeas takeover led the Group to recognize €3.9 million At 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, no impairment in intangible assets, a €0.5 million fair value reassessment of losses related to goodwill were recorded. The previously working capital requirement and a €0.8 million deferred tax recorded impairment loss solely concerned the goodwill liability. arising from the acquisition of Sterix Ltd. 98 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The carrying value of the respective cash-generating units and the key assumptions are shown below: (in millions of euros) Specialty care Consumer Healthcare Total Net carrying value at 31 December 2017 Goodwill 292.1 96.9 389.0 Net underlying assets 1,226.9 211.7 1,438.6 Total 1,519.0 308.6 1,827.6 Perpetuity growth rate 0% 0% – Discount rate 9% 8% – (in millions of euros) Specialty care Consumer Healthcare Total Net carrying value at 31 December 2016 Goodwill 277.0 80.1 357.2 Net underlying assets 827.3 120.8 948.1 Total 1,104.3 200.9 1,305.2 Perpetuity growth rate 0% 0% – Discount rate 9% 8% – Tests were performed to assess the sensitivity of the to the sales growth rate (range -1% to -2%). The implementation recoverable amount to changes in cer tain actuarial of those sensitivity tests would not lead to the recognition of assumptions, primarily to the discount rate (range +/1%) and significant impairment charges. Note 13 Other intangible assets ■■13.1 Movements Movements in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2016 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2017 movements scope differences Intellectual property 804.3 144.6 (3.5) 473.3 (54.2) 7.3 1 371.8 Intangible assets in 10.0 11.3 – – (0.1) (7.2) 13.9 progress Gross assets 814.3 155.9 (3.5) 473.3 (54.4) 0.0 1 385.7 Amortization (213.7) (64.7) 2.2 (2.8) 13.2 (8.1) (273.9) Impairment losses (220.5) (33.9) 51.0 – 13.7 8.1 (181.5) Net assets 380.1 57.3 49.7 470.5 (27.5) 0.0 930.2 The 31 December 2017, the change in net intangible assets • As part of acquiring a portfolio of Consumer Healthcare resulted notably from the following items: products from Sanofi (see note 1.2), trademarks, market authorization rights and regulatory rights were recorded on • As part of acquiring the Onivyde® assets from Merrimack the balance sheet in the gross amount of €86.5 million. The Pharmaceuticals (see note 1.1), €466.6 million in intangible most significant product is Prontalgine®, an analgesic for assets corresponding to the value of the intellectual property the treatment of moderate to severe pain, which is available acquired and the fair value of the royalty rights arising from only in France. The portfolio also includes Buscopan ®, the partnerships with Shire and Pharma Engine in territories an antispasmodic; Suppositoria Glycerini, a laxative; and outside the United States were recognized on the balance Mucothiol® and Mucodyne®, expectorants for cough and sheet of the consolidated financial statements. The assets flu. These regional brands are sold in eight European were recorded under “Changes in consolidation scope”. countries. Following the limited sales growth recorded in the second half of 2017 and while this does not compromise the product’s expectations, Ipsen decided to test the acquired intangible assets for impairment, whose value in use fully supports the assets’ carrying value. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 99 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The value of these assets were par tially impaired At 31 December 2017, amortization expense for intangible at 31 December 2017, following the 12 July 2017 assets came to €64.7 million, mainly as a result of the announcement of an immediately effective decree issued Onivyde® assets, the operating license signed with Exelixis by France’s Health Ministry making medicines derived from for Cabometyx® in 2016, and €11.4 million in software-related codeine, dextromethorphan, ethylmorphine, or noscapine amortization expense. available through prescription only to prevent misuse. Ipsen In 2017, the move by Increlex®’s manufacturer of its production subsequently lowered its sales forecast for Prontalgine ®, plant to Visp, Switzerland was completed, and the plant the most significant product in the portfolio acquired from received compliance approval from the FDA and the EMA. With Sanofi, leading to €33.9 million of intangible assets. The the future supply of Increlex® now secured, the impairment partial impairment loss takes into account the planned provision related to the Increlex® IGF-1 active ingredient was development of a new product with significant synergies reversed at 31 December 2017 for €50.4 million. with Prontalgine®. At 31 December 2017, the Group’s intangible assets with • As part of acquiring Akkadeas Pharma, €3.9 million in an indefinite useful life had a total net carrying value of intangible assets arising from customer relations, distribution €24.7 million. licenses and trademark licenses were recorded on the balance sheet in the consolidated financial statements. The The assets concerned intellectual property or rights acquired assets were recorded under “Changes in consolidation for proprietary oncology, endocrinology and neuroscience scope”. drugs that were in an advanced phase of development but had not yet been commercialized. As a result, the assets • In 2017, Ipsen recognized €38 million in intangible assets have not yet been amortized, in accordance with the Group’s arising from additional milestone payments to Exelixis as accounting principles (see note 3.14). For these intangible part of an exclusive licensing agreement signed in 2016. It assets, the recoverable amount corresponds to the value in also recognized €10 million in intangible assets arising from use based on estimated expected future cash flows. additional milestone payments to Lexicon. Movements in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2015 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2016 movements scope differences Intellectual property 539.4 282.8 (22.3) – (2.0) 6.4 804.3 Intangible assets in 7.9 8.3 – – (0.2) (6.1) 10.0 progress Gross assets 547.3 291.1 (22.3) – (2.2) 0.3 814.3 Amortization (185.8) (18.0) 1.1 – (3.5) (7.6) (213.7) Impairment losses (210.1) (40.4) 21.1 – 1.3 7.6 (220.5) Net assets 151.5 232.7 (0.0) – (4.4) 0.3 380.1 The increase in net assets arose mainly from the following: • information technology investments; • the €266.4 million acquisition of exclusive commercialization • a €31.8 million impairment loss on the Ga-Satoreotide rights for cabozantinib from Exelixis, including an upfront asset, an OctreoPharm GmbH product; payment and additional milestone payments; • an €8.0 million impairment loss and derecognition of the • a €5.1 million regulatory milestone payment made to MCNA asset acquired from Telesta Therapeutics; Lexicon; • the derecognition of €13.2 million in fully amortized • the €5.0 million acquisition from 3B Pharmaceuticals Santhera intangible assets; and GmbH of an exclusive license for new radiopharmaceutical • €18.0 million in amortization expense for intangible assets, products in oncology; including €10.3 million in amortization expense for software. 100 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■13.2 Breakdown of intangible assets by asset type 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Amortization & Amortization & Gross value Net value Gross value Net value Impairment Impairment Brands and trademarks 77.1 (47.4) 29.7 21.2 (20.9) 0.4 Licenses 1,123.9 (291.5) 832.4 659.9 (318.0) 341.8 Patents 9.4 (9.3) 0.2 9.2 (9.2) 0.0 Know-how 39.5 (19.1) 20.3 10.1 (10.1) 0.0 Software 117.8 (86.0) 31.8 103.7 (75.9) 27.8 Other intangible assets 4.1 (2.2) 1.9 0.3 (0.2) 0.1 Intangible assets in progress 13.9 – 13.9 10.0 – 10.0 Total 1,385.7 (455.5) 930.2 814.3 (434.2) 380.1 Of which impairment losses (181.5) (220.5) In 2017, the net amount of intangible assets with an indefinite These were intellectual property assets for proprietary drugs useful life came to €24.7 million, versus €59.8 million in 2016. classified in “Licenses”. Note 14 Property, plant & equipment ■■14.1 Breakdown by asset type Movements in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2016 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2017 movements scope differences Land 20.2 0.4 – 0.3 (0.3) 2.3 23.0 Buildings 264.5 20.8 (6.8) 0.1 (4.7) 62.0 335.9 Plant & equipment 301.8 11.5 (13.4) 1.0 (5.5) 62.1 357.5 Other assets 68.4 6.7 (4.7) 0.3 (1.7) 12.4 81.4 Assets in progress 174.3 45.2 – 0.1 (3.6) (138.8) 77.2 Advance payments 0.0 0.2 – (0.0) (0.0) – 0.3 Gross assets 829.3 84.9 (24.8) 1.8 (15.8) (0.0) 875.2 Depreciation (444.2) (33.2) 20.4 (0.1) 6.6 (1.3) (451.8) Impairment losses (6.1) (1.7) 2.0 – – 1.3 (4.6) Depreciation & (450.3) (34.9) 22.4 (0.1) 6.6 (0.0) (456.3) impairment losses Net assets 379.0 50.0 (2.4) 1.6 (9.2) (0.0) 418.9 In 2017, acquisitions of property, plant and equipment totaled boost production capacity at the Group’s manufacturing sites €84.9 million, compared with €81.2 million in 2016. The in France and the United Kingdom. increase resulted primarily from capital spending needed to 2017 Ipsen Registration document 101 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Changes in Foreign December Other 2015 Increase Decrease consolidation exchange 2016 movements scope differences Land 20.8 0.1 (0.7) – (0.4) 0.5 20.2 Buildings 228.6 3.5 (1.4) – (2.0) 35.9 264.5 Plant & equipment 266.2 8.4 (6.2) – (8.5) 41.9 301.8 Other assets 132.1 3.7 (6.9) – (2.0) (58.5) 68.4 Assets in progress 143.6 65.5 – – (14.7) (20.1) 174.3 Advance payments 791.2 81.2 (15.2) – (27.6) (0.3) 829.3 Gross assets (430.0) (31.1) 13.9 – 9.9 (6.9) (444.2) Depreciation (12.5) (0.5) – – – 6.9 (6.1) Depreciation & (442.5) (31.6) 13.9 – 9.9 (0.0) (450.3) impairment losses Net assets 348.7 49.6 (1.3) – (17.7) (0.3) 379.0 ■■14.2 Breakdown by currency of property, plant and equipment, net of depreciation The breakdown by currency of property, plant and equipment, net of depreciation, is as follows: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Euro 247.8 212.8 U.S. dollar 22.9 23.7 Pound sterling 137.8 133.0 Chinese Yuan renminbi 7.8 8.0 Other currencies 2.6 1.5 Total 418.9 379.0 Note 15 Equity investments Movements in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Disposals Foreign December Acquisitions Other 2016 and exchange 2017 and increases movements decreases differences Equity investments 34.1 7.1 – (0.4) 15.4 56.1 Write-downs & impairment losses (12.9) – – 0.4 (0.4) (12.8) Net book value (Available-for-sale 21.2 7.1 – – 15.0 43.3 financial assets) Net equity investments classified as financial assets available 2017 share price, the decrease in the value of the Innobio for sale notably included the following equity investments at investment amounted to €2.6 million; 31 December 2017: • A €6.6 million investment in the Innobio venture capital fund. • A €20.4 million interest in Rhythm Pharmaceuticals based At the 2017 share price, the decrease in the value of the on the company’s unit share price of $29.06 at that date; Innobio investment amounted to €0.7 million. • A €6.9 million interest in Radius Health Inc. based on the company’s unit share price of $31.77 at that date. At the 102 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Disposals Foreign December Acquisitions Other 2015 and exchange 2016 and increases movements decreases differences Equity investments 42.0 1.0 – (1.8) (7.1) 34.1 Write-downs & impairment losses (16.4) – – 1.8 1.7 (12.9) Net book value (Available-for-sale 25.6 1.0 – (0.0) (5.5) 21.2 financial assets) Net equity investments classified as financial assets available • A €7.3 million investment in the Innobio venture capital fund. for sale notably included the following equity investments at At the 2016 share price, the decrease in the value of the 31 December 2016: Innobio investment amounted to €2.1 million. • A €9.5 million interest in Radius Health Inc. based on the company’s unit share price of $38.03 at that date. At the 2016 share price, the decrease in the value of the Innobio investment amounted to €5.0 million; Note 16 Investments in companies accounted for using the equity method At 31 December 2017, the Group owned a 50% interest in At 31 December 2016, the value of Linnea shares on the Linnea SA, consolidated using the equity method. Group’s balance sheet totaled €15.6 million, with Linnea contributing €1.9 million to the Group’s net profit. The At 31 December 2017, the value of Linnea shares on the company paid out €2.3 million in dividends in 2016. Group’s balance sheet totaled €14.7 million, with Linnea contributing €1.4 million to the Group’s net profit. The The information presented below corresponds to the financial company paid out €0.9 million in dividends in 2017. statements of Linnea SA, prepared in accordance with Group accounting principles (for amounts taken at 100%). At 31 December 2017 (in millions of euros) Liabilities, excluding Net profit (loss) for Assets Sales shareholder's equity the year Linnea SA 36.5 7.1 36.2 2.8 Total 36.5 7.1 36.2 2.8 At 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Liabilities, excluding Net profit (loss) for Assets Sales shareholder's equity the year Linnea SA 45.6 14.4 40.6 3.8 Total 45.6 14.4 40.6 3.8 Note 17 Other non-current assets (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Liquidity agreement (1) 2.3 3.8 Deposits paid 2.5 2.9 Other financial assets – – Total other non-current assets (loans, receivables and other) (2) 4.8 6.7 (1) Changes are due to the liquidity agreement with Natixis Bleichroeder, a subsidiary of Natixis, signed in February 2007 and automatically renewed thereafter. The liquidity agreement consists of cash, not treasury shares. (2) The fair value of “Other non-current assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (value at the transaction date and then tested for impairment on each reporting date). 2017 Ipsen Registration document 103 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 18 Detail of the change in working capital requirement ■■18.1 Movements Movements in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 Change 31 Change in w/ Change in w/ (in millions of euros) December in w/cap Changes in Foreign December cap related cap related Other 2016 related to consolidation exchange 2017 to investing to financing movements operating scope differences activities activities activities Inventories 113.3 38.2 – – 20.5 (4.7) – 167.4 (see note 18.2.1.) Trade receivables 363.5 84.6 – – 8.4 (19.1) (0.2) 437.2 Current tax assets 66.3 (10.0) – – 0.1 (1.2) 2.8 58.0 Other current assets 75.2 16.0 0.2 – 9.8 (2.1) (2.7) 96.3 (see note 18.2.3) WCR assets (1) 618.3 128.8 0.2 – 38.8 (27.1) (0.0) 758.8 Trade payables (241.5) (77.6) – – (9.0) 9.0 0.1 (319.1) Current tax liabilities (4.1) 3.3 – – (0.2) 0.3 (1.8) (2.4) Other current liabilities (226.4) (33.2) (20.7) – (0.3) 5.7 (15.3) (290.2) (see note 18.2.4) Other non-current (90.6) (0.2) – – – 3.4 15.8 (71.7) liabilities (see note 18.2.4) WCR liabilities (2) (562.6) (107.6) (20.7) – (9.4) 18.3 (1.3) (683.3) Total 55.7 21.2 (20.5) – 29.3 (8.8) (1.4) 75.5 (1) The fair value of “WCR assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (value at the transaction date and then tested for impairment on each reporting date). (2) The carrying amount of items comprising “WCR liabilities” was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. At 31 December 2017, gross trade receivables past due totaled €76.4 million: Trade Trade Trade Trade receivables receivables (in millions of euros) Total receivables receivables from 3 to from 6 to < 3 months > 12 months 6 months 12 months Trade receivables gross value 76.4 38.9 12.3 13.2 12.0 Trade receivables net value 74.4 38.5 12.2 13.1 10.7 Changes in “Other non-current liabilities” were due mainly over the life of the contracts. The portion unrecognized as to the recognition of deferred income on payments received income was recorded as “Other non-current liabilities”, if due from Group partnerships. Within the framework of partnership after 12 months, and as “Other current liabilities” if due within agreements, the milestone payments received by the Group one year. for these contracts were recognized on a straight-line basis 104 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 Change 31 Change in w/ Change in w/ (in millions of euros) December in w/cap Changes in Foreign December cap related cap related Other 2015 related to consolidation exchange 2016 to investing to financing movements operating scope differences activities activities activities Inventories 107.4 7.7 – – – (1.7) – 113.3 (see note 18.2.1.) Trade receivables 311.0 42.7 – – – 7.0 2.8 363.5 Current tax assets 82.9 (13.0) – – – 0.1 (3.7) 66.3 Other current assets 75.6 5.3 (0.6) – (1.8) (3.4) 75.2 (see note 18.2.3) WCR assets (1) 576.9 42.6 (0.6) – – 3.5 (4.2) 618.3 Trade payables (195.1) (47.6) – – – 1.5 (0.4) (241.5) Current tax liabilities (12.0) 2.5 – – – 0.8 4.7 (4.1) Other current liabilities (201.5) (14.0) (11.6) – – 2.1 (1.4) (226.4) (see note 18.2.4) Other non-current (124.5) 17.4 – – – 10.8 5.7 (90.6) liabilities (see note 18.2.4) WCR liabilities (2) (533.1) (41.7) (11.6) – – 15.2 8.5 (562.6) Total 43.9 0.9 (12.2) – – 18.7 4.3 55.7 (1) Impairment losses on “WCR assets” were not reported due to their immaterial nature. The fair value of “WCR assets” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (value at the transaction date and then tested for impairment on each reporting date). (2) The carrying amount of items comprising “WCR liabilities” was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. At 31 December 2016, gross trade receivables past due totaled €52.2 million. Trade Trade Trade Trade receivables receivables (in millions of euros) Total receivables receivables from 3 to from 6 to < 3 months > 12 months 6 months 12 months Trade receivables – gross value 52.2 34.5 6.3 6.2 5.2 Trade receivables – net value 50.2 34.3 6.3 6.0 3.6 Changes in “Other non-current liabilities” were due mainly to over the life of the contracts. The portion unrecognized as the recognition of deferred income on the payments received income was recorded as “Other non-current liabilities”, if due from Group partnerships. Within the framework of partnership after 12 months, and as “Other current liabilities” if due within agreements, the milestone payments received by the Group one year. for these contracts were recognized on a straight-line basis ■■18.2 Breakdown 18.2.1 Inventories 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Gross value Depreciation Net value Net value Raw materials and supplies 51.5 (2.2) 49.4 39.7 Work in progress 63.2 (6.7) 56.5 26.4 Finished goods 66.2 (4.7) 61.5 47.2 Total 180.9 (13.5) 167.4 113.3 2017 Ipsen Registration document 105 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.2.2 Current financial assets At 31 December 2017, current financial assets included derivative instruments totaling €29.6 million, versus €6.6 million at 31 December 2016. 18.2.3 Other current assets (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Receivables related to the sale of non-current assets 0.2 0.0 Advance payments to suppliers 21.9 15.9 Prepayments 22.9 16.4 Recoverable VAT 43.6 32.4 Other assets 7.7 10.5 Total current assets (loans and receivables) (1) 96.3 75.2 (1) The fair value of “Loans and receivables” corresponds to the value reported in the balance sheet (value at the transaction date and then tested for impairment on each reporting date). 18.2.4 Other current and non-current liabilities (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Non-current deferred income 71.7 90.6 Total other non-current liabilities (1) 71.7 90.6 Amounts due to non-current asset suppliers 56.3 35.9 Employment-related liabilities 142.8 117.8 VAT payable 21.1 13.5 Other current tax liabilities 8.3 6.5 Deferred income 38.8 37.9 Other liabilities 22.8 14.9 Total other current liabilities (1) 290.2 226.4 (1) The carrying amount of other current and non-current liabilities was deemed to be a reasonable estimation of fair value. Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents ■■19.1 Net cash and cash equivalents 19.1.1 Opening net cash and cash equivalents Consolidated balance Consolidated balance (in millions of euros) sheet at 1 January sheet at 1 January 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents – assets 425.5 226.1 Bank overdrafts – liabilities (3.0) (12.1) Opening net cash and cash equivalents 422.5 214.0 19.1.2 Closing net cash and cash equivalents Consolidated balance Consolidated balance (in millions of euros) sheet at 1 January sheet at 1 January 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents – assets 228.0 425.5 Bank overdrafts liabilities (18.7) (3.0) Closing net cash and cash equivalents 209.3 422.5 106 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■19.2 Cash and cash equivalents (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Interest-bearing deposits 125.5 357.9 Cash and cash equivalents 102.5 67.6 Cash and cash equivalents – assets 228.0 425.5 Cash equivalents are presented at fair value (market value) are available immediately and without penalty, subject to a and meet IAS 7 – Statement of Cash Flows criteria. They maximum 24-hour notice. Note 20 Consolidated equity ■■20.1 Share capital These changes arose from the issuance of 174,193 new shares following the exercise of warrants in the 2017 financial At 31 December 2017, Ipsen’s share capital was comprised year. of 83,732,057 ordinary shares each with a nominal value of €1, including 47,852,938 shares with double voting rights, ■■20.2 Basic earnings per share compared with 83,557,864 ordinary shares each with a nominal value of €1, including 47,829,011 shares with double Basic earnings per share were calculated on the weighted voting rights at 31 December 2016. average number of shares outstanding during the year (see note 3.35). Movements in the weighted average number of shares outstanding for the two periods reported are shown in note 20.4. 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 82,549,563 82,308,644 Consolidated net profit – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 272.3 225.9 (in millions of euros) Basic earnings per share (in euros) 3.30 2.74 Net profit from discontinued operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 2.3 0.1 (in millions of euros) Basic earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.03 0.00 Net profit from continuing operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 270.0 225.8 (in millions of euros) Basic earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 3.27 2.74 ■■20.3 Diluted earnings per share • Bonus shares • Stock option plans At 31 December 2017, bonus shares for the plan of 27 March 2014 (foreign tax-resident beneficiaries) – which was free At 31 December 2017, all stock option plans were dilutive, as of performance conditions – and the plan of 1 April 2015, at 31 December 2016. were not included in the calculation of the average weighted Share transactions occurring after 31 December 2017 number of shares for basic earnings per share, but were would not significantly modify the number of shares used in included in diluted earnings. calculating earnings per share or diluted earnings per share. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 107 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 83,030,871 82,621,792 Consolidated net profit – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 272.3 225.9 (in millions of euros) Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 3.28 2.73 Net profit from discontinued operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 2.3 0.1 (in millions of euros) Diluted earnings per share, discontinued operations (in euros) 0.03 0.00 Net profit from continuing operations – attributable to Ipsen S.A. shareholders 270.0 225.8 (in millions of euros) Diluted earnings per share, continuing operations (in euros) 3.25 2.73 ■■20.4 Weighted average number of shares outstanding 20.4.1 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate basic earnings per share 20.4.1.1 Weighted average number of shares at 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 Number of ordinary shares at 31 December 2016 83,557,864 Treasury shares (weighted average number) (1,101,854) Impact of options exercised in the 2017 financial year – Stock option plan of 12 December 2006 34,770 Impact of options exercised in the 2017 financial year – Stock option plan of 30 May 2007 20,265 Impact of options exercised in the 2017 financial year – Stock option plan of 12 December 2007 2,411 Impact of options exercised in the 2017 financial year – Stock option plan of 31 March 2010 35,570 Impact of options exercised in the 2017 financial year – Stock option plan of 30 June 2011 538 Weighted average number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2017 82,549,563 20.4.1.2 Weighted average number of shares at 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 Number of ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 83,245,602 Treasury shares (weighted average number) (1,020,492) Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 12 December 2006 25,820 Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 30 May 2007 6,320 Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 12 December 2007 16,410 Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 10 November 2009 3,311 Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 31 March 2010 10,085 Impact of options exercised in the 2016 financial year – Stock option plan of 30 June 2011 20,276 Capital increase reserved for employees – 21 July 2016 35,628 Capital decrease – 27 July 2016 (34,317) Weighted average number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2016 82,308,644 108 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.4.2 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate diluted earnings per share 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate basic earnings 82,549,563 82,308,644 per share Dilutive effect of stock options 431,945 278,216 Dilutive effect of bonus shares 49,363 34,932 Weighted average number of shares outstanding to calculate diluted 83,030,871 82,621,792 earnings per share ■■20.5 Dividends paid Dividends paid by Ipsen SA were as follows: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Dividend payout (in euros) (a) 70,247,053 69,956,704 Number of shares on the payment date (b) 82,643,592 82,302,005 Dividend per share (in euros) (a) / (b) 0,85 0,85 Note 21 Provisions ■■21.1 Movements Movements in 2017 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Reversals Foreign December Other 2016 Charges exchange 2017 Applied Released movements differences Business and operating risks 2.2 7.1 – (0.3) (0.1) – 8.8 Legal risks 15.4 11.6 (1.9) (2.7) (0.1) – 22.3 Restructuring costs 3.2 7.7 (0.7) (0.9) (0.0) – 9.3 Other 28.5 6.6 (24.0) (0.4) (1.3) – 9.5 Total provisions 49.4 32.9 (26.6) (4.2) (1.5) – 49.9 of which current 27.8 12.5 (24.6) (0.7) (1.1) 2.8 16.6 of which non-current 21.6 20.4 (2.0) (3.5) (0.4) (2.8) 33.3 At 31 December 2017, provisions broke down as follows: • Restructuring costs • Business and operating risks These provisions correspond mainly to costs incurred by the Group to adapt its structure. These provisions included certain risks of an economic nature reflecting costs that the Group could be brought to bear to • Other resolve various disagreements of commercial origin whose At 31 December 2017, a provision was recorded for Group individual impact was limited. performance-related medium-term bonus plans. • Legal risks These provisions included: –– €15.4 million for the risk of tax reassessment by local authorities at certain Group’s subsidiaries and certain additional taxes that the Group may be required to pay; –– €6.4 million for costs related to labor-related litigation that the Group may incur; –– €0.5 million for various other legal risks. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 109 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in 2016 can be broken down as follows: Movements during the year 31 31 (in millions of euros) December Reversals Foreign December Other 2015 Charges exchange 2016 Applied Released movements differences Business and operating risks 2.6 0.9 (1.3) (1.3) 0.1 1.1 2.2 Legal risks 17.3 6.1 (2.6) (3.4) 0.1 (2.0) 15.4 Restructuring costs 10.3 0.7 (5.2) (2.6) – – 3.2 Other 31.1 20.3 (22.3) (0.8) 0.2 – 28.5 Total provisions 61.3 28.1 (31.5) (8.0) 0.3 (0.8) 49.4 of which current 29.9 15.6 (26.8) (2.5) 0.2 11.5 27.8 of which non-current 31.4 12.5 (4.6) (5.5) 0.1 (12.3) 21.6 At 31 December 2016, provisions broke down as follows: ■■21.2 Impact on consolidated income in 2017 • Business and operating risks In 2017, charges totaling €32.8 million were recognized in Operating income, while charges totaling €0.1 million were These provisions included certain risks of an economic nature recognized in Income taxes. reflecting costs that the Group could be brought to bear to resolve various disagreements of commercial origin whose Released reversals totaling €4.2 million were recognized in individual impact was limited. Operating income in 2017. • Legal risks ■■21.3 Impact on consolidated income in 2016 These provisions included: Charges totaling €28.1 million were recognized in Operating income in 2016. –– €10.2 million for the risk of tax reassessment by local authorities at certain Group’s subsidiaries and certain Released reversals totaling €8.0 million were recognized in additional taxes that the Group may be required to pay; Operating income in 2016. –– €4.7 million for costs related to labor-related litigation that the Group may incur; –– €0.5 million for various other legal risks. • Restructuring costs These provisions correspond mainly to costs incurred by the Group to adapt its structure. • Other At 31 December 2016, a provision was recorded for Group performance-related medium-term bonus plans approved by the Board of Directors. 110 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 22 Bank loans and financial liabilities ■■22.1 Movements Movements in bank loans and other financial liabilities between 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017 were as follows: 31 Net Changes in Foreign 31 Other (in millions of euros) December Additions Repayments change in consolidation exchange December movements (2) 2016 interest scope differences 2017 Bonds and bank loans 297.1 – – – 0.4 – – 297.5 Other financial liabilities (1) 17.8 1.4 (3.3) 0.0 (10.0) 118.9 (22.1) 102.8 Non-current financial liabilities (measured at 314.8 1.4 (3.3) 0.0 (9.6) 118.9 (22.1) 400.3 amortized cost) Credit lines and bank 4.0 46.8 – – (4.7) – – 46.0 loans Other financial liabilities 36.3 171.5 – 0.4 24.4 – (4.6) 228.0 Current financial liabilities (measured 40.3 218.3 – 0.4 19.7 – (4.6) 274.0 at amortized cost) Derivative financial 18.2 – – – 2.5 – – 20.7 instruments Current financial liabilities (financial 18.2 – – – 2.5 – – 20.7 liabilities measured at fair value) Current financial 58.6 218.3 – 0.4 22.2 – (4.6) 294.7 liabilities Total financial liabilities 373.4 219.7 (3.3) 0.4 12.6 118.9 (26.7) 695.0 (1) Additions and repayments of other financial liabilities were related to employee profit sharing. Changes in consolidation scope correspond to financial liabilities recognized as part of acquiring oncology assets from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals (see note 1.1). (2) The €10.1 million in other movements corresponds to financial liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, while the €2.5 million in other movements corresponds to the change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments used to hedge foreign exchange risk. On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued €300 million in unsecured, On 6 June 2017, Ipsen S.A. amended its syndicated loan seven-year bonds paying an annual interest rate of 1.875%. to increase the facility amount to €600 million euros and to expend its maturity to 17 October 2022. At 31 December In addition, €300 million in depreciable bank loans were 2017, €42 million of this facility had been drawn down. contracted with a maximum maturity of 6.5 years beginning June 2016. At 31 December 2017, none of these bank loans On 27 June 2017, Ipsen increased its program for issuing had been tapped by the Group. commercial paper (NEU CP – Negotiable European Commercial Paper) from €300 million to €600 million. At 31 December 2017, €202 million in NEU CP had been issued. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 111 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Movements in bank loans and other financial liabilities between 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2016 were as follows: 31 Changes in Foreign 31 Net change Other (in millions of euros) December Additions Repayments consolidation exchange December in interest movements 2015 scope differences 2016 Bonds and bank loans – 296.8 – – 0.2 – – 297.1 Other financial liabilities (1) 20.6 1.1 (3.1) 0.0 (0.4) – (0.4) 17.8 Non-current financial liabilities (measured 20.6 297.9 (3.1) 0.0 (0.1) – (0.4) 314.8 at amortized cost) Credit lines and 4.0 – – – – – – 4.0 bank loans Other financial liabilities 2.5 30.0 (0.8) 3.1 1.5 – (0.0) 36.3 Current financial liabilities (measured 6.5 30.0 (0.8) 3.1 1.5 – (0.0) 40.3 at amortized cost) Derivative financial 4.5 – – – 13.7 – – 18.2 instruments Current financial liabilities (financial 4.5 – – – 13.7 – – 18.2 liabilities measured at fair value) (2) Current financial 11.0 30.0 (0.8) 3.1 15.3 – (0.0) 58.6 liabilities Total financial liabilities 31.6 327.9 (3.9) 3.1 15.1 – (0.4) 373.4 (1) Additions and repayments of other financial liabilities were related to employee profit sharing. (2) The €13.7 million in other movements corresponds to the change in the fair value of derivative financial instruments used to hedge foreign exchange risk. ■■22.2 Breakdown by maturity and currency tapped $50 million (€42 million) of its syndicated loan maturing 17 October 2022. At 31 December 2017, the Group had issued €300 million in bonds maturing on 16 June 2023. Ipsen had also at that date The Group’s financial debt was denominated entirely in euros in the 2016 financial year. Note 23 Derivative financial instruments ■■23.1 Interest rate risk hedging euro (the main currencies in which the Group operates) would impact sales by plus 5% or minus 4%, and Operating income The Group’s net debt consisted primarily of fixed-rate by plus 6% or minus 5%. debt following the €300 million bond issue in June 2016. At 31 December 2017, there were no derivative financial Several types of risks can be identified: instruments for hedging interest rate risk. • Transactional foreign exchange risk related to business ■■23.2 Exchange rate risk hedging activities. The Group has hedged its main foreign currencies, including the USD, GBP, CNY, RUB, CHF, PLN, AUD, and 23.2.1 Exposure to exchange rate risk BRL, based on its budget forecasts, A share of the Group’s business is conducted in countries where the euro, Ipsen’s reporting currency, is the functional • Financing foreign exchange risk related to financing currency. Nevertheless, owing to its international business contracted in a currency other than the functional currencies scope, the Group is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations of Group entities. that can affect its results. Ipsen implemented a foreign exchange rate hedging policy A 10% increase or decrease in the U.S. dollar, the pound to reduce the exposure of its net profit to foreign currency sterling, the Chinese yuan, or the Russian ruble against the fluctuations. 112 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, derivative financial instruments held by the Group broke down as follows: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Put forward contracts 25.7 (15.3) Seller at maturity foreign exchange swaps (0.1) (0.7) Call forward contracts (13.3) 5.1 Call option contracts 0.3 – Buyer at maturity foreign exchange swaps 0.0 0.2 Sales transactions 12.7 (10.7) Financial transactions 1.1 (0.9) Total net position 13.8 (11.6) 23.2.2 Transactional foreign exchange risk The Group’s policy and practices preclude carrying out The Group’s hedging policy is aimed a protecting Operating derivative financial instrument transactions for speculative gain. income from foreign exchange rate fluctuations vis-à-vis 23.2.3 Financing foreign exchange risk company forecasts. Accordingly, the effective portion of the Pooling of the financing surpluses and needs of foreign hedge is recorded in Operating income. subsidiaries outside the euro zone exposes certain entities The Group hedges its main foreign currencies, including the to financing foreign exchange risk arising from fluctuations in USD, GBP, CNY, RUB, CHF, PLN, AUD, and BRL, based on the value of financial liabilities and receivables denominated in its budget forecasts. currencies other than the functional currency of the lending or borrowing entity. To pool the risk, the intra-group financing is To reduce its exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, generally denominated in the subsidiary’s functional currency. Ipsen uses derivative instruments, primarily put or call forward contracts as well as currency swaps and non deliverable The Group hedges financial current accounts denominated in forward (NDF) contracts. the functional currencies of its subsidiaries through financial instruments that match current account balances. These These derivatives hedge primarily significant future cash include currency swaps and loans and borrowings contracted flows denominated in foreign currencies after the close of the from counterparty banks. reporting period, i.e. the balance sheet date. ■■23.3 Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet Derivative financial instruments reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 and 2016: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities Market value of currency instruments 34.5 20.7 6.6 18.2 Total 34.5 20.7 6.6 18.2 Note 24 Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet In accordance with the amendments to IFRS 13 – Fair Value assets and liabilities or parameters quoted in an active Measurement, financial instruments are presented in three market; categories based on a hierarchical method used to determine • Level 3: fair value calculated using valuation techniques their fair value: based wholly or partly on unobservable inputs such • Level 1: fair value calculated using quoted prices in an active as prices in an inactive market or a valuation based on market for identical assets and liabilities; multiples for unlisted securities. • Level 2: fair value calculated using valuation techniques based on observable market data such as prices of similar 2017 Ipsen Registration document 113 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 break down as follows: 31 December 2017 Breakdown by financial instrument class balance sheet value Level of fair value Fair value AvailableLoans, Liabilities (in millions of euros) Carrying through for-sale eceivables at Fair value Derivatives Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value income financial and other amortized statement assets liabilities cost Equity investments 43.3 43.3 – 43.3 – – – 29.3 6.6 7.3 Non-current financial 112.7 112.7 – – 107.8 – 4.9 – 4.9 107.8 assets Other non-current assets 4.8 4.8 – – 4.8 – – 4.8 – – Trade and accounts 437.2 437.2 – – 437.2 receivable Current financial assets 29.6 29.6 – – – – 29.6 – 29.6 – Other current assets 96.3 96.3 – – 96.3 – – Cash and cash equivalents 228.0 228.0 228.0 – – – – 228.0 – – ASSETS 951.8 951.8 228.0 43.3 646.0 – 34.5 262.0 41.1 115.2 Non-current financial 400.3 412.7 – – – 400.3 – 309.9 4.3 98.5 liabilities Other non-current liabilities 71.7 71.7 – – 71.7 – – Current financial liabilities 294.7 294.7 – – – 274.0 20.7 251.1 22.7 21.0 Trade payables 319.1 319.1 – – 319.1 – – Other current liabilities 290.2 290.2 – – 290.2 – – Bank overdrafts 18.7 18.7 – – – 18.7 – 18.7 – – LIABILITIES 1,394.7 1,407.1 – – 680.9 693.1 20.7 579.7 26.9 119.5 Financial instruments reported in the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 break down as follows: 31 December 2016 Breakdown by financial instrument class balance sheet value Level of fair value Fair value AvailableLoans, Liabilities (in millions of euros) Carrying through for-sale eceivables at Fair value Derivatives Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value income financial and other amortized statement assets liabilities cost Equity investments 21.2 21.2 – 21.2 – – – 11.9 7.3 2.0 Non-current financial 0.2 0.2 – – 0.2 – – – – 0.2 assets Other non-current assets 6.7 6.7 – – 6.7 – – 6.7 – Trade and accounts 363.5 363.5 – – 363.5 receivable Current financial assets 6.6 6.6 – – – – 6.6 – 6.6 – Other current assets 75.2 75.2 – – 75.2 – – Cash and cash equivalents 425.5 425.5 425.5 – – – – 425.5 – – ASSETS 898.9 898.9 425.5 21.2 445.5 – 6.6 444.0 13.9 2.2 Non-current financial 314.8 323.0 – – – 314.8 – 305.2 5.1 12.7 liabilities Other non-current liabilities 90.6 90.6 – – 90.6 – – Current financial liabilities 58.6 58.6 – – – 40.3 18.2 4.0 54.6 – Trade payables 241.5 241.5 – – 241.5 – – Other current liabilities 226.4 226.4 – – 226.4 – – Bank overdrafts 3.0 3.0 – – – 3.0 – 3.0 – – LIABILITIES 935.0 943.1 – – 558.6 358.1 18.2 312.2 59.7 12.7 114 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 25 Information on proportionally consolidated entities ■■25.1 Balance sheet items 25.1.1 Balance sheet at 31 December 2017 Non-current Non-current Current (in millions of euros) Current assets assets liabilities liabilities Companies Cara Partners 8.9 11.3 6.1 5.6 Garnay Inc. 2.4 0.2 (0.0) 0.0 Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. 2.2 0.3 0.1 0.1 Wallingstown Company 2.5 6.6 – 0.4 Wallingstown Company Ltd – – – – Total 16.0 18.4 6.1 6.1 25.1.2 Balance sheet at 31 December 2016 Non-current Non-current Current (in millions of euros) Current assets assets liabilities liabilities Companies Cara Partners 8.2 10.8 6.9 5.5 Garnay Inc. 2.1 0.1 – 0.0 Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. 1.9 1.1 0.1 0.2 Wallingstown Company 1.5 6.5 – 0.1 Wallingstown Company Ltd – – – – Total 13.7 18.5 6.9 5.8 ■■25.2 Income statement items 25.2.1 Income statement at 31 December 2017 Operating Share of net (in millions of euros) Sales expenses profit (loss) Companies Cara Partners 4.2 (2.1) 1.9 Garnay Inc. 0.3 (0.1) 0.1 Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. 0.2 (1.2) (0.6) Wallingstown Company 11.3 (9.7) 1.6 Wallingstown Company Ltd – – – Total 16.0 (13.1) 2.9 25.2.2 Income statement at 31 December 2016 Operating Share of net (in millions of euros) Sales expenses profit (loss) Companies Cara Partners 4.5 (1.6) 2.7 Garnay Inc. 0.1 (0.4) – Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. 0.2 1.0 0.9 Wallingstown Company 11.9 (8.9) 3.0 Wallingstown Company Ltd – – – Total 16.7 (9.9) 6.7 2017 Ipsen Registration document 115 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 26 Information on related parties ■■26.1 Director and executive compensation On 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors set the compensation terms and conditions for the corporate mandates of the In 2017, the total compensation paid to Board and Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Leadership Team members amounted to €15.4 million, of Officer, with a targeted bonus subject to performance which €2.0 million were paid to members of the Board of conditions. Directors and €13.4 million were paid to members of the Executive Leadership Team. The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer benefit from the Company’s current complementary retirement benefits. Pension and similar benefits for Board members and members of the Executive Leadership Team came to €12.7 million In addition, the Board is obligated – under certain conditions at 31 December 2017, with a total of €2.8 million paid to – to pay a departure package equal to 24 months of the members of the Board of Directors and €9.9 million paid to Chairman’s and the Chief E xecutive O f f icer’s f ixed Executive Leadership Team members. compensation under their corporate mandates. ■■26.2 Transactions with related parties 26.2.1 In the income statement at 31 December 2017 (in millions of euros) Income Operating expenses Proportionately consolidated companies (1) 6.7 (10.5) Associated companies (1) – – Companies over which the Group's executive officers exercise significant influence (2) – (0.1) Total 6.7 (10.6) (1) The Group’s relationship with Schwabe was formalized in a cooperation agreement signed on 27 July 2005 concerning: • the sourcing and supply of Ginkgo Biloba leaves; • the production of Ginkgo Biloba extract; • patents, know-how and the EGb 761® brand name; • research and development activities concerning the EGb 761® extract and drugs containing the EGb 761® extract. This contract recognizes that the Group and Schwabe have joint shareholdings in the following companies, which form the production chain for EGb 761® or other plant extracts: • 50% of the share capital in Saint Jean d’Illac S.C.A., Garnay Inc. and Linnea S.A.; • 50% of the partnership shares in Wallingstown Company Ltd; • 50% of the joint rights in Cara Partners. (2) Rent owed by a number of the Group’s companies to real estate holdings owned by certain Group Directors. 26.2.2 In the income statement at 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Income Operating expenses Proportionately consolidated companies (1) 6.1 (9.7) Associated companies (1) – – Companies over which the Group’s executive officers exercise significant influence (2) – (0.1) Total 6.1 (9.8) (1) See note 26.2.1. 26.2.3 On the balance sheet at 31 December 2017 (in millions of euros) Loans and Trade receivables Bank loans/ Debt Trade payables receivables Proportionately consolidated 11.2 3.5 0.7 4.7 companies (1) Total gross 11.2 3.5 0.7 4.7 Provisions for doubtful accounts – – – – receivables Total (net of write-offs) 11.2 3.5 0.7 4.7 (1) See note 26.2.1. 116 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 26.2.4 On the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Loans and Trade receivables Bank loans/ Debt Trade payables receivables Proportionately consolidated 8.7 3.0 – 4.3 companies (1) Total gross 8.7 3.0 – 4.3 Provisions for doubtful accounts – – – – receivables Total (net of write-offs) 8.7 3.0 – 4.3 (1) See note 26.2.1. 26.2.5 Off-balance sheet commitments influence. The total amount of future rent payments due in This item includes rent commitments to companies over respect of these rented premises amounted to €0.1 million at which executive officers of the Group exercise significant 31 December 2017. Note 27 Commitments and contingent liabilities ■■27.1 Operating commitments (commitments given) or received (commitments received), if all the conditions have been met. Within the scope of its business activity, in particular with strategic development operations that lead to the formation of 27.1.1. Operating commitments given partnerships, the Group regularly enters into agreements that As part of its key agreements listed in the following table, the may result in potential financial commitments, subject to the Group could make milestone payments related to the success completion of certain events. The amounts presented below of development and marketing phases: correspond to the maximum amounts that may be owed (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 Key agreements in oncology 670.9 Key agreements in endocrinology 150.7 Key agreements in neurology 107.1 Key agreements in Consumer Healthcare 18.7 Total 947.4 At 31 December 2017, commitments given by the Group and 27.1.2. Operating commitments received related to key agreements in oncology totaled €670.9 million, As part of its key agreements listed in the following table, versus commitments of 806.4 million at 31 December 2016. the Group could receive milestone payments related to the Milestone payments that could be made to Exelixis accounted success of development and marketing phases: for €634.7 million of that amount. (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 Key agreements in oncology 18.3 Key agreements in endocrinology 96.3 Key agreements in neurology 28.0 Key agreements in Consumer Healthcare 67.6 Key agreements in haematology 155.5 Total 365.7 ■■27.2 Financial commitments demand in favor of the third-party insurer for a total amount of €9.0 million. The first-demand guarantee is renewable The Ipsen Group has subscribed to a worldwide liability annually. insurance policy from a third-party insurer. The insurance company itself is underwritten by the captive reinsurance Further, the Group owns a 50% interest in a Swiss company, company Ipsen Ré, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, consolidated using the equity method, that subscribed to two up to the first €10.0 million for any potential claim made. credit lines totaling CHF10.0 million, half of which is backed by a general assignment of receivables. The credit lines were To cover that financial commitment and address any potential drawn on during the year on an ad-hoc and limited basis. default by Ipsen Ré, the Ipsen S.A. parent company on 2 May 2017 issued a letter of guarantee payable upon first 2017 Ipsen Registration document 117 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■27.3 General risks adequate based on currently available information. However, The Group may be involved in litigation, arbitration and other given the uncertainties inherent to such litigation and to legal proceedings. Such proceedings are generally related to contingent liability estimates, the Group cannot rule out the civil litigation concerning product liability, intellectual property possibility of future decisions that could have an unfavorable rights, competition law, trading practices, trade rules, labor material impact on its results. rights, tax issues, waste treatment and environmental issues, The Group set up a tax pool in France for all of Group and requests for guaranteeing the liabilities of assets sold. companies operating in France that meet legal requirements. Provisions related to litigation and arbitration are recognized in The system provides for various penalty provisions when compliance with the principles presented in note 3.26. entities leave the tax group, mentioned here for informational Most of the questions raised by these claims are complex and purposes. are subject to significant uncertainties. As a consequence, it is sometimes difficult to measure the probability that the ■■27.4 Liquidity risk and counterparty risk Group will have to recognize an expense and to measure the The Group’s policy is to diversify its business counterparties amount. Contingent liabilities relate to those cases where it is so as to avoid the risks associated with excessive not reasonably possible to provide a reliable estimate of the concentration and to make qualitative decisions in choosing financial impact that could arise from the settlement of the these counterparties. Further, the Group monitors the credit cases, or where the probability is low that the cases will result risks associated with the financial instruments in which it in payment by the Group. invests and limits its investments according to the credit rating of its business counterparties. These funds are managed In general, risks are measured according to a series of complex by the Group and are mainly invested in term deposits and assumptions about future events. These measurements are term accounts. The Group invests its surpluses in shortbased on estimates and assumptions deemed reasonable term money-market financial instruments negotiated with by management. The Group believes that the total amount of counterparties whose credit ratings are at least A-1 (Standard provisions recognized for the aforementioned general risks is & Poor’s) or P-1 (Moody’s). ■■27.5 Other commitments 27.5.1 Capital expenditure commitments Future Group expenditures resulting from investment commitments amounted to €12.8 million at 31 December 2017, and were broken down as follows: Maturity (in millions of euros) From one to five Total Less than one year Over five years years Industrial assets 11.1 0.1 – 11.2 Research and development assets 1.6 – – 1.6 Total 12.7 0.1 – 12.8 27.5.2 Commitments related to rental agreements The total amount of future rent payments due in respect of agreements for rented premises amounted to €167.4 million at 31 December 2017, compared with €153.2 million at 31 December 2016. Due dates are as follows: (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Less than one year 25.1 26.2 From one to five years 78.0 57.3 Over five years 64.3 69.7 Total 167.4 153.2 At 31 December 2017, rental lease-related commitments At 31 December 2017, Ipsen had no future rent payments stemmed primarily from the Group’s Boulogne headquarters, due in respect of sub-leased rental premises, compared to the buildings rented by the UK subsidiary Ipsen Biopharm €2.5 million at 31 December 2016. Ltd and the building rented by the U.S. subsidiary Ipsen Bioscience, Inc. 118 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27.5.3 Risk of acceleration of borrowings given to government authorities to participate in calls for The Group’s exposure to this risk is described in note 22.1. tender. At 31 December 2017, no commitment or contingent liability 27.5.5 Commitments arising from research and had been contracted that could significantly affect the development agreements assessment of the consolidated financial statements. Within the scope of its business activity, the Group regularly enters into research and development agreements with 27.5.4 Endorsements, pledges and guarantees given partners that may result in potential financial commitments. At Total guarantees given came to €21.9 million at 31 December 31 December 2017, those commitment totaled €87.2 million. 2017. These commitments correspond primarily to guarantees Note 28 Post closing events with no impact on the consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2017 No event occurring between the closing date of the consolidated financial statements themselves or make it consolidated financial statements and the date of their necessary to mention such an event in the notes to the approval by the Board of Directors, and not taken into consolidated financial statements. consideration, was likely to call into question Ipsen S.A.’s Note 29 Consolidation scope The table below shows the following information for all companies included in the consolidation scope: • Country of incorporation; • Place of registered office (State of incorporation for U.S. companies); • The percentage interest held in each company. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 119 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS List of companies included in the consolidation scope at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016. ■■29.1 Fully consolidated companies Registered 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Name and legal form Country office % interest % interest Ipsen S.A. (Parent Company) France Boulogne 100 100 BB et Cie S.A.S. France Boulogne 100 100 Beaufour-Ipsen Industrie S.A.S. France Dreux 100 100 Ipsen Innovation S.A.S. France Les Ulis 100 100 Ipsen Pharma S.A.S. France Boulogne 100 100 Suraypharm S.A.S. France Boulogne – 100 Sutrepa S.A.S. France Boulogne 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Biotech S.A.S. France Signes 100 100 Ipsen Pharma GmbH Germany Ettlingen 100 100 OctreoPharm Sciences GmbH Germany Berlin 100 100 Ipsen Pty Ltd Australia Glen Waverley 100 100 Ipsen N.V. Belgium Gand 100 100 Beaufour Ipsen Farmaceutica LTDA Brazil Sao Paulo 100 100 Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Canada Inc. Canada Mississauga 100 100 Beaufour-Ipsen (Tianjin) Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd China Tianjin 96 96 Ipsen (Beijing) pharmaceutical science and technology China Beijing 100 100 development Co. Ltd Ipsen (Tianjin) Pharmaceutical Trade Co. Ltd China Tianjin 96 96 Ipsen Korea Korea Seoul 100 100 Ipsen Pharma S.A. Spain Barcelona 100 100 Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals Inc. United States Massachusetts 100 100 Ipsen Bioscience Inc. United States New Jersey 100 100 Ipsen Epe Greece Athens 80 80 Elsegundo Ltd Ireland Cork 100 100 Ipsen Manufacturing Ireland Ltd Ireland Dublin 100 100 Ipsen Pharmaceuticals Ltd Ireland Dublin 100 100 Ipsen S.p.A. Italy Milan 100 100 Ipsen – Akkadeas Pharma S.r.l Italy Milan 49 – Ipsen Ré S.A. Luxembourg Luxembourg 100 100 Ipsen Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico Mexico City 100 100 Ipsen Farmaceutica B.V. Netherlands Hoofddorp 100 100 Ipsen Poland LLC Poland Warsaw 100 100 Ipsen Portugal – Produtos Farmaceuticos S.A. Portugal Lisbon 100 100 Ipsen Ltd United Kingdom London 100 100 Ipsen BioInnovation Ltd United Kingdom Oxford 100 100 Ipsen Biopharm Ltd United Kingdom Wrexham 100 100 Ipsen Developments Ltd United Kingdom Berkshire 100 100 Sterix Ltd United Kingdom London 100 100 Ipsen OOO Russia Moscow 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Singapore PTE. Ltd Sweden Kista 100 100 Institut Produits Synthèse (Ipsen) AB Singapore Singapore 100 100 Ipsen Pharma Tunisie S.A.R.L. Tunisia Tunis 100 100 Ipsen Ukraine services LLC Ukraine Kiev 100 100 120 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■29.2 Proportionally consolidated companies 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Name and legal form Country Registered office % interest % interest Garnay Inc. United States South Carolina 50 50 Saint-Jean d’Illac S.C.A. France Boulogne 50 50 Cara Partners Ireland Cork 50 50 Perechin Unlimited Company Ireland Cork 50 50 Portpirie Unlimited Company Ireland Cork 50 50 Wallingstown Company Ireland Cork 50 50 Wallingstown Company Ltd Ireland Cork 50 50 ■■29.3 Companies consolidated using the equity method 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Name and legal form Country Registered office % interest % interest Linnea SA Switzerland Riazzino 50 50 Note 30 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors The fees paid by the Group to the Statutory Auditors and members of their networks are presented in the following table: Deloitte & Associés KPMG Audit Amounts, Amounts, (in thousands of euros) % % net of VAT net of VAT 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Certification and limited interim review of separate and consolidated financial statements Issuer 244 181 34% 26% 213 152 27% 20% Fully consolidated subsidiaries 479 413 66% 60% 517 467 65% 62% Sub-total 723 594 100% 86% 730 619 92% 83% Services other than the certification of the financial statements (1) Issuer – 98 – 14% 33 75 4% 10% Fully consolidated subsidiaries – – – – 29 56 4% 7% Sub-total – 98 – 14% 62 131 8% 17% Total 723 692 100% 100% 792 750 100% 100% (1) The nature of “Services other than the certification of financial statements” provided by the Statutory Auditors to the consolidating entity and its controlled subsidiaries included the certification of financial, environmental and corporate social responsibility data, and independent third party missions. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 121 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. The Statutory Auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether modified or not. This information is presented below the audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances, transactions, or disclosures. This report also includes information relating to the specific verification of information given in the Group’s management report. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen S.A. Registered office: 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Year ended 31 December 2017 At the Annual General Meeting of Ipsen S.A., Opinion In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we have conducted an audit of the consolidated financial statements of Ipsen S.A. pertaining to the year ended 31 December 2017, as attached to the present report. We certify that, with regard to the IFRS accounting standards as adopted in the European Union, the consolidated financial statements present a true and fair view of the results of the transactions for the year then ended, of the financial position and of the assets and liabilities, at the end of the year, of the Group made up of the persons and entities included in the consolidation. The above-mentioned opinion is consistent with the content of our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for the opinion Audit standards We have performed our audit according to the professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the evidence we have collected is sufficient and appropriate to form a basis for our audit opinion. The responsibilities we bear by virtue of these standards are indicated in the section “Responsibilities of the statutory auditors with regard to the audit of the consolidated financial statements” of the present report. Independence We conducted our audit in accordance with the independence rules applicable to us, during the period from 1 January 2017 to the issuance date of our report, and in particular we have not provided any services prohibited by Article 5, Paragraph 1, of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or by the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. Furthermore, the services other than the certification of the financial statements that we have provided during the financial year to our company and to the entities it controls and that are not mentioned in the Management Report or in the annexes to the consolidated financial statements are the following: The services other than the certification of the financial statements provided by Deloitte & Associés correspond to its appointment as an independent third-party organisation in relation to the CSR disclosures in the Management Report. Those services provided by KPMG S.A. are constituted of procedures carried out in relation to the issuance of attestations provided for by the reference texts of the profession of statutory auditor. Justification of the assessment – Key points of the audit In application of the provisions of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) regarding the justification of our assessments, we are bringing to your attention the key points of the audit pertaining to the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, were the most important for the audit of the consolidated financial statements for this year, as well as to the responses we have provided with regard to these risks. The assessments thus made are part of the context of the audit of the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole and of the forming of our opinion expressed hereinabove. We do not express opinions on the components of these consolidated financial statements taken individually. Accounting of the acquisition of oncology assets from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals Notes 1.1, 3.9, 3.17 and 12.1.1. to the consolidated financial statements Identified risk As part of its development, in April 2017 the Group acquired assets from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, in particular in oncology in the United States, in the amount of 546.3 million euros. This transaction was analysed, with regard to the revised IFRS 3 standard, as a business combination, and led the group in particular to recognise intangible assets in the amount of 466.6 million euros, for 122 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS intellectual property and rights to acquired royalties, a financial asset of 122.6 million euros and a financial liability of 118.9 million euros for the additional payments that may take place based on the achievement of key development and sales steps, in addition to goodwill in the amount of 45.7 million euros. The Group mandated an independent expert to assist it in the process of identifying and assessing the main assets and liabilities. The accounting of the acquisition of oncology assets from Merrimack Pharmaceuticals was considered to be a key point of the audit due to the judgement exercised by Management, in particular to identify the assets and liabilities acquired and to determine their fair value. Audit procedures implemented with regard to the identified risk We analysed the compliance of the methodology applied by the Group based on a report by an independent expert to identify the acquired assets and liabilities and determine their fair value according to the applicable accounting standards. With the assistance of our assessment specialists, we also appraised: • through interviews with Management the consistency of the cash flow forecasts with the forecast data presented to the Board of Directors of the Company; • the reasonableness of the assumptions and the conditions retained for the assessment of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities and more particularly the intangible assets, the financial assets and the financial liabilities and in particular the exchange rates, growth rates and discount rates retained. Last, we assessed the appropriateness of the information disclosed in the notes in the annexes 1.1, 3.9, 3.17 and 12.1.1. Assessment of the recoverable amount of licences Notes 3.14, 3.17, 3.32 and 13 to the consolidated financial statement Identified risk On 31 December 2017, the net value of the Group licences, presented in other intangible assets, stands at 832.4 million euros versus a total balance sheet of 3,072 million euros. These licences concern acquired rights for pharmaceutical specialities that may be: • retailed and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful life. Useful life is determined based on the cash flow forecasts that take into consideration, among other factors, the protection period of the underlying patents; • in an advanced phase of development and are therefore not yet being retailed, and thus not yet depreciated. As indicated in note 3.17 of the annexes to the consolidated financial statements, licences with definite and indefinite useful life, primarily accounting for intellectual property rights and licences to use intellectual property rights, undergo impairment testing annually or when there is an indicator of impairment. Impairment tests involve comparing the net carrying amount of the asset, of the group of assets or the cash-generating unit (CGU) to which the licence belongs, to its recoverable amount, which is the highest value between its fair value minus disposal costs and its value in use. Value in use is determined based on the estimated future cash flows expected from the use of the asset (CGU to which the asset belongs). The conditions for implementing impairment tests are described in note 3.17 to the consolidated financial statements. We considered that the assessment of the recoverable amount of these licences is a key point of the audit due to the significance of these licences in the Group’s financial statements and that the method of determining their recoverable amount is based to a very large extent to Management’s judgement and the use of estimates in relation to the forecasts of discounted future cash flows in order to carry out the tests. Audit procedures implemented with regard to the identified risk We analysed the conditions for the implementation of the impairment tests on the acquired licenses. In particular, the licences acquired during the development phase have received special attention on our part due to the difficulty in estimating the evolution of research and the expected outlook for growth. With our evaluation specialists we assessed the reasonableness of the main estimates, in particular the cash flow forecasts, longterm growth rates and the discount rates retained. We also analysed the consistency of the evolution of the research programmes, of the cash flow forecasts with the forecast data presented to the Group’s Board of Directors and we have reviewed the sensitivity analyses of the impairment tests. Last, we also assessed the appropriateness of the information disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.14, 3.17, 3.32 and 13. Evaluation of deferred tax assets recognised in the United States Notes 3.34, 10.2 and 10.3 to the consolidated financial statements Risk identified On 31 December 2017, deferred tax assets amounted to 142 million euros. The Company recorded deferred tax assets related to tax loss carryforwards for a net total of 84.1 million euros on 31 December 2017 including a 72.9 million tax loss carryforward claimable in the United States. A deferred tax asset is only recognised when it is likely that the Group will have future taxable profits against which it may be utilised. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 123 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group’s ability to recover its deferred tax assets related to tax loss carryforwards is appraised by Management at the closing of each financial year, taking into consideration the forecasts of future taxable income and in particular the likelihood of using the tax loss carryforwards in the future in the United States for which the recovery horizon is close. These projections are based on assumptions that are made at Management’s judgement and approved by the Board of Directors. We have considered the recoverability of the deferred tax assets related to tax loss carryforwards in the United States to be a key point in our audit due to the importance of Management’s judgement in the recording of these assets and the significant size of the amounts involved. Audit procedures implemented with regard to the identified risk Our audit approach consisted of assessing the likelihood that the Group would be able to make future use of its tax-loss carryforwards generated in the United States, in particular with regard to the ability of the subsidiary concerned to generate future taxable profits enabling the use of the existing tax-loss carryforwards. As such we assessed the reasonableness of the main data and assumptions (growth in income, sustainability of operations, horizon of future profits) used as a basis for the tax earnings forecasts underlying the recording and recoverability of the deferred tax assets related to tax-loss carryforwards in the United States. With the assistance of our tax experts, we assessed the reliability of the process for establishing the business plan based upon which the Group develops its future tax earnings forecasts in the United States by: • examining the procedure for developing and improving the last business plan that was used as a basis for the estimates; • comparing the earnings projections for the previous fiscal years with the real earnings of the fiscal years concerned; • analysing the earnings of the American subsidiary over the past two years with regard to the actions implemented by Management; • verifying the consistency of the assumptions retained for the assessment of the deferred taxes with those retained for the impairment tests on non-current assets carried out for the activities of the American subsidiary; • carrying out a critical examination of the assumptions used by Management to establish the earnings projections beyond the period of the business plan, in particular taking a look at their consistency with regard to the economic data of the sector in which the American subsidiary operates and the information collected during our interviews with the members of Management. We also verified the appropriateness of the information presented in the notes 3.34, 10.2 and 10.3 to the consolidated financial statements. Verification of the information pertaining to the Group disclosed in the Management report In accordance with professional standards applicable in France, we also carried out the specific verification provided for by the law on information pertaining to the Group, disclosed in the Board of Directors’ Management report. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. Information resulting from other legal and regulatory obligations Appointment of the statutory auditors We were appointed statutory auditors for Ipsen S.A. by the Annual General Meeting held on 18 June 2005 for KPMG S.A. and on 17 December 1998 for Cogerco Flipo which was acquired by Deloitte & Associés in 2001. As of 31 December 2017, KPMG S.A. was in the 13th consecutive year of its assignment and Deloitte & Associés was in its 20th year, including 13 years for both firms since the shares of the company have been admitted to trading on a regulated market. Responsibilities of Management and of the persons constituting the corporate governance related to the consolidated financial statements Management is required to produce consolidated financial statements providing a true and fair view, in accordance with the IFRS accounting standards as adopted in the European Union, in addition to setting up the internal controls it deems necessary in order to produce consolidated financial statements free of material misstatements, whether these are due to fraud or result from errors. When producing the consolidated financial statements, Management is required to assess the Company’s ability to continue its operations, to present in its financial statements, when necessary, the required disclosures pertaining to business continuity and to apply the going concern accounting principle, unless there are plans to liquidate the Company or put an end to its activity. The Audit Committee is required to monitor the process of compiling financial information and to monitor the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, in addition to internal audits when applicable, as regards the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The consolidated financial statements are approved by the Board of Directors. Responsibilities of the statutory auditors with regard to the audit of the consolidated financial statements Objective and audit approach We are required to produce a report on the consolidated financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole are free of material misstatement. Reasonable assurance corresponds to a high level of assurance, without however guaranteeing that an audit performed in accordance with professional standards enables systematic detection of any material misstatements. 124 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Misstatements may be due to fraud or result from errors and are considered to be material when it can reasonably be expected that they may, taken individually or in combination, influence the economic decisions that the financial statement users make based on them. As outlined in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), our assignment to certify the financial statements does not entail guaranteeing the viability or the quality of the management of your Company. In the framework of an audit performed in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises his professional judgement throughout this audit. Furthermore: • he identifies and assesses the risks that the consolidated financial statements are materially misstated, whether these misstatements are due to fraud or result from errors, defines and implements audit procedures with regard to these risks, and gathers the elements that he deems to be a sufficient and appropriate basis for forming his opinion. The risk of non-detection of a material misstatement arising from fraud is higher than that of a material misstatement resulting from an error, because fraud may imply collusion, falsification, voluntary omissions, false statements or bypassing of internal control; • he familiarises himself with the relevant internal control for the audit in order to define the audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, and not with the aim of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control; • he assesses the appropriateness of the accounting methods retained and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by Management, in addition to the disclosures provided in the consolidated financial statements; • he assesses the appropriateness of Management’s application of the continuity assumption accounting principle and, depending on the elements collected, the probable existence of material uncertainty related to events or circumstances likely to cast significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the elements collected up until the date of his report, with a reminder however that subsequent circumstances or events could cast significant doubt about the continuity of operations. If he concludes that there is material uncertainty, he draws the report readers’ attention to the information disclosed in the consolidated financial statements regarding this uncertainty or, if this information is not disclosed or is not relevant, he issues his certification with reservations or refuses to certify; • he assesses the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and assesses whether the consolidated financial statements reflect the underlying transactions and events so as to provide a true and fair view; • concerning the financial information of the persons or entities included within the consolidation scope, he collects elements he deems to be sufficient and appropriate to express an opinion regarding the consolidated financial statements. He is responsible for the direction, supervision and completion of the audit of the consolidated financial statements in addition to the opinion expressed regarding these financial statements. Audit Committee Report We are submitting a report to the Audit Committee presenting in particular the extent of the audit and the work programme implemented, as well as the resulting conclusions of our work. We also draw their attention, when applicable, to the material weaknesses of internal control that we have identified as regards the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The disclosures in the report to the Audit Committee include the risks of material misstatement that we deem to be the most important for the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the year ended and that thus constitute one of the key points of the audit that we are required to describe in the present report. We are also providing to the Audit Committee the statement pursuant to Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537-2014 confirming our independence, within the meaning of the rules applicable in France as outlined in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. When applicable, we discuss with the audit committee the risks to our independence and the safeguard measures applied. The Statutory Auditors Paris La Défense, 14 February 2018 Neuilly-sur-Seine, 14 February 2018 KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés Department of KPMG S.A. Catherine Porta Cédric Adens Jean Marie Le Guiner Partner Partner Partner 2017 Ipsen Registration document 125 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 3.3.1 Summary document Balance sheet at 31 December 2017 Assets 31 December 2017 Depreciation, 31 December 2016 Gross amortization & Net (in millions of euros) write-downs Intangible assets Concessions, patents and similar rights 0.2 0.2 0.2 Other intangible assets Financial investments Equity investments 1,167.5 1,167.5 1,167.5 Loans 483.7 483.7 0.0 Other financial assets 9.5 0.1 9.4 9.5 Non-current assets 1,660.9 0.1 1,660.9 1,177.2 Receivables Advances and down-payments to suppliers 0.0 0.0 0.5 Trade and accounts receivables 15.0 15.0 14.1 Other receivables 45.0 45.0 216.8 Other Short-term investments 65.0 1.4 63.6 54.3 Cash and cash equivalents 65.4 65.4 110.1 Prepayments 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current assets 190.4 1.4 189.1 395.8 Debt issuance costs to be amortized 3.0 3.0 3.0 Bond redemption premium 1.5 1.5 1.8 Unrealized losses on foreign exchange 14.3 14.3 0.0 Total assets 1,870.2 1.4 1,868.8 1,577.7 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (in millions of euros) Share capital 83.7 83.6 Paid-in capital 739.1 732.9 Legal reserve 44.7 44.7 Other reserves 94.4 94.4 Retained earnings 158.9 253.4 Net profit (loss) for the period (17.4) (24.3) Regulated provisions 0.0 0.0 Equity 1,103.5 1,184.7 Provisions for contingencies 20.5 13.7 Provisions for losses 0.7 7.4 Provisions for contingencies and losses 21.3 21.1 Other bonds 303.1 303.1 Bank borrowings 42.5 0.0 Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 201.6 30.3 Trade and accounts payable 5.1 1.3 Taxes payable and payroll and payroll on-cost amounts payable 12.1 10.6 Amounts due to non-current asset suppliers 0.7 1.6 Other liabilities 173.9 25.1 Cash instruments 0.4 0.0 Deferred income 0.0 0.0 Debts 739.4 371.9 Unrealized gains on foreign exchange 4.7 0.0 Total equity & liabilities 1,868.8 1,577.7 126 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statement at 31 December 2017 (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Sales of merchandise – – Production sold services 20.1 18.2 Net sales 20.1 18.2 Reversal of depreciation, amortization & provisions, expense transfers 17.6 22.5 Other revenues – – Operating income 37.6 40.8 Other purchases and external charges (9.7) (5.2) Taxes and duties (1.1) (2.6) Wages and salaries (20.7) (22.9) Payroll on-costs (7.6) (8.4) Depreciation expense on fixed assets (0.6) (0.4) Provision expense on fixed assets – – Provision expense for contingencies and losses (13.4) (13.1) Miscellaneous operating expenses (1.0) (0.9) Operating expenses (54.1) (53.7) Operating profit (loss) (16.5) (12.9) Financial income from participating interests 0.5 1.6 Income from other non-current receivables 7.0 – Other interest and similar income 1.7 0.1 Reversal of provisions and transfer of extraordinary expense – 47.2 Foreign exchange gains 18.0 0.0 Financial income 27.1 48.8 Depreciation, amortization and provision charges (1.7) (0.1) Interest and other financial expenses (10.7) (3.9) Foreign exchange losses (21.7) (0.0) Financial expense (34.1) (4.1) Net financial income (expense) (6.9) 44.7 Pre-tax profit (loss) on ordinary activities (23.4) 31.8 Extraordinary income from operations – – Extraordinary income from capital transactions 0.5 85.4 Reversal of provisions and transfer of extraordinary expense – 0.0 Extraordinary income 0.5 85.4 Extraordinary expense from operations – – Extraordinary expense from capital transactions (7.1) (142.5) Depreciation, amortization and provision charges – – Extraordinary expenses) (7.1) (142.5) Net extraordinary income (expense) (6.6) (57.1) Employee profit-sharing – – Income tax income (expense) 12.6 1.0 Net profit (loss) for the year (17.4) (24.3) 2017 Ipsen Registration document 127 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.2 Notes to the annual financial statements Notes period. Had the Company been taxed separately, its net loss These are the notes to the balance sheet and the income for tax purposes would have totaled €23.3 million. statement for the year ended 31 December 2017. The total The reporting period covers the 12-month period from balance sheet amount comes to €1,868.8 million, while the 1 January to 31 December 2017. income statement shows a net loss of €17.4 million for the The notes and tables presented below form an integral part of the annual financial statements. Note 1 Significant events during the year ■■1.1 Acquisition of Oncology Assets from potential additional indications for Onivyde® win approval in Merrimack Pharmaceuticals the U.S. The transaction was fully financed by Ipsen’s existing cash and lines of credit. On 3 April 2017, Ipsen completed the acquisition of Merrimack Pharmaceuticals’ global oncology assets, including its key ■■1.2 Share repurchasing program marketed product Onivyde® for the treatment of patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. In accordance On 8 June 2017, Ipsen announced that it had granted with the terms of the agreement announced on 8 January Natixis a mandate to purchase 160,000, Ipsen S.A. shares, 2017, Ipsen gained the exclusive commercialization rights representing 0.2% of the Company’s share capital at that date. for the current and potential future Onivyde ® indications in The purchase was to take place over a period of two months. the U.S., as well as the current licensing agreements with The purchased shares were allocated primarily to cover share Shire for commercialization rights ex-U.S. and PharmaEngine awards as part of the Company’s bonus share plans. The for Taiwan. The transaction also included Merrimack’s buyback program was in line with the authorizations granted commercial and manufacturing infrastructure, and generic by the Combined Shareholder’s Meeting of 7 June 2017. doxorubicin HCl liposome injection. The program ended on 08 August 2017. Under the terms of the agreement, Ipsen paid $580 million to Under the program, the Company repurchased 160,000 shares Merrimack upfront and could pay up to $450 million more if for a total €18.1 million in the year ended 31 December 2017. Note 2 Accounting principles and valuation methods ■■2.1 S  tandards, principles and valuation to the useful life estimated by the Company. Amortization methods periods are determined on a case-by-case basis depending on the type of asset concerned. 2.1.1 Accounting principles The annual financial statements have been prepared in Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortized, accordance with legal and regulatory provisions applicable but are systematically tested annually for impairment. in France, as set out in the French Chart of Accounts (ANC As a general rule, brands and trademarks are not amortized. Regulation n°2014-03 approved by the Order of 8 September 2014), in observance of the prudence principle and the 2.1.2.2 Financial investments independence of financial years and the presumption of a • Equity investments going concern. Equity investments whose long-term ownership is deemed The Company did not carry out a revaluation of its balance useful to Ipsen’s activity, notably because it allows for the sheet. exercise of influence or control over the issuing company, are recognized at acquisition cost. When the value at the closing 2.1.2 Valuation methods date is below the carrying value, a provision for impairment is 2.1.2.1 Intangible assets recorded for the difference. The value at the closing date is Intangible assets are accounted for at acquisition cost or measured according to such criteria as the value of the share contribution value, less cumulative amortization and any held in the net assets or the earnings prospects of the relevant impairment losses. company. These criteria are weighted by the effects of owning these shares in terms of strategy or synergies, in respect of The cost of intangible assets with a defined useful life, less other investments held. any residual value, is amortized over a period corresponding 128 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Acquisition-related expenses are included in the acquisition 2.1.2.5 Provisions for contingencies and losses cost of the shares. These expenses are spread over five years Provisions for contingencies and losses are recognized at the for tax purposes via a regulated provision in the accounts. period close to cover all Company liabilities to third parties • Other financial assets likely or certain to give rise to an outflow of resources to said third-parties without any counterpart. These provisions are –– Liquidit y agreement. Under the program to buy estimated on the basis of the most likely assumptions at the back the Company’s own shares, Ipsen funds a closing date. liquidity account as part of a liquidity agreement. The contributions made are not available and, as a 2.1.2.6 Debts result, are posted to “Other financial assets.” Debts are measured at nominal value. The capital gains and losses from each transaction are 2.1.2.7 Forward financial instruments and hedging recognized on the income statement, without offset. transactions At the closing date, short-term investment amounts are measured at their net asset liquidation value. Capital As part of its overall strategy for managing foreign exchange gains realized between the closing date value and the risks, the Company uses forward financial instruments, starting value are not recognized. Unrealized capital such as for ward contracts and swaps as par t of its losses are written down. hedging transactions. These forward financial instruments are contracted only with first-class financial institutions. –– Share repurchase program aimed at cancelling the They are documented as hedging instruments to hedge shares. Shares repurchased for purposes of cancellation exposure to fluctuations in cash flows denominated in are recorded at acquisition cost in “Other financial assets”. foreign currencies and associated with a recognized asset or These shares are not subject to an assessment of their liability, or a sufficiently probable future transaction. Forward net asset liquidation value at the close of the period. financial instruments documented as hedges are accounted 2.1.2.3 Receivables for in accordance with regulation n° 2015-05 of 2 July 2015 established the ANC, France’s accounting standards Receivables are measured at nominal value. authority, and relative to forward financial instruments and Receivables are assessed on a case-by-case basis and may hedging transactions. be written down depending on the risks identified. Unrealized or realized gains and losses on a foreign exchange 2.1.2.4 Short-term investments hedging instrument are symmetrically recognized in the In accordance with opinion 2008-17 of France’s National income statement with the hedged item. If the hedge’s gains Accounting Board (Conseil National de Comptabilité CNC), or losses are realized before the hedged item is recognized in Company shares allotted to bonus share plans and stock the income statement, then the gains and losses are recorded option plans and purchased outside the framework of a in suspense accounts on the balance sheet. Changes in liquidity agreement are recorded at acquisition cost, i.e. the value of hedging instruments are not recognized in the the purchase price plus transaction fees, in “Short-term balance sheet, unless the recognition in full or in part of the investments”. Other Company shares held as part of a liquidity changes can be symmetrically recognized with the hedged agreement are fixed assets classified as other investment instrument. However, in the event the Company does not securities. expect to complete the planned transaction, the hedge will be reclassified as an isolated open position (IOP) and recognized At the closing date, provisions were recorded as follows: as such. • For Company shares purchased with a view to allocating Foreign exchange gains and losses are posted in the them to bonus share plans, a provision was recorded on the “Other operating income” or “Other operating expenses” liability side of the balance sheet to account for employee line item under operating income (expenses), or in the share allocation obligations based on services rendered. “Foreign exchange gains” or “Foreign exchange losses” line Because the allotment of Ipsen’s bonus share plans are item under financial income (expense), depending on the subject to length of service conditions at the Company, nature of the transaction. In line with the hedge accounting the provision is spread over the vesting period, as required symmetry principle, foreign exchange hedging transactions under the CNC opinion; are recognized in the same income statement line item as the hedged item. • Otherwise, for Company shares, when the value at the closing date, i.e. the average monthly share price during the The Company opted to stagger premiums and discounts last month of the financial year, is below carrying value, an on foreign exchange hedges over the hedging period in the impairment provision is recorded for the difference. “Other financial income” / “Other financial expenses” line item on the income statement. The income and expenses generated from buying and selling the Company’s own shares are recognized as extraordinary 2.1.2.8 Foreign exchange differences income or expenses. To determine the net income or expense Foreign-currency denominated income and expense items when selling repurchased shares, the oldest shares are were recorded in euros based on the exchange rate in considered to have been sold first in accordance with the effect at the transaction date. Debts, receivables, and cash FIFO, first-in, first-out method. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 129 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS denominated in foreign currencies were translated into euros provisions of the French Commercial Code, net assets and at the closing exchange rate at year-end. liabilities arising from these obligations are not recognized, as the Company does not apply the preferential method. The resulting translation differences for debts and receivables denominated in foreign currencies were posted to “Foreign Further, amounts intended to reward employees for their exchange differences” on the balance sheet. The Company length of service are paid out as bonuses by the Company. follows “overall foreign exchange position” principles. For 2.1.2.10 Tax consolidation regime transactions whose due dates are sufficiently close, any foreign exchange gains or losses are considered as part of To reflect the tax consolidation that unites the Company with an overall foreign exchange position and the amount of the its subsidiaries, Ipsen, in accordance with the other member provision for foreign exchange losses is limited to the excess companies of its tax consolidation group, has adopted the of losses over gains. Hedging transactions and the items following rules, in keeping with the advice of French tax hedged are excluded from the position. authorities. 2.1.2.9 Retirement benefit obligations Each subsidiary within the consolidation scope recognizes its income tax as if it were taxed separately, i.e. particularly after Company employees may be entitled to compensation when carrying forward tax loses incurred earlier by the subsidiary they retire or to a pension following their retirement. The and transferred to the Parent Company. Company’s liabilities arising from such post-employment benefits are calculated by using an actuary model and Ipsen calculates the income tax due by the consolidated assumptions applicable in France. group and expenses the charge. Further, the Company recognizes the tax savings arising from the tax consolidation The corresponding liabilities, based on the rights vested to as income. the beneficiaries, are covered by contributions to independent organizations (insurance companies), which are responsible Ipsen does not return the tax savings contributed by lossfor paying the pensions and other benefits. In accordance with generating subsidiaries after they return to profitability. Note 3 Notes to the balance sheet ■■3.1 Non-current assets 3.1.1 Intangible assets • Change in gross amounts (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 Increases Decreases 31 December 2017 Brands and trademarks 0.2 – – 0.2 Total 0.2 – – 0.2 No amortization or provisions were recognized for these intangible assets, which had a net carrying value of €0.2 million at 31 December 2017. 3.1.2 Financial investments • Change in gross amounts (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 Increases Decreases 31 December 2017 Equity investments shares Note 3.1.3 1,167.5 0.0 0.0 1,167.5 Loans 0.0 483.7 0.0 483.7 FPCI Private equity professional fund 5.0 – – 5.0 Company shares / liquidity agreement 0.5 34.0 (32.5) 2.0 Liquidity agreement 4.0 32.4 (34.0) 2.5 Total other financial assets Note 3.1.4 9.5 550.2 (66.4) 493.2 Total financial assets 1,177.0 550.2 (66.4) 1,660.7 • Change in write-downs (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 Increases Decreases 31 December 2017 Equity investments shares – – – – Company shares – – – – Liquidity agreement – 0.1 – 0.1 Other financial assets – – – – Total – 0.1 – 0.1 130 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.1.3 Equity investments commitment includes 10 tranches amounting to 86% of the Information about subsidiaries and affiliates is disclosed in the shares, or €4.3 million paid from 2009 to 2017, and deferred subsidiaries and affiliates table (note 6). tranches totaling €0.7 million that will be gradually called by the fund management company. At 31 December 2017, the 3.1.4 Other financial assets Company held 2.89% of the fund. At 31 December 2017, this item broke down as follows: • Company shares held as part of a liquidity agreement • €483.7 million in loans, including accrued interest, granted entrusted — by a decision taken 22 March 2005 — to by the Company to various subsidiaries as part of the Natexis Bleichroder for a period of one year and renewable acquisition of Merrimack Pharmaceuticals’ global oncology by tacit agreement. The liquidity agreement complies with assets (note 1.1). the AMAFI Ethics Charter, approved by the French financial markets authority. • Shares in the InnoBio FPCI private equity professional fund: In 2009, the Company signed a subscription form for five At 31 December 2017, the Company held 19,647 shares with thousand shares at an initial investment value of €1,000 a gross value of €2.0 million and provided €2.4 million in cash each, with the InnoBio FPCI for a total of €5 million. The under the liquidity agreement. ■■3.2 Receivables by maturity Gross Gross of which (in millions of euros) amount amount Less than More than 2016 2017 one year one year Other financial assets 4.5 4.5 4.5 – Other trade receivables 14.1 15.0 15.0 – Personnel and related accounts – – – – Social security and other welfare agencies – – – – State and other public authorities – Income tax 53.1 42.2 (a) 42.2 – Value added tax 0.1 1.0 1.0 – Other 0.1 0.1 0.1 – Group and associated companies 162.8 1.4 (b) 1.4 – Miscellaneous receivables 1.2 0.2 0.2 – Prepayments 0.0 0.0 0.0 – TOTAL RECEIVABLES 236.0 64.6 64.6 – (a) The decline in the amount of income tax receivables versus 31 December 2016 stemmed mainly from the repayment of research tax credits received in 2017. (b) The decrease stems primarily from the current account with Ipsen Pharma SAS, the Group’s centralizing cash pooling company, following the acquisition of Merrimack Pharmaceuticals’ global oncology assets (note 1.1). ■■3.3 Short-term investments The Company holds short-term investments comprised of 1,139,952 of its own shares valued at €65 million. • Change in short-term investments (in millions of euros) 31 December 2016 Increases Decreases 31 December 2017 Gross value 54.3 18.1 (a) (7.4) (b) 65.0 Write-downs – (1.4) – (1.4) Net value 54.3 16.8 (7.4) 63.6 (a) See note 1.2. (b) The decrease in short-term investments resulted from the allotment of 140,856 bonus shares to beneficiaries of the 29 September 2008 and 30 March 2009 stock option plans, as well as the 28 March 2013 and 1 April 2015 bonus share plans. ■■3.4 Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 2017, debt issuance costs came to €3 million and broke down as follows: At 31 December 2017, the “Cash and cash equivalents” item consisted primarily of term deposits. • €1 million arising from the bonds issued by the Company on 16 June 2016 (see note 3.9.2). The €1.3 million in related ■■3.5 Debt issuance costs to be amortized issuance costs were spread over the duration of the loan, i.e. Debt issuance costs are amortized over the duration of seven years. An amount totaling €0.2 million was expensed the respective bonds and loans from which they arose. At for the 2017 financial year. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 131 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • €0.4 million arising from the bilateral loan (see note 3.9.2). of the redemption premium remaining on the asset side of the The €0.5 million in related issuance costs were spread over balance sheet totaled €1.5 million. the duration of the bilateral loan, i.e. 6.5 years. An amount totaling €0.1 million was expensed for the 2017 financial year. ■■3.7 Unrealized losses on foreign exchange • €1.7 million arising from the syndicated loan (see note 3.9.2). At 31 December 2017, unrealized losses on foreign Issuance costs totaling €2.7 million were spread over the exchange totaled €14.3 million and corresponded to marking duration of the loan, for which the initial maturity date of intercompany loans denominated in foreign currencies to the 17 October 2019 was extended to 17 October 2022. An exchange rate at the closing date (see note 3.1.4). amount totaling €0.3 million was expensed for the 2017 financial year. ■■3.8 Equity • Share capital ■■3.6 Bond redemption premium –– At 31 December 2017, Ipsen’s share capital was comprised In line with the bonds issued by the Company on 16 June of 83,732,057 ordinary shares each with a nominal value 2016, the Company recognized a redemption premium of €1, including 47,852,938 shares with double voting spread over the duration of the bonds, i.e. seven years. rights, compared with 83,557,864 ordinary shares each At 31 December 2016, the balance of the redemption premium with a nominal value of €1, including 47,829,011 shares remaining on the asset side of the balance sheet came to €1.8 with double voting rights at 31 December 2016. million. The Company expensed amortization of €0.3 million –– The changes during the 2017 financial year included in the 2017 financial year. At 31 December 2017, the balance 174,193 new shares issued as share warrants were exercised. • Change in share capital Net profit (in millions of Share Share Issue Legal Other Retained Regulated (loss) for Total equity euros) capital premium premium reserve reserves earnings provisions the period Balance at 31 December 2016, 83.6 29.8 703.1 44.7 94.4 253.4 (24.3) – 1 184.7 before allocation of net profit Dividends – – – – – 0.8 (a) (71.0) – (70.2) Net profit (loss) for – – – – – – (17.4) – (17.4) the period Capital increase – – – – – – – – 0.0 Capital decrease – – – – – – – – 0.0 by Ipsen Capital increase from exercised 0.2 – 6.2 – – – – – 6.3 warrants Other movements – – – – – (95.3) 95.3 – 0.0 Balance at 31 December 2017, 83.7 29.8 709.3 44.7 94.4 158.9 (17.4) 0.0 1,103.5 before allocation of net profit (a) Dividends on treasury shares are posted to retained earnings. ■■3.9 Provisions for contingencies and losses The change in provisions for contingencies and losses from the opening to the closing of the financial year breaks down as follows: Movements during the period (in millions of euros) 2016 Reversals Other 2017 Charges Applied Released movements Provisions for litigation – – – – – – Other provisions for contingencies 13.7 12.9 (5.6) (0.5) – 20.5 Provisions for contingencies 13.7 12.9 (5.6) (0.5) – 20.5 Provisions for losses 7.4 0.4 (7.1) 0.0 – 0.7 Total 21.1 13.4 (12.7) (0.6) – 21.2 132 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2017, provisions for contingencies and • Provisions recorded to account for employee bonus-share losses included the following items: and stock-option allocation obligations based on services rendered (see notes 1.2 and 2.1.2.4); • Provisions for Group performance-related medium-term bonus plans approved by the Board of Directors; • Provisions to cover expenses related to long service awards. ■■3.10 Borrowings and debt 3.10.1 Liabilities by maturity Gross Gross of which (in millions of euros) amount amount Within 1 year 1 to 5 years Over 5 years 2016 2017 Other bonds 303.1 303.1 3.1 0.0 300.0 Bank borrowings – Initially up to one year 0.0 0.0 0.0 – – – Initially over one year – 42.0 – 42.0 – Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 30.3 202.0 (a) 202.0 0.0 – Trade payables 1.3 5.1 5.1 – – Taxes payable and payroll and payroll on-cost amounts payable Personnel and related accounts payable 6.4 6.7 6.7 – – Social security and other welfare agency 3.1 4.1 4.1 – – payables State and other public authority payables: – Income tax – – – – – – Value added tax 0.9 1.2 1.2 – – – Other taxes and duties 0.2 0.2 0.2 – – Total taxes payable and payroll and payroll 10.6 12.1 12.1 – – on-cost amounts payable Other liabilities Amounts payable to fixed asset suppliers and 1.6 0.7 0.7 – – related accounts Group and associated companies 24.8 161.0 (b) 161.0 – – Other liabilities 0.3 13.3 (c) 13.3 – – Total other liabilities 26.7 175.0 175.0 – – Deferred income 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL LIABILITIES 371.9 739.4 397.3 42.1 300.0 (a) Commercial paper issue (see note 3.9.2). (b) The increase stemmed primarily from the current account with Ipsen Pharma SAS, the Group’s centralizing cash pooling company, following the acquisition of Merrimack Pharmaceuticals’ global oncology assets (see note 1.1). (c) The increase resulted mainly from the €12.9 million in gains realized on financial instruments and deferred in the balance sheet at 31 December 2017, in line with regulation n° 2015-05 of 2 July 2015, established the ANC, France’s accounting standards authority, relative to forward financial instruments and hedging transactions (see note 2.1.2.7). 3.10.2 Sundry borrowings, financial liabilities and bonds On 6 June 2017, Ipsen S.A. amended its syndicated loan to On 16 June 2016, Ipsen S.A. issued €300 million in unsecured, increase the facility amount to €600 million and to extend seven-year bonds paying an annual interest rate of 1.875%. At its maturity to 17 October 2022. At 31 December 2017, 31 December 2017, the bonds including accrued interest were $50 million, or €42 million of the loan had been drawn and the recognized as debt in the Company financial statements in amount recorded in the “Bank borrowings” line item. the amount of €303.1 million in the “Other bond borrowings” On 27 June 2017, Ipsen S.A. increased its program for line item. issuing commercial paper (NEU CP Negotiable European In addition, €300 million in depreciable bank loans were Commercial Paper) from €300 million to €600 million. At contracted with a maximum maturity of 6.5 years beginning 31 December 2017, €201.6 million in NEU CP had been June 2016. At 31 December 2017, none of these bank loans issued, with the amount recorded in the “Sundry borrowings had been tapped by the Group. and financial liabilities” line item. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 133 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■3.11 Accrued liabilities (in millions of euros) 2017 2016 Sundry borrowings and financial liabilities 3.5 3.2 Suppliers invoices not yet received 1.0 0.8 Fixed asset suppliers invoices not yet received 0.7 1.6 Personnel Accrued liabilities for paid vacation 0.5 0.9 Accrued liabilities for bonuses 3.1 3.4 Accrued liabilities for employee profit-sharing – 0.0 Accrued liabilities for profit-sharing 0.1 0.1 Accrued liabilities for retirement indemnities 3.0 1.9 Accrued social welfare expenses 1.2 1.9 State Accrued expenses 0.4 0.4 Other accrued expenses and interest on current accounts – 0.0 TOTAL 13.5 14.2 ■■3.12 Unrealized gains on foreign exchange At 31 December 2017, unrealized gains on foreign exchange totaled €4.7 million and corresponded to marking bank borrowings denominated in foreign currencies to the exchange rate at the closing date. Note 4 Notes to the income statement ■■4.1 Operating income losses as personnel expense and €0.6 million from debt issuance costs to be amortized (see note 3.5). Operating income totaled €37.6 million in the 2017 financial year and broke down as follows: ■■4.2 Operating expenses • €17.5 million in personnel expense re-invoiced to The €0.4 million increase in operating expenses versus the subsidiaries, previous financial year stemmed mainly from: • €2.6 million in miscellaneous costs re-invoiced to • The €4.5 million increase in other external charges, primarily subsidiaries, related to the re-invoicing of administrative costs, • €13.3 million in reversals of provisions for contingencies • The €1.5 million decrease in the “Taxes and duties” line and losses, item, • €4.3 million in expense transfers, including €3.4 million • The €3 million decrease in the “Wages and salaries” and from reclassifying provision charges for contingencies and “Payroll on-costs” line items. ■■4.3 Financial income (in millions of euros) 2017 2016 Income from equity investments (a) 0.5 1.6 Income from other non-current receivables (b) 7.0 0.0 Reversal of provisions and expenses transferred (c) 0.0 47.2 Other financial income (d) 1.7 0.1 Foreign exchange gains (e) 18.0 0.0 Total financial income 27.1 48.8 (a) At 31 December 2017, income from equity investments consisted primarily of payouts from the InnoBio FPCI private equity fund, as was the case at 31 December 2016 (see note 3.1.4). (b) At 31 December 2017, this line item consisted mainly of interest on loans granted to subsidiaries (see note 3.1.4). (c) At 31 December 2016, this line item was composed chiefly of reversals of equity investment write-downs on the Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals and Suraypharm S.A.S. subsidiaries. (d) At 31 December 2017, this line item mainly included other financial income from forward financial instruments, as well as proceeds from commercial paper issues. (e) At 31 December 2017, this line item primarily consisted of foreign exchange gains related to financial transactions. 134 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■4.4 Financial expense (in millions of euros) 2017 2016 Foreign exchange differences (a) (21.7) (0.0) Interest and other financial expenses (b) (10.7) (3.9) Depreciation, amortization and provision charges (1.7) (0.1) Total financial expense (34.1) (4.1) (a) At 31 December 2017, this line item primarily consisted of foreign exchange losses arising from financial transactions. (b) At 31 December 2017, this line item included €2.9 million in other financial expense from forward financial instruments and €8.2 million in interest on borrowings and bonds (see note 3.9.2). ■■4.5 Net extraordinary income (expense) (in millions of euros) 2017 2016 Gains from share buybacks 0.5 0.7 Reversal of provision for investment – 0.0 Extraordinary income from capital transactions – 84.8 Extraordinary income 0.5 85.4 (Losses) from share buybacks (7.1) (10.6) Extraordinary expense from capital transactions – (131.9) Miscellaneous extraordinary expenses – – Extraordinary expenses (7.1) (142.5) Net extraordinary income (expense) (6.6) (57.1) Net extraordinary expense for the 2017 financial year resulted in respect of bonus share plans, stock option plans and the mainly from the €6.5 million capital loss realized during the Group’s employee savings program. transfer of treasury shares to certain beneficiaries in respect of bonus share plans (see note 3.3). ■■4.6 Income tax breakdown At 31 December 2016, net extraordinary expense included The income tax line for the 2017 financial year shows a net €47.2 million in asset contributions made by Ipsen S.A. to gain of €12.6 million, which corresponds to tax consolidation Ipsen Pharma SAS and the €10 million capital loss realized income and the reimbursement of the tax on previously paid during the transfer of treasury shares to certain beneficiaries dividends. (in millions of euros) Pre-tax Net tax amount After tax Profit (loss) on ordinary activities (23.4) – (23.4) Net extraordinary income (expense) and employee (6.6) – (6.6) profit-sharing Income tax income from tax consolidation – (12.6) 12.6 Book profit (loss) (30.0) (12.6) (17.4) ■■4.7 Tax consolidation If a subsidiary exits the scope of consolidation after a period of five years, it recovers no income tax or tax-loss carryforwards. Ipsen S.A. leads a tax consolidation group. To reflect the tax consolidation that unites the Company with its subsidiaries, There were no tax-loss carryforwards for the tax consolidation the following methods were applied in the annual financial group at 31 December 2017. statements: ■■4.8 Increases or decreases in future tax Each subsidiary within the tax group recognizes its income tax as if it were taxed separately, i.e. particularly after recognizing liability its tax-loss carryforwards. Excluding tax consolidation impact, the amount of increases or decreases in future tax liability was not material for the 2017 Payments were made by bank transfer to the Company’s financial year. account at dates scheduled for payment transfer to the Treasury. Ipsen calculated the income tax owed by the tax consolidated group and expensed the amount. In addition, the Company recorded the income tax recognized by its integrated subsidiaries as income. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 135 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 5 Other information ■■5.1 Directors, executives and officers Retirement pensions and similar benefit obligations for executives and officers came to €3.4 million at 31 December 5.1.1 Remuneration paid to corporate officers 2017. Remuneration paid by the Company to directors, executives and officers for the 2017 financial year totaled €6.3 million. 5.1.2 Loans and advances to top management. No advances or loans were made to the Company’s top management. ■■5.2 Transactions with affiliated companies and related parties 5.2.1. Balance sheet (in millions of euros) 2017 2016 Assets Equity investments 1,167.5 1,167.5 Loans 483.7 – Trade receivables 15.0 14.1 Group and associated companies 1.4 162.8 Other receivables 0.0 – Total 1,667.6 1,344.4 (in millions of euros) 2017 2016 Liabilities Trade payables 4.0 0.4 Group and associated companies 129.5 – Other liabilities 31.6 24.9 Total 165.1 25.4 5.2.2 Financial income and expense (in millions of euros) 2017 2016 Financial expense with affiliated companies (0.1) (0.0) Financial income with affiliated companies 7.0 0.0 Total 6.9 (0.0) 5.2.3 Transactions with related parties There were no material transactions with related parties not concluded in arm’s length transactions. ■■5.3 Average headcount at period closing 2017 2016 Top and upper management 11 15 Total 11 15 ■■5.4 Financial commitments retirement bonuses or contributions, or similar postemployment benefits. 5.4.1 Commitments to personnel Apart from retirement bonuses mandated under a collective At 31 December 2017, obligations arising from retirement bargaining agreement with the French pharmaceutical bonuses and the supplementary pension plan amounted to industry and obligations related to a supplementary pension €2.1 million and €27.8 million respectively. The amounts were plan, the Company has no other obligations arising from determined via actuarial valuation using the “projected unit employee pensions, complementary retirement benefits, credit” method. 136 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The main assumptions used in the calculations were as The obligation arising from long-ser vice awards was follows: determined via actuarial valuation using the “projected unit credit” method and fully provisioned at 31 December 2017. • Discount rate of 1.3%, A discount rate of 1.30% was assumed to calculate the €0.3 • inflation rate of 1.8%, million long-service award obligation. • Voluntary retirement for managers at age 67 for those born 5.4.2 Commitments given after 1963 and 64 for those born before 1963; voluntary The Ipsen Group has subscribed to a worldwide liability retirement for non-managers at age 65 for those born after insurance policy from a third-party insurer. The insurance 1963 and age 63 for those born before 1963. company itself is underwritten by the captive reinsurance • TH 11-13 mortality table for men and TF 11-13 mortality company Ipsen Ré, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, table for women. up to the first €10.0 million for any potential claim made. To cover that financial commitment and address any potential These obligations were outsourced to an insurance company. default by Ipsen Ré, the Ipsen S.A. parent company on 2 May At 31 December 2017, the fair value of these financial assets 2017 issued a letter of guarantee payable upon first demand came to €1.6 million for the retirement bonuses and the €8.4 in favor of the third-party insurer for a total amount of €9.0 million for the supplementary pension plan, assuming a longmillion. The first-demand guarantee is renewable annually. term rate of return of 1.3%. 5.4.3 Commitments on financial instruments In accordance with provision of the French Commercial Off-balance sheet commitments corresponding to forward Code, net assets and liabilities arising from these obligations purchases and sales of foreign currencies are presented in were not recognized, as the Company does not apply the note 5.7. preferential method. ■■5.5 Share option plans granted by the Company 5.5.1 Details of share option plans Plan dated 31 March 2010 Plan dated 30 June 2011 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.1 1.2 Date granted by Board of Directors 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 Vesting date 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 31/03/2014 30/06/2015 30/06/2013 Plan expiration date 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 31/03/2018 30/06/2019 30/06/2019 Number of options granted 121,180 123,280 54,330 22,570 40,710 189,703 16,005 Share entitlement per option 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Exercise price €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €36.64 €25.01 €25.01 « Black and Scholes » Grant method Monte Carlo « Black and Scholes » revised revised Value of shares at grant date €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €36.16 €24.46 €24.46 Expected volatility 32% 32% 32 % 32% 32% 31% 31% Average life of option 6 6 6 6 5 6 5 Discount rate 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.62% 2.35% 2.90% 2.72% Dividends 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% 1.50% Performance condition oui oui non non non oui non Fair value per option €10.69 €10.69 €10.71 €10.71 €9.74 €7.12 €6.48 5.5.2 Valuation of plans Plan dated Plan dated (in millions of euros) TOTAL 31 March 2010 30 June 2011 Opening valuation of active plans at 31 December 2017 3.8 1.5 5.3 2017 Ipsen Registration document 137 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.5.3 Change in number of options outstanding Changes in the number of outstanding options under all plans are as follows: (in number of options) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Opening balance 744,771 1,142,157 Options exercised (net of adjustments) (80,213) (393,886) Options adjusted – – Options expired – (3,500) Closing balance 664,558 744,771 On 29 March 2017, the Board of Directors granted: conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group • 13,365 bonus shares to the Chairman and Chief Executive entity, Officer, subject to length of service conditions as well as • 10,021 bonus shares to the Chief Executive Officer, subject performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to length of service conditions as well as performance to a Group entity, conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group • 28,275 bonus shares to members of the Executive entity, Leadership Team, subject to length of service conditions • 48,928 bonus shares to members of the Executive as well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or Committee, subject to length of service conditions as specific to a Group entity, well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or • 44,070 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its French specific to a Group entity, subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as • 72,208 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its French well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as specific to a Group entity, well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or • 37,980 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its American specific to a Group entity, subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as • 64,727 bonus shares to beneficiaries of its American well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as specific to a Group entity, well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or • 28,200 bonus shares to certain beneficiaries of other Group specific to a Group entity, subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as • 41,336 bonus shares to certain beneficiaries of other Group well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or subsidiaries, subject to length of service conditions as specific to a Group entity. well as performance conditions specific to the Group, or specific to a Group entity. On 31 May 2016 and 29 July 2016, the Board of Directors granted: • 5,070 bonus shares to the non-executive Chairman, subject to length of service conditions as well as performance 5.6.1 Details of Ipsen bonus share plans Ipsen Plan dated 27 March 2014 Plan dated 1st April 2015 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Number of bonus shares 65 018 56 062 19 405 21 685 53 021 47 572 21 484 39 970 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, before reduction €29.75 €29.75 €29.75 €29.75 €44.99 €44.99 €44.99 €44.99 Fair value of bonus shares €20.01 €20.01 €21.74 €20.01 €31.10 €31.10 €31.24 €31.24 Plan dated 1st June 2016 Plan dated 29 March 2017 Tranches 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 Number of bonus shares 64 019 72 208 41 336 64 727 41 640 44 070 37 980 28 200 Vesting period (in years) 2 2 4 2 2 2 4 2 Value of shares on date granted, before reduction €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 €56.69 €93.40 €93.40 €93.40 €93.40 Fair value of bonus shares €47.73 €47.73 €49.04 €47.73 €101.47 €97.01 € €99.27 €97.00 1.1 Beneficiaries include the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the non-executive Chairman, the Deputy CEO, the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Committee members, and Executive Leadership Team members. 1.2 Beneficiaries from the Group’s French subsidiaries. 1.3 Beneficiaries outside the Group’s French and American subsidiaries. 1.4 Beneficiaries from the Group’s American subsidiaries. 138 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.6.2 Valuation of Ipsen bonus share plans Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated Plan dated (in millions of euros) TOTAL 27 March 2014 1 April 2015 1 June 2016 29 March 2017 Opening valuation 3.1 4.4 10.5 13.3 31.3 ■■5.7 Derivative financial instruments contracts and currency swaps that match the net amount of the borrowings and loans in USD. 5.7.1 Interest rate risk hedging Ipsen S.A.’s net debt consisted primarily of fixed-rate debt At 31 December 2017, derivative financial instruments held by following the €300 million bond issue in June 2016. At 31 the Ipsen S.A. broke down as follows: December 2017, there were no derivative financial instruments • USD 196 million in buyer forward contracts, for hedging interest rate risk. • USD 148.9 million in seller forward contracts, 5.7.2 Exchange rate risk hedging USD-denominated borrowings and loans granted expose • USD 50 million in buyer foreign exchange swaps, Ipsen S.A. to financing foreign exchange risk arising from • USD 199.6 million in seller foreign exchange swaps. fluctuations in the value of financial liabilities and receivables denominated in currencies other than the Company’s At 31 December 2017, the fair value of those financial functional currency. instruments amounted to a negative €3 million. Ipsen S.A. hedges its foreign-currency denominated debts At 31 December 2017, realized gains deferred in the balance and receivables using such financial instruments as forward sheet totaled €12.9 million (see note 3.9.1). Note 6 Subsidiaries and affiliates (Amounts in thousands of currency units) Carrying amount of shares Amount of Equity Number Percenheld Outstanding endors-ments, Dividends Detailed information for each other than Sales, net of tage of loans and guarantees, Net profit (loss) collected by the interest, in which gross value Share share VAT, for the last Interest Shares Gross amounts Provisions share advances and letters for the last year Company in the exceeds 1% of the company’s capital capital and year (avg. exch. capital granted by the of intent (avg. exch. rate) last year, net of share capital excl. net rate) held % Company provided by the ESOP profit Company 1. SUBSIDIARIES Sutrepa €130 K €213,249 K 64 166,580 €88,816 K – – – – €2,553 K – Ipsen Pharma €5 856 K €598,806 K 100 188,905 €1,078,615 K – – – €1,207,709 K €233,534 K – Socapharma €30 K €(26) K 100 30,000 €30 K – – – – €(3) K – General information for other interests, in which gross value exceeds 1% of the company’s share capital 1. Equity interests in foreign companies Ipsen Poland LLC 1,210 KPLN 6,021 KPLN 1 1 €15 K – – – – 3,557 KPLN – 2017 Ipsen Registration document 139 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 7 Cash flow statement (in millions of euros) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Opening cash and cash equivalents 110.1 5.0 Net profit (17.4) (24.3) Elimination of income and expense with no impact on cash flow or not – – used in operating activities Net depreciation, amortization and provision charges 2.4 (4.0) Cash flow (15.0) (28.3) Change in working capital requirement related to operating activities 24.5 15.1 Net cash flow from operating activities 9.5 (13.2) Acquisition of equity investments – – Disposal of equity investments – – Other cash flows related to financing activities (483.7) 3.7 Change in working capital related to operating activities (0.9) (0.3) Net cash provided (used) by investment activities (484.6) 3.4 Repayment of borrowings (3.3) (0.2) Debt issues 217.1 331.3 Change in share capital 6.3 9.3 Share repurchasing agreement (10.7) (7.4) Dividends paid (70.2) (70.0) Change in working capital related to financing activities 290.8 (148.3) Net cash provided (used) by financing activities 430.0 114.8 Changes in cash and cash equivalents (45.0) 105.0 Closing cash and cash equivalents 65.0 110.1 Note 8 Subsequent events No event occurring between the closing date of the consolidated financial statements and the date of their approval by the Board of Directors, and not taken into consideration, was likely to call into question the annual financial statements themselves or make it necessary to mention such an event in the notes to the annual financial statements. 140 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.3 Statutory Auditor’s Report on the annual financial statements This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. The Statutory Auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether modified or not. This information is presented below the audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances, transactions, or disclosures. This report also includes information relating to the specific verification of information given in the Group’s management report. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen S.A. Registered office: 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Statutory Auditors’ Report on the Annual Financial Statements Year ended 31 December 2017 At the Annual General Meeting of Ipsen S.A., Opinion In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we performed the audit of the annual financial statements of Ipsen S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2017 as attached to the present report. We certify that the annual financial statements, in accordance with French accounting principles, give a true and fair view of the result of its operations as well as of the financial situation and of the assets and liabilities of the company for the year ended. The above-mentioned opinion is consistent with the content of our report to the Audit Committee. Basis for the opinion Audit standards We performed our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the evidence we have collected is sufficient and appropriate to form a basis for our audit opinion. The responsibilities we bear by virtue of these standards are indicated in the section “Responsibilities of the statutory auditors with regard to the audit of the annual financial statements” of the present report. Independence We conducted our audit assignment in accordance with the independence rules applicable to us, during the period from 1 January 2017 to the issuance date of our report, and in particular we have not provided any services prohibited by Article 5, Paragraph 1, of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or by the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. Furthermore, the services other than the certification of the financial statements that we have provided during the financial year to our company and to the entities it controls and that are not mentioned in the Management Report or in the annexes to the consolidated financial statements are the following: The services other than the certification of the financial statements provided by Deloitte & Associés correspond to its appointment as an independent third party in relation to the CSR disclosures in the Management Report. Those services provided by KPMG S.A. are constituted of procedures carried out in relation to the issuance of attestations provided for by the reference texts of the profession of statutory auditor. Justification of the assessments – Key point of the audit In application of the provisions of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) regarding the justification of our assessments, we draw your attention to the key point of the audit pertaining to the risk of material misstatement that, in our professional judgement, was the most important for the audit of the annual financial statements of the year ended, as well as to the responses we have provided with regard to this risk. The assessments thus made are part of the context of the audit of the annual financial statements taken as a whole and of the forming of our opinion expressed hereinabove. We do not express opinions on the components of these annual financial statements taken individually. Assessment of equity investments Identified risk Equity investments are listed in the balance sheet as of 31 December 2017 in the net amount of 1,167.5 million euros, accounting for one of the largest items in the balance sheet. They are recognised at the time of their entry at their acquisition cost and depreciated based on their inventory value representing what the Company would accept to outlay to obtain them if it had to acquire them. As indicated in note 2.1.2.2. in the annexe to the annual financial statements, the Company estimates at each year-end closing the inventory value of each one of the investments in order to determine whether this value is lower than the net carrying amount. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 141 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The analysis conducted was performed while taking into account the cashflow forecasts produced by the operational divisions of the Company. In this context and due to the uncertainty inherent to certain elements and in particular the likelihood of meeting forecasts, we considered that the correct assessment of the equity investments, related receivables constituted a key point of the audit. Audit procedures implemented with regard to the identified risk To assess the reasonableness of the estimated inventory values of the equity investments, based on the information disclosed to us, our procedures primarily entailed verifying that the estimated values used by Management were based on an appropriate justification for the evaluation method and the quantitative data used and, depending on the equity investments concerned: For the assessments based on historic data: –– verify that the equity retained matches the financial statements of the entities that have been audited or undergone cost accounting procedures and that, when applicable, the adjustments carried out with regard to this equity are based on documented evidence; For the assessments based on forecast data: –– obtain the cashflow forecasts and operations forecasts for the activities of the entities concerned produced by their operational divisions and assess their consistency with the forecast data taken from the latest strategic plans, produced under the supervision of their general management for each one of these activities and approved, when applicable, by the Board of Directors; –– verify the consistency of the assumptions retained with the economic environment on the dates of the closing and preparing of the financial statements; –– verify that the value resulting from the cashflow forecasts has been adjusted to reflect the amount of debt held by the entity considered. Verification of the Management report and other documents sent to the Ipsen S.A. shareholders We have also performed, in accordance with the professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by law. Information disclosed in the Management report and in the other documents sent to the shareholders regarding the financial situation and the annual financial statements We have no observations to make regarding the fair presentation and the consistency with the annual financial statements of the information disclosed in the Board of Directors’ Management Report and in the other documents sent to the Ipsen S.A. shareholders regarding the financial situation and the annual financial statements. Report on corporate governance We certify the disclosure, in the Board of Director’s report, of the information required by Articles L.225-37-3 and L.225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Concerning the information disclosed in application of the provisions of Article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) regarding compensation and benefits paid to the Directors as well as regarding the commitments made in their favour, we have verified their consistency with the financial statements or with the data that have been used to produce these financial statements and, when applicable, with the information collected by your Company from the companies controlling your Company or that are controlled by it. Based upon these procedures, we certify the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. Other information In application of the law, we verified that the information pertaining to equity and controlling stakes and to the identity of the share capital owners or of the voting rights was disclosed to you in the Management Report. Information resulting from other legal and regulatory obligations Appointment of the statutory auditor We were appointed statutory auditors of Ipsen S.A. by the General Shareholders’ Meeting on 18 June 2005 for KPMG Audit and on 17 December 1998 for Cogerco Flipo, which was acquired by Deloitte & Associés in 2001. As of 31 December 2017, KPMG Audit was in the 13th consecutive year of its assignment and Deloitte & Associés in its 20th year, including 13 years for both firms since the shares of the company have been admitted to trading on a regulated market. Responsibilities of Management and of the persons constituting the corporate governance related to the annual financial statements Management is required to produce annual financial statements presenting a true and fair view in accordance with French accounting rules and principles, in addition to setting up the internal controls it deems necessary in order to produce consolidated financial statements free of material misstatements, whether these are due to fraud or result from errors. When producing the annual financial statements, Management is required to assess the Company’s ability to continue its operations, to present in its financial statements, when necessary, the required disclosures pertaining to business continuity and to apply the going concern accounting principle, unless there are plans to liquidate the Company or put an end to its activity. 142 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Audit Committee is required to monitor the process of compiling financial information and to monitor the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, in addition to internal audits when applicable, as regards the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The annual financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. Responsibilities of the statutory auditors with regard to the audit of the annual financial statements Objective and audit approach We are required to produce a report on the annual financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance that the annual financial statements taken as a whole are free of material misstatement. Reasonable assurance corresponds to a high level of assurance, without however guaranteeing that an audit performed in accordance with professional standards enables systematic detection of any material misstatements. Misstatements may be due to fraud or result from errors and are considered to be material when it can be reasonably expected that they may, taken individually or in combination, influence the economic decisions that the financial statement users make based on them. As outlined by Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), our assignment to certify the financial statements does not entail guaranteeing the viability or the quality of the management of your Company. In the framework of an audit performed in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises his professional judgement throughout this audit. Furthermore: • he identifies and assesses the risks that the annual financial statements are materially misstated, whether these misstatements are due to fraud or result from errors, defines and implements audit procedures with regard to these risks, and gathers the elements that he deems to be a sufficient and appropriate basis for forming his opinion. The risk of non-detection of a material misstatement arising from fraud is higher than that of a material misstatement resulting from an error, because fraud may imply collusion, falsification, voluntary omissions, false statements or bypassing of internal control; • he familiarises himself with the relevant internal control for the audit in order to define the audit procedures appropriate to the circumstances, and not with the aim of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control; • he assesses the appropriateness of the accounting methods retained and the reasonableness of the accounting estimates made by Management, in addition to the disclosures provided in the annual financial statements; • he assesses the appropriateness of Management’s application of the continuity assumption accounting principle and, depending on the elements collected, the probable existence of material uncertainty related to events or circumstances likely to cast significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the elements collected up until the date of his report, with a reminder however that subsequent circumstances or events could cast significant doubt about the continuity of operations. If he concludes that there is material uncertainty, he draws the report readers’ attention to the information disclosed in the annual financial statements regarding this uncertainty or, if this information is not disclosed or is not relevant, he issues his certification with reservations or refuses to certify; • he assesses the overall presentation of the annual financial statements and assesses whether the annual financial statements reflect the underlying transactions and events so as to provide a true and fair view. Report to the Audit Committee We are submitting a report to the Audit Committee presenting in particular the extent of the audit and the work programme implemented, as well as the resulting conclusions of our work. We also draw their attention, when applicable, to the material weaknesses of internal control that we have identified as regards the procedures related to the compiling and processing of accounting and financial information. The disclosures in the report to the Audit Committee include the risks of material misstatement that we deem to be the most important for the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the year ended and that thus constitute the key point of the audit, that we are required to describe in the present report. We also are providing to the Audit Committee the statement pursuant to Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537-2014 confirming our independence, within the meaning of the rules applicable in France as outlined in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the code of ethics of the profession of statutory auditor. When applicable, we discuss with the audit committee the risks to our independence and the safeguard measures applied. The Statutory Auditors Paris La Défense, 14 February 2018 Neuilly-sur-Seine, 14 February 2018 KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés Department of KPMG S.A. Catherine Porta Cédric Adens Jean Marie Le Guiner Partner Partner Partner 2017 Ipsen Registration document 143 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3.4 Information related to Ipsen’s business activity ■■3.3.4.1 Significant events during the year Significant events of the year are disclosed in the first part of the notes to the annual financial statements. ■■3.3.4.2 Business activity Breakdown of sales and other income: (in millions of euros) 2017 2016 Service delivery 20.1 18.2 Operating income 20.1 18.2 Services correspond primarily to personnel-related expenses billed back to the subsidiaries. ■■3.3.4.3 Net profit (loss) The following table provides a summary of the main aggregate items on the income statement: (in millions of euros) 2017 2016 Net sales 20.1 18.2 Operating losses (16.5) (12.9) Net financial income (expense) (6.9) 44.7 Profit on ordinary activities (23.4) 31.8 Net extraordinary income (expense) (6.6) (57.1) Pre-tax profit (30.0) (25.3) Income tax Gain 12.6 1.0 Net profit (loss) (17.4) (24.3) Operating losses increased by €3.6 million over the ■■3.3.4.4 Income tax performance in 2016 the financial year. The main observations At 31 December 2017, the Company reported an income tax are as follows: gain of €12.6 million, which corresponds to tax consolidation • Re-invoices to the subsidiaries increased by €1.9 million; income and the reimbursement of the tax on dividends paid previously. • Provision reversals and expense transfers decreased by €4.9 million, due chiefly to the decline in reversed provisions ■■3.3.4.5 Funding for medium-term bonuses and bonus shares; The cash flow statement disclosed in the notes shows an • Other external charges increased by €4.5 million, primarily decrease in cash and cash equivalents at the close of 2017, as a result of re-invoicing of administrative costs; with decline arising mainly from interest-bearing deposits. • The “Taxes and duties” line item decreased by €1.5 million; ■■3.3.4.6 Net cash flow from operating activities • The “Wages and salaries” and “Payroll on-costs” line items The increase observed in net cash flow from operating decreased by €3 million. activities in 2017 stemmed mainly from the decrease in the Net financial income declined €51.6 million versus the 2016 net loss for the year versus 2016 and the change in operating financial year, primarily due to the reversal in 2016 of equity receivables and liabilities (see notes 3.2, 3.5 to 3.7 and 3.10 to investment write-downs on shares contributed by the Ipsen 3.11 to the annual financial statements). Biopharmaceuticals and Suraypharm subsidiaries to Ipsen Pharma SAS. ■■3.3.4.7 N  et cash provided (used) by investment activities Net extraordinary expense declined €50.5 million versus the 2016 financial year, primarily due to the reversal in 2016 of The net cash used by investment activities stemmed primarily equity investment write-downs on shares contributed by the from the €483.7 million in loans granted by the Company to Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals and Suraypharm subsidiaries to various subsidiaries ( see note 3.14 of the notes to the annual Ipsen Pharma SAS. accounts). 144 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■3.3.4.8 N  et cash provided (used) by financing • The allotment of 140,856 bonus shares totaling €7.4 million activities to beneficiaries of the 29 September 2008 and 30 March 2009 stock option plans, as well as the 28 March 2013 and At 31 December 2017, financing activities generated a net 1 April 2015 bonus share plans. source of funds totaling €430 million, after a generating a net source of funds amounting to €114.8 million at 31 December In 2017, the Company paid out €70.2 million in dividends, 2016. compared with €70 million in 2016. The €213.8 million net increase in debt issues stemmed from At 31 December 2017, the Company’s current account the following items: balance with Group companies showed a credit of €128.8 million, up €290.8 million over a debit current account balance • €42 million from the bilateral loan issued in May 2017 (see of €162.8 million at 31 December 2016. note 3.9.2 to annual financial statements), and • €171.5 million from the commercial paper drawn at 31 ■■3.3.4.9 Subsequent events December 2017 (see note 3.9.2 to the annual financial Subsequent events are disclosed in note 8 to the Company’s statements). annual financial statements. The €6.3 million increase in equity resulted from a €0.2 million capital increase and a €6.1 million increase in share ■■3.3.4.10 Business trends and outlook premiums arising from the issuance of new shares after stock In 2017, Ipsen S.A.’s net profit will be derived essentially from options were exercised (see note 3.8 to the annual financial the dividends it receives from its subsidiaries, its financial statements). expense and the tax consolidation gain. The lower €10.7 million in uses of funds from share buyback ■■3.3.4.11 Subsidiaries and affiliates agreements arose from the following transactions: The lion’s share of sales from Ipsen S.A. subsidiaries are • The repurchase by the Company in the 2017 financial year generated by the marketing and sale of proprietary drugs of 160,000 of its own shares totaling €18.1 million, as part prescribed by the medical profession. Purchases of most of of the share buyback program announced by the Company the drugs are reimbursed by national health programs. on 8 June 2017 (see note 1.3); 2017 2016 (in millions of euros) Sales Net profit (loss) Sales Net profit (loss) Ipsen Pharma 1,207.7 233.5 1,084.6 178.5 Sutrepa – 2.6 – 3.4 Socapharma – (0.0) – (0.0) The list of subsidiaries and affiliates is provided in the notes to ■■3.3.4.13 Payment due dates the Company’s annual financial statements. The following information on due dates for Company payables and receivables is provided in accordance with Articles ■■3.3.4.12 Accounting principles and methods L.441-6-1 and D. 441-4 of France’s Commercial Code. This No changes were made in the accounting principles and information included intra-group payables and receivables methods versus the prior year. information. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 145 3 FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • Invoices received or issued at the closing date of the financial year: Invoices received but not paid at the closing date of the period Invoices issued but not paid at the closing date of the period (in millions of euros) Overdue Overdue Not Not 1 to 30 31 to 60 61 to 90 Over 91 1 day and 1 to 30 31 to 60 61 to 90 Over 91 past past 1 day and due days days days days due days days days days Late payment tranches over total over total Number of invoices 5 2 18 4 Total amount of invoices, incl. 4.0 0 0 4.7 0 0.2 0.2 VAT Percentage of invoices, incl. VAT 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 97% 0% 0% 0% 3% 3% Percentage of total amount of 34% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% purchases for the period, incl. VAT Percentage of total amount 38.5% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 1.3% 1.3% of sales, incl. VAT Contractual Contractual Due dates used to determine late X X due dates due dates payment Legal due dates Legal due dates ■■3.3.4.14 Sumptuary spending No non-tax-deductible expenses targeted under Article 39-4 of the French Tax Code were added back during the financial year just ended. ■■3.3.4.15 Net profit (loss) for the period The net loss for the 2016 financial year came to €17.4 million. ■■3.3.4.16 Dividend payout In accordance with Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, the dividends paid out for the last three financial years were as follows: Annual dividend payout Dividend per share (in euros per share) total (*) 2015 70,005,861 0.85 2016 70,759,527 0.85 2017 70,247,053 0.85 (*) After cancelling dividends on treasury shares in retained earnings. 146 2017 Ipsen Registration document FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF THE COMPANY 3 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ■■3.3.4.17 Company earnings and other financial highlights over the past five years 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Share capital at year-end (in millions of euros) – Share capital 84.2 82.9 83.2 83.6 83.7 – Number of shares outstanding (in thousands) 84,242.7 82,869.1 83,245.6 83,557.9 83,732.1 – Number of outstanding preferred shares without – – – – – voting rights – Maximum number of shares to be created – – – – – Transactions and results for the year (in millions of euros) – Net sales 10.2 16.1 21.1 18.2 20.1 – Profits before income tax, employee profit-sharing, 57.1 113.3 164.0 (76.5) (27.6) amortization, depreciation and provisions – Income tax – Gain (losses) 5.0 8.6 5.5 1.0 12.6 – Employee profit-sharing for the year (0.0) (0.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 – Earnings after income tax, employee profit-sharing, 62.1 114.2 191.4 (24.3) (17.4) amortization, depreciation and provisions – Dividends paid out** 66.6 65.5 70.0 70.0 70.2 Earnings per share (in euros per share) – Earnings after income tax and employee profitsharing, but before amortization, depreciation and 1.0 1.0 2.0 (1.0) 0.0 provisions – Earnings after income tax, employee profit-sharing, 1.0 1.0 2.0 0.0 0.0 amortization, depreciation and provisions – Dividend per share 0.80 0.80 0.85 0.85 0.85 Personnel (in millions of euros) – Average number of employees during the year* 17 16 17 15 11 – Total payroll for the year 10.1 16.6 25.1 22.9 20.7 – Total payroll on-costs for the year (social security, 4.2 6.2 8.2 8.4 7.6 welfare, etc.) (*) Including Management bodies. (**) Dividends on treasury shares are posted to retained earnings. 2017 Ipsen Registration document 147 148 2017 Ipsen Registration document 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4.1 HUMAN RESOURCES 150 4.1.1 Group workforce 150 4.1.2 The Group’s Human Resources policy 152 4.2 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 154 4.2.1 Regulatory Issues 154 4.2.2 EHS Policy 156 4.2.3 EHS 2017 Performance 157 4.2.4 Internal resources 164 4.2.5 2017 Ipsen UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 165 4.3 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION 168 4.3.1 Social relations 168 4.3.2 Societal information 169 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES HUMAN RESOURCES 4.1 HUMAN RESOURCES 4.1.1 Group workforce At 31 December 2017, 46% of the Group’s 5,401 employees were employed outside the major Western European countries. The following table shows a geographical analysis of Group’s employees by function. Split Sales and Manufacturing Research and Administration Total marketing and supply Development and other At 31 December 2017 Major Western European countries (1) 920 957 536 491 2,904 Other European countries 314 133 22 51 520 North America 302 95 37 65 499 Rest of the world (2) 1,282 66 8 122 1,478 Total 2,818 1,251 603 729 5,401 At 31 December 2016 Major Western European countries (1) 878 899 459 447 2,683 Other European countries 292 120 22 49 483 North America 236 5 55 52 348 Rest of the world (2) 1,203 70 11 109 1,393 Total 2,609 1,094 547 657 4,907 (1) i.e.: Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (2) Including Asia. Structure and trends The following tables provide an insight into the structure and recent trends in the Group’s workforce. Overall workforce trends 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Major Western European countries (1) 2,904 2,683 Other European countries 520 483 North America 499 348 Rest of the world (2) 1,478 1,393 Total 5,401 4,907 (1) i.e.: Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (2) Including Asia. Analysis of the workforce by type of employment contract (joint ventures non included) As illustrated by these tables, the Group maintains a high level of permanent jobs. (As a percentage) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Permanent 85% 85% Non-permanent 15% 15% Part-time (As a percentage) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Full-time 96% 95% Part-time 4% 5% 150 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 HUMAN RESOURCES Analysis of the workforce by employment category (joint ventures non included) Non Sales force Sales force(1) Exempt staff Non-exempt staff Exempt staff Non-exempt staff At 31 December 2017 1,852 1,764 1,345 384 At 31 December 2016 1,607 1,652 1,218 380 (1) “Field” sales force. Recruitments (joint ventures non included) 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Of which Of which Total Total Perm Fixed term Perm Fixed term Major Western European countries (1) 601 404 197 531 377 154 Other European countries 111 62 49 118 72 46 North America 272 271 1 109 107 2 Rest of the world (2) 488 189 299 386 127 259 Total 1,472 926 546 1,144 683 461 (1) i.e.: Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (2) Including Asia. Termination of employees (joint ventures non included) Redundancies, Mutual Resignations, end Retirements, Total dismissals agreement of fixed-term contracts, deaths seasonal contracts 2017 financial year Major Western European countries (1) 66 23 267 24 380 Other European countries 24 1 49 2 76 North America 64 3 59 5 131 Rest of the world (2) 59 45 288 5 397 Total 213 72 663 36 984 2016 financial year Major Western European countries (1) 155 27 228 28 438 Other European countries 16 2 57 1 76 North America 15 – 43 – 58 Rest of the world (2) 45 65 188 2 300 Total 231 94 516 31 872 (1) i.e.: Germany, Spain, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (2) Including Asia. Absenteeism Absenteeism reasons taken into account: illness, work/journey accident, unjustified absence unpaid. The following table shows the absenteeism rates by function during the 2017 and 2016 financial years: 2017 financial year 2016 financial year Manufacturing and supply chain 4.4% 4.3% Sales and marketing 1.7% 1.6% Administration and other 3.0% 2.9% Research and Development 1.4% 1.9% Total 2.5% 2.5% Ipsen Registration document 2017 151 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES HUMAN RESOURCES 4.1.2 The Group’s Human Resources policy Ipsen’s Human Resources policy is dedicated to supporting Once recruited, new employees are welcomed and integrated and enabling the Group’s strategy. The Human Resources to Ipsen via either local programs at site level, Divisional or team aims at creating the right framework: Functional events and programs and/or Global Induction sessions for Managers and experienced professionals • to foster the professional development and growth of all coupled with the access to numerous resources through our employees through continuous dialogue about their needs e-learning and communication portal and tools. This year we and motivations, whilst offering a wide variety of training have significantly improved the offering with a whole suite of and development opportunities, online resources grouped into three modules to ensure new • to promote a culture of agility, results orientation, team spirit joiners get quickly to know who we are, how we conduct and accountability, business, our culture, and our expectations of our employees. • to enhance the employee’s engagement through an Internal mobility inclusive environment, a culture of continuous improvement Ipsen actively promotes internal mobility both within and and a competitive compensation policy which rewards their across Divisions and Functions as well as geographical. contribution. Mobility is key to employees’ professional development and Employer branding to the company’s dynamism and multicultural awareness. • In 2017, we put together the framework to build a new It enables to offer new career opportunities, increases and appealing Employment Value Proposition to attract, employees’ engagement and contributes to the company’s motivate and retain our talents. It includes the 5 following performance improvement overall. key components: Professional Opportunities and Impact, Job vacancies are systematically advertised on the Group’s Performance and Recognition, Work Life Balance and Work intranet portal. The Talent Review & Planning process in place Environment, Compensation and Benefits. is an opportunity for our leaders and their supporting HR • Significant investment and effort are made to communicate partners to discuss job opportunities and identify the best this message through a wide variety of marketing channels, candidates available internally. social media, job fairs and professional events, to our Development and training targeted audiences both internally and externally as well Ipsen constantly aims at providing its employees with effective as to enhance our presence where potential candidates of and efficient development resources adapted to the needs interest to our business can be found. of each employee and the requirements of our business. • In 2017, we designed and prepared the launch of an Our people leaders and professionals at the higher levels of innovative and state-of-the ar t Human Resources responsibility can find best-market resources to develop their Information System (HRIS) which will provide to our managerial skills on the Ipsen Management Academy, which employees and managers an amazing experience. not only offers high-performance training courses, but also promotes innovative development methodologies such as Recruitment and mobility peer-to-peer exchanges, coaching and mentoring guides, In 2017, Ipsen focused the recruitment strategy on supporting serious game learning, etc. the business transformation especially in Specialty Care International and Global Franchises and Research & In addition, the Group has modernized and expanded its Development. Continuous improvement of the recruitment training offering through the Ipsen Learning Platform, which and selection process was made to improve the Terms combines all our online training resources and management & Conditions of a number of contracts with recruitment tools in one single information system. Significant investment agencies resulting in significant process quality gains and is also being put to offer an optimal blend of online, facecost optimization. to-face and innovative resources to fit each segment of our learners’ needs and styles. Recruitment Talent Review and Planning Ipsen’s commitment to ensure diversity within its workforce starts with a call to recruit a broad range of profiles and In 2017, we renewed our Talent Review & Planning process. competencies (cf. “Equal opportunities and diversity within We introduced significant changes to increase our leaders’ the Group”). In 2017, the Group recruited a total of 1,472 new visibility of our foreseen talent needs and gaps as well as employees, which split as follows: 21% in Manufacturing and to enable proper action planning to fill those gaps either supply chain, 11% in Research and Development, 55% in through developing the necessary skills internally or external Sales and Marketing and 13% in support functions. recruiting. The Personal Development Meeting (PDM) is a key element The split by gender of our recruitments (56% women and of our Employees’ Development Process and allows each 44% of men) shows our strong commitment as an equal employee to make an update with his/her manager on the opportunity employer. employee’s professional experience, skills, motivations, and New science-based methodologies such as best psychometric to identify employee’s development areas and professional tests, work samples, best interviewing techniques, etc. for expectations and interests. It leads to the formalization of selecting the best quality candidates are being deployed an action plan whose implementation is accompanied and across the Group and customized to each job segment. advised by our Human Resources experts. 152 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 HUMAN RESOURCES Our revised 4 Action Principles (Agility, Results Orientation, Equal opportunities and diversity within the Group Accountability and Team Spirit) are the foundational behaviors The Group endeavors to ensure that all employees benefit we expect from each of our employees. These Principles are from non-discrimination rules which apply in the country embedded in every people-related management process from they are employed in. At Group level, employment and recruitment to professional development and performance compensation policies are based on objective criteria and management. individual performance. Employees are thus given equal Individual performance assessment opportunities without any discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, disability, family situation, sexuality, The Performance Management process is an essential one age, nationality or ethnic background. in the management of people. It is an ongoing process with formal appraisal meetings. The dialogue between the Certain Group companies have defined equal opportunities manager and each team member is an opportunity to set policy (United Kingdom), while others have incorporated clear expectations on the employee’s contribution to the measures ensuring equal opportunities into their recruitment Group’s strategic objectives. policy (Poland, Korea) or into more general codes of conduct (Italy). It provides managers with the means to motivate and encourage their team members to achieve challenging but The average age of employees in the Group is 41. realistic objectives. The outcome of the goal-setting interview Split per age (joint ventures non included) should allow alignment and agreement on the expected performance and the definition of the means to enable the 2017 2016 employee to reach them. At year end, it is an opportunity for Under 30 years old 11% 10% the employee and the manager to summarize their dialogue throughout the year on the employee’s performance and the 30-50 years old 69% 71% difficulties they may have encountered. Over 50 years old 20% 19% In 2017, we have carefully prepared the launch in early 2018 of our new Performance Management process, iPERFORM. Equal opportunities for men and women Simpler, less formulaic, continuous and more integrated with Among the measures implemented within the Group, the most our Professional Development process, iPERFORM aims at significant one relates to equal opportunities for men and providing an effective framework to take every employee’s women. Gender equality at Ipsen is founded, for instance, on and the company’s overall performance to the next level. work-life balance – flexible working hours, part-time working – with no adverse effect on career prospects. Training and development investment The investment of the Group in training and development In 2017, Ipsen signed its forth agreement on equal opportunities in 2017 was in support of both the strategic needs of the for men and women in France. In this new agreement, Ipsen company and of the individual performance. The employee’s included the Quality of life at work policy based on four pillars: development needs are identified through the performance • work-life balance, management process (short-term) and through the Personal • support accountability and empowerment, Development Meeting (long-term). • behavior promoting the health and well-being, In 2017 the number of hours of training per employee was in • monitoring risky situation and support people in need. excess of 24. Beyond the legal rules about discriminations due to gender, Over the past three years, the total number of training hours Ipsen reaffirms that the principles of equal opportunity provided by the Group has been as follows: between all employees constitute a value applicable from hiring throughout the career. Number of hours 2017 2016 2015 The following table provides an analysis of the number of male of training and female employees within the Group, per employment TOTAL 128,944 127,069 112,071 category: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 (as a percentage) Male Female Male Female Non-field sales force Exempt staff 14.9% 19.7% 14.6% 18.5% Non-exempt staff 12.5% 20.5% 12.9% 21.1% Field sales force Exempt staff 12.1% 13.1% 11.5% 13.5% Non-exempt staff 2.3% 4.8% 2.3% 5.5% Total 41.9% 58.1% 41% 59% Ipsen Registration document 2017 153 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Integration of disabled workers Group’s compensation and benefits policy Since 2009, Ipsen has been committed to helping disabled Compensation and benefits workers find their place within the company. Ipsen’s compensation and benefits philosophy provides a In France, Ipsen has signed in January 2014 a partnership flexible and innovative framework which truly takes care of with an association created by the LEEM (Pharmaceutical our people and support our business through three guiding Companies French Association) to implement an industryprinciples: wide agreement regarding disability. This association enables • Rewards for what matters; companies to pool and coordinate their efforts and costs in line with four priorities: • Ensure external focus and internal consistency; • Recruitment; • Foster high performance results. • Maintain disabled workers in their position: site Human These principles are applied in the countries where the Group Resources managers and labor doctors anticipate critical is established and fit to the local social-economic and legal situations to enable employees to pursue their professional context. activity; The compensation structure takes into account external • Develop a formal purchasing policy to outsource contracts benchmark for the whole Group using the most relevant with centers employing disabled workers; providers in our industry in each country we operate. • Communicate, raise awareness and train: various initiatives The annual compensation review is the opportunity for the are rolled-out on sites to engage employees on this topic managers to review the remuneration of their team members, and more broadly on Diversity. based on the performance and the competitiveness. It is deployed according to standard process across the Group. Ipsen is also a founding member of the first French Club House, a non-profit organization specialized in helping people Based on their level of responsibility, employees are eligible to with psychical problems. a variable compensation. This variable policy fosters our will to take performance to the next level and is in line with our Employing young and senior workers and transferring business objectives. knowledge Furthermore, a profit sharing agreement was signed in France Ipsen signed in 2017 a new agreement, for a 3-year period, in in 2016 for a three-year duration in order to extend an existing order to pursue its commitment in France to employing young employee savings plan and strengthen the employees’ and senior workers as well as transferring knowledge. commitment to the Group results ensuring at the same time For young workers, it aims at: giving them access to longa solidarity between French entities and the reinforcement of term employment; improving their integration in the company; local performance recognition. developing their competencies thanks to the experience of Being in the healthcare industry has a specific meaning: we more senior colleagues. do care about our people in a similar way we want our people For senior workers, it aims at: maintaining their employment; to care about patients. enabling them to transfer their knowledge; helping them prepare and make plans for retirement. 4.2 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY The Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) data presented production of active substances, and the activities up to in this document and originating from the implementation and including the final finished products (Perimeter 1). For of Ipsen’s EHS policy stem from the consolidation of EHS the most representative indicators of EHS, the perimeter has data from all ten sites. They include the activities of the been extended to integrate the data from commercial offices research and development (R&D) centers, those of the (Perimeter 2) which are detailed in the methodology notes. 4.2.1 Regulatory Issues Ipsen’s activities are regulated by the applicable environment, Union, environmental and labor legislations have significantly health and safety legislation and associated regulation. developed since the early 1980s. In Western Europe, the Ipsen’s manufacturing sites and Concerning workplace health and safety, Ipsen companies research and development centers are located in countries are subject to regulatory requirements to protect the health belonging to the European Union. Within the European and safety of employees, particularly through the assessment 154 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY of occupational risk. Legislation and regulation in this area are activities in June 2018. Ipsen is ensuring that it meets all the regularly strengthened. registration requirements that will go into effect at that time. These last years have seen the emergence of new In 20 0 8, the re gulation imple me nting inte r nationa l requirements around environment, health and safety in recommendations from the Global Harmonization System Europe related to the management of chemical hazards, to (GHS) on the labelling of chemical substances was disclosed. psychological risks as well as to the environment through the This regulation (CE) n° 1272/2008 of 16 December 2008, energy consumption and carbon emission impacts as well as called Characterization, Labelling and Packaging (CLP) through waste management impacts. defines the new rules for classification, packaging and labelling of chemical products in Europe. This new system Regarding environmental legislation, the sites are covered is progressively replacing the pre-existing European CLP in 2017 by EU Directive No. 2008/1/CE of 15 January 2008 system. It is applicable to substances since 1 December (Text abrogated by Article 81 of Directive No. 2010/75/EU of 2010. The measures of this regulation concern both chemicals the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November having an effect on the environment and those having an 2010 as of 7 January 2014 => Official Bulletin of European impact on the health and safety of workers. The procedures Union L 334 of 17 December 2010) and n° 2010/75/UE of for implementing this new regulation and its impact on Ipsen’s 24 November 2010 related to integrated pollution prevention activities have been analyzed. Since 2010, Ipsen ensures that and control, and industrial emissions. the required notifications of chemical products from Ipsen are These directives define a system introducing specific in place. operating procedures (declaration or filing for authorization A newly developing area that is being monitored and to operate) and cover all environmental issues potentially evaluated internally is the issue concerning Pharmaceuticals facing an industrial site (for example, waste management, in the Environment (PIE). Specific legislation has not yet environmental discharges, use, handling and storage of been developed but Ipsen understands that this is an area toxic and/or hazardous substances). These directives have that must be managed properly to prevent the impact of our been and will be enacted progressively in national legislation active ingredients on the environment. Actions underway in every EU member state and their provisions must be are to evaluate actual emissions from our manufacturing observed at each of the Ipsen facilities located in these sites for specific peptides to determine if these materials are countries. Furthermore, the European Parliament adopted being released in our waste water discharges. Preliminary directive 2004/35 on 24 April 2004 on environmental liability monitoring has not detected these materials to date. Further related to the prevention and remediation of environmental sampling and analyses are planned to ensure that this remains damage. The Directive, now enacted in EU member states the case. and in France since August 2008, established “the polluter pays principle” in the case of environmental damages caused The regulatory changes concerning chemicals management by the user’s activities. also appeared in the United States as the OSHA standard 1910.1200 “Hazard Communication Standard” of 26 March In France, the requirements in terms of sustainable 2012 and in China with the Decree n° 7 Chinese Ministry development have par tly been enforced through the of Environment Protection. These regulations are intended publication of decrees related to the laws of the Grenelle to harmonize device and chemical management based on Environment on the themes of energy efficiency, reduction similar principles to those of REACH and GHS. of energy consumption, risk management and preservation of health. As part of its commitment to compliance, Ipsen In the light of these important European regulatory issues, ensures the inclusion of these requirements in its new project Ipsen proactively monitors new information concerning development. EU directives. Ipsen is currently analyzing the impact of regulations with special attention to those regarding energy The REACH regulation (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization efficiency, greenhouse gases, substances that deplete the and Restriction of Chemicals) was formally adopted on 1 June ozone layer, and more generally, on changes in EHS legislation 2007. Its aim is to improve the protection of human health applicable to its business activities. and the environment and has been the subject of a detailed analysis by Ipsen. This analysis has enabled Ipsen to control Given its increasing integration with worldwide trade the impact of this regulation on its activities. In order to fully channels, China has for several years been developing a understand and define the risks to our business and put in specific framework of EHS regulations. The manufacturing place appropriate mitigation plans, Ipsen has implemented facility operated by Ipsen in China is thus subject to a set a governance on REACH in the form of a multi-disciplinary of regulations in this area. The highest Chinese authority steering committee and a task force with members covering for environmental issues is the Ministry of Environmental all of our manufacturing activities (both in-house and at Protection (EPM) which is leading its local Environmental contract manufacturers). In addition to mitigating the potential Protection Bureau (EPB) in each province. Each EPB reports risks, the REACH steering committee and task force have directly to the Ministry as well as to local authorities. The EPB and continue to increase awareness of the regulation and supervises each company according to its relative size, as its potential impacts at Ipsen. Finally, Ipsen continues to such; the site in Tianjin is controlled by the Tianjin Huayuan watch and influence amendments to the regulations, in industrial zone EPB. In parallel, the highest authority for safety particular, those concerning substance classification that may is the State Administration of Work Safety of the People’s impact Ipsen’s business or products. The REACH regulatory Republic of China who has the same organizational system requirements will conclude the third phase of registration of local branches. Thus, the Huayuan Industrial Zone branch Ipsen Registration document 2017 155 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY supervises the Tianjin site regarding worker safety. For workenvironmental regulations applicable to industry and by OSHA related health, it is the State Administration of Work Safety (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) in charge of of the People’s Republic of China which takes into account developing health and safety regulations to ensure a safe and these activities. healthy working environment. The State of Massachusetts, in turn, is responsible for enforcing federal laws, which are The Cambridge research and development center in the interpreted to be the minimum level of requirements, and United States is subject to environment, health, and safety can make them more stringent. EPA, OSHA and the states legislation and regulations specific to the United States. This conduct inspections to ensure regulatory compliance. framework is, for the most part, similar to the framework in Western European countries. The regulatory system in the USA Finally, at the international level, Ipsen watches carefully for is based on both the federal and state legislation administered events that could have a direct or indirect impact on the at both levels as well as additional local regional, county and various business activities of Ipsen regarding EHS. city requirements. Federal authorities are represented by the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) which develops 4.2.2 EHS Policy ■■4.2.2.1 Ipsen’s EHS policy ■■4.2.2.2 Ipsen EHS Manual and 2020 Goals In 2017, Ipsen released its updated Environment, Health and The Ipsen Environment, Health and Safety Management Safety (EHS) policy (as shown below). The EHS policy was Manual describes the management and operational signed by the Executive Committee including the CEO and his standards necessary to protect the environment, and to direct reports. The EHS policy focuses on commitment and respect and manage health and safety of our employees. accountability across Ipsen regarding core EHS principles. The goal of this Manual is to drive continuous improvement in EHS performance at Ipsen and throughout its supply and customer networks. From an operational perspective, Ipsen’s EHS policy is implemented through a rolling EHS strategic plan. This plan drives the development of annual targets which are applicable to all of the Ipsen sites. The EHS strategic plan (2018-2021) was updated and approved by the Ipsen Executive Committee in December 2017 and includes the establishment of a new EHS governance system within the organization, the individual involvement and commitment of each employee, the gradual deployment of EHS objectives to office activities and support functions, risk reduction through targeted programs and better visibility through internal and external communication. An Ipsen Group EHS Council was created consisting of the Executive Committee. This Council meets twice per year to discuss EHS performance and set EHS strategic direction for the next period. In 2017, two Council meetings were held and delivered the revised EHS Policy signed by the Council members and performance against the three 2020 targets designed to demonstrate Ipsen’s desire to be best in class with our pharma peers in the EHS area. These targets are as follows: • Reduce the medicalized accident frequency rate to less than 2.00 by 2020. • Reduce energy consumption and carbon greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by 5% by 2020 using 2016 as the baseline. • Reduce water consumption by 30% by 2020 using 2016 as the baseline. 156 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Ipse n has be e n focuse d on imple me nting a n EHS “People Based Safety” (PBS) program, our flagship project, management system in order to ensure site compliance, the is designed to focus on individual responsibilities to raise operational control of activities and continuous improvement awareness that all accidents are preventable, and that each of our system and performance. In 2017, Ipsen achieved and every one of us has an important role to play in preventing Group certification in conformance with ISO 14001 – 2015 them. We want to inspire everyone in the Ipsen community and OHSAS 18001 – 2007 Standards for Ipsen Corporate to make a personal commitment to being proactive and EHS and its three French manufacturing sites located in react to all unsafe situations before an accident occurs. We Dreux, Signes and L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue. In 2018, it is planned encourage open dialog and individual empowerment with a to include the manufacturing sites located in Wrexham and challenge to all to consider how we can all perform our work Dublin which will then include all manufacturing sites with the more safely. This cultural change which began in 2014/2015 is exception of our joint venture in Cork, Ireland, our Consumer now well embedded in Ipsen and will continue to drive better HealthCare (formerly known as Primary Care) facility located EHS performance in future years. in Tianjin, China, and our newly acquired Technical Operations By making a continual commitment to the health and safety manufacturing site located in Cambridge, Massachusetts, of employees and to the protection of the environment, and USA. Ipsen’s R&D sites will join the group certification by by focusing on the dissemination of best practices and the 2020 or sooner as they determine appropriate. In addition, implementation of preventive actions, EHS is an integral integrating these various EHS elements into the business component of sustainable development and demonstrating allows Ipsen to ensure a better product management as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) at Ipsen. well as better control of its production equipment. Our 4.2.3 EHS 2017 Performance ■■4.2.3.1 Compliance and External Recognition related to industrial agricultural operations (Ginkgo biloba plantations located in France and the USA). This Manual In this highly regulated environment, one of Ipsen’s primary is finalized and being implemented by these agricultural concerns is regulatory compliance. As such, Corporate operations in 2017. EHS has established and renewed global Ipsen EHS Standards regarding Environment, Health and Safety The sites of Ipsen have moved forward with the implementation (EHS). Each site ensures the compliance of its activities and of these global standards through action plans and have facilities to applicable legal requirements in order to better reached a high level of compliance with regard to internal control, minimize and prevent health and safety risks and requirements. This process continues to improve and is environmental impacts. tested through an internal audit process administered by our Global Internal Audit function which is independent of the EHS Ipsen has a set of requirements and good practices which are function. captured in its global EHS standards. These EHS Standards were revised in 2016/2017 and several new EHS Standards In 2017 Ipsen has not received any notices of violation were added in order to make them comprehensive and regarding EHS compliance with its R&D or manufacturing complete. It is important to note that the standards defining operations. the management systems for Ipsen are aligned with the occupational health-safety standard OHSAS 18001 – 2007 Legal and regulatory intelligence and the environmental standard ISO 14001 – 2015. Legal and regulatory intelligence in the areas of environment and health and safety has been put into place at each Ipsen Beginning in 2015 and finishing in 2017, these EHS Standards site (Perimeter 1). This allows each R&D and manufacturing were reviewed, revised and new Standards developed site to keep track and update their EHS systems as applicable to fill gaps in the original EHS Standards. These revised regulatory developments occur. This is also being established and new EHS Standards were released in 2016 and 2017 for the commercial office affiliates as part of the implementation with an expected implementation schedule that goes out of their EHS Office Manual programs. through 2018. These EHS Standards apply to all R&D and manufacturing operations within Ipsen. A separate Regulatory compliance assessment and other commercial office EHS manual was also developed and requirements released in 2016 which details the EHS requirements to be All sites operated by Ipsen have all the environmental, health followed by commercial office locations. This new Manual is and safety permits and licenses required for their operations being implemented by our eight largest affiliate offices in 2017 and comply with applicable EHS regulations. (France, UK, Russia, China, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the USA). The other affiliate offices will implement this Manual in As part of Ipsen’s EHS policy, each site performs a compliance 2018/2019. A third set of EHS Standards is in development evaluation with regard to regulatory requirements and other for our joint venture plantations which deal with EHS issues requirements such as applicable global standards. Ipsen Registration document 2017 157 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY To assess compliance with applicable requirements and Beyond the risk assessments performed regarding all global standards, internal audits are performed on all the work stations at the sites, potential accident scenarios and Ipsen sites (Perimeter 1 and partly including Perimeter 2). identified hazardous situations and conditions are identified EHS is involved and conducts audits related to business with associated corrective and preventive actions developed acquisitions, divestitures, partnerships, joint ventures, supply and assigned. These are included in the annual health and chain evaluations, and contracted services including thirdsafety program at each site. party research and manufacturing operations. In addition, in 2017 Ipsen continued its project of profit-sharing Certifications launched in 2010 for its French employees based on various criteria one of which was EHS data related to medicalized Ipsen completed the first phase of a Group certification accident frequency. project regarding the ISO 14001 – 2015 and OHSAS 18001 – 2007 standards for Corporate EHS and the three Road Safety French manufacturing sites in 2017. In 2018, the additional A policy on road safety was implemented by Ipsen in 2011, in manufacturing operations located in Dublin, Ireland and order to improve driving safety, to hold drivers responsible for Wrexham, UK, will join the Ipsen Group certification. The R&D safe driving to reduce the risk of accidents. sites will join the Ipsen certification in 2020 and are working toward having their sites prepared against the two standards In 2017, the deployment of an action plan aimed at reducing over this period. the frequency and the severity of accidents continued on the global perimeter with an emphasis in Office locations. In addition to the Group certification, two other manufacturing A communication is regularly done to the employee sites are ISO 14001 – 2015 and OHSAS 18001 – 2007 certified representatives. individually: Cork and Tianjin. These certifications are subject Industrial Hygiene to annual surveillance audits and are renewed every 3 years. These individual certifications will be maintained by Cork (joint The risks related to the use of hazardous materials have led venture) and Tianjin (unique Chinese requirements), therefore Ipsen to put in place a policy and associated standards driving these two sites will stay outside the Ipsen Group certification the prevention and protection of employee health and safety. for the time being. Ipsen continued its industrial hygiene program which focuses on hazardous chemical exposure risk control management External Recognition and improvement. The Wrexham, Milton Park (formerly Abingdon site) and Slough sites in the UK have all received recognition from Ipsen’s industrial hygiene strategy results in the provision local authorities regarding occupational health and safety. of updated safety data sheets for proprietary products in The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPa) accordance with the requirements of the CLP regulation and has presented each site with awards for the prevention of the Globally Harmonized System (GHS), incorporating any accidents. The Wrexham site has been awarded by RoSPa new information that has an impact on the classification. multiple times over the past ten years. Milton Park has received In addition, Ipsen has continued its work on the risk this award twice and Slough has received this award once. profiling of Ipsen’s products regarding health, safety and the environment, in order to implement recommendations for product handling and for the selection of associated ■■4.2.3.2 Assuring the health and safety equipment. The industrial hygiene issues concerning the of employees Ipsen compounds and commercial products are integrated Reduce accidents in the site master plans of the facilities. This has led to the development of significant investment to comply with The number of medicalized accidents and the associated general precautionary principles through the elimination of frequency rates (FR1 and FR2) have decreased significantly dependence on personal protective respiratory equipment in 2017. The implementation of a ’’People Based Safety’’ at the sites which use substances identified as hazardous approach resulting in S3 Code of Conduct visits and to health and safety. This has been accomplished by managerial safety visits on all sites belonging to Perimeter addressing the risks at their source, and ensuring the most 1 has caused this reduction along with a focus by all sites to effective and reliable collective protections for these types reduce these medicalized accidents. The senior management of processes. The multi-year investment program in regards has put a particular emphasis on the improvement of these to the implementation of the industrial hygiene program will indicators and on the implementation of actions such as on be continued at affected sites in 2018 and into the future. All site safety visits/inspections, encouraging reporting of unsafe new processes are risk-assessed and the same balanced conditions and behaviors, and the reporting and sharing approach to health and safety protection are included in of good practices, incidents and near misses. Medicalized design and operational methods of these new processes. accidents related to slips, trips and falls in 2017 represent the most frequent medicalized accidents category within the Well Being and Work Life Balance Group as in previous years. A campaign to reduce this type Prevention of the psychosocial risks (RPS) is integrated in of medicalized accidents was launched in late 2014/2015 a global approach to preserving occupational health and and was deployed by the organization in 2015/2016. This quality of life. The RPS covers occupational hazards that has resulted in a significant decrease in the frequency of this occur naturally or through anthropogenic means, and that category of medicalized accidents in 2017. can impact employee health. 158 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY The French framework agreement regarding the prevention reported to the appropriate administrative authorities, if of the RPS in December 2010 constituted a first step for the applicable, and to Corporate EHS. In 2017, breaches of waste worldwide implementation of a health plan. This agreement water discharge licenses or permits were reported by the defines a general framework, and relies on three significant sites located at Dublin, Signes and Cork. These breaches themes: identification of the psychosocial risks, prevention were dealt with quickly by determining the root causes and of the risk factors in the workplace, and accompaniment of implementing corrective actions in a thorough and rapid employees. With this agreement, Ipsen wishes to continue manner. the actions already engaged by the French sites and set up Besides, in accordance with the “Real Estate Compliance” a common approach to prevention globally. For example, in global standard, environment, hygiene and safety audits China, a major initiative was implemented in 2016 to reduce of compliance were performed in 2010 on 2 French sites: absenteeism through well being actions such as encouraging the site of Dreux and the site of L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue. These proper diet, exercise and work life balance. The impact was audits aimed at identifying potential high-risk areas in a significant improvement. This approach will be modeled for terms of soil and underground water pollution associated implementation at other Ipsen locations. with the current and past activities handled at those sites. In 2014, Ipsen initiated an evaluation process of the Quality According to the conclusions, no obvious high-risk areas of Life at Work on the entire French perimeter and more of soil and underground water pollution associated with the than 62% of subjects responded to the survey. This study current conditions of operation were identified during these allowed development and implementation of preventive and audits. In 2014, two due diligence assessments took place corrective action plans. These were defined for each division at Wrexham, UK and at Dublin, Ireland, sites prior to the and site in order to be most suited to the results and the local acquisition of neighboring land. In addition, as part of the context. Thus, results and action plans in 2015 were reported transfer of the Milford site in 2013, an audit (phase 1 and 2) for each entity and their implementation was monitored and was conducted and did not reveal any surface or subsurface confirmed. All manufacturing sites are implementing various contamination. A subsurface investigation began in 2012 in programs to improve the quality of life and to ensure that Barcelona, Spain after the closure of the Ipsen site in 2011 Ipsen sites are great places to work. This fits in with the desire showed soil and subsoil pollution. In accordance with Ipsen’s to improve our operations making them more robust through internal obligations and the local Authority’s requirements, a Enterprise Excellence. remediation plan was developed, submitted and approved by local authorities. The plan has been executed with additional Strenuous labor conditions monitoring in progress. The authorities have been satisfied In France, under Law No. 2010-1330 of 9 November 2010 with the remedial investigations and activities aimed at on the pension reform and its implementing regulations, removing the contamination from this site. A third round of a prevention approach on strain at work was initiated in soil and ground water oxidation treatment was conducted in 2011 and led to the realization of a preliminary diagnosis of 2017 and has met Ipsen’s and the Authority’s expectation. strenuous labor conditions. There were ten risk factors to Monitoring post treatment to ensure the effectiveness of the consider under these regulatory requirements, four were treatment over the long term will continue for the next few required to be implemented in 2015 and the additional six risk years. A due diligence assessment was conducted in regards factors were to be implemented in 2016. These risk factors to the acquisition of the Merrimack site located in Cambridge, have been addressed by the French locations. Ipsen will Massachusetts, USA. stay vigilant and continue its preventive action approach to preserve the health of employees by implementing associated In terms of land use, Ipsen sites have not shown any strenuous labor conditions action plans. demonstrated adverse impacts. Ipsen is involved in agricultural activities with plantations growing Ginkgo biloba trees. The ■■4.2.3.3 Reduce the environmental footprint plantations are located in France and the US. There have been no adverse impacts with these plantation sites. Soil, Subsoil & Pollution Prevention As stated in Ipsen’s EHS policy, Ipsen is committed to limit the Noise pollution EHS impact on people and on the environment, and hence No significant noise issues were reported regarding Ipsen to prevent any accidental pollution ensuring the sustainable facilities that caused nuisance to neighbors with the exception development of Ipsen and its surrounding environment. of the Ipsen site located at L’Isle-sur-la Sorgue where some areas were identified as a minor nuisance based on the low Therefore, specific procedures are in place to treat incidents noise levels in the surrounding neighborhood. An awareness of accidental pollution on Ipsen’s industrial sites. campaign in the neighborhood, including an invitation to meet Products and materials that could cause accidental pollution with the site’s management, has been conducted annually are stored in appropriately controlled areas. Their handling since 2014. Future plans are shared with the neighbors and disposal follow specific procedures and guidelines. The and their issues are also captured and addressed. Noise sites also follow the rules set by the different regulations reduction opportunities to reduce the noise levels emanating concerning the transportation of hazardous materials (ADR, from the plant have been implemented and the noise levels IATA, RID...). meet the regulatory levels required. All environmental incidents are recorded in the EHS Impact of Ipsen activities on climate change management system framework in place at manufacturing and Ipsen’s approach to carbon reduction includes identifying R&D sites. The most significant incidents are systematically sources of carbon emissions throughout the organization, Ipsen Registration document 2017 159 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY next is to quantify or at least estimate the amount of these Ipsen has also started to collect air emission data related to emissions, and finally to target opportunities to reduce these boiler emissions from fuel burning. These are now captured emissions. Ipsen has conducted this approach for several in the table presented later in this report. The emissions years and continues to implement methods to identify, measured include sulphur oxides and nitrogen oxides. quantify and reduce carbon emissions. Energy consumption A focus for Ipsen has been the scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions Energy consumption at Ipsen increased by more than 2.00% as these are directly controlled by Ipsen. Ipsen’s activities are regarding Perimeter 1. For Perimeter 2, the global consumption guided by the 10 voluntary commitments of LEEM (agreement in energy increased by over 0.1% between 2016 and 2017. with the MEDDEM – Ministry of the Environment, Sustainable This energy increase is the result of significant expansion at Development, Energy and the Sea). Ipsen has implemented the majority of Ipsen’s manufacturing sites in 2017. We also energy conservation programs at its manufacturing and have more office sites reporting energy consumption in 2017 R&D facilities to reduce these emissions even with a growing than in previous years. company. The work done so far has been effective and Ipsen will continue to pursue these opportunities. The sites of Cork, Dreux, Signes and Wrexham represent more than two thirds (67%) of the energy consumption of the Ipsen is also broadening its collection of internal data such as manufacturing and R&D activities. including more affiliate commercial offices in various countries as well as determining scope 3 emissions. More sources are The split between energy sources (electricity, gas and fuel) being evaluated. Ipsen is studying ways to reduce emissions has been maintained at the same level since 2012. In 2017, associated with sources of carbon such as vehicle fleets, fuel oil consumption remained relatively small. In 2017, supply chain opportunities, distribution opportunities, and purchased steam source was used by the Cambridge US employee travel opportunities. R&D site. Scope 3 emissions account for almost three-quarters of Renewable energy and green energy consist of contracted total annual emissions. The main challenges lie mainly in the energy from electrical energy providers. The sites of carbon associated with components, including packaging, Wrexham and Dublin signed energy agreements with the business travel (notably by plane) and freight transport. To utility providers during 2017 to go 100% renewable power. date, Ipsen has identified these scope 3 emission sources Cork used 100% renewable electricity in 2017. Other sites as the most critical to measure and manage. We will look are increasing their electricity supplied by renewable power. at additional scope 3 emission sources and confirm that we In addition, the Cambridge site is sourcing steam supply from have targeted the most appropriate sources to measure and a district heating loop available to the site thus eliminating manage. onsite steam producing systems. Ipsen is looking at more opportunities to improve the use of renewable/green power To a lesser extent, Ipsen also plans to work on lower-carbon sourced energy. work such as working from home or waste management. The complexity of the estimates requires rigorous methodological Waste Management analysis which began in 2016 and has continued through Growth in production across Ipsen has not resulted in 2017. This is necessary to be able to implement control increased waste generation. With more than 20% growth actions based on reliable data. in the production of major products as well as expansion of In 2017, Ipsen has identified the climate change risks such as manufacturing site footprints with new buildings, additional changes in regulatory requirements affecting Ipsen operations production shifts and additional production capacity again has and those of our supply chain, uncertainty of physical risks not resulted in a concomitant increase in waste generation. such as flooding and other natural disasters which impact our operations and our supply chain, carbon taxation, mandatory Ipsen waste profile in terms of hazardous / non-hazardous trading programs, mandatory energy efficiency standards, ratios has increased in the amount of hazardous waste mandator y emission limits, and product and process generated each year. The increasing trend is driven by product standards. Other risks include energy shortages, resource demand, increased production capacity, and increases in scarcity, price changes prompted by scarcity, consumer building projects. At L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, there is an effort to changes in attitude and demand, and reputation risks. All reclassify waste currently classified as hazardous production of these risks can impact operations, costs and ability to waste to non-hazardous by product that can be recycled. compete in the biotech business sector. Ipsen waste treatment mix has remained relatively constant Other air emissions over the period. The proportion of recycled waste remains dominant with a percentage of 61% compared to incineration Ipsen monitors other substances which could be discharged and landfilling. It should be noted that the largest producers into the atmosphere through its various activities. It particularly of waste, the sites of Cork, Signes, Wrexham and L’Isle-surmonitors volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and controlled la-Sorgue, recycle their waste 76%, 81%, 60% and 98%, substances identified as causes of the depletion of the ozone respectively. layer under the Montreal Protocol. Emissions of VOC to the atmosphere for 2017 were mainly related to the sites of Signes Finally, sites continue to implement waste optimization and Cork (approximately 84% of the Ipsen global emissions). programs by searching for new technologies and methods to Emissions from the research and development centers do not decrease the amount of waste generated and to increase the contribute significantly to these emissions. amount of waste that is recycled. 160 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Food Waste American Chemical Society Green Chemistry Initiative and is Ipsen does not create a large amount of food waste at participating in efforts to find alternatives to various chemicals its facilities. Food waste is managed through local waste used in our processes. management ser vices. This area is not considered a Stakeholders Relations significant waste stream for Ipsen. Ipsen is concerned about the potential impact of its activities Water Consumption on the areas surrounding its sites. Also, as part of its overall Ipsen’s water consumption totaled 529,281 m 3 in 2017 EHS policy and in the context of its implementation at the compared to 469,579 m3 in 2016, which shows an increase sites, Ipsen integrated stakeholder requests and opinions. of 12.71%. Based on these inputs, meetings were held and partnership activities were organized. The Isle-sur-la-Sorgue site consumed 66% of the Ipsen total 2017 water consumption. 99.6% of this water was sourced As in previous years, Ipsen conducted communication from well water. This site’s water consumption has increased campaigns at the sites of Cork and L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue. In by 12.71% in 2017 compared to 2016 consumption due to Cork, the site participated in communication activities and production expansion. Water conservation and recycling support for resident associations as well as other companies projects have been implemented and more are identified for in the local area. In L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, a meeting on site implementation at the L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue site in 2018 and with members of the neighborhood allowed the sharing of 2019. The well water consumption is expected to reduce by site activities and identification of EHS prevention measures 30% in 2020 once these projects are implemented. associated with the operations of the site. Water treatment Biodiversity: biological equilibrium, natural habitats and Ipsen has six sites with on-site wastewater treatment plants protected species that treat all or part of liquid wastes. Those are the sites Ipsen’s policy is to provide a safe workplace that protects the of Cambridge, Cork, L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, Signes, Dublin, environment and does not harm the health of its employees and Tianjin. The volume of wastewater treated represents a or that of neighboring communities. The preservation of 15.91% increase in wastewater being treated in 2017 versus ecological equilibrium, conservation of natural habitats and 2016. protection of protected species are monitored closely. Green Chemistry or solvent usage optimization T he measures taken to curb impacts on biological Ipsen launched an initiative since 2009 to develop ideas equilibrium, natural habitats and protected plant and animal that could lead to the use of more environmentally friendly species are integrated into Ipsen’s general environmental products. Examples of solvent usage reduction or reuse protection program. Initiatives implemented at Ipsen site projects: located at Signes followed its collaboration with the GEPS • At the Cork site, manufacturing processed 95% of the (Groupement d’Entreprises du Plateau de Signes) regarding solvent used through regeneration; the draft “APIVIGILANCE”. It is a system of environmental biomonitoring using bees as markers of environmental • At the Signes site, near 75% of solvents used are recycled. quality: the health of the bee population extends to the In parallel, Ipsen has committed to implementing EHS health of the immediate environment. The observations considerations into the overall new product development of the activity in and around the bee hives, behavior of process. These requirements include considering alternative the bees and analysis of samples obtained from the local materials for formulations, process aids including solvents, environment allow the monitoring of the health of the hives and packaging. These EHS considerations were piloted and bee populations. These analyses provide a trend of the in 2017 and will be finalized in 2018 becoming part of the air quality in the vicinity of the site and links with the solvents ongoing product development process. used predominantly by companies in the business park. Bee populations are also used to monitor the environmental The effort to find substitutes for the use of solvents in peptide conditions at the Ipsen sites located in Les Ulis and Dreux. manufacturing continued in 2017. Several promising candidate At the Cork facility, awareness campaigns to promote land solvent alternatives were tested with disappointing results. conservation were conducted. Additionally, a maintenance These efforts continue, new alternatives being tested in various program of green areas has been implemented for the processes. Our peptide alternative solvent development preservation of the flower beds at the site and the regular organization, based in Dublin, has been conducting this work planting of trees. At Dreux, the site has collaborated on a and continues to do so. This group has become part of the fish counting operation in the River named “Les Châtelets”. Ipsen Registration document 2017 161 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Table 1. Ipsen Sustainability Performance Sustainability Area 2015 2016 2017 Safety and Health Management Ipsen Perimeter 1 Fatalities 0 0 0 Ipsen Perimeter 1 Severity Rate 0.02 0.03 0.03 Ipsen Perimeter 1 Medicalized Accidents with Lost Days 2.12 2.03 0.97 (Frequency Rate 1 FR1) Ipsen Perimeter 1 Medicalized Accidents with and without Lost Days 4.59 2.03 0.97 (Frequency Rate 2 FR2) Ipsen Perimeter 2 Medicalized Accidents with Lost Days 1.71 2.56 1.43 (Frequency Rate 1 FR1) Ipsen Perimeter 2 Medicalized Accidents with and without Lost Days 2.90 2.69 1.91 (Frequency Rate 2 FR2) Ipsen First Aids 83 68 88 Ipsen Near Misses 240 189 125 Ipsen Occupational Health 1 2 1 Contractor Fatalities 0 0 0 Contractor Medicalized Accidents with Lost Days 5 4 4 Contractor Medicalized Accidents with and without Lost Days 5 (*) 5 (*) 29 Contractor First Aids 6 10 12 Waste Management Total Waste (tons) 9,756 13,161 11,133 Hazardous Waste (tons) 2,643 3,324 3,859 Non-Hazardous Waste (tons) 7,113 9,837 7,274 Recycled Materials (tons) 6,566 9,668 6,794 Recycling Rate (%) 67.3 73.47 61 Energy Management Electrical Energy (kWh) Perimeter 2 62,681,362 62,850,159 64,506,903 Renewable including Green Power (% of total energy) Perimeter 2 3.47 2.78 13.99 Other Energy (kWh) Perimeter 2 2,025,267 2,047,287 1,139, 474 Fuel Derived Energy (kWh) Perimeter 2 70,095,054 71,551,005 70,971,741 Total Energy (kWh) Perimeter 2 134,801,683 136,448,451 136,618,119 Manufacturing and R&D Energy (kWh) 126,222,078 129,806,050 133,279,393 Affiliate Commercial Office Energy (kWh) 8,579,605 5,290,950 3,338,726 Vehicle Fleet Efficiency (km/l) Not Collected 12 15 Vehicle Fleet Energy (kWh) Not Collected 15,154,999 16,115,684 Carbon Management Carbon Scope 1 Total Emissions (tons) 13,024 13,239 14,180 Carbon Scope 2 Total Emissions (tons) 15,399 14,589 13,530 Carbon Scope 3 Total Emissions (tons) Not Collected 67,795 72,618 Carbon Scope 3 Fuel and Energy-related Activities (tons) Not Collected 4,230 859 Carbon Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services (tons) Not Collected 42,295 30,660 Carbon Scope 3 Capital Goods (tons) Not Collected 539 2,193 Carbon Scope 3 Upstream Transportation and Distribution (tons) Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected 162 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Sustainability Area 2015 2016 2017 Carbon Scope 3 Waste Generated in Operations (tons) Not Collected 2,351 3,058 Carbon Scope 3 Upstream Leased Assets (tons) Not Collected 10,646 3,478 Carbon Scope 3 Business Travel (tons) Not Collected 3,371 12,000 Carbon Scope 3 Downstream Transportation and Distribution (tons) Not Collected Not Collected 6,956 Carbon Scope 3 Processing of sold products (tons) Not Collected Not Collected Not Collected Carbon Scope 3 End of life Treatment of sold products (tons) Not Collected 605 10,311 Carbon Scope 3 Employee Commuting (tons) Not Collected 3,755 3,103 Water Management Total Water Consumption (m3) 485,554 469,579(**) 529,281 Supply from Well Water and Surface Water Origin (%) 66 66 66 Total Water Recycled (m )3 Not Collected Not Collected 14,600 Hazardous Materials Management Solvent Consumption (tons) 19,182 21,494 23,317 Reclaimed Solvents (tons) 17,852 20,042 21,819 Refrigerant Gas Losses (tons) 1.07 0.49 0.41 Compliance Management Notices of Violation Received 0 2 0 Fines and Penalties Paid (e) 0 0 0 Air Emissions Management VOC Emissions (tons) 10.2 9.55 4.18 NOx Emissions (tons) Not Collected Not Collected 1.88 SOx Emissions (tons) Not Collected Not Collected 0.68 Waste Water Management Waste Water Treated (m3) 363,362 359,493 416,916 COD Loading (tons) Not Collected Not Collected 196 BOD Loading (tons) Not Collected Not Collected 80 Total Suspended Solids (tons) Not Collected Not Collected 160 Unit Production (tons) 33,104,456 30,073,580 26,790,764 Sales (eM) 1,444 1,585 1,909 Total Facility Area (m2) 101,649 102,966 123,220 Headcount (number) with joint venture 4,635 4,907 5,401 Headcount (number) without joint venture 5,345 EHS Investments (e000) 4,926 7,521 11,631 (*) Contractor Medicalized Accidents with and without Lost Days for 2015 and 2016 has been updated from previously reported results. (**) Water consumption data for 2016 has been updated from previously reported results. ■■4.2.3.4 EHS Culture management and regulatory management. An area that we Integrating EHS into Business are exploring is integration in the marketing and sales part of the business with opportunities to promote superior EHS EHS has been integrated into several aspects of the business performance and EHS-positively impacted product attributes. including product development management, manufacturing management, purchasing and supply partner management, Eco-design internal audit management, risk management, corporate The development of approaches to eco-design is part of the social responsibility, customer management, business Ipsen’s EHS strategic plan. Ipsen sites carried out major ecodevelopment, human resources management, investor design projects. Ipsen Registration document 2017 163 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY At Tianjin, the redesign of the outer packaging for Smecta Depot Injection for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors was completed. This involved two projects: 1) to shorten to reduce medical waste and protect against needle stick satchel length by 10 mm and 2) to reduce the thickness of injuries. Ipsen won the California Product Stewardship the packaging from 9 µm to 7 µm. These two projects have Council’s 2015 Green Arrow Award for System & Design resulted in the reduction of consumption of natural resources Innovation for this industry-changing product. The impact which is expected by the Chinese authorities. This has also of this new delivery system avoided 67 tons (US) of CO2 reduced the amount of waste generated. emissions, reduced 53 tons (US) of solvents and saved more than 3 tons (US) of packaging in both 2016 and 2017. Design At Dreux, an eco-design project around packaging was opportunities continue to be investigated for future product implemented in 2010 through a training of all the concerned and packaging configurations. parties of the site and a 2-day diagnosis performed by an external consultant. The training and the diagnosis report Training had raised awareness on different sectors. The action plan As a major part of the Ipsen EHS program, awareness resulting from this audit has been implemented in 2011 with campaigns and training regarding environment, health and the purchase of software for the modeling of packaging. In safety topics continued in 2017. Each site defined its training 2012, a complementary diagnostic for packaging optimization program as a function of its own risks and impacts. All of raw materials has been achieved. At Dreux, actions are employees are trained for the inherent risks and associated conducted to reduce the impact of the product on the environmental impact of their workstation. Employees develop environment like decreasing from 9 µm to 7 µm the thickness a professional and responsible attitude in going about their of sachet used in Smecta® both in Dreux, as well as Forlax® daily work. in Dreux. Today, 85% of Smecta® and Forlax® production at Dreux is 7 µm. Another project for the reduction in the size In 2017, corporate EHS developed an induction course which of the sachets of Smecta® and Forlax® is ongoing at Dreux. describes the basic EHS philosophy, policy, approaches, Forlax®, made at Dreux and dedicated to the French market, expectations, governance, EHS team member contacts now has smaller sachets. and performance. This course was made part of the Ipsen Learning Platform required courses for new employees In parallel, actions for reducing or recycling solvents (detailed worldwide. Sites are also using this course to improve EHS in the green chemistry paragraph) are developed on the Cork, communications with existing employees. Signes and Dublin sites. General training on EHS awareness for newcomers, as well In addition to the solvent reduction and recycling projects as training on fire prevention, evacuation tests, protective at Cork, there is an ongoing project to reduce the use of a equipment, and first aid, was performed by all Ipsen sites. chemical consisting of lead which is used to precipitate the active ingredient from the Ginkgo biloba leaves. If successful, More specific training related to Ipsen required approaches this material will be removed from the process and result in a and applicable workplace practices, such as training courses significant reduction in hazardous waste as well as hazardous confined space management, explosive atmospheres material use. management, and manager safety visit training, were deployed. Finally, as explained in the Green Chemistry section above, we launched an innovative syringe technology Somatuline® Well-being at work was emphasized especially in regards to absenteeism, stress management and work life balance. 4.2.4 Internal resources ■■4.2.4.1 Internal management resources of global EHS data management system, Group certification for EHS issues to ISO 14001 – 2015 and OHSAS 18001 – 2007 Standards, EHS in product development process including Green Ipsen EHS policy and strategy are applied at each site/ Chemistry, REACH management, Pharmaceuticals in the division by the site managing directors. Senior management Environment (PIE) management, People-Based Safety (PBS) as well as site employees are heavily involved in the daily S3 improvement management, and resource conservation management of EHS and the application of Corporate EHS (focused on energy and water conservation and reduction standards and guidelines. As such, in actions and behavior of carbon emissions). These projects have integrated teams everyone contributes to the success of the EHS policy. with EHS and other groups across Ipsen participating and In addition, to reinforce its policy of prevention, the Ipsen EHS leading various tasks. In 2017, these projects and charters Team which comprises one or more representatives from were updated and new tasks added to the multiyear projects. each manufacturing site, R&D center, commercial affiliate Funding and human resources are made available to ensure and Corporate, meets regularly to share experiences, to set the successful outcomes on each of these projects. strategy and to reflect on best practices for managing EHS. EHS management at each site is coordinated by an EHS In 2016, the Ipsen EHS Team created a 2017 through 2020 manager under the authority of the site director. A total of EHS strategy for the organization. This strategy led to the 33 people makes up Ipsen’s EHS organization. They report creation of specific projects and charters to manage the areas 164 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY to the Corporate Environment, Health and Safety function all locations are properly managed, disposed and remaining (2 people) and to their site managing directors. Corporate areas decontaminated to EHS standards; EHS reports to Technical Operations but has global authority • energy and water efficiency improvement projects; across the Ipsen organization for EHS matters. • p ro j e c ts fo r i m p rov i n g th e s e g re g ati o n b et we e n The Committees of Health, Safety and Work Conditions in manufacturing / laboratory/ offices areas; France, or their equivalent in other countries, meet regularly • projects for improving equipment in order to reduce the risk and are involved in monitoring activities and projects of falling form height and to enhance machine guarding; concerning the health and safety of employees. • improvements in ergonomics and manual handling workstations; ■■4.2.4.2 Spending on the prevention of EHS impacts and on regulatory compliance • and the improvement of fire protection systems. Since environment, health and safety protection are constant There have also been major expansions and addition of new priorities. Ipsen makes regular capital expense and operating buildings at most of the Ipsen R&D and Manufacturing sites in expense investments in these areas. In 2017, with the 2017 all of which involve EHS investments in various systems. implementation of master plans on the sites, which includes the setting of new improvements for EHS protection, the ■■4.2.4.3 Provisions and guarantees for EHS, amount of investment in EHS totaled just over 7.1 million compensation and remediation euros. Regular surveys on environmental risks, work-related health Ipsen’s key EHS investments are summarized below: and safety risks and the implementation of proactive policies for mitigation of these risks, enable Ipsen to limit its exposure • acquisition of a new business and manufacturing location and liability or, more generally, to remediate in a rapid and in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA and associated EHS managed manner to the environmental damage caused by evaluation and integration of Ipsen Standards; its operations. Due to this approach, Ipsen does not carry • a new Research and Development site in the United environmental provisions for remedial activities. Kingdom in Oxford – Milton Park with the inclusion of systems, equipment and processes to prevent employee In addition, since 2004, no ruling or compensation payments exposure to hazardous chemicals or biological agents; related to environmental damages caused by any of Ipsen’s R&D or manufacturing facilities were brought to Ipsen’s • air emission and wastewater discharge control systems; attention. • closure of R&D laboratory operations at the Ipsen site located in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA ensuring that 4.2.5 2017 Ipsen UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Since 2012, Ipsen has committed to and adheres to the decisions with their doctors. We know we are successful Global Compact program of the United Nations. when doctors and patients place their trust in our products and our company, when our employees excel and when Ipsen is a leading global biotech company focusing on our efforts make a meaningful difference in the lives of the specialty care and innovation. Ipsen also has a significant patients and communities we serve. presence in consumer healthcare. Ipsen’s R&D is focused on its innovative and differentiated technological platforms, For almost 90 years, Ipsen has been committed to the health, peptides and toxins, located in the heart of the leading safety, and well-being of the people who put their trust in our biotechnological and life sciences hubs (Les Ulis, France; products. Every day, we strive to better people’s lives in a Oxford/Milton Park, UK; Cambridge, USA). wide range of ways — from developing new treatments for complex and disabling medical conditions to offering scienceOur focus fosters deep engagement with medical specialists based medical over the counter solutions. Our determination and we make it our business to listen closely to their needs so to make a positive contribution extends to not only the people that together we can advance patient care. We combine this who benefit from our products, but also to our employees strategic focus with a diversified approach that enables us to and to the global community in which we live and work. It follow our research and development into new specialty areas remains our goal to ensure that our contribution to science where unmet needs are significant. reflects our commitment to a safe, healthy workplace, strong communities and responsible, ethical business practices In partnership with the medical community, we bring scientific in everything we do, from research and development to excellence and rigor to deliver leading products that improve sales and marketing. Ipsen remains focused on sustainable patient outcomes. And, we go above and beyond this to business practices including: provide education and information, with the highest level of integrity, which helps patients to fully understand the • Offering needed products that have environmental, health choices available to them and make well-informed treatment and safety design considerations, Ipsen Registration document 2017 165 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY • Managing climate change through energy efficiency and to the development and dissemination of scientific knowledge carbon footprint reduction, and to foster interactions between researchers and clinical practitioners. Its ambition is to initiate a reflection about the • Continuing to improve operational efficiency, reducing major scientific issues of the forthcoming years. waste and increasing recycling, • Providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, Sustainability is the balance between the competing priorities of economic, social and environmental responsibilities. Ipsen • Working with our supply chains to improve corporate has and will continue to commit resources and measure responsibility performance, and performance to ensuring that the highest ethical standards are • Enhancing positive community interaction. applied within the whole organization. Thus, Ipsen confirms its will to include UN Global Compact fundamental principles in As an example, Ipsen has received the Green Arrow Award its sphere of influence. for system design and innovation regarding the product Somatuline ® Depot by the California Product Stewardship In conclusion, Ipsen has had a long commitment to sustainable Council. business values. We work to keep these core values in mind in all aspects of our business so that we can maintain the In this introduction, I am highlighting some of our key excellent reputation and respect that we enjoy with our achievements and challenges relating to our corporate social stakeholders and the communities in which we operate. responsibility. More information about these and other areas of our commitment is provided throughout our website. You David Meek can also read more about our business environment, strategy, Chief Executive Officer goals and performance in our Annual Report. Moreover, the Ipsen philanthropic mission of the Fondation Ipsen is to contribute UN Global Compact Commitments and Performance The following narrative will demonstrate how Ipsen is group of eighteen core suppliers that include aspects such addressing each of these Principles and plans for improving as Human Rights. performance in each of these areas. Principle 2: Complicity in Human Rights Abuses Principle 1: Protection of Human Rights Ipsen will not be complicit in Human Rights abuses as Ipsen approaches the Protection of Human Rights as it does stated in its Code of Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to any other personal freedom and has articulated this support the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in through its Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct applies alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to to all Ipsen employees and in all of Ipsen’s business dealings. be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of The Code of Conduct requires, among other things, that Human Rights. employees respect Human Rights and do not discriminate against anyone based on characteristics protected by law. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to Harassment is not tolerated in any form. Violence or threats its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and of violence in the workplace are not tolerated. The Code representatives of the company continue to follow the of Conduct applies to persons or entities representing or Code by providing ex tensive training regarding the working on behalf of Ipsen as well. expectations based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2015 In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and Global Principles in the procurement process. In addition, in found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its 2017, Ipsen is working with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to resolve in the area of Human Rights. manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to of goods and services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and conducting supply chain partner assessments on a pilot representatives of the company continue to follow the Code group of eighteen core suppliers that include aspects such by providing extensive training regarding the expectations as Human Rights. based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all Principle 3: Freedom of Association and Collective employees complete this training process. In 2015 and Bargaining 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in the procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen approaches the right to freedom of association and Ipsen started working with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to collective bargaining as it does any other personal freedom manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement and has articulated this support through its Code of Conduct. of goods and services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of conducting supply chain partner assessments on a pilot Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and 166 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen Principle 6: Discrimination its resolve in the area of Human Rights. Ipsen approaches discrimination as it does any other In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code personal freedom and has articulated this support through of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives its Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct applies to all of the company continue to follow the Code by providing Ipsen employees and in all of Ipsen’s business dealings. The extensive training regarding the expectations based on Code of Conduct requires that employees respect Human the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees Rights and do not discriminate against anyone based on complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work characteristics protected by law. Harassment is not tolerated was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles in any form. Violence or threats of violence in the workplace in the procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is are not tolerated. The Code of Conduct applies to persons or working with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the entities representing or working on behalf of Ipsen, as well. ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and In 2012, Ipsen committed to the UN Universal Declaration of services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is conducting supply Human Rights. Ipsen is in alignment with this Declaration and chain partner assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its suppliers that include aspects such as freedom of association resolve in the area of Human Rights. and collective bargaining. In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code Principle 4: Forced and Compulsory Labor of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives Ipsen will not be complicit in forced or compulsory labor of the company continue to follow the Code by providing per Ipsen’s Code of Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to extensive training regarding the expectations based on the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles Human Rights. in the procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is working with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and of Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is conducting supply of the company continue to follow the Code by providing chain partner assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core extensive training regarding the expectations based on suppliers that include aspects such as discrimination. the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work Principle 7: Precautionary Approach was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles Ipsen has adopted the Precautionary Approach in all its in the procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is business dealings and articulates this in its Annual Registration working with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the Document. Ipsen has always practiced the precautionary ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and principle with regard to its products and operations. The services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is conducting supply inherent nature of researching and developing drug products chain partner assessments on a pilot group of eighteen for human use demonstrates the precautionary principle in core suppliers that include aspects such as forced and action. Ipsen considers the impacts of actions undertaken compulsory labor. through a rigorous risk assessment process with multiple gates through which the company proceeds when the Principle 5: Child Labor multitude of risks are determined to be acceptable to Ipsen Ipsen will not be complicit in the use of child labor per and the various stakeholders in the process including patients, Ipsen’s Code of Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to physicians, employees, government officials, investors, and the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in others. alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of Principle 8: Environmental Responsibility Human Rights. Ipsen has a very strong stand on environmental responsibility as indicated by its EHS policy, programs and various In 2013 and 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to performance reports (see pages 19-20 and 69-93). Ultimately, its Code of Conduct and ensuring that employees and Ipsen has been reducing energy and water consumption representatives of the company continue to follow the Code at its facilities and has goals to continue improving this by providing extensive training regarding the expectations performance. In 2018, Ipsen is considering participating in the based on the Code of Conduct and requiring that all CEO Water Mandate and the Caring for Climate C4C Ipsen. employees complete this training process in 2015 and 2016, work was initiated internally to include the UN Global In 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Principles in the procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives Ipsen is working with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to of the company continue to follow the Code by providing manage the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement extensive training regarding the expectations based on of goods and services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is the Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees conducting supply chain partner assessments on a pilot complete this training process. In 2015 and 2016, work group of eighteen core suppliers that include aspects such was initiated internally to include the UN Global Principles as child labor. in the procurement process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is Ipsen Registration document 2017 167 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION working with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is conducting supply services. EcoVadis, on behalf of Ipsen, is conducting supply chain partner assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core chain partner assessments on a pilot group of eighteen core suppliers that include aspects such as environment, health suppliers that include aspects such as Human Rights. and safety management systems and resource conservation. Principle 9: Environmentally Friendly Technologies Principle 10: Corruption Ipsen has made its approaches and technologies used Ipsen has established positions against corruption including to achieve the results captured in Principle 8 available to bribery in its Code of Conduct. In 2012, Ipsen committed to the public through the Ipsen website, and various trade the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ipsen is in associations and partnerships. alignment with this Declaration and found its commitment to be a natural method to strengthen its resolve in the area of In 2014, Ipsen continued its commitment to its Code of Human Rights. Conduct and ensuring that employees and representatives of the company continue to follow the Code by providing Conclusion extensive training regarding the expectations based on the Ipsen will continue to enhance support of the UN Global Code of Conduct and requiring that all employees complete Compact Principles. Ipsen will collaborate with the UN Global this training process. In addition, in 2017, Ipsen is working Compact on methods and means to improve its performance with EcoVadis which allows Ipsen to manage the ethical and the performance of all entities regarding these Principles. 4.3 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.3.1 Social relations ■■4.3.1.1 Employee representation characteristics of the various countries. Ordinary meetings are held annually in order to present the progress in Ipsen Group’s Employees are represented in each Group company in business and its strategic directions. accordance with the applicable local legislation, i.e. by the Joint Consultation Group in the United Kingdom, by the It’s an European employee representation body for information Rappresentanza Sindacale Unitaria in Italy, by the Comité and consultation on so-called “transnational” issues which is de Empresa in Spain. In France, employee representation responsible for sharing information and exchange of views, is ensured at the local level (6 companies) and also at the fostering experience-sharing and building coordination central level within the framework of an Economic and Social between European countries. entity (Unité Économique et Sociale), with a single Central Works Council (Comité Central d’Entreprise) for all employees ■■4.3.1.2 Collective agreements in France and a Central Negotiation Body (Instance Centrale See paragraph 4.1.2 “The Group’s Human Resources policy” de Négociation) which brings together trade unions (paragraphs: “Equal opportunities and diversity within the representatives of the Economic and Social entity. Group”, “Integration of disabled workers”, “Employing young The frequency of meetings between management and and senior workers and transferring knowledge”, “Group’s employee representatives depends on the applicable local compensation and benefits policy”). legislation. ■■4.3.1.3 Social initiatives The Group ensures that the rights and freedoms of employee representatives are strictly observed and that they enjoy According to country specific environments, the Group’s the same promotion and training opportunities as other policy on social initiatives is based on four main priorities: employees. • initiatives benefiting its employees’ children, Lastly, an European Works Council was setting up following • initiatives for retired employees, the conclusion of an agreement on 28 August 2013. As • initiatives for active employees, from this date, Ipsen’s European Work Council has been • and, lastly, all other initiatives, such as relationships with created, composed of 10 members representing European not-for-profit organizations, sponsorship, etc. countries, and it met for the first time on 17 June 2014. The members of the European Works Council work together, Aside from the normal benefits related to family events, the taking a concerted approach, and in compliance with the calendar and various subsidized leisure activities, the Group legal and regulatory practices as well as the cultural and social aims to provide genuine support to its employees. 168 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION 4.3.2 Societal information ■■4.3.2.1 Social, economic and territory impact ■■4.3.2.3 Relationships with stakeholders I p s e n’s a m b i t i o n i s to b e c o m e a l e a d i n g g l o b a l Dialogue with stakeholders biopharmaceutical company focused on innovation and A company’s ability to respond to stakeholders’ expectations specialty care by: is a measure of its credibility and sustainability. Ipsen, as a • Developing and advancing therapies in areas of high unmet global specialty-driven pharmaceutical group, with drugs needs; marketed in more than 100 countries, acts to provide concrete responses to the needs and expectations of a wide variety of • Creating differentiated solutions capitalizing on our own stakeholders, particularly those in the healthcare field. expertise in Research & Development; Ipsen has a transparent and regular dialogue with its main • Transforming and growing our business in targeted stakeholders (staff, healthcare professionals and patients, therapeutic areas (Oncology, Neuroscience and Rare investors and financial community, suppliers / partners, Diseases) to bring patients access to innovative solutions; regulatory authorities and agencies, local communities, media, etc.) to provide reliable and factual information, to pursue a • Fostering a culture of excellence, responsibility, agility and constructive dialogue, develop partnerships, support patient teamwork. associations, with the ultimate goal of providing innovative Ipsen now has a truly global footprint, with more than 50% of solutions for patients. sales outside Europe. North America is the fastest growing Trade associations region and the US is Ipsen’s number one affiliate. Ipsen continues to invest and capture opportunities in emerging Ipsen is a member of national and international associations markets such as Russia, Brazil and in China and/or inter-professional trade groups in which it plays a proactive role in sector-wide initiatives, notably with the Ipsen pursues an active policy of partnership, either for following: research or commercial purposes, with the following objectives: • Regional trade associations such as EFPIA (European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industry Association) and • Access new technologies or competencies for research & PhRMA (Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of development programs; America); • Investigate new or complementary research areas; • Bodies with a national footprint such as FarmaIndustria in Spain, Les Entreprises du Mé dicame nt (Leem) • Enhance Ipsen’s distribution network through the acquisition in France, APIPHARMA in Portugal, Association of the of commercial rights for products from third parties, in British Pharmaceutical Industry (ABPI) in United Kingdom, countries where Ipsen operates; Research and Development Pharmaceutical Association of • Optimize the value of products issued from Ipsen’s research China (RDPAC). that do not fit into its targeted therapeutic areas, by outThe Group also has interactions and relationships with licensing them to partners that will develop and market scientific groups or clusters in order to set up public / private them in specific territories. partnerships (universities, research centers) such as ARIIS in Several strategic partnerships are ongoing for: France or industry/trade groups (e.g. Polepharma in France). • Early stage development & technology: Rhythm, bioMérieux, In France, the Ipsen Group is a member of “G5 Health”, a Oncodesign, CEA, CNRS, Inserm, Johns Hopkins, Salk think-tank that brings together CEOs of the main FranceInstitute, Institut Gustave Roussy, Harvard Medical School, based healthcare companies (bioMérieux, Guerbet, Ipsen, Peptimimesis, Institute of Molecular and Cell Bilogy, 3B LFB, Pierre Fabre, Sanofi, Servier and Théa). Pharmaceuticals, etc.; Investors, Financial community and Media • L ate stage developme nt & mar keting: Galde r ma, The Group maintains a regular and transparent dialogue Debiopharm, Photocure, Teijin, GW Pharmaceuticals, with its investors and the financial community through the Lexicon, Exelixis. publication of its financial statements and during meetings specifically organized for the investor community. Meetings ■■4.3.2.2 Impact of its activity on nearby or local with media are also organized in the same context. populations Supervisory authorities Ipsen is committed to the importance of health, safety and The pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated by government respect for the environment. Approaches to eco-design and bodies. Regulations cover nearly all aspects of the Group’s waste reduction are integrated from the very outset when activities, from Research and Development and marketing to designing new manufacturing or industrial projects. Studies its manufacturing facilities and processes. are carried out into the design and optimization of packaging of Ipsen medicines as well as into the palletization of products, In each country where it markets its products or conducts while also taking into account potential recycling solutions. research, the Ipsen Group has to comply with the standards Ipsen Registration document 2017 169 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION laid down by the local regulatory authorities and by any In accordance with the applicable rules, Ipsen is committed to other competent supranational regulatory authority. These working with all stakeholders in healthcare to ensure the value authorities namely include the European Medicines Agency of these relationships and the benefits of greater transparency (EMA), the French Agency for the Safety of Medicines are understood. and Health Products (ANSM) in France, the Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United During the first semester 2017, and in accordance with the Kingdom and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the Transparency laws and Codes, Ipsen has made publicly United States, as well as various other regulatory bodies, in available, on its website, all the transfers of value made to markets where the company operates. HCPs and HCOs in 2016, in the United States and in the European countries. Patients / civil society The Fondation Ipsen Communication with patients organizations must comply with the standard policy of Ethics & Compliance and the local Established in 1983 under the aegis of the Fondation de regulatory authorities where the Group operates. France, the ambition of the Fondation Ipsen is to initiate a reflection about the major scientific issues of the forthcoming The aim is to first listen to the needs of the patient’s years. Thus, the mission of the Fondation Ipsen is to contribute organizations so that we can better meet patients’ and to the development and spreading of scientific knowledge. For caregivers’ expectations. more than 30 years, the Fondation Ipsen has organized over 250 meetings and produced several hundred publications; This can be done through Disease awareness campaigns or more than 250 scientists and biomedical researchers have Disease education materials, but also by taking into account been awarded prizes and research grants. In 2017, the patients’ needs as of the preliminary stage of clinical studies. Fondation Ipsen invited speakers, internationally recognized, Ipsen continues its efforts to support global and local patients to present their work illustrating a broad range of promising organizations projects for example: biomedical innovations. • Dystonia Europe 2017 has been a year of transition for the Fondation with the nomination in December of a new President. All along the • Europa UOMO (The European Prostate Cancer Coalition) year, Fondation Ipsen improved its capabilities in terms of • International Neuroendocrine Cancer Alliance (INCA) communication and digitalization in order to be able to spread more widely the emerging scientific knowledge which is a key • European Cancer Patient Coalition (ECPC) pillar in Fondation Ipsen strategy. • NET Patient Foundation In 2017, the Fondation Ipsen continued to hold its Colloques • International Kidney Cancer Coalition (IKCC). Médecine et Recherche (CMR) in Cancer Science series. The 13th annual meeting was held right in the “Cradle of Humankind” In addition, some rare diseases charity organizations have (Magaliesburg, South Africa) from 22 April to 26 April on the been granted like FOB (Association Fibrosysplasie Ossifiante topic of “Cancer Therapy: Modulating the immune system”. This Progressive) and ProMESSES (ProFamilles et Malades: event, which acquired an international recognition, gathered Eduquer, Soutenir, Surmonter Ensemble la Schizophrénie). the most prominent scientists in Cancer research, including Nobel prize laureates like David Baltimore (California Institute of Healthcare professionals and scientists Technology, USA) or Michael J. Bishop (University of California, As part of Ipsen’s commitment to improve the health and San Francisco, USA). All along these four days, the talks and quality of life of patients, Healthcare Professionals (HCP) and the interactions were focused on the scientific and medical Organizations (HCO) work with us on a variety of activities challenges of immunotherapy. ranging from clinical research to sharing best clinical practices and information on how new medicines can be adapted to The Fondation Ipsen pursued its partnerships with the Salk patient pathways. Institute for Biological Studies (La Jolla, USA) and AAAS (The American Association for the Advancement of Science), Interactions with Healthcare Professionals and Organizations the world’s largest multidisciplinary scientific society and a must comply with the laws, regulations, and industry codes in leading publisher of cutting-edge research through notably its force in the countries in which Ipsen operates, enabling these scientific journals Science. The 11th meeting of the “Biological interactions to be conducted with integrity and trust. Complexity” series (25-27 January) was dedicated to “RNA At Ipsen, all interactions with HCPs and HCOs must be based Biology”. Several themes have been discussed, from the latest on legitimate and genuine need and business purpose, discoveries (CRISPR-Cas9, Long non-coding ARN, etc.) until and engagements with HCPs must be remunerated and the most promising therapeutic perspectives. Among the transparently established. invited speakers, Phillip A. Sharp (1993 Nobel Laureate in Physiology or Medicine), gave a talk on “RNA Biology and Many countries have adopted laws or codes to implement Therapeutics”, and Emmanuelle Charpentier (Max Planck Transparency, such as the United States (US Sunshine Institute for Infection Biology, Berlin, Germany) who developed Act), France (Bertrand law) or European countries that fall the CRISPR-Cas9 technology, a 1-hour special lecture. under the EFPIA Disclosure Code – The public disclosure of The discovery of CRISPR-Cas9, a natural immune defense transfers of value has marked a significant development in the system in bacteria, has revolutionized genome editing, by relationship between the pharmaceutical industry and HCPs. enabling precise and highly efficient cutting and splicing of 170 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION any genomes. These genome editing tools are now used daily 7. strong focus on building mutually beneficial relationships; in laboratories worldwide and offer promising perspectives, 8. environment and sustainability considerations; especially in terms of drug development against devastating diseases like Cancer or Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. 9. and other risk management considerations. In 2017, the Fondation Ipsen also awarded annual prizes Moreover, a specific paragraph of this policy focuses on to reward outstanding research, within the framework of ethical standards, for which purchasing team members ought international conferences. to be a model. • The 16 th Endocrine Regulation Prize was awarded at In France, Ipsen signed in 2013 the “Charte des Relations the ECE (European Congress of Endocrinology) in Lisbon Inter-Entreprises”. The objective of this Charter is to build (Portugal), on 23 May, to Bruce McEwen (Rockefeller a balanced and sustainable relationship between large University, New York, USA). The international jury chaired companies and their suppliers in knowledge and respect of by Iain Robinson (National Institute for Medical Research, the rights and duties of each party. United Kingdom) recognized the pioneering work of the laureate on glucocorticoids, stress and neuronal How does the purchasing community translate these degeneration. principles into action? • The 22nd Longevity Prize has been awarded, on 24 July, Firstly, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) criteria are during the 21st International Association of Gerontology and considered as part of the supplier selection and evaluation Geriatrics (IAGG) World Congress, in San Francisco. The process. international jury chaired by Professor Thomas Kirkwood EHS or more widely CSR are part of our specifications in more (Newcastle University, UK and Copenhagen University, and more categories. Denmark), has unanimously decided to award the prize to Andrzej Bartke (Southern Illinois University School of • Namely, for equipment purchases and capital expenses, Medicine, Springfield, USA) for his pioneering analysis of EHS reviews the specifications in Les Ulis, Dreux, Dublin the molecular and hormonal mechanisms that can extend and Wrexham. mammalian longevity. • For contract manufacturing, a certain standard is required Finally, the Fondation Ipsen has also been part of the for subcontractors manipulating our drugs, for whom we NeuroFrance 2017 meeting (Bordeaux, 17-19 May), with not only collect detailed EHS information before selection, the organization of a special lecture on “Brain and Machine but we may also perform EHS site audit to assess the Learning and Memory”. The invited speakers, Hughes Bersini Health and Safety protection level of their staff before (Laboratoire IRIDIA, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium) selection and once they have become our supplier. and Paul Frankland (Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada), discussed the parallel between human being • In Dreux, our biggest volume manufacturing site, we have and the machine, i.e. conscious and unconscious artificial added in 2013 a CSR section in our evaluation tool applied intelligence and the persistence and transience of memory. to the most strategic material suppliers. In 2014, we have systematized this evaluation to all our suppliers of material 4.3.2.4 Subcontracts and suppliers and packaging; furthermore, we have also enlarged this We subcontract a significant part of our Research and assessment to our main providers of facility management Development to CROs (Contract Research Organizations), (maintenance, security...). including toxicology studies, phases I to IV clinical study • We have included a clause covering sustainability and labor monitoring and management, as well as part of drug in most of our Facility management contracts for Dreux, development and manufacturing to CDMOs (Contract Signes and Les Ulis (maintenance, security…). Development and Manufacturing Organizations). • We have included EHS in our Supplier Relationship More generally, purchasing value representing a high Management (SRM) program and specifically in the percentage of Ipsen sales, involving suppliers in the Ipsen SRM tool being developed for managing Ipsen-Supplier Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program is essential to relationships. deliver a sustainable business. • In 2017, we conducted a pilot working with EcoVadis to help This is translated into the nine governing principles introducing manage supplier compliance with CSR and Sustainable the global purchasing policy, which are: practices. This will allow Ipsen to work with suppliers to 1. quality, efficiency and effectiveness; improve their CSR and sustainability standings as well as improve our relationships with these suppliers. In 2018, we 2. probity and equity; intend to expand the supplier base to more than 30 key 3. transparency; suppliers. 4. effective competition, including fair dealing; Purchasing is a major participant in the “Phare” program managed by Human Resources, aiming at promoting Insertion 5. objective practices related to pricing and contracting; and Consideration of Disability in employment. In continuity of 6. respect and protection of intellectual property and the audit performed in 2011 to assess the level of outsourcing information; with protected and engaged companies in France, some Ipsen Registration document 2017 171 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION actions have been implemented on our sites since 2012 and ■■4.3.2.5 Loyalty of practices are subject to annual monitoring: The new mechanisms for combatting bribery and corruption • Gardening in our three French manufacturing sites Dreux, do not dramatically impact the obligations applicable to the L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue and Signes as well as at Les Ulis our companies operating already in an international environment, R&D site, purchasing of pallets at L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, as Ipsen, but the Law Sapin II has equipped France with a painting work at Dreux. new legal tool enabling our country to ensure a sustainable • In our sites of Dreux and L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue, we buy from competitiveness for its companies. protected and adapted companies in France some of our cleaning products and office supplies; we also outsource Ipsen’s continued commitment to the highest ethical to them the enveloping and the mail postage. Annually, standards has been communicated through the Company’s Dreux buys visit cards from French protected and engaged Code of Conduct and its Ethics & Compliance program. companies. Ipsen’s Code of Conduct applies to all Ipsen employees and its Ethics & Compliance program which has been developed • Some breakfasts and catering services at Signes, part of to meet international standards, driven by ethical principles, our meal trays servicing, the provision and maintenance applies to all countries and functions in the company. of green plants in Boulogne and Les Ulis, design of Ipsen greeting cards and mailing to all Ipsen French employees. Actions taken to prevent all forms of corruption In 2015, L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue (ISS) bought for the first time Ipsen has adopted a continuous improvement approach compositions for the gift packages given to their staff to a for its anti-corruption program. Ipsen also joined the United sheltered workshop. Nations “Global Compact” program in 2012, confirming the • At Signes, we purchased work equipment that have been Group’s commitment to fighting corruption in all its forms. analyzed by ergonomists in 2014 in order to optimize and maintain the position of disabled workers and improve the Both the Ipsen Internal Ethics & Compliance program and working conditions of the working unit. This analysis was the Third-Party Compliance program are designed and extended over 2015 and also on a perimeter including L’Islecontinuously improved to mitigate the risk related to corruption sur-la-Sorgue (ISS). among other compliance related risks and comply with all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws including the Actions are conducted to reduce the impact of the product new French Anti-Corruption Law Sapin II. on the environment like decreasing from 9 µm to 7 µm the thickness of sachet used in Smecta ® both in Dreux and In 2017, the Global Policy about Interactions with External in Tianjin, as well as Forlax® in Dreux. Since 2014, 85% of Stakeholders and the Global Directive on Interactions with Smecta® and Forlax® production at Dreux is 7 µm. HCPs and HCOs have been published to introduce the principles that these interactions should adhere to and Another advanced project on our production sites is to reduce the requirements that should be satisfied. The latter has the weight of cartons used in the manufacture of our cases. At been accompanied by the identification of country specific Dreux, this project has already been completed. requirements for interactions with HCPs or HCOs. In addition, Also in the packaging area, another project on the reduction Global Guidance on Interactions with Patient Organizations of the sachets size for Forlax® in Dreux was finalized in 2014. and Patients has also become effective to set the principles and Forlax® produced at Dreux for the French market has today requirements to enhance the anti-corruption infrastructure. smaller sachets. Our Tianjin plant in 2015 began the reduction The entire compliance infrastructure has undergone a of sachets for Smecta® and finalized this project in 2017. continuous assessment with the objective to strengthen the anti-corruption measures across all components of the Ethics Finally, we launched an innovative syringe technology & Compliance program and beyond. S o m a tu l i n e ® D e p ot I n j e c ti o n fo r th e tr e a tm e n t of neuroendocrine tumors to reduce medical waste and protect Through the Third-Par ty Compliance program Ipsen against needle stick injuries. Ipsen won the California Product assessed, in 2017, around 1,000 transactions the company Stewardship Council’s 2015 Green Arrow Award for System engaged with partners and suppliers. The due diligence & Design Innovation for this industry-changing product. The performed, completed by trainings and monitoring activities, impact of this new delivery system avoided to 67 tons (US) of are consistent with main anti-corruption legislations CO2 emissions, reduced 53 tons (US) of solvents and saved requirements (e.g.: FCPA, UK Anti-Bribery Act and French more than 3 tons (US) of packaging in both 2016 and 2017. Law Sapin II) and other anti-corruption legislations. Ipsen EHS and Purchasing are working with EcoVadis to drive Ipsen encourages a speak-up culture so that all employees sustainability and CSR evaluations with our key suppliers. In can report any incidents or breaches related to, among other 2017, 18 suppliers were targeted for assessment and evaluation. risks, potential corruption facts and Ipsen has implemented The outcome was half these suppliers are now rated using the an alert reporting procedure described in the Company’s EcoVadis methodology and the others are being worked with Code of Conduct. to gain an understanding about why they did not complete the assessment or participate in the process. We are expanding Measures taken in favor of the safety and health this program to an additional 30 suppliers in 2018. We will of customers also work to increase engagement as well as to address those Ipsen’s vision as a leading pharmaceutical company is to suppliers that don’t meet minimum expectations. strive to deliver significant improvements in patients’ health 172 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION and quality of life by providing effective therapeutic solutions A collaborative teamwork to fulfill unmet medical needs. GPS benefits from effective teamwork at all levels to achieve As a pharmaceutical Company, pharmacovigilance is a key its objectives, namely: activity within Ipsen with both ethical and legal aspects. As • Within GPS; part of the Research and Development Division, the Global Patient Safety (GPS) department, includes pharmacovigilance • Across the wider pharmacovigilance community, including among its various accountabilities to ensure the safety of all Ipsen-staff with pharmacovigilance responsibilities in patients receiving Ipsen products. The Senior Vice President, local affiliates and subsidiaries who interface with local Head of Global Patient Safety also fulfils the role of European customers and local health authorities to ensure patient Union Qualified Person for Pharmacovigilance (EU QPPV), safety and compliance with the regulatory legislation; and reports to the Senior Vice President, Head of Global Regulatory Affairs, Safety and Quality. The objectives of • Other functions within Ipsen, and Ipsen’s partner-companies Global Patient Safety are: and third party vendors. • to ensure the proactive evaluation and communication of The medical safety governance at Ipsen culminates with evolving safety knowledge about all Ipsen drug products, the Ipsen Benefit-Risk Decision Board, chaired by the Chief so that benefit-risk is optimized for patients, both in clinical Medical Officer, which includes senior experts from the development and after market launches; and relevant functions required for effective benefit-risk decision making, including changes to the Company Core Data Sheets • to maintain a sustainable cross-functional Ipsen PV and subsequent Summaries of Product Characteristics, System, fully compliant with pharmacovigilance legislation Prescribing Information and Investigator’s Brochures for worldwide, and sourced cost-effectively with reliable all Ipsen development and post-marketing authorization access to the right capacity of skills and capabilities to products. secure efficient delivery of fluctuating workload demands. In June 2014 the MHRA (UK) conducted a routine Good The achievement of these objectives requires the collection Pharmacovigilance Practice (GVP) inspection at Ipsen. and evaluation of adverse event data from all sources There were no critical findings identified in the Company’s worldwide, and ensuring that these data are accurately pharmacovigilance system (a critical finding is defined as entered onto our Global Patient Safety database and expedited a deficiency in pharmacovigilance systems, practices or as required to health authorities according to the relevant processes that adversely affect the rights, safety or well-being pharmacovigilance legislation. This database provides of patients or that poses a potential risk to public health or information for the ongoing assessment of the benefit-risk that represents a serious violation of applicable legislation and profiles of all Ipsen products authorized for marketing, and guidelines). All Corrective and Preventative Actions in relation those molecules which are in clinical development. The data to this inspection have been completed. are examined using state of the art software and statistical analyses to look for safety signals, which are then evaluated Respect of Human Rights and Promotion and Respect to ascertain whether these constitute new risks or changes of the fundamental principles of the International Labor to existing risks. Regular aggregate reports of safety data are Organization (ILO) prepared for submission to health authorities according to Through our Code of Conduct and our human resources their timelines and requirements. policy, we commit to respect Human Rights and to promote Ipsen’s safety culture is based on strong collaboration and respect the fundamental principles of the ILO (International between Non-Clinical Drug Safety, and Global Patient Safety, Labor Organization), in particular: providing an integrated scientific approach to safety decision• to support and respect the protection of internationally making. The sources of safety data include spontaneous case proclaimed Human Rights; reports from healthcare professionals and consumers, clinical trials, pre-clinical and toxicology information, solicited case • to make sure that we are not complicit in Human Rights reports from organized patient data collection systems (e.g. abuses; patient support programs, registries, etc.), published articles in the scientific and medical literature and communications • to encourage the freedom of association and the effective from health authorities. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Thus GPS staff work closely with their colleagues within other • to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor; functions to develop clinical trial programs, clinical study reports, Marketing Authorization Applications, responses to • to abolish child labor; questions from Health Authorities, and to ensure effective • to ban discrimination in respect of employment and communication of up-to-date benefit-risk information via the occupation. product information (Summary of Product Characteristics, Prescribing Information, Patient Leaflets) to assist the Moreover, since 2012, Ipsen adheres to the Global Compact physicians and patients in making the best patient-centric program of the United Nations and confirms the will of the decisions on treatment. Such collaborative working may also Group to include its fundamental principles in particular in the involve Ipsen partners when the product is the subject of a domain of Human Rights and standards of work in its sphere licensing venture. of influence. Ipsen Registration document 2017 173 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION Methodological note on the social and environmental reporting Human Resources Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) • Headcounts Perimeter 1 of the reporting includes 7 manufacturing or production sites: Dreux (France), Dublin (Ireland), L’Isle surThe headcount indicators reported in the registration la-Sorgue (France), Signes (France), Tianjin (China) and document come from three main sources of information: Wrexham (United Kingdom) and the joint venture in Cork 1. HRConnect – HRIS of Ipsen – which covers all countries (Ireland), as well as 3 research and development (R&D) sites: except China. Data retrieved from HRConnect enable to Les Ulis (France), Cambridge (United States) and Oxfordprovide all indicators except the absenteeism rate (see Milton Park formerly Abingdon (United Kingdom). The joint below). venture of Cork is included in the perimeter of this reporting as this site follows the Ipsen EHS policy. The sites that were 2. iPeople – New HRIS of Ipsen as of 23 November 2017 acquired during 2017 are not included in the data of this report for the HR community only. Since this date, the site HR but will be included next year. stopped using HRConnect and updated the employees’ data directly on iPeople. In addition, the Perimeter 2 encompasses tertiary sites of 3. A standard Excel table: China submitted every month until the Group with a Human Resource representative, that is to November 2017 a file which includes the list of employees say: Algeria, Germany, Australia, Czech Republic, Greece, with the necessary data (headcount up-to-date, start Hungary, Poland, Romania, Mexico, USA (Basking Ridge), date/leave date, birth date, etc.) enabling the HRIS France (Boulogne-Billancourt), Brazil, China, Korea, Spain, Department (Human Resources Information System) to Italy, Russia, Sweden, Ukraine, the Netherlands, Belgium, produce indicators. Since the HR Go Live of iPeople, China and Canada, UK (Slough) and Vietnam. This perimeter covers is included in this new system. 95% of headcount at end 2017. Note that for offices, health and safety indicators (number of medicalized accidents, Regarding joint ventures, the Group HR policy does not apply number of occupational disease, number of days lost), to these entities; no reporting is being done to Ipsen’s Human information is now regularly collected during the year (except Resources. Therefore, the only information taken into account for Algeria and Korea). The energy data are collected for the for joint ventures is the headcount related to the total Group annual exercise. Workforce. The other indicators do not take into account information related to joint ventures. The Perimeter 1 represents Ipsen’s main environmental impacts related to the activities of production and research Headcount computation rule: “Is considered as present any and development. The choice of extending to Perimeter 2 has employee with a current work contract with Ipsen who has been made to include the energy consumption of international a status Active or Inactive in HRConnect”. “Active” means offices as well as accident data, which have a non-negligible “any employee paid the last day of the month which is under impact at Group level. The Perimeter 1 will be taken as consideration”; “inactive” means “any employee unpaid the a reference except where the Perimeter 2 is specifically last day of the month which is under consideration”. mentioned. External resources: temporary workers, trainees, etc. are Data consolidation is performed using an internal reporting excluded from headcounts. file, which also defines EHS monitoring indicators. The data are controlled and compiled using this central file, which • Absenteeism possesses means of control and alert (absurd data, problems A specific standard Excel table covers the absenteeism rate. of units, etc.). This central reporting file has been introduced This template is sent, at the end of the year, to every country to persons in charge of EHS on site in order to minimize the or site with a Human Resources manager: Algeria, Australia, sources of errors. Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Korea, It is nevertheless advisable to note that the extra-financial Mexico, Russia, Spain, United Kingdom, United States and reporting does not benefit from the same maturity as the Vietnam. At the end of 2017, this perimeter represents about financial reporting. The practical modalities of data collection 91% of Ipsen’s population (excluding joint ventures). However, are still to be perfected, considering the diversity of Ipsen. the absenteeism rate for the French sites is based on data retrieved from the French payroll system and provided by Further explanations are to be taken into account for the Payroll Department. following indicators: • Emission factors used to calculate CO 2 emissions are • Training those of the Base Carbone ADEME and those provided by Training activity is recorded in IPSEN Learning Platform by the the IEA emission factors related to international electricity owner of the training (Training Manager, HR…). consumption. • Energy indicators and associated CO2 emissions, published The evidence of the training duration is provided within this in 2015 for sites of Cambridge (additional supply of steam) Platform and/or by paper attendance signed sheets. and Algeria (data for gas were provided in m3 and not in The training report is extracted at corporate level and all the kWh in 2015) have been modified. Furthermore, without collected data is consolidated into a common Excel file. any additional and detailed information, the steam network 174 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION used by the Cambridge site has been estimated with an • The frequency rate 2 is the number of disabling injuries due emission factor of 0.203 kg CO2/kWh, which corresponds to the work needing an external medicalized assistance, to the average of French networks. Use of this network was with work lost time exceeding one day and without work discontinued in August 2017 when the laboratory operations lost time which have occurred over a period of 12 months at the site were closed and decommissioned. Energy 2016 per million hours worked (frequency rate 2 = number of data was used for 2017 calculations for Cambridge. disabling injuries due to the work with and without lost time x 1,000,000 / number of hours worked). Health and safety indicators in particular for determining the accident frequency and severity rates include the following • The severity rate is the number of worker-days lost as calculations: a result of disability injuries per thousand hours worked (severity rate = number of worker-days lost x 1,000 / number • The frequency rate 1 is the number of disabling injuries due of hours worked). to the work needing an external medicalized assistance, with work lost time exceeding one day which have occurred The following table represents the approaches used to derive over a period of 12 months per million hours worked carbon emissions for scope 1, 2 and 3 included in the fight to (frequency rate 1 = number of disabling injuries due to the prevent climate change section of the document. work with lost time x 1,000,000 / number of hours worked). Emissions Factor Scope Categories Description Data sources sources 1 Direct emissions from Natural gas and fuel R&D manufacturing Base Carbone stationary combustion combustion (kWh) and affiliates reporting sources 1 Direct fugitive emissions Refrigerant gas losses (tons) R&D manufacturing Base Carbone reporting 2 Indirect emission from Electricity consumption (kWh) R&D manufacturing IAE Highlights CO2 electricity consumption and affiliates reporting fossil fuels and Base Carbone for French sites 2 Indirect emission from Steam and cooling R&D manufacturing Base Carbone steam, heat and cooling consumption (kWh). Only one and affiliates reporting consumption site is concerned 3 Emissions due to fuels and Upstream emissions from R&D manufacturing Base Carbone energy (not covered by energy extraction and and affiliates reporting scope 1 and 2) transportation (kWh) 3 Purchased goods or Extraction and Manufacturing R&D manufacturing: Base Carbone and services of raw materials such Weight of every component CarbonEM methodology as paper, aluminum and of primary, secondary and excluding transportation tertiary packaging (tons) 3 Capital goods GHG Emissions due to the R&D manufacturing Base Carbone construction of buildings and affiliates reporting (industrial and offices) Buildings (sqm) depreciation based on 50 years 3 Upstream and downstream Road, Air, sea transportation Upstream: Tons km Base Carbone transportation and of raw materials and final from each site reporting distribution products from production site Downstream: tons km from to first delivery local sites deliveries extraction 3 End of life treatment GHG Emissions due to the R&D manufacturing Base Carbone of waste generated treatment of production waste Reporting (tons) from site operations (incineration, landfill, recycling) 3 Business travels GHG Emissions due to the Travel agency (km) Base Carbone car fleet consumption and and reporting on gasoline plane travel; Train travel is not consumption (liters) included but a first estimation concluded an insignificant contribution to scope 3 emissions compared to other business travel modes covered in this report Ipsen Registration document 2017 175 4 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION Emissions Factor Scope Categories Description Data sources sources 3 Employee commuting GHG Emissions due to travels Distances (km) Base Carbone between working sites and estimated from average employee’s home excluding (French national survey employee commuting using (ENTD INSEE)) car fleet 3 End-of-life treatment of sold GHG Emissions due to the Deliveries database Base Carbone products treatment of packaging waste (tons) and average waste (including paper, aluminum, treatment and plastic) after use of sold products (incineration, landfill, recycling) This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. Ipsen Société anonyme: 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report For the year ended 31 December 2017 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of IPSEN SA, (the “Company”), appointed as independent third party and certified by COFRAC under number(s) 3-1048(1), we hereby report to you on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information for the year ended 31 December 2017 included in the management report (hereinafter named “CSR Information”), pursuant to article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Company’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a company’s management report including the CSR Information required by article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in accordance with the guidelines used by the Company (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), summarized in the management report and available on request at the company’s head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L.822-11 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Statutory Auditor’s responsibility On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: • attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); • express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information). It is not our responsibility to provide any conclusion on the compliance with other applicable legal expectations, in particular those concerning article L.225-102-4 of the French code of commerce (duty of care) or the French law 2016-1691 (fight against corruption). Our work involved six persons and was conducted between October 2017 and February 2018 during a three-week period. We were assisted in our work by our sustainability experts. We performed our work in accordance with the order dated 13 May 2013 defining the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement and the professional guidance issued by the French Institute of statutory auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to this engagement and with ISAE 3000(2) concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information. 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programs arising from them. (1) The scope of which is available at www.cofrac.fr. (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. 176 Ipsen Registration document 2017 GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 4 SOCIAL & SOCIETAL INFORMATION We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified that explanations were provided in accordance with article R.225105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set out in the methodological note, presented in chapter 4 of the management report. Conclusion Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work We conducted ten interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: • assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; • verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important(3): • at parent entity sites level, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organization, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also verified that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; • at the level of a representative sample of entities/divisions/sites selected by us(4) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents between 19% and 29% of quantitative social data disclosed, and between 23% and 100% of quantitative environmental data disclosed. For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the company. We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. Neuilly-sur-Seine, 14 February 2018 One of the Statutory Auditors, Deloitte & Associés Jean-Marie Le Guiner Eric Dugelay Partner Partner, Sustainability Services (3) Social indicators: Group workforce at 31 December; Termination of employees (joint ventures not included); Absenteeism; Number of hours of training.  EHS indicators: Frequency rate 1 (FR1); Severity rate; Carbon Scope 1 and 2 Total Emissions (tons); VOC Emissions (tons); Total Energy (kWh) Perimeter 2; Manufacturing and R&D Energy (kWh); Split of Energy (%) by energy source; Total Waste (tons); Hazardous Waste and Non-Hazardous Waste (tons); Recycled Waste (tons); Total Water Consumption (m3); Supply from Well Water and Surface Water Origin (%); Waste Water Treated (m3); Solvent Consumption (tons); Reclaimed Solvents (tons).  Q ualitative information: Compliance and external recognition; Impact of Ipsen activities on climate change; Subcontracts and suppliers; Actions taken to prevent all forms of corruption; Measures taken in favor of the safety and health of customers. (4) Beaufour Ipsen Industrie in L’Isle-sur-la-Sorgue (indicators on water consumption); Carapartners in Cork (indicators on energy consumption, waste and solvents); Ipsen Innovation in Les Ulis (HR and EHS indicators); Ipsen Manufacturing Ireland Ltd in Dublin (HR and EHS indicators); Ipsen Pharma Biotech in Signes (indicators on VOC emissions); IPSEN Pharma S.A.S. in Boulogne (RH indicators and accidents). Ipsen Registration document 2017 177 178 Ipsen Registration document 2017 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5.1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 180 5.1.1 Board of Directors and Executive Management 181 5.1.2 Compensation of Company officers 209 5.1.3 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments 223 5.2 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 226 5.2.1 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association 226 5.2.2 Share Capital 228 5.2.3 Shareholding 234 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT This section presents the Corporate governance and legal The Company is governed by a Board of Directors. It information of Ipsen SA and includes in particular the Board determines strategy and oversees its implementation. Subject of Directors’ Report on corporate governance. It will be to the powers expressly granted to Shareholders’ Meetings presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting to and within the limits of the Company’s corporate purpose, the be convened in 2018 to review and approve the financial Board of Directors considers all issues related to the efficient statements for the financial year ended on 31 December operation of the Company and, through its deliberations, 2017, in accordance with the provisions of Article L.225-37 of settles all matters that may arise. the French Commercial Code. It has been prepared with the The Executive Management of the Company is provided by a assistance of Executive Management, the Human Resources Chief Executive Officer. department and the Company Secretary. 5.1 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Governance structure transformation and its operations, while the Chairman of the Ipsen is a French société anonyme with a Board of Directors, Board of Directors can give his full attention to leading and where the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer managing the Board of Directors. have been separated since 18 July 2016. The Executive management has thus been entrusted to During its meeting of 8 July 2016, the Board appointed a Chief Executive Officer with an international profile and Mr. David Meek to the position of Chief Executive Officer for experience, Mr. David Meek. In accordance with the provisions an indefinite period, this appointment has been effective since of the Articles of association, if he wishes to do so, the Chief 18 July 2016. During the same meeting, the Board voted to Executive Officer may propose to the Board of Directors to confirm Mr. Marc de Garidel as Chairman of the Board of appoint one or several Deputy Chief Executive Officers in Directors. order to assist him. This evolution about the governance reflects the determination Corporate Governance Code of the Group to accelerate his international development and The Company refers to the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate to be prepared for the challenges that the pharmaceutical Governance Code, revised on November 2016, available on industry is currently facing. The separation of said duties is the website www.afep.com. In accordance with the provisions also governance’s good practice, more and more applied in of Article L.225-37-4 8° of the French Commercial Code, the the pharmaceutical industry. Company specifies the recommendations of the Code which have not been applied and the reasons why. The separation of functions allows the Chief Executive Officer to focus on strategy, the continuation of the Group’s AFEP-MEDEF Ipsen’s practice and reasons why recommendations not applied Article 8 The independence criteria for Board members are defined in paragraph 5.1.1.1 of this Registration Independence criteria document. Although inspired by the independence criteria drafted by the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors took the decision, at the time of its stock exchange listing in 2005, to establish its own independence criteria. In particular, the criterion which states that a director should not have been a director for more than twelve years has not been selected by the Board of Directors. Indeed, the Board of Directors considers that being a director for a long period does not automatically result in the loss of independent director status and cannot consequently constitute in itself a reason of non-independence without taking into consideration the director’s personality and experience. The Board of Directors is also of the opinion that the experience gained within the Board combined with deep knowledge of the Company is an advantage in a Group characterized by long-term investment cycles and helps to make informed decisions in view of his experience. Every year and at the end of the term of office during which this period is reached, the Board assesses the criterion of independence, taking the director’s individual circumstances into account. The French Haut Comité du Gouvernement d’Entreprise (HCGE), (High Committee of Corporate Governance) deemed this explanation not fully relevant. Nevertheless, the explanation was maintained by Ipsen, based on its view that the duration could not of itself affect a director’s critical objectivity. Article 16.1 This provision is not applied because the Company is controlled by a majority shareholder. The Nomination Committee should Furthermore, the Board considered that both the quality and experience of independent have a majority of independent members on the Nomination and Governance Committee ensure open debate and that the Directors current composition does not undermine the operation of the committee. Article 17.1 This provision is not applied because the Company is controlled by a majority shareholder. The Compensation Committee Moreover, two out of three members of the Compensation Committee are independent, which should be chaired by an independent is sufficient to ensure the proper functioning of the Committee. Furthermore , it is specified, that Director no executive officer is a member of this Committee. The Compensation Committee is chaired by Mr. Antoine Flochel, given his deep knowledge of the Group’s operation, the pharmaceutical industry and his experience in compensation. 180 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Introduction to the Internal Rules Internal Rules are reviewed by the Board of Directors on a The purpose of the Internal Rules is to define the role and regular basis. The main provisions of these Internal Rules methods of operation of the Board of Directors, in accordance are set out below. It is available on the Company’s website with the law, the Articles of Association, and the rules of (www.ipsen.com). corporate governance applicable to listed companies. The 5.1.1 Board of Directors and Executive Management ■■5.1.1.1 Board of Directors 5.1.1.1.1 Composition of the Board of Directors Evolution of the Board of Directors during the 2017 financial year During 2017, the changes in the Board of Directors are as follows: Nature of the change Consequences of the change Shareholders’ Meeting held Renewal of Antoine Flochel as Director N/A on 7 June 2017 Appointment of Margaret Liu and International experience, increase in the Carol Stuckley to the Board of Directors number of independent Directors and feminization of the Board of Directors Appointment of Mr David Meek to the Board More than 25 years’ experience in the of Directors pharmaceutical industry and Officer of American citizenship. There are currently 14 Board members, 6 of whom are resolution with regard to employee representation on the independent. Board of Directors for approval by the Combined Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held in 2018 to approve the financial In accordance with Ar ticle L.225-27-1 of the French statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2017. Commercial Code, the Board of Directors will submit a Summary table of the members of the Board of Directors as at December 31, 2017 Name Function Nationality Gender Age Date of first Date of last End of Committee membership appointment renewal term of office (*) Marc de Garidel Chairman of the French M 60 11/10/2010 27/05/2015 ASM 2019 Innovation and Development Board of Directors with effect as Committee (Chairman) at 22/11/2010 Nomination and Governance Committee Antoine Flochel Vice-Chairman French M 53 30/08/2005 07/06/2017 ASM 2021 Compensation Committee and Director (Chairman) Innovation and Development Committee Anne Beaufour Director French F 54 30/08/2005 04/06/2014 ASM 2018 Nomination and Governance Committee (Chairperson) Innovation and Development Committee (Guest) Henri Beaufour Director French M 53 30/08/2005 27/05/2015 ASM 2019 Nomination and Governance Committee (**) Innovation and Development Committee (Guest) Hervé Couffin Independent French M 66 30/08/2005 04/06/2014 ASM 2018 Nomination and Governance Director Committee Audit Committee Margaret Liu Independent USA F 61 07/06/2017 N/A ASM 2021 Ethics Committee Director Innovation and Development Committee Pierre Martinet Independent French M 68 19/09/2005 04/06/2014 ASM 2018 Audit Committee (Chairman) Director Compensation Committee Ipsen Registration document 2017 181 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Name Function Nationality Gender Age Date of first Date of last End of Committee membership appointment renewal term of office (*) Mayroy SA Director Luxembourg N/A 48 01/06/2012 31/05/2016 ASM 2020 Ethics Committee (represented by Philippe Bonhomme) David Meek Chief Executive USA M 54 07/06/2017 N/A ASM 2021 Innovation and Development Officer and Committee (Guest) Director Michèle Ollier Independent French-Swiss F 59 27/05/2015 N/A ASM 2019 Nomination and Governance Director Committee Innovation and Development Committee Hélène Auriol-Potier Independent French F 55 04/06/2014 N/A ASM 2018 Ethics Committee Director (Chairperson) Compensation Committee Carol Stuckley Independent USA F 62 07/06/2017 N/A ASM 2021 Audit Committee Director Christophe Vérot Director French M 57 27/05/2011 27/05/2015 ASM 2019 Audit Committee Nomination and Governance Committee Carol Xueref Director British F 62 01/06/2012 31/05/2016 ASM 2020 Innovation and Development Committee Ethics Committee (*) The Company has implemented staggered terms of office in 2011, which explains the different maturity dates. (**) Henri Beaufour is a member of the Nomination and Governance Committee since 17 January 2017. Antoine Flochel’s appointment as Director was renewed by the Ms. Margaret Liu, Ms. Carol Stuckley and Mr. David Meek Shareholders’ Meeting of 7 June 2017 and as Vice-Chairman were appointed as Directors by the Shareholders’ Meeting of the Board by the Board of Directors meeting on the same of 7 June 2017, for a term of four years expiring at the day for the duration of his term of office as a Director, i.e., until Shareholders’ Meeting called in 2021 to approve the financial the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2021 to approve the statements for the 2020 financial year. financial statements for the 2020 financial year. 182 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Main activities of the Board members as at 31 December 2017 Marc de Garidel Nationality: Shares owned: 152,580 Chairman of the Board of Directors French Voting rights: 152,680 Committees: Biography and experience Innovation and Development Committee (Chairman) Marc de Garidel is a graduate from the French Engineering School ESTP, and has an Executive Nomination and Governance MBA from Harvard Business School. Committee Marc de Garidel started his career with Eli Lilly with various responsibilities in countries like US, Germany, France. Between 1995 and 2010, he held Executive position in finance & general Date of birth: management including the biggest region of Amgen International operations & the corporate 16 March 1958 controller of Amgen Inc. Marc de Garidel joined Ipsen as Chairman and CEO in November 2010. Date of 1st appointment: He is now Chairman of the Board of Directors of Ipsen since the third quarter of 2016 and is 22 November 2010 advisor of the Ipsen holding company Mayroy SA. Last renewal date: Marc de Garidel has been Vice-President of EFPIA between 2014 until June 2017, the European 27 May 2015 Pharmaceutical Trade Association, and chairs the Association of French Health Care companies (G5) since 2011. His mandate as Chairman of IMI governing board also expired in May 2017. Term of office: He is Vice-president of the Board of Vifor Pharma (Switzerland) since May 2017 (formerly 2019 Shareholders’ Meeting Galenica) of which he was a board member since 2015. Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other positions: • Ipsen SA, Chairman of the Board of • G5 Santé ( France ), Chairman and Directors spokesperson* • Filière des Industries et Technologies de Santé (France), Vice-President of the Strategic Committee* • Vectorlab GmbH (Switzerland), Chairman* • Vifor Pharma GmbH** (formerly Galenica) (Switzerland), Director and Vice-president of the Board of Directors* • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), advisor Positions previously held that expired during the last five years Past positions previously held: • Ipsen SA (France), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Chairman • Suraypharm SAS (France), Chairman • Pharnext (France), Director* • Comité Biotech du Leem (Les Entreprises du Médicament)* • European Biopharmaceutical Enterprises, Chairman* • Promethera (Belgium), Non-Executive Chairman* • Inserm Transfert (France), Vice-President of the Advisory Board* • EFPIA, Director and Vice-President* • IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative), Chairman of the Board of Directors* • Galenica**, Director* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. Ipsen Registration document 2017 183 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Antoine Flochel Nationality: Shares owned: 5,000** Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors French Voting rights: 7,000 Committees: Biography and experience Compensation Committee (Chairman) Innovation and Development Antoine Flochel is currently the legal manager of Financière de Catalogne (Luxembourg) and Committee Vice-Chairman of Ipsen SA’s Board of Directors. He is a Managing Director and Chairman of the Board of Mayroy SA and Director of Beech Tree SA. Date of birth: Antoine Flochel worked for Coopers & Lybrand Corporate Finance (now PricewaterhouseCoopers 23 January 1965 Corporate Finance) from 1995 to 2005 and was a partner in 1998. Antoine Flochel is a graduate of the Paris Institut des Études Politiques (institute of political Date of 1st appointment: studies), holds a law degree and a postgraduate degree in economics of the Paris Dauphine 30 August 2005 University, as well as an MSc in finance from the London School of Economics. Last renewal date: Positions and functions currently held 7 June 2017 Main function: Other positions: • Financière de Catalogne SPRL (Luxembourg), • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Managing Term of office: Legal Manager* Director and Chairman of the Board 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director • Blue Hill Participations S.à.r.l (Luxembourg), Legal Manager* • KF Finanz AG (Switzerland), Director* • Financière CLED SPRL (Belgium), Legal Manager* • VicJen Finance SA (France), Chairman* • Meet Me Out (France), Director* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Baigo Capital GmbH (Germany), Member of the Advisory Board* • Financière Althea IV SAS (France), Advisor* • Beavan Somua Fund (Guernsey), Director* • SCI Financière CLED (France), Legal Manager* • New Challenger SAS (France), Member of the Supervisory Board* • ADH (France), Director* • Alma Capital Europe SA (Luxembourg), Director* • Alma Capital Investment Funds SICAV (Luxembourg), Director* • Alma Capital Investment Managers (Luxembourg), Director* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Antoine Flochel is Chairman of VicJen Finance SA which held 2,000 shares of the Company and 4,000 voting rights as of 31 December 2017. He is also Legal Manager of Financière de Catalogne, which held 3,000 shares of the Company and 3,000 voting rights at the same date. Anne Beaufour Nationality: Shares owned: 1 Director French Voting rights: 2 Committees: Biography and experience Nomination and Governance Committee (Chairperson) Anne Beaufour holds a Bachelor’s degree in geology (University of Paris Orsay). Innovation and Development Anne Beaufour is the shareholder of several companies, as described in section 5.2.3.1, which Committee (Guest) directly and/or indirectly hold shares of the Company. Positions and functions currently held Date of birth: 8 August 1963 Main function: Other positions: • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Vice Chairperson • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director and Date of 1st appointment: of the Board of Directors and Managing Chairperson of the Board of Directors 30 August 2005 Director • Highrock S.à.r.l. ( Luxembourg ), Legal Manager* Last renewal date: • Bluehill Participations S.à.r.l. (Luxembourg), 4 June 2014 Legal Manager* • South End Consulting Limited (SEC Ltd) Term of office: (United Kingdom), Director* 2018 Shareholders’ Meeting Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • FinHestia S.à.r.l. (Luxembourg), Legal Manager * Outside Ipsen Group. 184 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Henri Beaufour Nationality: Shares owned: 1 Director French Voting rights: 2 Committees: Biography and experience Nomination and Governance Committee Henri Beaufour holds a Bachelor of Arts degree (Georgetown University, Washington DC, United Innovation and Development States). Committee (Guest) Henri Beaufour is the shareholder of several companies, as described in section 5.2.3.1, which directly and/or indirectly hold shares of the Company. Date of birth: Positions and functions currently held 6 January 1965 Main function: Other positions: Date of 1st appointment: • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Director • Beech Tree SA (Luxembourg), Director 30 August 2005 Positions previously held that expired during the last five years Last renewal date: None 27 May 2015 Term of office: 2019 Shareholders’ Meeting Hervé Couffin Nationality: Shares owned: 1,200 Independent Director French Voting rights: 2,400 Committees: Biography and experience Nomination and Governance Committee Hervé Couffin is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Callisto, a consultancy advising Audit Committee management teams on LBOs. He sits on the Board of Directors of Antargaz as well as on the Supervisory Board of Gerflor. Date of birth: From 1998 to 2004, he was a member of the Executive Leadership Team and senior partner at 26 October 1951 PAI Partners. Previously, he worked for Paribas for 15 years. Hervé Couffin is a graduate of the École Polytechnique and a qualified Corps des Mines Date of 1st appointment: engineer. 30 August 2005 Positions and functions currently held Last renewal date: Main function: Other positions: 4 June 2014 • Callisto SAS (France), Chairman and Chief • HC Conseil SARL (France), Managing Parner* Executive Officer* • Antargaz, Finagaz, UGI France (France), Term of office: Permanent representative of HC Conseil in 2018 Shareholders’ Meeting the Board of Directors* • Topflor SAS ( Ger flor Group ) ( France ), Permanent Representative of HC Conseil in the Advisory Board* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Mersen** (France), Chairman of the Board of Directors* • French-Tunisian Oil Company (Tunisia), Director* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. Ipsen Registration document 2017 185 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Margaret Liu Citizenship: Shares owned: 411 Independent Director USA Voting rights: 411 Committees: Biography and experience Ethics Committee Margaret Liu is currently a Global Health, Vaccines and Immunotherapy Consultant for pharma/ Innovation and Development biotech and investment companies, universities, and governmental scientific research councils. Committee She also serves as a Professor at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden since 2003, first as Visiting Professor and then as Foreign Adjunct Professor. She is also Adjunct Full Professor Date of birth: at the University of California in San Francisco, CA since 2013 and President of the International 11 June 1956 Society for Vaccines since 2016. Date of 1st appointment: Before that, she occupied various functions in the private and public sector parallel to her 7 June 2017 academic career. From 1984 to 1988 she was Visiting Scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. From 1987 to 1989 she was Instructor of Medicine at Harvard University. From Term of office: 1989 to 1995, she was Adjunct Assistant Professor of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting in Philadelphia, PA. From 1990 to 1997, she served as Director, then Senior Director for Virus and Cell Biology at Merck Research Laboratories. From 1997 to 2000, she served as a Vice President of Vaccines Research and then Vice President of Vaccines and Gene Therapy at Chiron Corporation in Emeryville, CA. From 2000 to 2002 she was Senior Advisor in Vaccinology for the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. From 2000 to 2006, she was Vice-Chairman of Transgène in Strasbourg, France. From 2005 to 2009, she served as a Director of Sangamo Biosciences Inc. She is an accomplished leader in the research and development of vaccine and immunization programs for infectious diseases, particularly HIV and in the field of gene-based therapies. She earned her B.A. in Chemistry, summa cum laude, from Colorado College and an M.D. from Harvard Medical School. She was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Science (D.Sc.) from Colorado College and received the Karolinska Institutet’s highest in May 2017, Medicine Doctor honoris causa-MDhc. Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other positions: • ProTherImmune, Global Health ( USA ), • International Society for Vaccines, President(1) * Vaccines and Immunotherapy Consultant* • Jenner Institute, University of Oxford (UK), Scientific Advisory Board* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • International Vaccine Institute (KR), Vice-Chairperson (1) * • Keystone Symposia (USA), Director* * Outside Ipsen Group. (1) Until 31 December 2017. Mayroy SA Nationality: Shares owned: 47,269,813 Director Luxembourg Voting rights: 94,539,623 Committees: Biography and experience Ethics Committee The company Mayroy SA is a société anonyme incorporated under the laws of Luxembourg in 1994. The company Mayroy SA is a shareholder of Ipsen SA. Date of 1 appointment: st 1 June 2012 Registered office: 11 boulevard Royal, L-2449 Luxembourg. Number B48865 RCS Luxembourg. Date of last renewal: As of 31 December 2017, Mayroy SA held 47,269,813 shares, i.e., 56.45% of the share capital 31 May 2016 and 94,539,623 voting rights, i.e., 72.49% of net voting rights. Term of office: 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting Philippe Bonhomme Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Permanent representative of Mayroy SA French Voting rights: 1,000 Date of birth: Biography and experience 5 November 1969 Since 2005, Phillippe Bonhomme has been Partner, Director and a member of the management committee of Hottinguer Corporate Finance, which is the investment banking arm of Hottinguer bank. He has been advising in France and abroad on numerous transactions in the pharma and healthcare sectors as well as on private equity-backed transactions. From 1993 to 2005, Philippe Bonhomme was first an auditor and then, a Corporate Finance consultant with Coopers & Lybrand (renamed into PricewaterhouseCoopers). Philippe Bonhomme is a graduate of École des Hautes Études Commerciales (HEC, Paris) and a French Certified Public Accountant (CPA). Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other positions: • Hottinguer Corporate Finance SA (France), • Mayroy SA (Luxembourg), Director Pa r tne r, D ire ctor a nd M e mbe r of the Management Committee* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years Aucun * Outside Ipsen Group. 186 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Pierre Martinet Nationality: Shares owned: 2,132 Independent Director French Voting rights: 4,264 Committees: Biography and experience Audit Committee (Chairman) Compensation Committee Pierre Martinet is the Chairman of Almacantar (Luxembourg). From 1993 to 2014, he held different general managing duties within Exor’s Group in Paris, Date of birth: Luxembourg, and Geneva. 2 December 1949 From 1990 to 1992, he was a member of Perrier’s executive team. From 1986 to 1990, he participated in the management of investment funds at Paribas Technology, then at Pallas Date of 1st appointment: Venture, a group that he helped co-found. Previously, he worked at Cartier as General Secretary 19 September 2005 from 1977 to 1985. In 1974, Pierre Martinet started his career in Rothschild Bank. Pierre Martinet is a graduate of the Paris ESC business school and of the Columbia Graduate Date of last renewal: School of Business. 4 June 2014 Positions and functions currently held Term of office: 2018 Shareholders’ Meeting Main function: Other positions: • Almacantar (Luxembourg), Chairman* None Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Old Town SA (Luxembourg), Managing Director* * Outside Ipsen Group. David Meek Citizenship : Shares owned: 1 Director and Chief Executive Officer USA Voting rights: 1 Committee: Biography and experience Innovation and Development Committee (Guest) David Meek was appointed CEO of Ipsen in July 2016. He is also on the Board of Directors of Ipsen. David Meek has over 25 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry where he has held various global executive positions in major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Date of birth: Prior to joining Ipsen David Meek was Executive Vice-President and President of the oncology 12 September 1963 division of Baxalta. Date of 1st appointment: David Meek started his biopharma career at Johnson & Johnson and Janssen Pharmaceutica Chief Executive Officer: 18 July 2016 (1989-2004) where he held a variety of senior US sales and marketing positions across therapeutic areas in primary care, specialty care, and oncology. (unlimited term) Director: 7 June 2017 He then joined Novartis (2005-2012), where he successively served as the global business franchise head for the company’s respiratory and dermatology franchise in Basel, Switzerland; Term of office: President and Chief Executive Officer of the pharmaceutical division in Canada; and the head 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting of oncology for Northern, Central and Eastern Europe. From 2012 to 2014, he served as Chief Commercial Officer of Endocyte, an oncology biotechnology company. Prior to his biopharma career David Meek was an officer in the United States Army. He is a graduate of the University of Cincinnati. Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other positions: • Ipsen SA (France), Chief Executive Officer • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Chairman Positions previously held that expired during the last five years None Ipsen Registration document 2017 187 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Michèle Ollier Citizenship: Shares owned: 500 Independent Director French-Swiss Voting rights: 500 Committees: Biography and experience Nomination and Governance Since 1 February 2016, Michèle Ollier is one of the partner and founder of Medicxi, a capital Committee venture company located in Geneva and London. Medicxi is the spin-off of the life science Innovation and Development section of Index Ventures. Committee From February 2006 to February 2016, Michèle Ollier was Partner in the life science investment team of Index Ventures. Date of birth: From 2003 to 2005, she was the investment’s manager at Edmond de Rothschild Investment 2 June 1958 Partner in Paris. From 2000 to 2002, she was the corporate’s vice-manager at Serono international. From 1994 to 2000, she occupied various posts at Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Date of 1st appointment: in particular in oncology and in the division “gene therapy”, RPR Gencel. Before, Michèle 27 May 2015 Ollier occupied various functions in strategy, development, and commercialization in the pharmaceutical companies Sanofi International and Bristol-Myers Squibb France. Term of office: Michèle Ollier is a graduate of the medicine faculty of Paris-Ouest. 2019 Shareholders’ Meeting Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other positions: • Medicxi (Switzerland and United Kingdom), • Epsilon 3 Bio Limited (United Kingdom)* Partner* • LinguaFlex Inc. (United States of America)* • STX pharma Limited (United Kingdom)* • Human Antibody Factory (United Kingdom)* • Palladio Biosciences Inc. (United States of America)* • Kymo Therapeutics Limited (United Kingdom)* • Kaerus France SAS (France)* • Kaerus Bioscience Limited (United Kingdom)* • Mavalon Therapeutics Limited (United Kingdom)* • Diasome Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( United States of America)* • Gadeta BV (The Netherlands)* • Vitavest NL Coop (The Netherlands)* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Minerva Neuroscience, Inc.** (United States of America)* • Funxional Therapeutics (United Kingdom)* • Purple Therapeutics Limited (United Kingdom)* • Encare Biotech BV (The Netherlands)* • AbTco BV (The Netherlands)* • Aegerion Inc** (United States of America)* • OncoEthix (Switzerland)* • Cyrenaic Pharma Inc (United States of America)* • Sonkei Pharma Inc (United States of America)* • Mind-NRG (Switzerland)* • Profibrix (The Netherlands)* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. Hélène Auriol-Potier Nationality: Shares owned: 600 Independent Director French Voting rights: 1,200 Committees: Biography and experience Ethics Committee (Chairperson) Since October 2016, Helene Auriol-Potier is General manager Public Sector Western Europe at Compensation Committee Microsoft. Hélène Auriol-Potier built her career in the digital technologies and telecommunications industry in Date of birth: the United States, Europe, Africa and Asia. She started her career in New York at France Telecom 26 November 1962 in 1986. In 1990, she joined the Canadian mobile technology company, Nortel, where she spent 16 years and successively held several management positions including Vice-President Mobile PreDate of 1st appointment: Sale division and Vice-President EMEA, Services & Operations. 4 June 2014 In 2006, she joined Dell as Managing Director in charge of Africa and the Mediterranean Region and as member of the Executive Leadership Team of Dell Emerging Markets. In 2009, she was recruited Term of office: by Microsoft as Managing Director – Enterprises, Public Sector and Partners – and as member of the 2018 Shareholders’ Meeting Executive Leadership Team for Microsoft France. Then, she was appointed Chairperson of Microsoft Singapore and member of the Executive Leadership Team of Microsoft Pacific Asia. Hélène Auriol-Potier graduated from the École Nationale Supérieure des Télécommunications in Paris and completed an Executive Program from INSEAD. Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other positions: • Microsoft, General Manager Public Sector • Oddo BHF SCA (formerly Oddo & Cie), Member Western Europe* of the Supervisory Board* • Safran** (France), Independent Director* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Faiveley Transport** (France), Independent Director* • Microsoft Dynamics Europe, General manager* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. 188 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Carol Stuckley Citizenship: Shares owned: 352 Independant Director USA Voting rights: 352 Committees: Biography and experience Audit Committee Carol Stuckley is currently the Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Healthcare Date of birth: Payment Specialists, LLC in Fort Worth, TX. Healthcare Payment Specialists provides 20 September 1955 technology enabled solutions for health care eligibility, government reimbursement and compliance to hospitals and healthcare systems across the US. Date of 1st appointment: From 2010 to 2013, she was Vice President, Finance (Chief Financial Officer), North America at 7 June 2017 Galderma Laboratories, L.P., in Fort Worth, TX. Prior to Galderma, Carol had a 23-year career at Pfizer, Inc., New York, NY, where she held several multinational and global, senior financial Term of office: leadership roles including Assistant Treasurer, Corporate Officer and Vice President of Finance. 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting She holds an MBA in International Business & Finance and an MA in Economics from Temple University (Fox Business School) in Philadelphia, PA as well as a BA in Economics and French from the University of Delaware in Newark, DE. Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other positions: • Healthcare Payment Specialists, LLC • Financial Executives International (United (United States of America), Chief Financial States of America), Fort Worth Chapter, Officer and Senior Vice President* President and Board Member* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Harris & Dickey, LLC (United States of America) and Carol Stuckley, LLC, Consultant* • Galderma Laboratories, L.P. (United States of America), Vice-President, Finance (Chief Financial Officer), North America* * Outside Ipsen Group. Christophe Vérot Nationality: Shares owned: 1,500 Director French Voting rights: 3,000 Committees: Biography and experience Audit Committee Nomination and Governance Since 1991, Christophe Vérot has a consultancy activity in Corporate Finance then Valuation Committee & Economics within PwC where he is a partner since 1995. Christophe Vérot is the author of several articles and publications on merger and acquisitions and valuation methods. Date of birth: From 1985 to 1988, Christophe Vérot was an auditor at Price Waterhouse. From 1988 to 1991, 23 July 1960 he was a consultant at SIAR, a Scandinavian consultancy firm on strategy. Christophe Vérot is a graduate of the ESSEC. Date of 1st appointment: 27 May 2011 Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other positions: Date of last renewal: • PwC Investissements SAS (France), • PwC Corporate Finance SAS (France), 27 May 2015 Chairman and Member of the Management Permanent Representative of PwC Committee* Investments at the Board of Directors* Term of office: • PwC Holdings France (France), Member of 2019 Shareholders’ Meeting the Management Committee and Chairman* • PricewaterhouseCoopers Corporate Finance (France), Permanent Representative of PwC Investments at the Board of Directors* • Association Guersanté (France), Director and Company Secretary* • PricewaterhouseCoopers GIE (France), Director* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years None * Outside Ipsen Group. Ipsen Registration document 2017 189 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Carol Xueref Nationality: Shares owned: 500 Director British Voting rights: 1,000 Committees: Biography and experience Ethics Committee Innovation and Development Carol Xueref is Chairperson of Floem SAS, a consultancy firm. She was Secretary General and a Committee member of the Essilor International’s Executive Leadership Team until 30 June 2016. From 1982 to 1986, Carol Xueref was Deputy to the Attachée for Commercial Affairs at the British Date of birth: Embassy in Paris. From 1986 to 1990, she was Head of Division at the International Chamber of 9 December 1955 Commerce (Paris). In 1990, she became Director for Legal and Tax Affairs at the Banque Populaire de la Région Ouest de Paris. From 1993 to 1996, she was Head of a legal department within Crédit Date of 1st appointment: Lyonnais and subsequently Director for Legal Affairs of OIG (Crédit Lyonnais defeasance entity). 1 June 2012 From 1996 to 2014, Carol Xueref was Director for Legal Affairs and Group Development, and from 2014 to 2016 Secretary General, she was a member of the Essilor International’s Executive Date of last renewal: Leadership Team. She has been a member of the Autorité de la Concurrence (French Competition 31 May 2016 Authority) since 2006, and chaired its “Compliance” working group. Carol Xueref is a founder member and a past-President of the Cercle Montesquieu (Association of Term of office: French in-house lawyers (1998-2002) and chaired its “Ethics of in-house lawyers” working group. 2020 Shareholders’ Meeting She is member of the “Association Française des Femmes Juristes” and Director of the FrancoBritish Lawyers Society. Carol Xueref holds a Master’s Degree in Law and a Post Graduate Degree in International Commercial Law (DESS) from the University of Paris II (Assas). Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other positions: • Floem SAS, Chairperson* • Eiffage** (France), Director and member of the Compensation and Appointments Committee and member of the Strategic Committee* • Essilor International** (France), Director of several non-French subsidiaries of the Group* Positions previously held that expired during the last five years • Essilor International, Director of several subsidiaries of the Group (France and abroad), Secretary General and Member of the Executive Leadership Team* * Outside Ipsen Group. ** Listed company. For the purposes of their office, Directors are domiciled at the by the Shareholders’ Meeting, the resolutions adopted and Company’s registered office. actions taken by or with the support of such Directors will nevertheless still be valid. The Director elected to replace Members of the Board of Directors another will remain in office only for the remainder of his Statutory provisions predecessor’s term. Subject to the exceptions provided for by law, the Board of Directors is comprised of a minimum of three and a maximum Directors are appointed for a four-year term. Exceptionally of eighteen members who are appointed by Ordinary Meetings and exclusively in order to enable the staggering of Directors’ of Shareholders. terms of office to be implemented and maintained, the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may appoint one or several Directors must own at least one share in the Company. If, on directors for one year, two years or three years. the day of appointment, a Director does not own the number of shares required, or if, during the term of office, he or she The number of Directors more than 70 years old cannot be ceases to own the required number, the Director shall be higher than one-third of the Directors in office. When this deemed to have resigned from his or her position unless the age limit is exceeded, the oldest Director is automatically situation is remedied within the statutory period. deemed to have resigned at the end of the following Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. Should one or more seats on the Board of Directors become vacant between two Shareholders’ Meetings, either through Duties of Directors come to an end upon the conclusion of death or resignation, the Board of Directors may appoint the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the temporary replacements under the conditions set out by law. financial statements for the previous financial year which is However, if the number of Directors in office falls below the held in the year in which the term of office of the said Director minimum legal requirement, the Directors still in office or, expires. Incumbent Directors may always be re-elected. failing that, the Statutory Auditors, must immediately call an Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting in order to bring the Board Provisions of the Internal rules of the Board of Directors back up to strength. as at December 31, 2017 Temporary appointments made by the Board of Directors Every Director shall dedicate the time and attention required to will be subject to ratification by the following Shareholders’ discharge the duties of his/her mandate and attend the meetings Meeting. If the temporary appointments are not approved of the Board and the Committee(s) of which they are a member. 190 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The annual report lists the mandates held by members of the Any Director, whether an individual or a permanent Board of Directors and records their attendance at Board and representative of a legal entity to whom directors’ fees have Committee meetings. been paid, must hold, before the expiry of a two year period following his first appointment, a number of Company shares An Executive officer of the Company should not hold more of an amount at least equivalent to the last net annual amount than two other directorships in listed companies, including of director’s fees paid to him by the Company. foreign companies, not affiliated with his or her group. He must also seek the prior opinion of the Board before accepting It is recalled that the Company officers must retain registered a new directorship. shares, until the end of their term of office at least a number of shares equivalent to 20% of the net proceeds resulting from A Director should not hold more than four other directorships the selling of stock options or performance shares granted. in non-Group listed companies, including foreign companies. The Director must keep the Board informed of the offices These shares must be held in registered form. and positions held in other companies. The non-executive The Company regularly informs Directors of the timetable Chairman must also obtain the opinion of the Board before of blackout periods as well as new obligations applicable to accepting a new corporate office. them. The Board shall be made up of Directors chosen because of Independence of the members of the Board of Directors their competence and their experience with respect to the Company and the Group’s operations. A Director is currently deemed independent if he or she meets the following criteria as of the date on which his/her status is Board members may attend training sessions on specific assessed: areas of the Company, its business line(s) and industrial sector that are to be arranged on the Company’s own initiative or at • he or she is neither an employee, nor an executive officer nor the request of the Board. a member of the Board and is not closely related (notably by not receiving any compensation in any form whatsoever) Before accepting office, each Director should ensure he is to an executive officer or to a member of the Board of a familiar with any general or specific obligations relating to Group entity or to a natural or legal person, controlling the his position. In particular, they ought to acquaint themselves Company, alone or jointly, directly or indirectly, within the thoroughly with the legal provisions governing the Company, meaning of Article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code, its Articles of Association, and provisions of the Board’s and has not held such a position during the course of the internal rules which apply to them. previous five years; Directors are elected by all the Company’s shareholders and • is not an executive officer and is not closely related to an must act in all circumstances in the Company’s interest. executive officer of a company in which a Group entity holds an executive office, either directly or indirectly, through an Directors must inform the Board of any conflict of interest employee appointed as such, or in which a corporate officer situation, including a potential conflict of interest, between of the Company (currently in office or having held such themselves and the Company or the Group and shall abstain office within the past five years at least) holds, directly or from taking part in any discussions and vote by the Board on indirectly, a corporate office; the corresponding deliberations. • is not a customer, or a supplier or an investment banker Directors are required to contribute to the determination of the or a commercial banker, or a significant service provider orientations of the business of the Company and the Group of the Company or of the Group, or a member of a and to supervise their implementation. They must exercise an customer company, or a supplier, or an investment bank effective and vigilant oversight of the Company’s and Group’s or a commercial bank, or a material service provider of the management. Company or of the Group or for which either the Company Directors have a general duty of discretion and confidentiality or the Group accounts for a material share of business; as regards the deliberations of the Board and its Committees. The assessment as to whether the relationship with the The same applies to all non-public information and documents Company or the Group is material or not is debated at a provided to them at meetings or otherwise in connection with meeting of the Nomination and Governance Committee once their functions as Board or Committee members or their a year and the quantitative and qualitative criteria having participation in their deliberations. This duty of discretion and led to this assessment are explained in the registration confidentiality shall continue to apply even after the end of the document. term of office. • does not (i) represent a shareholder that owns, (ii) is not a Directors undertake to comply with all stock market regulations member of an entity holding directly or indirectly or (iii) does designed to prevent any market abuse detrimental to the not directly or indirectly own, more than five per cent (5%) of interests or image of the Company or the Group. the Company’s share capital or voting rights; Directors shall not carry out transactions in any shares of • does not have close family ties with a corporate officer; companies in respect of which they hold insider information, owing to their position, which would be likely to have a • has not been an auditor of the Company within the previous significant effect on the price of the securities concerned. five years; Without prejudice to the applicable provisions of the Articles of • is not a no nexe cu ti ve of f ic e r re c e i v ing va r i a b l e Association, every Director must be a Company shareholder in compensation in cash or in the form of shares or any a personal capacity and own, directly or indirectly, a relatively compensation linked to the performance of the Company significant number of shares. or the Group. Ipsen Registration document 2017 191 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Independent directors should account for at least a third between the Company and the relevant director or the of Board members. Directors representing the employee company with which he or she is associated (as a customer, shareholders and directors representing employees are not supplier, merchant banker or investment banker) do not taken into account when determining the percentage of exceed certain thresholds of the stakeholders’ revenue, independent directors within the Board and the Committees. equity, assets or debt. The Board shall examine at least once a year which Directors At its meeting of February 14, 2018, the Board of Directors meet these independence criteria and shall report the noted that there was no business relationship between the conclusions of this review to shareholders (i) every year during members of the Board of Directors and the Company. Upon the Shareholders’ Meeting convened to approve the financial proposal of the Nomination and Governance Committee, it statements for the previous financial year and (ii) during considered that Ms. Hélène Auriol-Potier, Ms. Michèle Ollier, Shareholders’ Meetings convened to elect new Directors or Ms. Margaret Liu, Ms. Carol Stuckley, Mr. Hervé Couffin ratify Directors co-opted by the Board. and Mr. Pierre Martinet are independent directors within the meaning of the Board’s Internal Rules described above. The Furthermore, once a year, the Nomination and Governance other Board members are related to an entity which controls Committee assesses whether or not the directors’ business the Company or perform senior management duties. relationship with the Company or the Group is material. This Ms. Anne Beaufour and Mr. Henri Beaufour are brother and assessment forms part of the annual review of directors’ sister. There are no other family relationships among the independence based on a multi-criteria approach using both other members of the Company’s Board of Directors and/or quantitative and qualitative criteria (including the duration Executive Management of the Company. and continuity of the relationship, the organization of the relationship and the amounts concerned). The Committee The detail of the current independence criteria evaluation is verifies, where appropriate, that the amounts of transactions as follows: Independence He or she is neither Is not an Is not a customer, Does not Has not been Do not have Is not a noncriteria an employee, nor an executive or a supplier, or (i) represent a Statutory close family executive executive officer nor a officer and is an investment shareholder that Auditor of the ties with an officer member of the Board not closely banker or a owns, (ii) is not a Company in executive officer receiving and is not closely related to an commercial member of an entity the previous variable related (notably by executive officer banker, or a holding directly or five years compensation not receiving any of a company in significant indirectly or in cash or in compensation in any which a Group service provider (iii) does not, directly the form of form whatsoever) to entity holds an of the Company or indirectly, own shares or any an executive officer executive office, or of the Group, more than five compensation or to a member either directly or a member percent (5%) of the linked to the of the Board of a or indirectly, of a customer Company’s share performance Group entity or to through an company, or a capital or voting of the a natural or legal employee supplier, or an rights Company or person, controlling appointed investment bank the Group the Company, alone as such, or or a commercial or jointly, directly or in which a bank or a material indirectly, within the corporate service provider meaning of Article officer of the of the Company L.233-3 of the French Company or of the Group or Commercial Code, (currently in for which either and has not held such office or having the Company a position during held such or the Group the course of the office within accounts for a previous five years the past five material share of years at least) business holds, directly or indirectly, a corporate office Directors Marc de Garidel Marc de Garidel – – – – – – has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors since this date Antoine Flochel – – – Antoine Flochel – – – is Vice-Chairman of the Board and Managing Director of Mayroy SA, the company controlling Ipsen SA 192 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Independence He or she is neither Is not an Is not a customer, Does not Has not been Do not have Is not a noncriteria an employee, nor an executive or a supplier, or (i) represent a Statutory close family executive executive officer nor a officer and is an investment shareholder that Auditor of the ties with an officer member of the Board not closely banker or a owns, (ii) is not a Company in executive officer receiving and is not closely related to an commercial member of an entity the previous variable related (notably by executive officer banker, or a holding directly or five years compensation not receiving any of a company in significant indirectly or in cash or in compensation in any which a Group service provider (iii) does not, directly the form of form whatsoever) to entity holds an of the Company or indirectly, own shares or any an executive officer executive office, or of the Group, more than five compensation or to a member either directly or a member percent (5%) of the linked to the of the Board of a or indirectly, of a customer Company’s share performance Group entity or to through an company, or a capital or voting of the a natural or legal employee supplier, or an rights Company or person, controlling appointed investment bank the Group the Company, alone as such, or or a commercial or jointly, directly or in which a bank or a material indirectly, within the corporate service provider meaning of Article officer of the of the Company L.233-3 of the French Company or of the Group or Commercial Code, (currently in for which either and has not held such office or having the Company a position during held such or the Group the course of the office within accounts for a previous five years the past five material share of years at least) business holds, directly or indirectly, a corporate office Directors Anne Beaufour – – – Anne Beaufour is – Anne Beaufour – the Board Viceand Henri Chairperson and Beaufour are Managing Director brother and of Mayroy SA, sister the company controlling Ipsen SA Henri Beaufour – – – Henri Beaufour is a – Anne Beaufour – Director of Mayroy and Henri SA, the company Beaufour are controlling Ipsen SA brother and sister Hervé Couffin – – – – – – – Margaret Liu – – – – – – – Mayroy SA – – – Mayroy SA is the – – – (represented by main shareholder Philippe Bonhomme) of Ipsen SA Pierre Martinet – – – – – – – David Meek David Meek is Chief – – – – – – Executive Officer of Ipsen SA Michèle Ollier – – – – – – – Hélène Auriol-Potier – – – – – – – Carol Stuckley – – – – – – – Christophe Vérot Christophe Vérot – – – – – – is closely linked to Mayroy SA Carol Xueref Carol Xueref is – – – – – – closely linked to Mayroy SA Ipsen Registration document 2017 193 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Ms. Hélène Auriol-Potier, Independent Director of the governing bodies operate correctly (in compliance with good Company, is also a member of Oddo BHF SCA’s Supervisory governance principles) and that the Directors are able to Board. The Board of Directors of Ipsen has taken note of the perform their duties. policies on management of conflicts of interests set up by the Oddo Group. The Board also noted that the consolidated The Board of Directors may also appoint a Deputy Chairman holding of the subsidiary Oddo Asset Management in the from among its individual members, who chairs meetings share capital of Ipsen, through several management funds, of the Board in the event of an exceptional absence of the was below the 5% legal threshold. Chairman. Otherwise, in the absence of the Chairman, meetings of the Board of Directors are chaired by the oldest Balanced gender representation on the Board of Directors Director present. Currently, six Directors are women out of a total of 14 (i.e. Internal rules of the Board of Directors’ provisions 42.86%). The target of 40% of each gender to be represented on the Board has been met, in accordance with the provisions The Chairman shall currently par ticularly ensure that of Article L.225-18-1 of the French Commercial Code on equal Directors have all of the information required to fulfill their representation of men and women on company Boards, since mission. He coordinates the work of the Board with that of the Shareholders’ Meeting of 7 June 2017 when Ms. Margaret the Committees. Liu and Ms. Carol Stuckley were appointed as Directors. In addition, the Chairman also fulfills the following specific Policy of the Board of Directors on its composition missions: The Board of Directors is currently comprised of 14 members, • he assists the Chief Executive Officer, at the request of s i x of th e m a re wome n, Ms. H é l è ne Aur iol-Poti e r, the latter, within the framework of the representation of Ms. Anne Beaufour, Ms. Margaret Liu, Ms. Michèle Ollier, the Company in national and international professional Ms. Carol Stuckley and Ms. Carol Xueref. organizations (G5, European pharmaceutical association); Five of its members are non-French nationals: Ms. Carol • he may represent the Company, in cooperation with the Xueref is a UK national, Ms. Margaret Liu, Ms. Carol Stuckley Chief Executive Officer and at the request of the latter, in and Mr. David Meek, are US nationals, and Ms. Michèle Ollier, its high-level relations, on a national and international level, is of French and Swiss nationality. especially with the public authorities, the Group’s main partners and other strategic stakeholders of the Company; The Nomination and Governance Committee regularly examines and reviews the desirable balance in the composition • he may, without prejudice to the prerogatives of the Board of the Board of Directors and reports to it. The objectives of the of Directors and its Committees, be regularly consulted Board of Directors are to ensure the presence of independent by the Chief Executive Officer regarding any significant members, a balanced representation of women and men, events related to the Company’s strategy and major growth a diversity of nationalities as well as international skills and projects; experience particularly in the following fields: science, drug development, finance, legal affairs and more generally in each • he may participate, at the invitation of the Chief Executive area concerned by the Group’s activities. Officer, in internal meetings with the executives and teams of the Company, in order to provide insight on strategic In this context, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation issues; of the Nomination and Governance Committee, submitted for the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting of 7 June 2017 the • in cooperation with the Chief Executive Officer, he allows appointments of Ms. Margaret Liu, Ms. Carol Stuckley and the Group to benefit from his knowledge and contacts in Mr. David Meek. the biotech companies sector, in the academic world and regarding venture capital (“scouting”); Chairman of the Board of Directors Statutory provisions • he devotes every effort to promote the values and the image of the Company and of the Group at all times; and The Board of Directors shall elect its Chairman among its members, for a term that may not exceed his/her term of • he may take part in discussions between the Company and office as a Director. The Chairman must be a person and not a institutional investors. legal entity, failing which the appointment will be null and void. In all of these specific missions, the Chairman acts in close The Chairman may stand for re-election. He may be removed coordination with the Chief Executive Officer who will solely by the Board of Directors at any time. be in charge of the leadership and operational management In the event of the Chairman’s temporary unavailability or of the Group. death, the Board of Directors may appoint another Director to take his place for a limited but renewable period in the event of The Vice-Chairman of the Board, when one has been temporary unavailability; and until a new Chairman is elected, appointed, assists the Chairman in his mission to organize and in the event of death. supervise the Board’s works. He takes part in the preparation of Board meetings in coordination with the Chairman and, in The Chairman chairs the Board’s meetings and organizes and that capacity, is consulted by the Chairman to set an agenda. manages its work. He reports to the Shareholders’ Meeting on Before the notice of a meeting is sent out, together with the the work of the Board of Directors and enforces its decisions. Chairman, the Vice-Chairman reviews the documents and The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Company’s information made available to Directors. 194 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 5.1.1.1.2 Operating rules interest, and takes particular care to prevent any conflicts of Internal Rules of the Board of Directors interest and to take all interests into account. The Board adopted Internal Rules, the main points of which Functioning and meetings of the Board of Directors are: The Board of Directors meets as often as required by the • the role, operation and resources of the Board of Directors; interest of the Company, when convened by its Chairman at the Company’s registered office or in any other place • independence criteria for Directors; indicated in the notice. In accordance with the provisions of • directors’ obligations, particularly relating to conflicts of the article 4.1 of the Internal Rules, the Board meets at least interests, if applicable, with a requirement to abstain from once per quarter. Directors may take part in meetings by any discussions and voting as well as relating to confidentiality, means allowed by law, the Articles of Association, and the by introducing a general discretion obligation covering all Internal Rules of the Board of Directors. information and documents obtained in the discharge of Moreover, if the Board has not met for a period of over their duties; two months, at least one-third of its members, and the Chief • permanent Board Committees. Executive Officer if he is not also the Chairman, may ask the Chairman to call a meeting to discuss an agenda attached to Role of the Board of Directors the request. The Chairman may not refuse to call a meeting under these circumstances. In charge of managing the Company, in accordance with its legal obligations and the Articles of Association, the Board: Should he fail to do so, and only in such a case, the Chief Executive Officer, or one of the Deputy Chief Executive • regularly reviews the strategic orientations of the Company Officers, or at least two Directors, may call a Board meeting and the Group, which is made up of the Company and the and set the agenda. business units it consolidates in its financial statements (the “Group”), its investments, disinvestment, or internal Notices of meetings are made by any means in writing (e.g. by restructuring projects, the Group’s overall policy with letter, fax, telex or electronic mail), not less than fifteen days regard to human resources, in particular its policy on before the date of the meeting, except in emergencies when compensation, profit-sharing, and performance-based the notice may be issued by any means but must be sent no incentives. It appraises the performance of the Company’s later than the day before the meeting. Notices of meetings management on an annual basis and is consulted on new may, however, be made verbally and without a period of executive managers recruitments; notice if all members of the Board so agree. • approves, on a proposal of the Innovation and Development An attendance register is kept and signed by those Directors Committee and before any decision is made, acquisitions attending the Board meeting. or divestments of equity interests or assets, partnerships, alliances, or cooperation agreements relating to research, Resources and conditions of preparation of the works of development, industry, and business as well as, generally the Board – Confidentiality speaking, any transaction or any commitment that might Members of the Board of Directors must receive all necessary significantly affect the Group’s financial or operating information and may obtain any documents they consider situation or its strategic guidelines; useful from the Company’s General Management. Prior to • is regularly informed via the Audit Committee about the any meeting, they may request any reports, documents, and financial situation, the Company’s cash position, and all the research prepared by the Group and may commission any significant events affecting the Company; it is kept informed external technical reports at the Company’s expense. by its Chairman and by its Committees of all significant In this respect, and without prejudice to individual directors’ events related to the conduct of business for the Company right to information by law and the Articles of Association, and the Group; the Vice-Chairman of the Board, acting on behalf of all • ensure that shareholders and the public are well informed directors, may request the Chairman of the Board, where this of the strategy, development model, major non-financial person also acts as Chief Executive Officer, to provide any matters of the Company, issues as well as its long-term information document required by the directors to discharge outlook, in particular via the control it exercises on the their duties in accordance with the laws and the Articles of information given by the Company; and in this respect, it Association. defines the Company’s communication policy, in particular The Board is regularly informed and, especially during its regarding the frequency with which financial information meetings, of the Company’s financial situation, cash position relating to the Group is released; and significant commitments of the Company. • checks that the Company has reliable procedures in place to identify, assess, and monitor its commitments and risks, The Board of Directors may have call on the Group’s main including off-balance sheet risks, as well as an appropriate senior executives, whether or not they are Company officers. internal control system. The Directors may, collectively or individually, consult the Group’s senior executives for advice on any matter, after More generally, the Board exercises the functions assigned advising the Chairman of the Board and may meet these to it by the law to act at all times in the Company’s corporate senior executives without the Chairman being present. Ipsen Registration document 2017 195 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Directors may likewise, collectively or individually, during or The Vice-Chairman assists the Chairman of the Board in outside meetings, ask the Chairman for information they the organization and management of the Board’s works and deem useful, should disclosure of said information not be contributes to preparing the Board’s meetings. prohibited by rules of prudence on confidentiality. The Board of Directors shall carry out such controls and Directors receive any relevant information, specifically, verifications as it deems appropriate. monthly reports, press reviews, and financial analysts’ reports. Directors are also regularly informed of market 5.1.1.1.3 Work of the Board of Directors in 2017 developments, the competitive environment and the main Meetings and work of the Board of Directors in 2017 issues, including in the fields of corporate social and environmental responsibility. Number of Number Number Attendance independent of members of meetings rate Directors also regularly receive information on any change in members corporate governance regulations. 14 6 12 86% The Board of Directors is a collegial body whose deliberations are binding on its members. The Board’s members, and any The Board of Directors met 12 times during the 2017 financial other person participating in meetings, are bound by a strict year. The average attendance rate at the meetings was 86% duty of confidentiality and discretion with respect to any in 2017 (excluding committee meetings). information disclosed to them by the Company in connection The Company’s Statutory Auditors of the Company were with the Board and Committee deliberations that are of a called to the Board meetings held to approve the annual and confidential nature or that are presented as such by the half-year financial statements. Chairman of the Board of Directors. The following matters were reviewed and discussed by the Members of the Board of Directors are appointed by all Board of Directors in 2017: the shareholders and must act in all circumstances in the Company’s corporate interest. Directors are bound to • financial statements and financial position: review and report to the Board any conflict of interest, whether actual approval of the 2016 annual and consolidated financial or potential, between him/her and the Company or Group. statements, the 2017 half-year financial statements, Consequently, they must abstain from taking part in the voting examination of the management forecast documents, and on the related resolution. the 2018 budget; • strategy and development: review and follow-up of Quorum and majority acquisition (in particular the acquisition of asset from The Board of Directors shall only validly deliberate if at least Merrimack Pharmaceuticals), partnership and development half of its members are present. Decisions are adopted by a projects, and Group strategic review; majority vote of the directors present or represented. In the event of a tie, the Chairman has a casting vote. • c o m p e n s ati o n : rev i ew a n d d e te r m i n ati o n of th e compensation of the Chairman of the Board and of the Directors attending meetings by videoconferencing or other Chief Executive Officer, preparation on Company officers’ telecommunications means are deemed to be present for compensation policy and grant of performance shares; the purposes of calculating the quorum and majority, within the limits and under the conditions provided for by law. • organization and operation of the Board of Directors: This option cannot be used in the case of the decisions discussion on the operation of the Board of Directors provided for by Articles L.232-1 and L.233-16 of the French (self-assessment), proposal to renew the appointments Commercial Code. of directors, report on the independence of the Directors, assessment of executive officer’s performance, without their presence, change of the Strategic Committee to the Powers of the Board of Directors Innovation and Development Committee, discussions on The Board is responsible for defining and implementing the forming an ad hoc Committee named Scientific Advisory Company’s strategic guidelines. Board; Subject to the powers expressly granted to Shareholders’ • Shareholders’ Meeting: review and approval of the report of Meetings and within the limits of the Company’s corporate the Chairman of the Board of Directors on preparation and purpose, the Board of Directors considers all issues related organization of the work of the Board and on internal control to the efficient operation of the Company and, through its and risk management procedures, convening notice of the deliberations, settles all matters that may arise. Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of 7 June 2017; In relations with third parties, the Company is bound even by • share capital: capital increase linked to exercise of acts of the Board of Directors that are not consistent with the subscription options. corporate purpose, unless it proves that the third party was aware that the act exceeded such purpose, or could not be Work of the Chairman of the Board of Directors in 2017 unaware thereof given the circumstances, it being specified During the 2017 financial year, the Chairman of the Board of that the mere publication of the Articles of Association is not Directors organized and directed the work of the Board. He sufficient to constitute such proof. coordinated the work of the Board with that of the Committees. 196 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The Chairman presented in particular the Board of Directors’ m a n ag e m e nt, s c i e nti f i c, d eve l o p m e nt o r c o m pa ny organization and operations during the Shareholders’ Meeting management experience in our and related sectors. of 7 June 2017, including the works of the Board and its Furthermore, Directors considered it would be appropriate to Committees, the evolution of the Group’s governance as create a Scientific Advisory Board, paying attention to conflict part of the separation of functions of Chairman and Chief of interest issues. Finally, although recent, Directors are of the Executive Officer as well as the appointment and renewal of opinion that the separation of the functions of Chairman of the the term of office of directors. Board and Chief Executive Officer is positive. The Chairman of the Board of Directors is also Chairman During these discussions, Directors were given the opportunity of the Innovation and Development Committee. He worked to express their appreciation of individual contributions of their with the directors to set the new missions of this Committee, counterparts. previously called the Strategic Committee. He is also a member of the Nomination and Governance Committee, and In 2017, these proposals led to several implementations by the actively contributed to the recruitment of the new directors Board. In this context, the Board of Directors notably: appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 7 June 2017, as • proposed the appointments of Ms. Margaret Liu, with well as to the discussions on the creation of the Scientific scientific skills and international experience, and Ms. Carol Advisory Board. Stuckley, with financial skills and international experience, During the 2017 financial year, he was Chairman and to the Shareholders’ Meeting of 7 June 2017. These two spokesperson of the G5 Santé and also the representative appointments also enabled the Board to reach the target of of the Filière des Industries et Technologies de Santé. In balanced gender representation within the Board. this role, he represented the Company with his peers of the • engaged a process of reflection to create a Scientific pharmaceutical industry and attended meetings with public Advisory Board, see paragraph 5.1.1.2 in this Registration authorities. He participated in the organization of the meetings Document; of these two bodies. He reported to the Chief Executive Officer and to the Board of the Company on developments in • adopted at its meeting of 13 December 2017 a new policy the pharmaceutical field. on directors’ fees including a predominant variable portion linked to attendance at Board meetings, in accordance with 5.1.1.1.4 Evaluation of the Board of Directors the provisions of the Afep-Medef Code. The Internal Rules of the Board of Directors provide for an annual discussion on its operation, composition and ■■5.1.1.2 The Committees of the Board organization in a restricted session without the presence of Directors of the Chairman of the Board, where appropriate, the Chief Executive Officer and senior executives. This restricted Common rules to all committees – Organization and session is prepared by the Nomination and Governance operation of the Committees of the Board of Directors Committee, working closely with the Vice Chairman of the In accordance with its Internal Rules, the Board of Directors Board or a director specifically appointed for the purpose. may establish temporar y or permanent specialized The committee may call in an outside consultant to conduct Committees with at least three and no more than six an assessment. The Board also conducts a formal evaluation members, of its choosing, and appoint the Chairperson of at least every three years. said Committees. These Committees submit their opinions Moreover, the directors conduct an evaluation on the and proposals to the Board and report to the Board on their performance of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer work. and, if any, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer(s), without their Committee members chosen from among the Directors are presence. appointed in a personal capacity for the duration of their A formal assessment of the Board of Directors’ operation was term of office as a Director. They cannot delegate anyone to carried out by Ms. Michèle Ollier, independent Director, under represent them. They can be replaced or dismissed at any the aegis of the Nomination and Governance Committee. This time by the Board. Their terms of office are renewable. A assessment was conducted by Ms. Michèle Ollier on the basis single Director can be a member of several Committees. of individual interviews with each Director. The conclusions of Subject to the specific rules applicable to them, each this assessment were presented and discussed during the Committee determines the frequency of its meetings. Said Board of Directors meetings held on 22 February 2017 and meetings are held at the head office or any other location 9 March 2017. The Directors emphasized the satisfactory decided by its Chairperson when he convenes it and sets the operation of the Board of Directors. They appreciated the meeting’s agenda. improvements made in 2016, in particular regarding the prior transmission by the management of justified documents, A Committee can meet only if at least half of its members are the good interaction between the Board and the specialized present, in one of the ways allowed by the law or the Articles Committees, as well as the quality of the reports prepared of Association with respect to Directors attending Board by the Chairperson of the specialized Committees which meetings. continue to improve. The Chairperson of a Committee may invite all Board members They also mentioned new opportunities for improvement, to several of its meetings. Only members of the Committee such as starting discussions on recruiting Directors with shall take part in its deliberations. Ipsen Registration document 2017 197 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The minutes of each Committee meeting are drawn up by the Ms. Anne Beaufour, Mr. Henri Beaufour and Mr. David Meek Secretary of the Board under the authority of the Chairperson are guests of the Innovation and Development Committee. of the Committee. The minutes are then sent to all members of the Committee. The Chairpersons of Committees report to The role of the Innovation and Development Committee is the Board on the work carried out by their committees under to: the conditions set by the Board. • review the proposals presented by Management on Within its own area of competence, each Committee issues internal Research & Development programs, Business proposals, recommendations, or opinions. To this end, Development and Merger & Acquisitions; each Committee may carry out or have carried out, at the • follow the update of the Business Development portfolio by Company’s expense, all external studies likely to enlighten the therapeutic areas; Board’s deliberations. Each Committee reports to the Board on its work at each one of the Board’s meetings. A summary • review divestiture programs if any to be endorsed later by of the activity of each Committee is included in the Annual the Board. Report. To carry out its work, the Innovation and Development Each Committee may decide, if need be, on its other operating Committee may call on the Group’s senior executives, procedures. It ensures periodically that its rules and operating whether Company officers or not. procedures enable it to assist the Board in deliberating validly It meets at least four times a year, convened by its Chairman on the issues within its remit and can propose to the Board a or by a majority of its members. change in its Internal rules. In 2017, the missions of the Committee have been redefined The Board of Directors has set up five permanent committees: and its name modified accordingly. Due to this transformation, • an Innovation and Development Committee (formerly the the Innovation and Development Committee (formerly Strategic Committee), Strategic Committee) met only three times during this financial year. The global attendance rate was 83%. • an Audit Committee, The Innovation and Development Committee (formerly • a Compensation Committee, Strategic Committee) mainly worked during the year on the • a Nomination and Governance Committee, and exam and review of proposed acquisitions (acquisition of the assets of Merrimack Pharmaceuticals), partnership and • an Ethics Committee. Group development plans. These works have been reported and, when appropriate, a recommendation made to the The Board of Directors engaged a process of reflection Board, after each Committee meeting. to create in 2018 an ad hoc committee named “Scientific Advisory Board” composed of scientific experts from outside the Group. For further details, see below. The Audit Committee Number of The Innovation and Development Committee (formerly Number Number Attendance independent Strategic Committee) of members of meetings rate members Number of 4 3 5 100% Number Number Attendance independent of members of meetings rate members The Audit Committee comprises, as at the filing date, a 5 2 3 83% minimum of three Directors and a maximum of six Directors, including two-thirds of independent directors with regard to the independence criteria referred to above, chosen from The Innovation and Development Committee comprises, as among Directors who are not executive officers. All members at the filing date, the Chairman of the Board and four other of the Audit Committee must have financial or accounting permanent members of the Board of Directors. expertise. The Board appoints the Chairman of the Committee The Innovation and Development Committee is currently from among its members. The Chairman of the Committee is comprised of five members, two of whom are independent also an independent director. with regard to the independence criteria referred to above. The Audit Committee is currently comprised of four members, Its members are: three of whom are independent. • Marc de Garidel (Chairman); Its members are: • Antoine Flochel; • Pierre Martinet (Chairman and independent member), • Margaret Liu (independent member); • Hervé Couffin (independent member), • Michèle Ollier (independent member); • Carol Stuckley (independent member) and, • Carol Xueref. • Christophe Vérot. 198 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT In accordance with the terms of Article L.823-19 of the In the performance of its tasks, the Audit Committee: French Commercial Code at least one member of the Audit Committee must be independent and have finance, • submits to the Board its proposals regarding the accounting or statutory audit expertise. Ms. Carol Stuckley, appointment, compensation or replacement of the Messrs. Pierre Mar tinet and Her vé Couf fin fulfill the Company’s Statutory Auditors; independence and financial, accounting or statutory audit • reviews, with the management and the Company’s criteria given their professional experience as described Statutory Auditors, the quarterly, interim and annual above. financial statements, the accounting principles and The role of the Audit Committee is to: policies implemented, the Group’s audit and internal control principles and methods, risk management • ensure the relevance and permanence of the accounting procedures and the analyses and reports relating to policies used to prepare both the Company’s and the financial reporting, accounting policy and communications consolidated financial statements, review and assess between management and the Company’s Statutory the consolidation scope as well as evaluate and verify Auditors; the relevance of the accounting methods applied to the Group; • examines and checks the rules and procedures applicable to conflicts of interest, expenses incurred by members of • examine, before they are presented to the Board, draft the management and the identification and measurement annual and interim financial statements, draft annual and of the main financial risks, as well as their application and half-yearly reports, draft forecasts and annual budgets as submits its assessment every year to the Board; well as any accounting and financial information relating to any significant project; to that end, the Audit Committee • examines, checks and assesses on an annual basis the should be able to cooperate (by exchanging information independence, the control procedures and the problems and working jointly) with the Innovation and Development encountered by the Company’s Statutory Auditors, as Committee and the Executive Management before a well as the measures adopted to solve said problems, and summary of their work is presented to the Board; monitors in the same manner the way in which internal audit operates; • examine, before they are presented to the Board, press releases on financial results and guidance, as well as the • more generally, it examines, checks and assesses related presentations; everything likely to affect the regularity and fairness of the financial statements. • examine draft resolutions relating to the financial statements in order to make comments or suggestions, before they are The Audit Committee ensures it is provided, and in sufficient presented to the Board; time, namely approximately one week in advance of each Committee meeting, all the necessary or useful information • control the qualit y of procedures and compliance to be able to carry out the above task and calls on everybody with them, and assess the information received from whose testimony is deemed necessary or useful with regard management, internal committees and internal and to said task. It may in particular have recourse to outside external audits; experts. • monitor the effectiveness of internal control and risk During the annual and half-year accounts examination an management systems; Audit Committee’s meeting is held in a sufficient time prior to • examine the risk exposure and major off-balance sheet the examination and the financial statements by the Board of commitments of the Company; Directors, namely two days before the Board meeting. • manage the selection and reappointment of the Statutory The Company refers to the AMF recommendation dated Auditors (through tendering procedure and submitted to 22 July 2010 on the repor t of Audit Committees. Its the Board), verify their independence, give an opinion on functioning is yearly evaluated during the global evaluation the amount of fees they request, and submit the results of of the Board of Directors. Moreover, its work is subject to a its work to the Board; report. • examine the details and appropriateness of the fees paid The Audit Committee met five times in 2017 with an by the Company and the Group to the Statutory Auditors attendance rate of 100%. The Statutory Auditors were and ensure that said fees and corresponding services are present at meetings regarding the review of annual and halfunlikely to affect the auditors’ independence; yearly financial statements and presented the main aspects of the outcomes of the statutory audit and of the chosen • authorize services, other than statutory audit work, that the accounting methods. The Committee heard, in particular, Statutory Auditors and members of their networks may be the Statutory Auditors, the Executive Vice-President, Chief asked to perform in accordance with the applicable laws Financial Officer, the Group Controller, the Head of Internal and regulations; Audit, the Head of Tax and the Head of Risk Management. A presentation was also prepared for the members of the • conduct an annual review of the status of major disputes. Audit Committee by the Executive Vice-President, Chief The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year, Financial Officer, regarding the Company’s significant risks convened by its Chairman. and off-balance-sheet commitments. The Committee’s Ipsen Registration document 2017 199 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT activities primarily involved the review of the 2016 annual in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief and consolidated financial statements, the 2017 halfExecutive Officer and senior management; year financial statements, the 2017 closing options and the 2018 budget review, the review of the report of the • give its opinion, with the support of the Board’s Chairman, Chairman of the Board of Directors on preparation and on the list of independent members of the Board of organization of the Board’s work and on internal control Directors; and risk management procedures, the review of the 2016 • design a succession plan as necessary, working closely internal audit report, the 2017 and 2018 internal audit plan with the Chairman of the Board, for executive Company and the work review of the Group’s internal audit and of officers to propose succession solutions to the Board in the the internal control procedures, and the approval of the event of unforeseen vacancies. services other than statutory audit work provided by the Statutory Auditors. These works have been reported and, The Nomination and Governance Committee meets at least when appropriate, a recommendation made to the Board, twice a year when convened by its Chairman or at the request after each Committee meeting. of the Chairman of the Board. The Nomination and Governance Committee met five times The Nomination and Governance Committee in 2017 with an attendance rate of 73%. The Committee’s work focused mainly on the assessment of the organization Number of Number Number Attendance and operation of the Board of Directors, the qualification of independent of members of meetings rate independent members and the selection of new directors. members These works have been reported and, when appropriate, a 6 2 5 73% recommendation made to the Board, after each Committee meeting. The Nomination and Governance Committee comprises, as at the filing date, at least three and no more than six directors, The Compensation Committee one-third of whom are independent, according to the criteria set out above. The Board appoints the Chairperson of the Number of Number Number Attendance Committee from among its members. independent of members of meetings rate members In 2017, the Nomination and Governance Committee was comprised of six members, two of whom are independent. 3 2 4 100% Its members are: The Compensation Committee comprises, as at the filing • Anne Beaufour (Chairperson), date, at least three and no more than six directors, including a majority of independent directors as defined by the criteria • Henri Beaufour, set out above, selected among members of the Board of • Marc de Garidel, Directors who are not executive officers. The Board appoints the Chairman of the Committee from among its members. • Hervé Couffin (independent member), The Compensation Committee is currently comprised of three • Michèle Ollier (independent member) and, members two of whom are independent. • Christophe Vérot. Its members are: The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings of the • Antoine Flochel (Chairman), Nomination and Governance Committee and give his opinion when the agenda is about the appointment of ELT members • Hélène Auriol-Potier (independent member) and, or managers of the Group. • Pierre Martinet (independent member). The role of the Nomination and Governance Committee is to: The Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings of the • make proposals to the Board of Directors concerning the Compensation Committee and give his opinion mainly on re-election, replacement or appointment of new Directors, the compensation of the senior managers of the Group, the in close cooperation with the Chairman of the Board; incentives and the performance share plans. • give its opinion, with the support of the Board’s Chairman, The role of the Compensation Committee is to: on the recruitment or the replacement of the Chief Executive Officer and/or Deputy Chief Executive Officers • make proposals to the Board of Directors on all components where required, as well as the members of the Executive of the compensation paid to the Group’s Company officers, Leadership Team; senior management and senior executives; • prepare, in close cooperation with the Vice-Chairman of the • be informed on all the matters pertaining to the recruitment Board or a Director specially appointed for this purpose, of the Group’s main senior managers, other than the Chief the annual “executive session” of the Board of Directors Executive Officer, as well as on any decisions related to all dedicated to the assessment of its method of operation components of their compensation; 200 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT • make recommendations on the amount and allocation of • ensure the dissemination throughout the Group of the Code directors’ fees among Board members; of Ethics and general ethics policies defined by the Group and their updates; • make recommendations to the Board of Directors on Group compensation policies and employee savings • monitor the implementation and efficiency of procedures plans, employee share ownership schemes, stock used to disseminate the Code of Ethics and overall policies options and bonus shares or any other similar forms of and make sure they are bought into by employees and compensation. complied with throughout the Company; If it deems this is useful, the Compensation Committee may • study the Group’s risks mapping from an ethics and ask the Chairman of the Board to help in its deliberations compliance standpoint; and work, except when it is discussing the Chairman’s compensation. • review the ethics and compliance activity report within the Group; The Compensation Committee meets at least twice a year when convened by its Chairman, or at the request of the • study the organization of the ethics and compliance function Chairman of the Board. and make recommendations, when relevant; The Compensation Committee met four times in 2017 with • receive any information concerning possible breaches of an attendance rate of 100%. Its activities primarily involved the ethics and compliance policy and review action plans determination of the compensation of the Chief Executive implemented after such breaches are detected. Officer and of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the report on compensation policy for Company officers, the • examine potential conflicts of interest for members of the policy for the granting of performance shares in the Group Company’s Board of Directors and communicate the results and for directors’ fees. These works have been reported and, of its findings in accordance with an internal procedure to when appropriate, a recommendation made to the Board, protect confidentiality. after each Committee meeting. The Ethics Committee may hear, when it deems necessary, the Executive Management or its members, Internal Audit, the The Ethics Committee Ethics & Compliance Department or any other member of the Management team. These hearings can be held, if applicable, Number of without Executive Management being present. Number Number Attendance independent of members of meetings rate members The Ethics Committee meets at least once a year when convened by its Chairperson. 4 2 4 100% The Committee met four times in 2017 with an attendance The Ethics Committee comprises, as at the filing date, at least rate of 100%. Its activities primarily involved the review and/ three and no more than six directors, including at least one or examination of the procedures and regulations concerning independent director as defined by the criteria set out above, ethics, compliance, transparency and governance. These selected among members of the Board of Directors, who works have been repor ted and, when appropriate, a are not executive Company officers. The Board appoints the recommendation made to the Board, after each Committee Chairperson of the Committee from among its independent meeting. members. Ad hoc Committee: the Scientific Advisory Board The Ethics Committee is currently comprised of four members two of whom are independent. It is forecasted to set up in 2018 a Scientific Advisory Board as an ad hoc committee rather than an additional Its members are: permanent committee of the Board of Directors, composed of internationally recognized experts in the field of sciences, • Hélène Auriol-Potier (Chairperson and independent from outside the Board. member), The Scientific Advisory Board’s mission would be to inform the • Carol Xueref, Board of Directors, provide guidance on the scientific direction • Margaret Liu (independent member) and of the company, inform it about scientific developments in fields it competes in, and provide strategic advice, in particular • Mayroy SA (represented by Mr. Philippe Bonhomme). regarding emerging science and technology issues and The role of the Ethics Committee is to: trends in the fields of oncology, neurosciences, endocrinology and rare diseases. • review the definition of the Group’s fundamental values as well as of its ethics and compliance policies; The Scientific Advisory Board would be composed of a Chairman, who would run the committee and additional • submit recommendations on ethics and compliance to the members. The members would be selected by the Chairman, Board of Directors; discuss all issues related to ethics and outside Ipsen, among those who are the best placed and compliance referred to it by the Board; experienced to fulfil the missions of the Committee. Ipsen Registration document 2017 201 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT ■■5.1.1.3 Executive Management At its meeting on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors Company’s Executive Management decided to change the Company’s form of governance by separating the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors In accordance with the legal provisions, the executive and Chief Executive Officer. The Company also announced management of the Company is the responsibility either of on 16 February 2016 that it had started the process to recruit the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who then serves as its future Chief Executive Officer. The separation of functions Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or of another person is effective since 18 July 2016, the start date of Mr. David appointed by the Board of Directors who then serves as Chief Meek’s appointment as Chief Executive Officer. With this Executive Officer. The Board of Directors is responsible for change of governance, the appointment of Marc de Garidel electing one of these two options for a period which may not as Chairman of the Board of Directors has been confirmed. be less than one year. Executive Management David Meek Citizenship : Shares owned: 1 Chief Executive Officer and Director USA Voting rights: 1 Committee: Biography and experience Innovation and Development Committee (Guest) David Meek was appointed CEO of Ipsen in July 2016. He is also on the Board of Directors of Ipsen. David Meek has over 25 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry where he has Date of birth: held various global executive positions in major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. 12 September 1963 Prior to joining Ipsen David Meek was Executive Vice-President and President of the oncology division of Baxalta. Date of 1st appointment: David Meek started his biopharma career at Johnson & Johnson and Janssen Pharmaceutica Chief Executive Officer: 18 July 2016 (1989-2004) where he held a variety of senior US sales and marketing positions across (unlimited term) therapeutic areas in primary care, specialty care, and oncology. Director: 7 June 2017 He then joined Novartis (2005-2012), where he successively served as the global business Term of office as Director: franchise head for the company’s respiratory and dermatology franchise in Basel, Switzerland; 2021 Shareholders’ Meeting President and Chief Executive Officer of the pharmaceutical division in Canada; and the head of oncology for Northern, Central and Eastern Europe. From 2012 to 2014, he served as Chief Commercial Officer of Endocyte, an oncology biotechnology company. Prior to his biopharma career David Meek was an officer in the United States Army. He is a graduate of the University of Cincinnati. Positions and functions currently held Main function: Other positions: • Ipsen SA (France), Chief Executive Officer • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Chairman Positions and functions previously held that expired during the last five years None. For the purposes of his duties, the Chief Executive Officer is If the Chairman is also the Chief Executive Officer, the domiciled at the Company’s registered office. provisions concerning the Chief Executive Officer also apply to him or her. The Chief Executive Officer Appointment and removal Powers When the Board of Directors opts to separate the roles of in accordance with the provisions of the articles of association, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, it appoints the Chief Executive Officer has the broadest powers to act at the Chief Executive Officer, sets his or her term of office, and any time and in all circumstances in the name and on behalf determines any restrictions on his or her powers. of the Company, within the limits of the Company’s corporate purpose and subject to those powers expressly granted by The Chief Executive Officer may be dismissed at any time by law to Shareholders’ Meetings and to the Board of Directors. the Board of Directors. If the Chief Executive Officer is not the Chairman, his or her dismissal may give rise to damages if his The Chief Executive Officer represents the Company in its or her dismissal is unjustified. dealings with third parties. The Company is bound by the Chief Executive Officer’s acts even if the acts are outside The Chief Executive Officer is subject to the provisions of the corporate purpose, unless the Company can prove of Article L.225-94-1 of the French Commercial Code on that the third party knew the act was ultra vires or could simultaneous holding of office as Chief Executive Officer, not fail to have known this, given the circumstances, on the a member of Management Board, sole managing Director, understanding that the sole publication of the Company’s Director or member of the Supervisory Board of French Articles of Association is not sufficient to constitute such sociétés anonymes with their registered offices in France. proof. 202 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT However, for certain operations of Business Development, Deputy Chief Executive Officers may be dismissed by the the Board of Directors has determined thresholds for which Board of Directors at any time upon a proposal of the Chief the approval of the Board, upon recommendation of the Executive Officer. Innovation and Development Committee, will be required. If the Chief Executive Officer ceases to exercise or is prevented As part of his duties, the Chief Executive Officer, member from exercising his or her duties, the Deputy Chief Executive of the Board of Directors, periodically meets the Company’s Officers will remain in office until a new Chief Executive investors and reports to the Board. Officer is appointed, unless the Board of Directors decides otherwise. Deputy Chief Executive Officers Upon a proposal of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board As of this Registration Document, no Deputy Chief Executive of Directors may appoint one or more persons to assist the Officer has been appointed. Chief Executive Officer with the title of Deputy Chief Executive Officer. ■■5.1.1.4 Executive Leadership Team To allow the Chief Executive Officer to conduct its missions, The maximum number of Deputy Chief Executive Officers is an Executive Leadership Team (“ELT”) that is responsible set at five. for managing the Company’s day-to-day operations and for The scope and term of the powers granted to Deputy Chief coordinating the Group’s various scientific, legal, financial, Executive Officers are determined by the Board of Directors commercial, and strategic actions has been set up. The and the Chief Executive Officer. Executive Leadership Team is also responsible for establishing consistent management policies throughout the Group With respect to third parties, Deputy Chief Executive Officers and for assisting the Chairman of the Board of Directors in have the same powers as the Chief Executive Officer. implementing the Board’s decisions. Composition of the Executive Leadership Team As at 15 March 2018, the members of the Executive Leadership Team are as follows: Name Function Date of entry in the ELT David Meek Chief Executive Officer 2016 Dominique Bery Executive Vice President, Strategy & Transformation 2018 François Garnier Executive Vice President, General Counsel 2015 Benoît Hennion Executive Vice President and President, Consumer Healthcare 2017 Dominique Laymand Executive Vice-President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer 2017 Alexandre Lebeaut Executive Vice President Research & Development, 2017 Chief Scientific Officer Aymeric Le Chatelier Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer 2014 Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch Executive Vice President, Chief Business Officer 2018 Régis Mulot Executive Vice-President, Chief Human Resources Officer 2018 Aidan Murphy Executive Vice-President, Technical Operations 2018 Richard Paulson Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer 2018 of Ipsen North America Harout Semerjian Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer 2017 Have left the Executive Leadership Team in 2017: Jean Fabre, To the Company’s best knowledge and as of the date of Cynthia Schwalm, Stéphane Bessette and Jonathan Barnsley. publication of the present registration document, over the last Christophe Jean left the ELT in March 2018 to become Special five years, none of the members of the Executive Leadership Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer until June 30, 2018. Team have been: There are no family relationships between the members of • convicted of fraud, charged with any other offence or had the Executive Leadership Team, nor with the members of the any official public disciplinary action taken against them by Board. It is specified that Mr. David Meek is Chief Executive statutory or regulatory authorities; Officer and Director of the Company. • implicated in a bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation as an executive officer or director; Ipsen Registration document 2017 203 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT • disqualified from acting as a board member, senior executive into between the Company or one of its subsidiaries and or supervisory board member or from participating in the one of the members of the Company’s Executive Leadership management of a listed company. Team. The members of the Executive Leadership Team, except Biographies of the Executive Leadership Team members David Meek, hold an employment contract with the Group. The biography of David Meek is given in section 5.1.1.1 of this There are no other agreements or service contracts entered Registration Document. Dominique Bery Executive Vice President, Strategy & Transformation Citizenship: Biography and experience French Dominique joined Ipsen in April 2017. Appointment date: Dominique spent the previous 18 years with McKinsey & Company, where she was elected 13 March 2018 Partner in 2010. Dominique co-led the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Products Practice in Europe and served multiple pharmaceutical and biotech companies. She also worked with Date of birth: diagnostics companies, hospitals, payors, ministries of health, patient associations, and public 27 April 1971 health organizations, gaining extensive experience in the healthcare industry. Located in Paris and Washington, Dominique led many company-wide transformation projects across Europe, US and Africa, working hand in hand with management and their teams. She supported clients to set their strategic priorities at corporate, business unit, and therapeutic area level, and she worked with a number of brand teams to accelerate brand performance. She brings a truly cross-functional perspective, having worked closely with most functions in pharmaceutical companies. In parallel, she initiated the creation of a community of women executives in France, focused on developing the capabilities of women executives on key business topics such as innovation, leadership in transformation, business model disruption. Dominique is a graduate from ESSEC and holds a Masters in Business Administration from Harvard Business School. Current positions inside the Group None François Garnier Executive Vice President, General Counsel Citizenship: Biography and experience French François Garnier was appointed Executive Vice-President, General Counsel in December 2014, effective as of 5 January 2015. Appointment date: 5 January 2015 François began his career in 1989 at Servier S.A. as International Contracts Manager, and remained with the company until September 1995. He then moved to Rhône Poulenc Rorer S.A. Date of birth: to take up the position of Counsel for Corporate Transactions. In 1996 he moved to the United 4 May 1962 States as Associate Counsel, before being appointed Chief Counsel for France in 1999. François continued his career as Chief Counsel at Aventis Animal Nutrition until 2001, when he joined the Pharmacia Group as Chief Counsel for Europe. Francois joined Pfizer France in 2003, as Vice-President, General Counsel before moving on to become Chief Counsel for Pfizer’s operations in Europe from 2009 to 2014. He was International Chief Counsel (ex-US) for Pfizer Inc. from January 2014. A student from the IEP in Paris, Francois graduated from the University of Panthéon-Assas prior to working in the legal departments of a number of pharmaceutical groups. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director 204 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Benoît Hennion Executive Vice-President and President, Consumer HealthCare Citizenship: Biography and experience French Benoit Hennion has been Executive Vice-President and President, Consumer HealthCare since March 2017. Appointment date: 13 March 2017 Benoît joined Ipsen in 2006 within the Corporate Strategic Planning team. In 2009, he became Consumer HealthCare Business Unit Head for France, and subsequently, in 2011, General Date of birth: Manager of France Operations (including both Specialty Care and Consumer HealthCare). 7 March 1976 Following the separation of the Specialty Care and Consumer HealthCare businesses in 2014, Benoit was appointed Vice President, Asia-Pacific, Specialty Care. Benoit gained his MBA degree at ESSEC (Paris, France). Before joining Ipsen, he started his career at Société Générale in the Czech Republic and then served for six years in the Paris office of Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director Dominique Laymand Executive Vice-President Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer Citizenship: Biography and experience French Dominique Laymand was appointed Executive Vice-President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer in October 2017. Appointment date: 6 October 2017 Dominique Laymand joined Ipsen in 2015 as Senior Vice-President, Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer. Date of birth: Dominique is in charge of Ethics & Compliance strategy for the Ipsen Group, the deployment of the 23 August 1954 Global Ethics & Compliance program and the organization of this department. The Global Ethics & Compliance program is based on an integrated approach to prevention and management of operational risks, as well as on strong principles of integrity and ethics in the conduct of business. Previously Dominique served as Vice-President Ethics & Compliance at Bristol Myers Squibb, setting up and managing the Ethics & Compliance Europe, Middle East, Africa, Turkey and Russia program. Dominique also chairs the committee of compliance at the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA) and also at the French Association of Pharmaceutical Industries (Leem). Dominique is the president of ETHICS, an association which includes international professionals in Ethics and Compliance working in the healthcare sector. Current positions inside the Group None Alexandre Lebeaut Executive Vice-President Research & Development, Chief Scientific Officer Citizenship: Biography and experience USA Dr. Alexandre Lebeaut was appointed Executive Vice-President, R&D, and Chief Scientific Officer in April 2017. Appointment date: 14 April 2017 Dr. Lebeaut joined Ipsen in 2013 as Senior Vice President, Chief Development Officer, Global Drug Development and was appointed Interim Head of R&D in December 2016. He earned his Date of birth: M.D. from Paris Diderot University and specialized in Pediatrics at Paris Descartes University. 14 November 1957 Before joining Ipsen, he held several global leadership positions in Clinical Development and Medical Affairs with biopharmaceutical companies including Axcan Pharmaceuticals, Sanofi, Novartis and the Schering Plough Research Institute. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director • Ipsen Innovation SAS (France), Managing Director • Ipsen Bioscience Inc. (United States of America), Chairman • Ipsen (Beijing) Pharmaceutical Science and Technology Development, Co. Ltd. (China), Director Ipsen Registration document 2017 205 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Aymeric Le Chatelier Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer Citizenship: Biography and experience French Aymeric Le Chatelier was appointed as Executive Vice-President, Chief Financial Officer in November 2014. Appointment date: 3 November 2014 Aymeric, a graduate from HEC, started his career at Arthur Andersen in 1993. He became internal auditor first at Lagardère group in 1997 and then at Vivendi group in 1998. From 1999, Date of birth: he successively executed several roles in finance management in France and the United 26 May 1969 States within Veolia Environnement, notably as Deputy Chief Financial Officer of Veolia Water in 2004-2005. In 2006, he joined the Arjowiggins group, a leading manufacturer of creative and technical paper, and was appointed Group Chief Financial Officer in 2009. In 2013, Aymeric was appointed Financial Director of ERDF (the electricity distribution network company of EDF) and in 2014, he became a member of the Management Board in charge of Finance and Sourcing within ERDF. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch Executive Vice-President, Chief Business Officer Citizenship: Biography and experience USA Ivana Magovčević-Liebisch Ph.D, J.D was appointed Executive Vice-President, Chief Business Officer in March 2018. She is in charge of Business Development, External Innovation and Appointment date: Strategic Alliances. 13 March 2018 Ivana joins Ipsen from Axcella Health Inc., where she served as Executive Vice-President, Chief Date of birth: Strategy and Corporate Development Officer. Prior to joining Axcella, Ivana was Senior Vice11 July 1967 President and Head of Global Business Development at Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd (20132017), where she led and executed multiple business development transactions ranging from licensing to acquisition of drug candidates, commercial products and companies for the global specialty drug business. She previously worked at Dyax Corp (2001-2013) in management roles of increasing scope and responsibility, including Executive Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer. Ivana began her biopharma career at Transkaryotic Therapies, Inc (1998-2001), where she was Director of Intellectual Property and Patent Counsel. Ivana serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Applied Genetic Technologies Corporation (AGTC), is a member of the Board of Directors for Alivio Therapeutics, a Trustee of Suffolk University, and an overseer of the Boston Ballet, Boston Museum of Science and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. Ivana holds a Ph.D. in Genetics from Harvard University and received her J.D. in High Technology law from Suffolk University Law School. She graduated from Wheaton College with a B.A. in Biology and Chemistry. In 2008, Ivana was the winner of the Women Entrepreneurs in Science and Technology Leadership Award. Current positions inside the Group None 206 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Régis Mulot Executive Vice-President, Chief Human Resources Officer Citizenship: Biography and experience French Régis Mulot was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer in March 2018. Appointment date: 13 March 2018 Régis Mulot joins Ipsen from Staples Inc., the global specialty retail and e-commerce company, where he served as Executive Vice-President, Chief Human Resources Officer, leading a global Date of birth: team of over 600 professionals. Prior to his career with Staples (2009-2018), Mr Mulot held HR 10 May 1966 leadership positions with Levi Strauss & Co (2002-2008) and the technology start-up Broadnet Europe (2000-2002), following earlier roles at GTECH Corporation (1994-2000), International Post Corporation (1991-1994) and Chronopost SA (1989-1991). Régis Mulot serves on the Board of Trustees, Simmons College (Boston M.A.); is Past Chairman of the Business Advisory Committee of the Simmons School of Management 2014-2017; Member of the French-American Chamber of Commerce, New England; and Founder and Chair of the French-American HR Forum since 2016. He has been Co-chair of the Boston CHRO (Chief Human Resources Officers) Leadership summit since 2014, and a Gartner CHRO Leadership Board member since 2017. Régis Mulot holds a DESS Entreprises Publiques (Master in Public Administration) from Paris XI-Sud in partnership with Paris IX-Dauphine and Institut International d’Administration Publique (IIAP). He also holds a Maîtrise Droit Public (Bachelor of Law) from Paris II–PanthéonAssas, and is a Beta Gamma Sigma honoree from the Simmons College Chapter. Current positions inside the Group None Aidan Murphy Executive Vice-President, Technical Operations Citizenship: Biography and experience British Aidan Murphy was appointed Executive Vice-President, Technical Operations, effective 1 January 2018. Dr Aidan Murphy has more than 25 years experience in the pharmaceutical and Appointment date: biotechnology industry, and since joining Ipsen in 2006 has held a number of manufacturing 1 January 2018 leadership roles in many countries. Date of birth: Since 2014 Aidan Murphy has held the position of Senior Vice President Biologics Development 13 April 1966 and Manufacturing at Ipsen. Also during his tenure at Ipsen, he has led the manufacturing sites of Tianjin (China), Dublin (Ireland), and Wrexham (UK) and occupied global roles as SVP CMC (Chemistry, Manufacturing, and Controls) Development & Engineering and Head of Specialty Care Manufacturing. He holds a PhD in organic chemistry from Trinity College, Dublin. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS (France), Managing Director • Ipsen Manufacturing Ireland Limited (Ireland), Director Richard Paulson Executive Vice-President and Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen North America Citizenship: Biography and experience Canadian Richard Paulson was appointed Executive Vice-President and Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen North America, effective 5th February 2018. Appointment date: 5 February 2018 He is responsible for driving continued growth in both the US and Canadian markets across key therapeutics areas of oncology, neurology and rare diseases. Date of birth: During a 10-year career at Amgen, Richard Paulson held a number of positions in the company, 11 September 1967 including General Manager, Central and Eastern Europe, and subsequently General Manager Germany, before assuming leadership positions in Amgen’s Oncology Business Unit. Prior to joining Amgen, he held international positions in general management, marketing and market access with Pfizer. He also served in a number of sales and marketing roles with increasing seniority for GlaxoWellcome in Canada. Richard Paulson earned his undergraduate degree in Commerce from the University of Saskatchewan, Canada, and his MBA from the University of Toronto, Canada. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (United States of America), Director Ipsen Registration document 2017 207 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Harout Semerjian Executive Vice-President, Chief Commercial Officer Citizenship: Biography and experience Canadian Harout Semerjian, Executive Vice-President, Chief Commercial Officer, has been a member of Appointment date: the ELT since 2 February 2017. 2 February 2017 Harout Semerjian has more than 23 years of pharmaceutical experience, including the last 17 years at Novartis focused on oncology and specialty care. He took on leadership roles with Date of birth: increasing responsibility across the U.S., Canada, Europe, Middle East & North Africa in addition 6 November 1970 to headquarter-based roles. His last role was Senior Vice-President and Global Launch Head of ribociclib. Prior to that, he was Vice-President and U.S. Hematology Franchise Head based in New Jersey. He holds dual MBA degrees from Cornell University, New York and from Queen’s University, Canada. He also holds a Bachelor Degree of Science in Biology from the Lebanese American University. Current positions inside the Group • Ipsen Pharma SAS, Managing Director • Ipsen Biopharm Limited, Chairman and Director • Ipsen Developments Limited, Chairman and Director • Ipsen Limited, Chairman and Director • Pothold Limited, Chairman and Director • Specwood Limited, Chairman and Director • Sterix Limited, Chairman and Director • Ipsen Bioinnovation Limited, Chairman and Director ■■5.1.1.5 Conflicts of interests, no-condemnation Executive Officer, of the minimum portion of shares that and service contracts must be held until his term of office. Conflicts of interest involving governance, management The E xecutive Of ficers have signed a non-compete and executive managements bodies commitment to prevent certain situations of conflicts of The director is elected by all the shareholders and must act in interest arising when they leave the Group. all circumstances in the Company’s interest. Absence of condemnation of the members of the Board Directors must inform the Board about any actual or potential of Directors and the executive management conflicts of interest between themselves and the Company or To the company’s best knowledge, and as at the date of this the Group and must abstain from taking part in any vote by Registration document, none of the members of the Board of the Board on the relevant deliberations. Directors neither the executive management of the Company, have been over the last past five years: Moreover, as part of its missions, the Ethics Committee regularly reviews with the Board of Directors the issue of • convicted of fraud, charged with any other offence or had conflict of interest. Each director must report its activities any official public disciplinary action taken against them by to the Ethics Committee on an annual basis for review and statutory or regulatory authorities; recommendation to the Board of Directors. • implicated in a bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation; To the best of the Company’s knowledge and as of the date of publication of this registration document: • disqualified from acting as a board member, senior executive or supervisory board member or from participating in the • there is no conflict of interest between the duties of the management of a listed company. members of the Board of Directors, Executive Management, and Company officers vis-à-vis the Company and their Service contracts with members of the Company’s personal interests and other duties; governing bodies • there is no undertaking or agreement with the main To the Company’s best knowledge, no services contracts shareholders, clients, suppliers, or other parties pursuant has been signed, involving directors or any member of the to which one of the members of the Board of Directors and Executive Board and the issuing company or its subsidiaries of the Executive Management of the Company has been likely to provide such benefits. appointed as director; Loans and guarantees granted to members of the Board • no Director or members of the Executive Management No loan or guarantee has been granted by the Company have entered into any agreement restricting the sale of their to any member of its Board of Directors or its Executive shareholding in the Company, at the exception, for the Chief Management. 208 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT ■■5.1.1.6 Specific terms for participating in ■■5.1.1.8 Delegations currently valid granted by Shareholders’ Meetings the Shareholders’ Meeting on capital The specific terms for the participation of shareholders in the increases Annual Shareholders’ Meeting are found in section 5.2.1.4 of The delegations currently valid and having been granted by this Registration Document. the Shareholders’ Meeting regarding capital increases are found in section 5.2.2.4 of this Registration Document. ■■5.1.1.7 F  actors likely to have an impact in the event of a public offer The factors likely to have an impact in the event of a public offer are found in section 5.2.3.5 of this Registration Document. 5.1.2 Compensation of Company officers ■■5.1.2.1 Directors’ fees and the Ethics Committee receive an additional director’s Rules regarding the allocation of directors’ fees fee of €20,000 for a full year of service, T h e B oa rd of D ire c to r s d e c id e d at i ts m e eting of • the Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Compensation 10 November 2009, with effect from the 2010 financial year, Committee receive an additional director’s fee of €35,000 and within the global limit of €1,200,000 approved by the for a full year of service. Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017 (until Each Director who is a member of at least one committee new decision), to allocate directors’ fees as follows: shall receive an additional amount of €5,000 for a full year of • each member of the Board of Directors receives a director’s service. fee of €40,000 for a full year of service, The Board of Directors can decide to allow additional • the Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors receives an directors’ fees amounting to €5,000 for intercontinental travel additional fee of €50,000 for a full year of service, to attend a meeting of the Board. • the members of Committees of the Board receive a Directors’ fees are paid on a half year basis (within the month director’s fee of €15,000 for a full year of service, following each half-year closing). • the Chairmen of the Nomination and Governance The gross amount of directors’ fees paid for 2017 was Committee, the Innovation and Development Committee €903,939. Individual amounts of fees and other compensation paid to directors (gross amounts – rounded) (Table 3 of AMF recommendations) Directors Amounts paid (**) in 2016 Amounts paid (**) in 2017 Marc de Garidel (*) – Director’s fees €81,989 – – Other compensation see section 5.1.2.3.2 see section 5.1.2.3.2 Anne Beaufour – Director’s fees €95,000 €94,042 – Other compensation – – Henri Beaufour – Director’s fees €61,667 €65,897 – Other compensation – – Hervé Couffin – Director’s fees €75,000 €75,000 – Other compensation – – Antoine Flochel – Director’s fees €160,000 €160,000 – Other compensation – – (*) The compensation elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel, paid prorata temporis in respect of his functions as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and as Chairman from this date, are presented at section 5.1.2.3.2 of the registration document and should be added. Since 18 July 2016 and for the financial year 2017, Mr. Marc de Garidel has not received any directors’ fees. (**) Directors’ fees are paid on a half-year basis (within the month following each half-year closing), based prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the semester, if applicable. Ipsen Registration document 2017 209 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Directors Amounts paid (**) in 2016 Amounts paid (**) in 2017 Margaret Liu (1) – Director’s fees – €10,000 – Other compensation – – Pierre Martinet – Director’s fees €110,000 €110,000 – Other compensation – – Mayroy SA – Director’s fees €60,000 €60,000 – Other compensation – – David Meek (2) – Director’s fees – – – Other compensation see section 5.1.2.3.1 see section 5.1.2.3.1 Michèle Ollier – Director’s fees €75,000 €75,000 – Other compensation – – Hélène Auriol-Potier – Director’s fees €95,000 €95,000 – Other compensation – – Carol Stuckley (1) – Director’s fees – €9,000 – Other compensation – – Christophe Vérot – Director’s fees €75,000 €75,000 – Other compensation – – Carol Xueref – Director’s fees €75,000 €75,000 – Other compensation – – Total – Director’s fees €963,656 €903,939 – Other compensation – – (*) The compensation elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel, paid prorata temporis in respect of his functions as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and as Chairman from this date, are presented at section 5.1.2.3.2 of the registration document and should be added. Since 18 July 2016 and for the financial year 2017, Mr. Marc de Garidel has not received any directors’ fees. (**) Directors’ fees are paid on a half-year basis (within the month following each half-year closing), based prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the semester, if applicable. (1) Director since 7 June 2017, the amount of director’s fees is calculated prorata temporis on the time spent in office during the semester. (2) Director since 7 June 2017, Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, has not received any directors’ fees. The compensation elements of Mr. David Meek in respect of his function as Chief Executive Officer since 18 July 2016, are presented at section 5.1.2.3.1 of the registration document and should be added. T he Board of D ire ctors de cided, at its me eting of Committee, outside the presence of the Company officers 13 December 2017, a new Directors’ fees policy that includes concerned. The Board of Directors also refers to the AFEPa predominant variable portion linked to attendance at MEDEF recommendations on compensation paid to executive meetings of the Board. officers of listed companies. ■■5.1.2.2 Principles and criteria governing the This policy covers all aspects of the fixed, variable and exceptional compensation and of the benefits of any kind, compensation of Company officers paid by the Company. The principles and criteria for determining, allocating and granting fixed, variable and exceptional elements making It is decided not only on the basis of the work carried out, up the total compensation and the benefits of any kind the results obtained and the responsibility assumed, but attributable to the Company officers in respect of their duties, also on the basis of practices for comparable companies constituting the compensation policy concerning them, are and the compensation of the Company’s other senior decided by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of executives. the Compensation Committee. They are presented below, and submitted to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting The compensation paid to Company officers is structured as to be held in 2018. follows: Principles and criteria governing the compensation of • fixed compensation; Company officers • annual variable compensation (only for executive officers); The compensation policy with regard to Company officers and their individual compensation is decided by the Board • if applicable, multi-annual variable compensation (only for of Directors upon recommendation of the Compensation executive officers); 210 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT • if applicable, benefits for taking up a position (only for Annual variable compensation is set on the basis of a target executive officers); bonus equal to 100% of the fixed compensation, within a range between zero to a certain percentage, predetermined by the • if applicable, eligibility for directors’ fees paid to Directors; Board of Directors, in case of under or overperformance. The • allocation of stock options and performance shares under detail of qualitative criteria is not made public for confidentiality plans approved by the Board of Directors (only for executive reasons. officers); As part of the separation of the offices of Chairman of the • if applicable, other benefits; Board and Chief Executive Officer, the Board of Directors has decided that no annual variable compensation shall be paid to • if applicable, payments, benefits and compensation granted the non-executive Chairman of the Board. to Company officers upon termination of their functions. The criteria for determining annual variable compensation for The individual elements of compensation for Company the 2018 financial year are presented at paragraph 5.1.2.3.1 B officers are described in section 5.1.2.3.2 of this registration hereunder. document. Multi-annual variable compensation In accordance with the article L.225-100 of the French The Board of Directors may decide, depending on opportunities Commercial Code, compensation elements paid or granted and in light of legislatives changes concerning free shares, to for financial year 2017 to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of grant to Executive Company officers, as well as some senior the Board of Directors and Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive executives of the group, a Mid-Term Bonus in the scope of the Officer, shall be submitted to the vote of the Shareholders at plans approved by the Board of Directors upon recommendation the Annual Combined Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in of the Compensation Committee; it is determined on the basis 2018 to approve the accounts for the financial year ended on of a percentage of fixed compensation. 31 December 2017, following a specific resolution for each of them. These plans are subject to attendance and, if applicable, precisely predetermined performance conditions, which For the record, according to articles L.225-37-2, paragraph 2 must be fulfilled during an acquisition period set by the Board and L.225-100, paragraph 6 of the French Commercial of Directors. Nevertheless, in the event of death, disability, Code, the payment of variable or exceptional compensation retirement or exception granted by the Board of Directors elements for the past financial year and in respect of his term before the end of the acquisition period, the beneficiary of office is subject to approval, by the Annual Combined may retain his rights. The details of the external and internal Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2018 to approve the criteria and the completion levels (expected and realized) accounts for the financial year ended on 31 December 2017, of the external and internal criteria are not disclosed for of the compensation elements paid or granted for the past confidentiality reasons. financial year. The Board of Directors has decided that no multi-annual In the event that the Board of Directors decides to appoint compensation shall be paid to the non-executive Chairman one or more Deputy Chief Executive Officers, the principles of the Board. and compensation criteria applicable to the Chief Executive Officer would be applicable to the Deputy Chief Executive Exceptional compensation and/or financial indemnity Officers. The Board of Directors may decide, in case of specific In the event that the Board of Directors decides to combine circumstances or events, to grant exceptional compensation. the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the It can decide to grant exceptional compensation and/or an principles and compensation criteria applicable to the Chief exceptional financial indemnity to the Company officers while Executive Officer would apply to the Chairman and Chief taking into account the specific circumstances in which they Executive Officer. carry out their duties. Fixed compensation Special financial indemnity Fixed compensation takes into account our reference markets. The Board of Directors may grant a special financial indemnity It is subject to be reviewed by the Board of Directors, typically to a new executive company officer coming from a company at relatively long intervals, according to the Company’s market outside the Group on taking up duty in order to offset the loss position and taking account changing responsibilities. of previously-held benefits. Annual variable compensation Directors’ fees Annual variable compensation is linked to the Group’s The Company officers who are members of the Board of overall performance and to the achievement of Executive Directors may receive directors’ fees due on the basis of their Company officers’ personal targets. Every year, the Board positions as Directors according to the rules applicable to all of Directors defines and precisely predetermines qualitative of the Directors. and quantifiable criteria for determining the variable compensation and the target objectives. Quantifiable criteria The Board of Directors has decided that no directors’ fees are preponderant to the determination of annual variable shall be paid to the non-executive Chairman of the Board and compensation and a limit is set on the qualitative part. to the Chief Executive Officer. Ipsen Registration document 2017 211 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The allocation rules and the specific details of gross directors’ assistance for the preparation and filing of personal income fees paid during the 2017 financial year are presented at tax returns, global healthcare coverage (mutual and life/ section 5.1.2.1 of this Registration Document. disability schemes) under the Group’s policy, reimbursement of travel expenses and expenses incurred with the exercise of Stock options and performance shares their corporate duties, D&O liability insurance. Executive Company officers as well as certain senior executives of the Group may benefit from stock options Payments, benefits and compensation granted to and/or performance shares under plans approved and set Company officers upon termination of their functions each year by the Board of Directors upon recommendation Severance payment of the Compensation Committee. In accordance with the Company officers may benefit from a severance payment recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code (§24.2), nonclause, due in the event of termination of their duties, of which executive officers shall not benefit from stock option and/or the terms have been decided by the Board of Directors in performance shares plans. accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF The definitive number of performance shares that will be Code: vested will depend upon the level of achievement of the • payment due only in the event of a forced departure (départ performance conditions set by the Board of Directors, which contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, are based on one or several internal criteria (e.g., quantifiable • in an amount corresponding to 24 months’ fixed and annual financial ratio) and on one or several external criteria (e.g., variable remuneration in respect of their term of office, share price compared to a benchmark of comparable companies). Each of these conditions shall be assessed by • which includes, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount comparing the target threshold and the actual performance hereof, the amount due in respect of any non-compete of the Company over the period used as reference for the undertaking, if applicable, applicable plan. Each of these conditions may generate a • payment of which is subject to a predetermined performance payout varying within a range between zero to a certain condition, assessed at least on two financial years. percentage pre-established and determined by the Board of Directors at the implementation of the plan. Non-compete payment The Board of Directors decided that the Company officers The Board of Directors may conclude a non-compete must retain, until the end of their term of office, a number of agreement with the Company officers in case of their shares equivalent to 20% of the net capital gain that would be departure from the Group for a reason other than a change realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from the exercise of control. This agreement shall be valid for a certain period of stock options and/or from the performance shares. following the date of departure. These plans are subject to attendance (subject to exceptions) The non-compete payment may not exceed a ceiling of and, if applicable, performance conditions, which must be 24 months of compensation (fixed and annual variable), fulfilled during a minimum acquisition period of two years including, if applicable, the amount of a severance payment, depending on the beneficiaries’ country of residence and, up to 50 %. if applicable, a holding period. Nevertheless, in the event Additional pension scheme of death, disability, retirement or exception granted by the Board of Directors before the end of the acquisition period, The Company officers may benefit from defined contribution the beneficiary or, if applicable, its assignees, can keep their pension plan or defined benefit additional pension commitment rights. which more broadly benefits the company’s executives, in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF The Company officers who are beneficiaries of these stock Code and article L.225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code. options and/or performance shares undertook a formal commitment not to engage in hedging transactions either ■■5.1.2.3 Compensation of Company Officers on their options or on shares issued following the exercise 5.1.2.3.1 C ompensation elements of Mr. David Meek, of options or on performance shares granted until the end Chief Executive Officer of the holding period that has been decided by the Board of Directors. For financial year 2017, the compensation elements of Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, was determined by the Board The Board of Directors has established periods preceding of Directors, upon recommendation of the Compensation the publication of half-yearly and annual financial statements Committee, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017. and sales figures during which it is not permitted to carry out any transaction on Company shares and has established the In accordance with the articles L.225-37-2 and L.225-100 of following procedure: the French Commercial Code, the compensation elements paid or granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, • the dates of the blackout periods for each financial year are for the financial year ended on 31 December 2017, in respect communicated at the beginning of each year and before of his term of office comply with the principles and criteria each blackout period; approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017. • outside blackout periods, an identified person must be It is nevertheless specified that payment of the variable consulted to ensure that no insider information is held. compensation elements granted to Mr. David Meek for the Other benefits financial year ended on 31 December 2017 will depend on its approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2018. Company officers may also be awarded benefits in respect of their duties carried out within Ipsen, including: benefits In accordance with articles L.225-37-2 and L.225-100 of in kind (company car and temporary accommodation), the French Commercial Code, the principles and criteria for 212 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT determining, allocating and granting fixed, variable elements of the Compensation Committee, at its meeting held on making up the total compensation and benefits of any kind 14 February 2018 and will be subject of a resolution submitted attributable to Mr. David Meek, in respect of his duties as to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in Chief Executive Officer, for the 2018 financial year, was 2018. determined by the Board of Directors, upon recommendation A. Summary tables of compensation, options and shares granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer Summary table of compensation, options and performance shares (Table 1 of AMF recommendations) (gross rounded amount – in euros) 2016 Financial Year 2017 Financial Year David Meek Chief Executive Officer Compensations due for the year (see details below) 1,599,554 (**) 2,666,155 Book value of multi-annual variable compensations granted during the year – – Book value of the options granted during the year – – Book value of the performance shares granted during the year (*) 478,311(1) 1,248,291(2) Total 2,077,865 3,914,446 (*) For further details, see section 5.1.2.3.1 paragraphs B and C below. (**) Mr. David Meek has been Chief Executive Officer since 18 July 2016. (1) Book value for a target award of 10,021 performance shares. The amount of performance shares granted in 2016 to Mr. David Meek is calculated on a prorata temporis basis. (2) Book value for a target award of 13,365 performance shares. Summary table of compensation (Table 2 of the AMF recommendations) 2016 2017 Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts (gross rounded amount – in euros) due paid due paid David Meek Chief Executive Officer Fixed compensation 410,714 (1) 410,714 900,000 900,000 Annual variable compensation – Annual performance 438,840 (2) – 1,314,000 (5) 438,840 (2) Multi-annual variable compensation – – – – Exceptional compensation – Integration within the Group 300,000 (3) – – 300,000 (3) Special financial indemnity 450,000 (4) 450,000 450,000 (4) 450,000 (4) Directors’ fees – – – – Benefits in kind 0 0 2,155 2,155 Total 1,599,554 860,714 2,666,155 2,090,995 (1) The Board of Directors fixed an amount of €410,714 for the period from 18 July 2016 to 31 December 2016 in respect of his duties as Chief Executive Officer (prorata temporis amount calculated on an annual basis of €900,000). (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation for 2016 of the Chief Executive Officer at €438,840 (prorata temporis amount calculated from 18 July 2016 on an annual target basis of €900,000). This amount was paid in 2017. The performance criteria and their achievement are presented paragraph B below. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed an amount of €300,000 in respect of Mr. David Meek’s exceptional bonus linked to the success of his integration within the Group. (4) The Board of Directors held on 8 July 2016 decided to grant Mr. David Meek a special financial indemnity of a gross amount of €900,000, to be paid in two instalments, under condition, one in 2016 and one in 2017. For further details, see section 5.1.3.2.1 paragraph B below. (5) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 14 February 2018, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer for 2017 at €1,314,000. This amount will be paid in 2018, subject to the approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2018 to approve the 2017 financial statements, of the compensation elements paid or granted for the previous financial year. The performance criteria and their achievement are presented paragraph B below. Ipsen Registration document 2017 213 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT B. Details of the compensation elements granted to Annual variable compensation Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer The annual variable compensation is linked to the Group’s The compensation of the Chief Executive Officer is determined global performance and to the realization of personal goals by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the set for the Chief Executive Officer. Compensation Committee. For the 2017 financial year, the Board of Directors, during its Fixed compensation meeting held on 22 February 2017, has decided to grant to Fixed compensation takes into account our reference markets. Mr. David Meek a gross target bonus of €900,000, which It is subject to be reviewed by the Board of Directors, typically may vary within a range between 0% and 200% (i.e. from at relatively long intervals, according to the Company’s market 0 to €1,800,000) based on the following quantifiable and position and taking account changing responsibilities. qualitative performance criteria: the two-thirds of this target bonus depend on quantifiable criteria of equal weighting The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017 based on the achievement of level of consolidated net sales, and upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, core operating income, diluted earnings per share and cashhas set Mr. David Meek’s fixed compensation at a gross flow from operations; the balance is based on qualitative annual amount of €900,000. criteria concerning managerial and strategic objectives. The detail of qualitative criteria has been precisely pre-established For the 2018 financial year, the Board of Directors, at its meeting by the Board but is not made public for confidentiality reasons. held on 14 February 2018 and upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, has set the elements relating to At its meeting held on 14 February 2018, the Board of Directors, the compensation and benefits in kind for the Chief Executive upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, set Officer. The amount of the gross fixed compensation for 2018 the gross amount of the variable part of the compensation for has not been changed since his appointment in 2016, and still financial year 2017 at €1,314,000. amounts to €900,000. The weighting, the possible variation and the percentage of realization of the quantifiable and qualitative objectives decided by the Board of Directors are as follows: Potential variation Criteria Weight of the portion Consolidated net sales 1/6 0% to 200% Core operating income 1/6 0% to 200% Performance indicators Diluted earnings per share 1/6 0% to 200% Cash-flow from operations 1/6 0% to 200% % of achievement Amount Quantifiable objectives 2/3 0% to 200% 159% 954,000 Qualitative objectives 1/3 0% to 200% 120% 360,000 Total 100% 0% to 200% 146% 1,314,000 The payment of variable compensation elements of Mr. David Multi-annual variable compensation Meek is subject to the approval of the Annual Shareholders’ Mr. David Meek does not receive any multi-annual variable Meeting to be held in 2018 to approve the financial statements compensation. for the year ended December 31, 2017, of the elements of compensation paid or granted in respect of the past year. Special financial indemnity For the 2018 financial year, the Board of Directors, during The Board of Directors may grant a special financial indemnity its meeting held on 14 February 2018, has decided to to a new executive company officer coming from a company grant Mr. David Meek a gross target bonus of €900,000, outside the Group on taking up duty in order to offset the loss which may vary within a range between 0% and 200% of previously-held benefits. (i.e. 0 to €1,800,000) based on quantifiable and qualitative performance criteria as follows : the two-thirds of this gross The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016, target bonus depend on quantifiable criteria with weights and upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, equal based on the achievement of levels of consolidated net decided to grant Mr. David Meek a special financial indemnity sales, core operating income, diluted earnings per share and of an annual gross amount of €900,000, payable in two cash-flow from operations; the balance is based on qualitative installments (50% on the date of his appointment as Chief criteria concerning managerial and strategic objectives. The Executive Officer and 50% one year later, provided that detail of qualitative criteria has been precisely established by he has not resigned or left the Company by that time), to the Board but is not made public for confidentiality reasons. offset the loss of a portion of the elements of his variable 214 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT remuneration at his previous employer. Mr. David Meek Payments, benefits and compensation likely to be due received special financial indemnities of €450,000 for 2016 to Mr. David Meek upon termination of his functions and €450,000 for 2017. Details regarding these commitments are given below (see Performance shares section D). Executive Company officers as well as certain senior C. S ubscription and/or purchase options and executives of the Group may benefit from stock-options and/ performance shares granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief or performance shares under plans approved and set each Executive Officer year by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the Executive officers and other senior executives of the Group Compensation Committee. can be awarded stock options and/or performance shares The Chief Executive Officer can benefit from these plans in the scope of the plans approved and set every year whose features are described at paragraph 5.2.2.3.2 of the by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the registration document. Compensation Committee. The definitive number of stock option and/or performance shares to vest will depend on the The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 March 2017, applicable performance conditions. granted to Mr. David Meek under the performance shares plan and contingent on Company performance over the 2017a. Subscription and/or purchase options granted to 2018 period, 13,365 shares, representing 0.02% of the share Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer capital. Subscription or purchase options granted during the 2017 Details regarding this allocation are given below, see section C. financial year (table 4 of AMF recommendations) No option was granted to the Chief Executive Officer, Other benefits Mr. David Meek, during the 2017 financial year. Mr. David Meek receives benefits resulting from the conditions Synthesis of the subscription or purchase options granted linked to the performance of his duties at Ipsen, in particular: (table 8 of AMF recommendations) a relocation package in France, assistance with filing his personal income tax returns, reimbursement of reasonable The Chief Executive Officer, Mr. David Meek, does not hold attorney fees and expenses incurred in connection with the any Ipsen option. finalization of the terms and conditions of his appointment Subscription or purchase options exercised during the as Chief Executive Officer, company car and driver, business 2017 financial year (table 5 of AMF recommendations) travel and accommodation expenses incurred whilst exercising his duties, healthcare under a global healthcare No option was exercised by the Chief Executive Officer, policy, and death and disability coverage under the Group’s Mr. David Meek, during the 2017 financial year. policy or a specific policy, D&O liability insurance. b. Performance shares granted to Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer Performance shares granted during the 2017 financial year (table 6 of AMF recommendations) Book value Number of bonus of the shares Book value of Acquisition Date of Performance Plan date shares granted (per share) (1) the shares (1) date availability conditions David Meek 29/03/2017 13,365 (2) €93.40 €1,248,291 30/03/2019 30/03/2021(3) Yes Chief Executive Officer (1) Share value at the date of grant. The global amount of granted shares book value is listed on table 1 under paragraph 5.1.2.3.1. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions, representing 0.02% of the share capital as of 29 March 2017. (3) 50% of the shares will be available on 30 March 2019. At its meeting held on 29 March 2017, upon recommendation Core Operating Income, for the second third on an internal of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors criterion based on specific incomes and, for the last third, decided to award Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, on an external criterion based on the relative performance of 13,365 shares in the form of performance shares under article IPSEN’s stock price compared to that of the other companies L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code. which are part of the STOXX TMI 600 Health Care index. The details of these internal and external performance The definitive acquisition of the performance shares is subject conditions as well as the degree of achievement (expected to a presence condition in the Company. The definitive number and achieved), have been precisely determined by the Board of performance shares acquired will depend on the level but are not disclosed for confidentiality reasons. In case of of achievement of the performance conditions applicable, over achievement of the expected performance (i.e. 100%), that will be assessed annually by comparing the target level the number of performance shares granted will be adjusted of performance achieved by the Company during the first accordingly. These performance shares are subject to a and the second financial years set by the plan. Each of the 2-year acquisition period from the date of grant and 50% of conditions is assessed on a scale of 0 to 250%. the shares thus acquired will be subject to a 2-year holding The performance conditions are based, for the one third of period. the granted shares, on an internal criterion based on the Ipsen Registration document 2017 215 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Summary of performance shares granted The table below describes, as of 31 December 2017, the total of performance shares granted to the Chief Executive Officer. For further details, see Table 10, section 5.2.2.3.2. Company Officer Date of grant Number Definitive Date of Number of of options Acquisition Date availability shares to be granted held David Meek 20% capital gain Chief Executive Officer from 29/07/2016 10,021 (1) 30/07/2018 30/07/2020 (3) net of acquisition 18 July 2016 value David Meek 20% capital gain Chief Executive Officer 29/03/2017 13,365 (1) 30/03/2019 30/03/2021(4) net of acquisition value Total 23,386 (2) (1) Award subject to performance conditions, see section b above. (2) i.e. approx. 0.03% of the share capital as of 31 December 2017. (3) 50% of the shares will be available on 30 July 2018. (4) 50% of the shares will be available on 30 March 2019. The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 July 2016, upon In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-197-1 recommendation of the Compensation Committee, decided to of the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, grant to David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, 10,021 shares, in at its meetings held on 29 July 2016 and 29 March 2017, the form of performance shares in accordance with the article established rules requiring the Chief Executive Officer to L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code. This number of retain a number of shares arising from the performance shares was calculated on a prorata temporis basis. shares granted, equivalent to 20% of the capital gain net of acquisition value that would be realized upon the sale of the The performance conditions are based, for the half of the performance shares, until the termination of his duties as granted shares, on an internal criterion based on the Core Chief Executive Officer. Operating Income and, for the other half, on an external criterion based on the relative performance of IPSEN’s stock Mr. David Meek undertook a formal commitment not to price compared to that of the other companies which are engage in hedging transactions, either on his performance part of the STOXX TMI 600 Health Care index. The details of shares granted, until the end of the holding period that has these internal and external performance conditions as well been decided by the Board of Directors. as the degree of achievement (expected and achieved), have Performance shares that have become available during been precisely determined by the Board but are not disclosed the 2017 financial year (Table 7 of AMF recommendations) for confidentiality reasons. In case of over achievement of the expected performance (i.e. 100%), the number of During the 2017 financial year, no performance shares granted performance shares granted will be adjusted accordingly. to the Chief Executive Officer became available, as Mr. David These performance shares are subject to a 2-year acquisition Meek was appointed on 18 July 2016. period from the date of grant and 50% of the shares thus acquired will be subject to a 2-year holding period. D. Summary of commitments issued in favor of Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer (Table 11 of AMF recommendations) Employment Additional pension Payments or benefits due Compensation under contract scheme or to be due in connection a non-compete with the termination or clause change of functions Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No David Meek X X X X Chief Executive Officer Employment contract The benefit of the pension commitment is subject to: Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, does not have an • a minimum 5-year service, employment contract. • claiming the social security pension at a full rate, Additional pension scheme • termination of any professional activity with the Company at the date that basic and additional pensions are claimed. Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, may potentially benefit from the Company’s defined benefit additional However, the right is maintained in case of early retirement pension commitment pursuant to the decision of the Board of or dismissal after the age of 55 subject to non-resumption Directors held on 8 July 2016. This pension commitment more of professional activity or if classified as having a 2nd or broadly benefits to the company’s executives. 3rd category disability. 216 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Furthermore, in case of death of the potential beneficiary three years preceding his departure at a minimum threshold in activity, the right to widow’s or widower’s pension is of 15%, and maintained. • including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, In accordance with ar ticle L.225-42-1 of the French the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete Commercial Code, the grant of this additional pension undertaking. scheme shall be subject to a performance condition, the Non-compete payment maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group during the three years preceding departure at a minimum Mr. David Meek agreed, in the event of his departure from threshold of 15%. the Group, during a period of 24 months following the date of his effective departure from the Company, not to perform The pension is calculated at rate of 0.6% per year of seniority or participate from an operational standpoint (including as to the part of the reference compensation below 8 times the a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic Annual Social Security Ceiling (“PASS”) and at a rate of 1% for Area (EEA) and/or North America, in any activity relating to the part of the reference compensation in excess of 8 times the development and/or the marketing of products belonging the PASS. to the same therapeutic category (source IMS-Health) as one of the top three products of the Group based on the The reference compensation is the average of the total gross turnover generated by such products or their importance amount of the compensation received for a full time position from a strategic standpoint and any product acquired by (bonus included) during the last 36 months preceding the end the Company, between 1 January 2016 and the date of of the contract and/or office. Severance payments, expense Mr. David Meek’s effective departure, for a total consideration reimbursement, profit-sharing and incentives are excluded. exceeding €300 million. Seniority is limited to 40 years. The indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this Terms governing survivor’s pension benefits are set forth in non-compete undertaking will be deemed to be included, for the plan. a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, in the severance package referred to above if it is also owed. The annual pension owed to the beneficiaries shall not exceed 45% of their fixed and variable compensation. 5.1.2.3.2 Compensation elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors The potential rights are financed by non-individualized premiums paid to an insurance institution. These premiums For financial year 2017, the compensation elements of are deductible from the corporate tax base and subject to the Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors, was contribution set forth in L.137-11, I, 2° a) of the Social Security determined by the Board of Directors, upon recommendation Code at the rate of 24%. of the Compensation Committee, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017. Because entitlement to benefit from this scheme requires 5-year seniority, if Mr. David Meek had claimed any payment In accordance with the articles L.225-37-2 and L.225-100 of of his pension on 1 January 2018, he would have received the French Commercial Code, the compensation elements nothing under the plan. paid or granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, for the 2017 financial year, in respect of his term of Payments or benefits due or likely to be due upon office, comply with the principles and criteria approved by the termination of his functions within the Group Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017. At its meeting held on 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors Furthermore, the principles and criteria for determining, decided to grant Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, allocating and granting fixed, variable elements making up the the benefit of a severance payment on the following terms, in total compensation and benefits of any kind attributable to accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Mr. Marc de Garidel, in respect of his duties as Chairman of the Code: Board, for the 2018 financial year, was determined by the Board • an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced of Directors, upon recommendation of the Compensation departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the Committee, at its meeting held on 14 February 2018 and will AFEP-MEDEF Code, be the subject of a resolution submitted to the approval of the • equal to 24 months of gross (fixed and variable) remuneration Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2018. Mr. Marc de Garidel paid for his duties as Chief Executive Officer, does not receive variable compensation. • the grant of which will be subject to the maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group during the Ipsen Registration document 2017 217 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT A. Summary tables of compensation, options and shares granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board a. Summary table of compensation, options and performance shares Total amount of compensation, options and performance shares granted for 2017 (table 1 of the AMF recommendations) (gross rounded amount – in euros) 2016 Financial Year(*) 2017 Financial Year Marc de Garidel Chairman of the Board of Directors (*) Compensations due for the year (see details below) 2,865,894 2,796,981 Book value of multi-annual variable compensations granted during the year – – Book value of the options granted during the year – – Book value of the performance shares granted during the year (**) 241,997(1) – Total 3,107,891 2,796,981 (*) Mr. Marc de Garidel was Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and then Chairman of the Board of Directors from this date. (**) For further details, see paragraphs B and C below. (1) Book value for a target grant of 5,070 performance shares. The number of performance shares granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel in 2016 is calculated prorata temporis based on time served as Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen during the 2016 financial year. b. Summary table of compensation (Table 2 of the AMF recommendations) Total amount of the compensation for 2017 financial year 2016 (*) 2017 Amounts Amounts Amounts Amounts (gross rounded amount – in euros) due paid due paid Marc de Garidel Chairman of the Board of Directors (*) Fixed compensation 772,817(1) 772,817 800,000 800,000 Annual variable compensation 454,950 (3) 1,075,000 (2) – 454,950 (3) Multi-annual variable compensation 1,588,396 (4) 1,588,396 (4) 1,990,906 (5) 1,990,906 (5) Exceptional compensation – – – – Directors’ fees 43,656 81,989 – – Benefits in kind (6) 6,075 6,075 6,075 6,075 Total 2,865,894 3,524,277 2,796,981 3,251,931 (*) Mr. Marc de Garidel was Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and then Chairman of the Board of Directors from this date. (1) The Board of Directors fixed an amount of €407,738 for the period from 1 January 2016 to 18 July 2016 in respect of his office as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (prorata temporis amount calculated on an annual basis of €750,000) as well as an amount of €365,079 for the period from 18 July 2016 to 31 December 2016 in respect of his office as Chairman (prorata temporis amount calculated on a target annual basis of €800,000). (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 February 2016, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the variable compensation for 2015 for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at €1,075,000. This amount was paid in 2016. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the annual variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2016 at €454,950 (prorata temporis amount until 18 July 2016 calculated on a target annual basis of €750,000) This amount was paid in 2017. (4) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 30 March 2016, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the multi-annual variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2014 and 2015 at €1,588,396. For further details, see paragraph B bellow. (5) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 March 2017, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, in view of the realization of the pre-established criteria, the amount of the multi-annual variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2015 and 2016 at €1,990,906. For further details, see paragraph B bellow. (6) Benefits in kind are comprised of a company car. 218 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT B. Details of the compensation elements granted to Committee, to implement a mid-term bonus subject to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors performance conditions for the 2014 and 2015 financial years, The compensation of the Chairman is determined by the Board to benefit 156 beneficiaries within the Group. The Board of of Directors upon recommendation of the Compensation Directors granted, within this plan, a mid-term bonus to the Committee. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of a gross amount of €375,000 (representing 50% of the fixed compensation). For the 2017 financial year, the Board of Directors, upon This bonus was paid in 2016, following the assessment by recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, the Board of Directors that performance conditions were at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, the compensation achieved, which are based, for the half of the target amount, elements of Mr. Marc de Garidel in respect of his duties as on the achievement of an internal criterion based on the Chairman of the Board of Directors. recurring adjusted EBIT level of the Group and, for the other half of the target amount, on an external criterion based It is reminded that Mr. Marc de Garidel was Chairman and on the performance of the stock market price of the Ipsen Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016. share in comparison to the STOXX 600 TMI Health Care index. The detail of internal and external criteria and the a. As Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, until level of achievement (expected and realized) for quantitative 18 July 2016 criteria were precisely established by the Board but are not Annual variable compensation made public for confidentiality reasons. The mid-term bonus was subject to a presence condition which must be fulfilled For the record, in respect of his duties as Chairman and Chief between 27 March 2014 and 27 March 2016. The Board of Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, Mr. Marc de Garidel Directors, at its meeting held on 30 March 2016, assessed the benefited from an annual variable compensation linked to the achievement of the performance conditions and decided to Group’s global performance and to the fulfilment of objectives pay to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the amount determined by the Board of Directors. of €1,588,396. T h e B oa rd of D ire c to r s, u p o n re c o m m e nd ati o n of At its meeting held on 1 April 2015, the Board of Directors the Compensation Committee, at its meeting held on also decided, upon recommendation of the Compensation 29 February 2016, and in respect of his duties as Chairman Committee, to implement a mid-term bonus for the 2015 and and Chief Executive Officer, decided to fix the variable part 2016 financial years, subject to performance and presence of Mr. Marc de Garidel’s compensation at a gross target conditions, to benefit 168 beneficiaries within the Group. bonus of €750,000 (100% of his fixed compensation), within The Board of Directors granted, within this plan, a mid-term a range of 0 to 150% (i.e., from 0 to €1,125,000), based on bonus to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of a the following quantitative and qualitative performance criteria: gross amount of €375,000 (representing 50% of the fixed the two-third of this target bonus based on quantitative compensation). This bonus was paid in 2017, following the criteria of equal weighting depend on the achievement of assessment by the Board of Directors that performance levels of consolidated revenues, current operating profits, conditions were achieved, which are based, for the half of diluted earnings per shares and cash-flow from operations; the target amount, on the achievement of internal criterion the third is based on qualitative criteria concerning strategic based on the level reached by the current operating income orientations. The details of qualitative criteria and the level of (excluding research tax credit) of the Group and, for the other completion expected for quantitative criteria are not made half of the target amount, on an external criterion based on public for confidentiality reasons. the performance of the stock market price of the share of the At its meeting held on 22 February 2017, the Board of Company in comparison to the STOXX 600 TMI Health Care Directors decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel an amount index. The detail of internal and external criteria and the level calculated on a prorata temporis basis in respect of his of achievement (expected and realized) for quantitative criteria duties as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Having were precisely established by the Board but are not made established the fulfilment of the performance conditions, the public for confidentiality reasons. The payment of the midBoard of Directors decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel an term bonus decided by the Board of Directors on 1 April 2015 amount of €454,950 (i.e. €842,950 on an annual basis), upon was subject to a presence condition which must be fulfilled recommendation of the Compensation Committee. between 1 April 2015 and 1 April 2017. Mr. Marc de Garidel did not receive any annual variable Mr. Marc de Garidel continued to benefit, in proportion to compensation for the 2017 financial year. the time as Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 financial year (i.e. 27.35%), from multi-annual variable compensation Multi-annual variable compensation elements granted to him as part of Deferred Cash plans For the record, in respect of his duties as Chairman and indexed to the Ipsen share price, approved by the Board of Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, Mr. Marc de Directors on April 1, 2015 (for the 2015 and 2016 financial Garidel benefited from multi-annual variable compensation years). mechanisms. The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 29 March 2017 The Board of Directors at its meeting held on 27 March 2014 assessed the achievement of the performance conditions and decided, upon recommendation of the Compensation decided to pay the amount of €1,990,906. Ipsen Registration document 2017 219 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Summary table of multi-annual variable compensation 2015 2016 (*) 2017(*) (gross rounded amounts – in euros) Due Paid Due Paid Due Paid Marc de Garidel 931,318 931,318 1,588,396 1,588,396 1,990,906 1,990,906 Chairman of the Board of Directors (*) (*) Mr. Marc de Garidel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and then Chairman from this date. b. As Chairman of the Board of Directors incurred whilst exercising his duties, healthcare under a Fixed compensation global healthcare policy, and death and disability coverage under the Group’s policy or a specific policy, D&O liability Fixed compensation is subject to be reviewed by the Board insurance. of Directors according to the Company’s market position and taking account changing responsibilities. Payments, benefits and compensation due or to be due to Mr. Marc de Garidel upon termination of his functions For the 2017 financial year, the Board of Directors, upon within the Group recommendation of the Compensation Committee, fixed, at its meeting held on 22 February 2017, the compensation In accordance with Ipsen policy and in accordance with the elements and benefits in kind of the Chairman of the Board. AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors, at its meeting The amount of the gross fixed compensation for 2017 held on 8 July 2016, decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel: remained unchanged (i.e. €800,000). This compensation • a severance payment, takes into account the particular missions performed by the Chairman of the Board as part of the separation of the • the benefit of a defined benefit additional pension scheme functions (see section 5.1.1.1). existing within the Company, Annual variable compensation • a compensation under a non-compete agreement. The Board of Directors has decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel These payments and benefits that may be owed to the will not receive any variable compensation in respect of his Chairman in connection upon termination of his duties replace office as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company. those previously granted in respect of his duties as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer by the Board of Directors of Multi-annual variable compensation 11 October 2010. The Board of Directors has decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel will not receive any multi-annual variable compensation in Details of these commitments are given below (see section D. respect of his duties as Chairman of the Board of Directors below). of the Company. C. S ubscription and/or purchase options and Directors’ fees performance shares granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until The Board of Directors has decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel 18 July 2016 will not receive any director’s fees in respect of his office as Chairman of the Board of the Company. Executive directors and other senior executives of the Group can be awarded stock options and/or performance Stock options and performance shares shares in the scope of the plans approved and set every The Board of Directors has decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel year by the Board of Directors upon recommendation of the will not receive any stock options and/or performance shares Compensation Committee. The definitive number of shares in respect of his duties as Chairman of the Board. that will vest will depend on the applicable performance conditions. Other benefits For the record, in respect of his office as Chairman and Chief Mr. Marc de Garidel receives benefits resulting from the Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, Mr. Marc de Garidel conditions linked to the performance of his duties at Ipsen, benefited from options described below. in particular assistance with filing his personal income tax returns, reimbursement of reasonable attorney fees and In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code (§24.2), no stock expenses incurred in connection with the finalization of the options and/or performance shares have been granted to terms and conditions of his corporate mandate, company car Mr. Marc de Garidel, in respect of his office as Chairman of and driver, business travel and accommodation expenses the Board. 220 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT a. Subscription or purchase options granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 Subscription or purchase options granted during the 2017 financial year (table 4 of AMF recommendations) No options were granted to the Chairman, Mr. Marc de Garidel, during the 2017 financial year. Summary of the subscription or purchase options of Ipsen shares granted For further details, see section 5.2.2.3. Date Number Nature of Exercise Exercise Expiry date Number of grant of options the options price date of options granted exercised Marc de Garidel 30/06/2011 121,180 (2) Subscription €25.01 01/07/2015 30/06/2019 121,180 (3) Chairman of the Board of options Directors (1) Total 121,180 (1) (1) Mr. Marc de Garidel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and then Chairman from this date. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions. (3) Mr. Marc de Garidel exercised 121,180 options on 3 November 2016. In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-185 of Subscription or purchase options exercised during 2017 the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, at its (Table 5 of the AMF recommendations) meetings held on 30 June 2011, established rules requiring No options were exercised by Mr. Marc de Garidel during the the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to retain a number 2017 financial year. of shares resulting from options, until the end of his term of office, equivalent to 20% of the net capital gain that would Summary of performance shares granted be realized upon the sale of the shares resulting from option Mr. Marc de Garidel did not benefit from performance shares shares. during the 2017 financial year. The table below describes the total of performance shares granted to Mr. Marc de Garidel as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (1). For further details, see Table 10, section 5.2.2.3.2. Company Officer Date of grant Number Date of vesting Date of Number of of options availability shares to be granted held Marc de Garidel 30/06/2011 4,490 (2) 01/07/2013 01/07/2015 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 30/03/2012 23,940 (2) 31/03/2014 31/03/2016 18 July 2016 (1) 28/03/2013 22,590 (2) 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 20% capital gain net of acquisition 27/03/2014 18,712 (2) 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 value 01/04/2015 12,588 (2)(3) 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 31/05/2016 5,070 (2)(3) 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 Total 87,390 (4) (1) Mr. Marc de Garidel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016 and then Chairman from this date. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions. (3) As part of the separation of the functions, the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 8 July 2016 decided that Mr. Marc de Garidel, in proportion to the time as Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 financial year, would continue to benefit from and (i) the variable compensation elements granted to him as part of the restricted shares plans by the Board of Directors on 1 April 2015 (for the 2015 and 2016 financial years) as well as (ii) the variable compensation elements granted to him as part of the restricted shares plans by the Board of Directors on 31 May 2016 (for the 2016 and 2017 financial years). The number of performance shares granted to him, adjusted prorata temporis, amounted to 5,070 shares (27.35% or 5,070 shares). (4) Representing 0.10% of the share capital on 31 December 2017. Ipsen Registration document 2017 221 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT In accordance with the provisions of article L.225-197-1 performance shares granted until the end of the holding of the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors, period that has been decided by the Board of Directors. at its meetings held on 30 June 2011, 30 March 2012, Performance shares that have become available during 28 March 2013, 27 March 2014, 1 April 2015 and 31 May 2016 the 2017 financial year (Table 7 of AMF recommendations) established rules requiring the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to retain a number of shares resulting from performance Company Officer Date Number of shares shares, until the end of his term of office, equivalent to 20% of of grant granted the net capital gain that would be realized upon the sale of the Marc de Garidel 28/03/2013 21,653 (2) shares resulting from performance shares. Chairman of the Board of Directors (1) Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 18 July 2016, undertook a formal commitment not to (1) Mr. Marc de Garidel was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until engage in hedging transactions either on his options or 18 July 2016 and then Chairman from this date. (2) Allocation subject to performance conditions. on shares issued following the exercise of options or on D. Summary of commitments made to Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors (Table 11 of AMF recommendations) Employment Additional pension Payments or benefits due Compensation under contract scheme or to be due in connection a non-compete with the termination or clause change of functions Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Marc de Garidel X X X X Chairman of the Board of Directors Employment contract Annual Social Security Ceiling (“PASS”) and at a rate of 1% for Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, does not have the part of the reference compensation in excess of 8 times any employment contract. the PASS. Additional pension scheme The reference compensation is the average of the total gross compensation received for a full time position (bonus included) Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, may potentially during the last 36 months preceding the end of the contract benefit from the defined benefit additional pension scheme and/or corporate mandate. Severance payments, expense pursuant to the decision of the Board of Directors held on reimbursement, profit-sharing and incentives are excluded. 8 July 2016. This pension commitment more broadly benefits the company’s executives. Seniority is limited to 40 years. The benefit of the pension commitment is subject to: Terms governing survivor’s pension benefits are set forth in • a minimum 5-year service, the plan. • claiming social security pension at a full rate, The annual pension owed to the beneficiaries shall not exceed • the termination of any professional activity with the 45% of their fixed and variable compensation. Company at the date of the liquidation of basic and additional pensions. The potential rights are financed by non-individualized premiums paid to an insurance institution. These premiums However, the right is maintained in case of early retirement are deductible from the corporate tax base and subject to the or dismissal after the age of 55 subject to non-resumption contribution set forth in article L.137-11, I, 2° a) of the Social of professional activity or if classified as having a 2nd or Security Code at the rate of 24%. 3rd category of disability. For Mr. Marc de Garidel, the amount of the annual pension, as Furthermore, in case of death of the potential beneficiary of 31 December 2017, is estimated at €242,903. This amount in activity, the right to widow’s or widower’s pension is was calculated according to the procedures under Decree maintained. No. 2016-182 of 23 February 2016, bearing in mind that this amount is based on a reference compensation calculated on In accordance with the Article L.225-42-1 of the French the average gross full-time compensation (bonus included) Commercial Code, the grant of this additional pension scheme received during the last 36 months. Under Mr. Marc de shall be subject to the following performance condition: the Garidel’s new compensation structure, he will only receive maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group fixed compensation in respect of his duties during the following during the three years preceding departure at a minimum financial years. This pension should progressively amount to threshold of 15%. a level comparable to the one preceding his appointment as The pension is calculated at rate of 0.6% per year of seniority Chairman, should he leave on 31 December of the year of his to the part of the reference compensation below 8 times the 62nd birthday (see 2015 Registration Document). 222 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Payments or benefits due or likely to be due upon • including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, termination of his functions within the Group the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete At its meeting held on 8 July 2016, the Board of Directors undertaking. decided to grant Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, Non-compete payment the right to a severance payment on the following terms, in Mr. Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board, agreed, in the accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF event of his departure from the Group, during a period of Code: 24 months following the date of his effective departure, not • an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced to perform or participate from an operational standpoint departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the (including as a consultant), within the territory of the European AFEP-MEDEF Code, Economic Area (EEA) and/or North America, in any activity relating to the development and/or the marketing of products • of an amount equal to the remuneration received from belonging to the same therapeutic category (source IMSthe Company over the last 24 rolling calendar months Health) as one of the top three products of the Group in terms preceding the effective date of his departure, of turnover on the date of his effective departure. • the grant of which will be subject to the maintaining of the The indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this recurring operating margin of the Group during the three non-compete undertaking will be included in the severance years preceding his departure at a minimum threshold of package described above if it were also due, for a portion 15%, and equal to 50%. 5.1.3 S  tatutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments This is a free translation into English of a report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and is construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Ipsen Société Anonyme 65, Quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments Shareholders’ Meeting to approve the accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 To the shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company, we hereby present to you our report on the regulated agreement and commitments. We are required to inform you, on the basis of the information provided to us, the features, key terms and conditions and the reasons for the interest of the Company, in the agreements and commitments of which we were notified or which we were able to find in the course of our work. It is not our role to determine whether these are beneficial or appropriate, or to ascertain whether any other agreements or commitments exist. It is your responsibility, under the terms of Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code, to evaluate the benefits arising from these agreements and commitments prior to their approval. We are also required, where appropriate, to inform you of the terms of Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to the implementation, over the past financial year, of the agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting. We performed the procedures we considered necessary in accordance with professional guidance issued by the French National Institute of Auditors (“Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes”), relating to this engagement. Our work involved verifying that the information provided to us is consistent with the underlying documentation from which it was extracted. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING Agreements and commitments authorised during the past financial year We inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment authorised during the past financial year to be submitted for approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to Article L.225-38 of the French Commercial Code. Ipsen Registration document 2017 223 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS ALREADY APPROVED BY THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING Agreements and commitments approved in previous financial years a) the implementation of which continued during the past financial year We inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting which continued to be implemented over the past financial year. b) which were not implemented during the past financial year Furthermore, we have been notified of the continuation of the following agreements and commitments, which had already been approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting in previous financial years, the implementation of which did not continue into the past financial year. Undertakings in the event of termination of duties in favour of Mr Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors Your Board of Directors, at its meeting of 8 July 2016, approved the compensation elements of Mr Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors from 18 July 2016. These compensation elements include: • The benefit of membership of the additional pension scheme in force within the Company, giving right to, on retirement and subject to (i) a minimum length of service of five years within the Group, already acquired (ii) an eligibility to social security retirement at the full rate (i.e. a retirement age of 62, at the earliest, in accordance with the current French law), and (iii) the respect of a performance condition mentioned below, the payment of an annuity calculated by reference to seniority within the Group, (x) at a rate of 0.6% of the total gross remuneration (“TGR”) per year of service for the portion of the TGR lower than eight times the French annual social security ceiling and (y) at a rate of 1% per year of service for the portion of the TGR exceeding eight times the French annual social security ceiling (with the French annual social security ceiling amounting to €38,616 in 2016). The grant of this Company pension scheme will be subject to the same performance condition as the one applicable to the severance payment (the maintaining of the Group’s recurring operating margin for the three years prior to departure at a minimum threshold of 15%). The Board of Directors also decided that Mr Marc de Garidel is to benefit from three additional years of service within the context of the Company’s additional pension scheme in return for his undertaking to continue his involvement within the Group as Chairman of the Board, provided that his effective departure from the Company does not take place prior to the month of November of the year he reaches 62 years of age. These additional years of service will allow Mr Marc de Garidel to benefit from an annuity equal to at least €80,000, i.e. an annuity comparable to the one that would result from the pension entitlements at the end of the 2015 financial year (about €88,000 euros), should he leave on the year of his 62nd birthday. The accrual of these additional years of service would take place on a year-by-year basis starting with financial year 2017 and subject to compliance with the performance conditions described above for the year in question. This benefit would not result in Mr Marc de Garidel accruing conditional entitlements at a pace exceeding the maximum accrual allowed by law (i.e., currently, 3% of the annual benchmark compensation used to calculate the annuity paid under the Company’s supplementary pension plan). • A severance payment with identical terms and conditions, in accordance with the recommendations set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code, namely: –– an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, –– of an amount equal to the compensation received from the Company over the last 24 rolling calendar months preceding the effective date of his departure, –– the grant of which will be subject to the same performance condition as that applicable to the severance payment, namely maintaining the recurring operating margin of the Group during the three years preceding his departure at a minimum threshold of 15%, and –– including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, the amount payable in consideration of the non-compete undertaking referred to below. Non-compete undertaking of Mr Marc de Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors At its meeting of 11 October 2010, your Board of Directors had approved the undertakings of Mr Marc de Garidel for a reason other than a change in control, upon his appointment as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, in the event of departure from the Group, for a period of twenty four (24) months following the date of his actual departure, not to operate or refrain from any operational involvement (including in the capacity of consultant), within the territory of the European Economic Area (EEA) and/ or the continent of North America, in an activity relating to the development and/or marketing of products belonging to the same therapeutic category (source: IMS-Health) as the two best selling products of the Ipsen Group which generate the highest turnover on the actual date of departure. During the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 8 July 2016, Mr Marc de Garidel accepted to maintain this undertaking in the framework of his sole functions as Chairman of the Board of Directors, it being specified that the non-compete obligation will now focus on the three leading products of the Group in terms of turnover on the date of Mr Marc de Garidel’s effective departure. The indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this non-compete undertaking will be deemed to be included in the severance package referred to above, if the latter is also due. 224 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Undertakings in the event of termination of duties in favour of Mr David Meek, Chief Executive Officer Your Board of Directors, in its meeting held on 8 July 2016, approved the compensation elements of Mr David Meek, Chief Executive Officer from 18 July 2016. These compensation elements include: • The benefit of membership of the additional pension scheme in force within the Company, giving right to, on retirement and subject to (i) a minimum length of service of five years within the Group, (ii) an eligibility to social security retirement at the full rate (i.e. a retirement age of 62 at the earliest in accordance with the current French law), and (iii) the respect of a performance condition mentioned below, the payment of an annuity calculated by reference to length of service within the Group, (x) at a rate of 0.6% of the total gross remuneration (“TGR”) per year of service for the portion of the TGR lower than eight times the French annual social security ceiling and (y) at a rate of 1% per year of service for the portion of the TGR exceeding eight times the French annual social security ceiling (with the French annual social security ceiling amounting to €38,616 in 2016). The grant of this Company pension scheme will be subject to the same performance condition as the one applicable to the severance payment (the maintaining of the Group’s recurring operating margin for the three years prior to departure at a minimum threshold of 15%). • A severance payment whose terms and conditions are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Code, namely: –– an indemnity which will only be due in the event of a forced departure (départ contraint) within the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, –– equal to 24 months of gross (fixed and variable) compensation paid for his duties as Chief Executive Officer, –– the grant of which will be subject to a performance condition (the maintaining of the recurring operating margin of the Group during the three years preceding his departure at a minimum threshold of 15%), and –– including, for a portion equal to 50% of the amount hereof, the amount payable in consideration for the non-compete undertaking of Mr David Meek referred to below. Non-compete undertaking of Mr David Meek, Chief Executive Officer During the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 8 July 2016, Mr David Meek agreed, in the event of his departure from the Group, for a period of twenty four (24) months following the date of his effective departure from the Company, not to perform or participate from an operational standpoint (including as a consultant), within the territory of the European Economic Area (EEA) and/ or North America, in any activity relating to the development and/or the marketing of products belonging to the same therapeutic category (source IMS-Health) as: (1) one of the top three products of the Group based on the turnover generated by such products or their importance from a strategic standpoint (as assessed by the Board of Directors) on the date of Mr David Meek’s effective departure, and (2) any product acquired by the Company between 1 January 2016 and the date of Mr David Meek’s effective departure for a total financial consideration exceeding €300 million (this financial consideration being the sum of any initial payment and any commercial or regulatory payment from a subsequent stage or, in the event of a corporate acquisition, the portion of the acquisition price corresponding to the initial price plus any earn-out or other price supplement corresponding to the product in question) . The indemnity owed by the Company in consideration of this non-compete undertaking will be deemed to be included in the severance package referred to above, if the latter is also due. Paris La Défense and Neuilly-sur-Seine, 14 February 2018 The Statutory Auditors KPMG Audit Deloitte & Associés A Division of KPMG S.A. Catherine Porta Cédric Adens Jean Marie Le Guiner Partner Partner Partner Ipsen Registration document 2017 225 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 5.2 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL 5.2.1 Main Provisions of the Articles of Association ■■5.2.1.1 Corporate purpose (Article 2 of ■■5.2.1.3 R  ights and obligations attached the Articles of Association) to shares The Company’s corporate purpose in France and any other Distribution of profits country whether directly or indirectly, is the following: (Article 29 of the Articles of Association) In accordance with the terms and provisions of Article 29 • to invent, manufacture, process, and sell pharmaceutical of the Articles of Association, after approval of the financial products, para-pharmaceutical products, cosmetics or statements and recognition of a distributable profit within the any other manufactured products in the fields of drugs meaning of the law, the Shareholders’ Meeting may resolve to and fine chemicals, and all products and materials used to transfer the distributable profit to one or more discretionary manufacture, process and sell such products; reserve accounts, for which it fixes the allocation or use, • to conduct all industrial and commercial activities directly to carry it forward or to distribute it as a dividend. After or indirectly related to the foregoing purpose, including deduction of any prior year losses, at least 5% of each year’s research and design, acquiring, owning, exploiting and net profit is transferred to the statutory reserve as required by selling patents, licenses, know-how and more generally all law. This provision ceases to apply once the statutory reserve intellectual and industrial property rights; and has reached one-tenth of the Company’s share capital. • more generally, to conduct all industrial, commercial, The Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute amounts financial or property transactions which may directly from reserves to which the shareholders are entitled. In this or indirectly facilitate or further the achievement of the case, the resolution must expressly indicate which reserve foregoing purposes and any similar purposes. accounts are to be used. However, dividends must be drawn in priority from the year’s distributable profit. ■■5.2.1.2 Governance of the Company The Shareholders’ Meeting may resolve to offer payment of all Board of Directors or part of the dividend or interim dividends in cash or in shares at the personal choice of each shareholder. The Company is governed by a Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is responsible for defining and implementing A shareholder’s right to the profits and contribution to losses the Company’s strategic objectives. Subject to the powers is proportional to the percentage of share capital owned. expressly reserved for the Shareholders’ Meeting and within Form of shares issued by the Company the limits of the Company’s corporate purpose, the Board (Article 9 of the Articles of Association) of Directors is competent to consider and settle all issues The shares issued by the Company may be registered or involving the proper functioning of the Company by passing bearer shares. Existence of the shares is evidenced by their its resolutions. registration on securities accounts held in the name of the Executive Management holder under the terms and conditions set out by law either by the Company or its appointed custodian in the case of In accordance with legal provisions, the exe cutive registered shares or by an authorized intermediary authorized management of the Company is the responsibility either of of bearer shares. the Chairman of the Board of Directors, who then serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or of another person Shareholders’ voting rights appointed by the Board of Directors who then serves as Chief (Article 26.1 and 11.3 of the Articles of Association) Executive Officer. In Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, each The Board of Directors is responsible for electing one of these shareholder has a voting right equal to the number of shares two options for a period which may not be less than one year. he/she holds or represents without limit. However, the Shareholders’ Meeting held on 30 August 2005 At its meeting on 15 February 2016, the Board of Directors decided that a double voting right is attached to any ordinary decided to change the Company’s form of governance by fully paid-up share which is owned under the registered form separating the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors by the same shareholder for at least two years. The double and Chief Executive Officer. The Company also announced voting rights shall automatically end with its conversion to the on 16 February 2016 that it had initiated the process to recruit form of bearer share, as well as its transfer, except in cases its future Chief Executive Officer. This separation of functions provided for by law. has been effective since David’s Meek appointment as Chief Executive Officer. Within this change of governance, the According to the provisions of article 11.3 of the Articles of appointment of Marc de Garidel as Chairman of the Board Association, the voting right attached to shares belongs to the of Directors has been confirmed. For further details, see usufruct holder in Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and to the section 5.1. bare owner in Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings. 226 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Actions necessary to modify shareholder’s rights the terms and conditions set forth by legal and regulatory There are no specific existing rules regarding the modification provisions in force, the inclusion of items or draft resolutions in of shareholders’ rights which are made in accordance with the agenda. The works council may also require the inclusion legal provisions. of proposed resolutions in the agenda in accordance with the regulation in force. The Shareholders’ Meeting may not ■■5.2.1.4 Shareholders’ Meetings (Articles 21 voteon items which are not on the agenda, in accordance with current regulations. However, it may in any event remove to 26 of the Articles of Association) one or more Directors from office and appoint new directors in Participation in Shareholder’s meetings replacement. The agenda may not be revised for an adjourned Any shareholder has the right to attend Shareholders’ meeting. Meetings and take part in the vote either in person or by proxy, Quorum regardless of the number of shares owned, by providing evidence of his/her status as shareholder. The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting validly deliberates, on first notice, if the shareholders present or represented, or In accordance with article R.225-85 of the French Commercial voting by postal vote, represent at least one fifth of the shares Code, the right to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings is with voting rights. No quorum is required for an adjourned subject to the shares being registered in an account in the meeting. It passes its resolution by a simple majority vote of name of the shareholder or of the financial intermediary acting the shareholders present or represented or voting by postal on the shareholder’s behalf, at midnight, Paris time, on the vote. The quorum is calculated on the basis of the shares second business day preceding the date of the Shareholders’ comprising the share capital, less any shares deprived of Meeting, either in the registered share accounts kept by voting rights in accordance with the law and provisions of the the Company or in the bearer share accounts kept by the Company’s Articles of Association. authorized intermediary. In accordance with the terms of Article 26.1 of the Articles of Association, each shareholder The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting validly deliberates if has a voting right equal to the number of shares he/she holds the shareholders present or represented, or voting by postal or represents in all Shareholders’ Meetings. vote, represent, on first notice, one quarter of the shares with voting rights, and one fifth on second notice. In the event this Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings quorum is not reached, the second Shareholders’ Meeting The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting receives the Board may be postponed to a further date no later than two months of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ reports, from the date on which it was originally convened. approves the annual financial statements and votes on the distribution of profits. It appoints and dismisses the Shareholders attending the meeting by videoconferencing or Directors and sets their compensation in accordance with other means of telecommunication allowing their identification legal provisions and the Articles of Association. It appoints the and compliant with the legal and regulatory provisions are Company’s Statutory Auditors. counted as present for the purpose of calculating the quorum. The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may delegate authority ■■5.2.1.5 C  rossing of thresholds (Article 10.3 of to the Board of Directors at the Board’s request to deal with all matters not specifically reserved for Extraordinary the Articles of Association) Shareholders’ Meetings. In addition to the legal disclosure requirements set out in Article L.233-7 of the French Commercial Code, any person More generally, the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting votes on or legal entity, acting either alone or in concert, who holds by all matters that do not entail a direct or indirect modification of any means a number of shares representing one percent (1%) the Articles of Association. of the share capital or voting rights, or any multiple thereof, The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting is held every year no must no later than five (5) business days after the occurrence, later than six months after the end of the previous financial advise the Company by fax of the total number and percentage year, unless this period is extended by court order. of shares and voting rights held, with written confirmation sent the same day by recorded delivery mail. Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting may amend any of Such persons are also required to advise the Company if their the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company. holding falls back below those thresholds, under the same However, it may not increase the shareholders’ liability, or terms and conditions. change the nationality of the Company except under the terms In case of failure to comply with these requirements, the and conditions set forth by law and international treaties. shares exceeding the part that should have been disclosed Notice and Meeting of Shareholders’ Meetings are deprived of voting rights for any Shareholders’ Meeting General Shareholders’ Meetings are called by the Board of that would be held in a two-year period following the date the Directors or, if applicable, by the Statutory Auditors or any corrective disclosure is made. Except in the case of crossing other person duly empowered by law. The meetings take one of the thresholds provided for by Article L.233-7 of the place at the registered office or any other place indicated in French Commercial Code, the deprival of the voting rights, the notice of meeting. which will be recorded in the minutes of the Shareholders’ Meeting, may only occur if requested by one or more of the The agenda is set by the person who convenes the meeting. shareholders representing at least one percent (1%) of the However, one or several shareholders may request, under share capital and voting rights of the Company. Ipsen Registration document 2017 227 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL ■■5.2.1.6 Identification of bearer shareholders The Articles of Association of the Company do not contain for (Article 10.2 of the Articles of any specific provision in that respect. Association) ■■5.2.1.8 Financial year (Article 27 of the Articles The Company may at any time, in accordance with the of Association) applicable legal and regulatory provisions and at its own expenses, request the relevant central depositary for financial Each financial year has a 12-month term beginning on instruments, to provide it with the name, or the corporate 1 January and ending on 31 December. name in case of a legal entity, nationality and address or as the case may be, the registered office, of holders of securities ■■5.2.1.9 Provisions that could delay, defer or conferring the right to vote at its General Shareholders’ prevent a change in control Meetings either immediately or in the future, as well as the There are no specific provisions of the Articles of Association number of securities held by each of them and any restrictions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in the control of attached thereto. the Company. ■■5.2.1.7 S  pecific provisions governing changes in the share capital The share capital and the rights attached to shares can only be modified in accordance with applicable legal provisions. 5.2.2 Share Capital ■■5.2.2.1 Amount of share capital fully subscribed and paid-up of same class, each with a par As of 31 December 2017, the share capital of the Company value of €1. amounted to €83,732,057 divided into 83,732,057 shares All the shares are registered or bearer shares and are fully subscribed and paid-up of same class, each with a par freely transferable. They are traded on Euronext Paris value of €1. (Compartment A) (ISIN code FR 0010259150). As of 14 February 2018, the share capital of the Company amounted to €83,782,308 divided into 83,782,308 shares ■■5.2.2.2 Changes in share capital Date Transaction Par value Number Nominal Share or Cumulative Cumulated Cumulated per share of shares amount contribution share or amount of number of (in euro) of share capital premium contribution share capital outstanding (in euros) (in euro) premiums (in euros) shares (in euros) 31/12/2014 Options exercises 1 1,500 1,500 43,320 714,873,694 82,869,083 82,869,083 02/03/2015 Options exercises 1 13,875 13,875 361,245 715,234,939 82,882,958 82,882,958 01/04/2015 Options exercises 1 39,898 39,898 1,068,756 716,303,695 82,922,856 82,922,856 01/04/2015 Bonus shares grant 1 142,596 142,596 – 716,303,695 83,065,452 83,065,452 (Plan dated 28/03/2013) 27/05/2015 Options exercises 1 22,200 22,200 541,052 716,844,747 83,087,652 83,087,652 01/07/2015 Bonus shares grant 1 39,100 39,100 – 716,844,747 83,126,752 83,126,752 (Plan dated 30/06/2011) 30/07/2015 Options exercises 1 19,726 19,726 577,654 717,422,401 83,146,478 83,146,478 07/10/2015 Options exercises 1 77,784 77,784 2,163,896 719,586,297 83,224,262 83,224,262 16/12/2015 Options exercises 1 21,340 21,340 525,967 720,112,264 83,245,602 83,245,602 29/02/2016 Options exercises 1 900 900 27,657 720,139,921 83,246,502 83,246,502 31/05/2016 Options exercises 1 13,180 13,180 457,229 720,597,150 83,259,682 83,259,682 228 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Date Transaction Par value Number Nominal Share or Cumulative Cumulated Cumulated per share of shares amount contribution share or amount of number of (in euro) of share capital premium contribution share capital outstanding (in euros) (in euro) premiums (in euros) shares (in euros) 21/07/2016 Capital increase 1 80,000 80,000 3,372,000 723,969,150 83,339,682 83,339,682 by issue of shares 27/07/2016 Cancellation 1 (80,000) (80,000) – – 83,259,682 83,259,682 of treasury shares 27/07/2016 Options exercises 1 10,435 10,435 326,749 724,295,899 83,270,117 83,270,117 05/10/2016 Options exercises 1 117,367 117,367 4,157,665 728,453,564 83,387,484 83,387,484 15/12/2016 Options exercises 1 160,380 160,380 4,166,322 732,619,886 83,547,864 83,547,864 31/12/2016 Options exercises 1 10,000 10,000 322,100 732,941,986 83,557,864 83,557,864 22/02/2017 Options exercises 1 22,630 22,630 796,433 733,738,419 83,580,494 83,580,494 07/06/2017 Options exercises 1 57,440 57,440 1,967,094 735,705,513 83,637,934 83,637,934 30/06/2017 Options exercises 1 2,600 2,600 92,664 735,798,177 83,640,534 83,640,534 26/07/2017 Options exercises 1 20,000 20,000 712,800 736,510,977 83,660,534 83,660,534 04/10/2017 Options exercises 1 32,289 32,289 1,150,780 737,661,757 83,692,823 83,692,823 13/12/2017 Options exercises 1 38,724 38,724 1,418,879 739,080,636 83,731,547 83,731,547 31/12/2017 Options exercises 1 510 510 18,176 739,098,812 83,732,057 83,732,057 14/02/2018 Options exercises 1 50,251 50,251 1,790,946 740,889,758 83,782,308 83,782,308 ■■5.2.2.3 Potential share capital With respect to all plans, in the event of a tender offer, granted As of 31 December 2017, the potential share capital represents options are immediately vested and exercisable. Moreover, a maximum potential dilution of 0.19% distributed as follows: the underlying shares are negotiable, without any condition attached. 5.2.2.3.1 Stock purchase or subscription options plans As of 31 December 2017, with respect to all Ipsen plans, there Description were 664,558 outstanding options (after deduction of the Every Ipsen SA stock subscription or purchase option grants number of options exercised or cancelled to account for the the right to subscribe to or purchase one Company share. departure of certain beneficiaries), of which 503,619 purchase options and 160,939 subscription options, representing a The rights resulting from options granted to beneficiaries potential increase of the share capital up to €160,939 and a are fully vested at the end of a four-year period and can be maximum potential dilution of 0.19%. exercised on one or several occasions. Ipsen Registration document 2017 229 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL The following table (Table 8 of AMF recommendations) presents, as of 31 December 2017, the description of the Ipsen Options granted and valid: Date of Date of Board Grant date Number of options granted Nature of Date Date Exercise Number of options Shareholders’ of Directors the options of exercise of expiry price Total number Of which number granted Exercised Cancelled or Outstanding Meeting granted (in euros) as at expired as at as at Of Of options Number of Of options 31/12/2017 31/12/2017 31/12/2017 beneficiaries beneficiaries 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 31 42,000 – – Subscription 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 29.88 9,500 15,500 17,000 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 20 28,500 – – Subscription 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 33.21 10,000 9,500 9,000 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 5 266,668 – – Purchase 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 38.73 34,334 20,000 212,334 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 5 266,666 – – Purchase 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 35.86 61,401 20,000 185,265 02/06/2006 12/12/2006 12/12/2006 5 266,666 – – Subscription 12/12/2010 13/12/2018 33.21 201,833 20,000 44,833 02/06/2006 30/05/2007 30/05/2007 3 55,000 – – Subscription 30/05/2011 31/05/2017 39.06 50,000 5,000 0 02/06/2006 12/12/2007 12/12/2007 2 53,334 – – Purchase 12/12/2011 13/12/2017 41.33 53,334 0 0 02/06/2006 12/12/2007 12/12/2007 2 26,666 – – Subscription 12/12/2011 13/12/2017 41.33 26,666 0 0 02/06/2006 12/12/2007 12/12/2007 2 53,334 – – Purchase 12/12/2011 13/12/2017 38.27 53,334 0 0 02/06/2006 12/12/2007 12/12/2007 2 26,666 – – Subscription 12/12/2011 13/12/2017 38.27 26,666 0 0 02/06/2006 29/09/2008 29/09/2008 1 10,000 – – Subscription 29/09/2012 29/09/2018 34.68 0 0 10,000 02/06/2006 29/09/2008 29/09/2008 201 216,200 – – Purchase 29/09/2012 29/09/2018 34.68 103,000 39,450 73,750 02/06/2006 30/03/2009 30/03/2009 41 148,300 – – Purchase 30/03/2013 30/03/2019 26.39 40,350 75,680 32,270 04/06/2009 10/11/2009 10/11/2009 1 12,000 – – Subscription 10/11/2013 10/11/2019 34.74 12,000 0 0 04/06/2009 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 22 40,710 – – Subscription 31/03/2014 01/04/2018 36.64 22,240 14,900 3,570 04/06/2009 31/03/2010 31/03/2010 105 321,360 (*) – – Subscription 31/03/2014 01/04/2018 36.64 118,069 138,570 64,721 27/05/2011 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 10 16,005 – – Subscription 30/06/2015 01/07/2019 25.01 12,980 2,775 250 27/05/2011 30/06/2011 30/06/2011 6 189,703 (*) 1 121,180 Subscription 30/06/2015 01/07/2019 25.01 164,302 13,836 11,565 (1) Total 2,039,778 1,000,009 375,211 664,558 (*) Options granted under performance conditions. (1) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 1 April 2015, noted the achievement of performance conditions attached to these options based on the evolution of income and the achievement of strategic objectives. Grant of stock options during 2017 financial year to the The final acquisition of the shares granted as part of the 2016 ten Group employees receiving the highest number and 2017 plans mentioned in the chart below, is effective at (Table 9 of AMF recommendations) the end of the acquisition period: During the 2017 financial year, no options were granted. • of a two-year duration starting from the grant date for Exercise of stock options during 2017 financial year by French tax resident beneficiaries with an effective delivery the ten Group employees exercising the highest number of the acquired shares at the term of the of the two-year acquisition period. Half of the shares are transferable as (Table 9 of AMF recommendations) from their delivery to the French tax resident beneficiaries During the 2017 financial year, the options exercised by the and half of the shares must be held during an additional ten Group employees that have exercised the highest number period of two years following the final acquisition date; reached a total of 174,560 options at a weighted average price of €36.15. These exercises resulted in the attribution of • of a two-year duration starting from the grant date for US 174,560 Ipsen shares. tax resident beneficiaries with an effective delivery of half of the acquired shares at the term of the of the two-year 5.2.2.3.2 F  ree Shares and Performance shares plans acquisition period and of half of the remaining acquired Description shares two years after the term of the acquisition period. The final acquisition of the shares granted as part of the 2013, The shares are transferable as from their delivery to the 2014 and 2015 plans mentioned in the chart below, is effective beneficiairies. at the end of the acquisition period: • of a four-year duration starting from the grant date for non• of a two-year duration starting from the date of grant French and US tax resident beneficiaries at the grant date. for French tax resident beneficiaries. These shares must The shares are transferable as from their delivery to the be retained by French tax resident beneficiaries for an beneficiaries. additional two-year period following the final acquisition; The final acquisition is then effective subject to a presence • of a four-year duration starting from the date of grant for condition and, for certain plans, to the achievement of non-French tax resident beneficiaries as of the date of performance conditions set out by the Board of Directors on grant. the grant date. 230 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL During the 2017 financial year, 113,656 shares were transferred departure of certain beneficiaries), under the form of existing to beneficiaries at the end of the acquisition period for free shares, no increase of share capital is planned. shares granted under the 28 March 2013 and 1st April 2015 The following table (table 10 of AMF recommendations) plans, under the form of existing shares. presents, as of 31 December 2017, the description and terms As of 31 December 2017, with respect to all Ipsen plans, of the Ipsen free shares and performance shares granted, 430,102 rights to free shares that may be acquired by subject to the completion of presence conditions and, for beneficiaries were still valid (after deduction of the number of certain grants, of performance conditions set out by the shares acquired or of rights cancelled to take into account the Board of Directors: Date of the Date Grant date Number of shares granted Nature of Date of final Date of Number of shares Shareholders’ of the Board the shares granted acquisition availability Total number Of which number granted Cancelled as Number of shares Outstanding as Meeting of Directors to executive directors at 31/12/2017 transferred or at 31/12/2017 created Of Of shares Number of Of shares beneficiaries beneficiaries 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 9 79,859 (1) 2 39,759 New shares 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 3,313 (2) 76,546 – 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 104 71,065 (1) – – New shares 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 12,435 (2) 58,630 – 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 14 7,420 – – New shares 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 – 7,420 – 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 12 34,329 (1) – – Existing shares 29/03/2015 29/03/2017 24,216 (2) 10,113 – 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 32 21,791(1) – – Existing shares 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 4,904 16,887 – 27/05/2011 28/03/2013 28/03/2013 18 9,540 – – Existing shares 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 3,710 5,830 – 31/05/2013 27/03/2014 27/03/2014 103 62,368 (1) – – Existing shares 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 11,397 (3) 50,971 – 31/05/2013 27/03/2014 27/03/2014 10 76,011(1) 2 32,933 Existing shares 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 16,232 (3) 59,779 – 31/05/2013 27/03/2014 27/03/2014 10 30,781(1) – – Existing shares 28/03/2016 28/03/2018 12,322 (3) – 18,459 (*) 31/05/2013 27/03/2014 27/03/2014 33 20,795 (1) – – Existing shares 28/03/2018 28/03/2018 5,868 – 14,927 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 9 48,310 (1) 2 22,658 Existing shares 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 9,506 (4) 38,804 – 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 80 47,572(1) – – Existing shares 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 5,550 (4) 42,022 – 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 17 39,970 (1) – – Existing shares 02/04/2017 02/04/2019 9,066 (4) – 30,904 (*) 31/05/2013 01/04/2015 01/04/2015 31 26,195 (1) – – Existing shares 02/04/2019 02/04/2019 2,431 – 23,764 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 115 60,008 (1) 1 2,535 Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2018 13,417 – 46,591 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 115 59,963 (1) 1 2,535 Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 13,410 – 46,553 31/05/2016 29/07/2016 29/07/2016 1 5,011 (1) 1 5,011 Existing shares 30/07/2018 30/07/2018 – – 5,011 31/05/2016 29/07/2016 29/07/2016 1 5,010 (1) 1 5,010 Existing shares 30/07/2018 30/07/2020 – – 5,010 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 58 47,571(1) – – Existing shares 01/06/2020 01/06/2020 1,500 – 46,071 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 19 32,367 (1) – – Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2018 7,613 – 24,754 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 31/05/2016 19 32,360 (1) – – Existing shares 01/06/2018 01/06/2020 7,612 – 24,748 (*) 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 113 30,472(1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2019 796 – 29,676 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 113 30,428 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2021 794 – 29,634 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 1 6,683 (1) 1 – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2019 – – 6,683 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 1 6,682(1) 1 – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2021 – – 6,682 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 68 35,790 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2021 30/03/2021 960 – 34,830 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 18 20,923 (1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2019 3,016 – 17,907 31/05/2016 29/03/2017 29/03/2017 18 20,912(1) – – Existing shares 30/03/2019 30/03/2021 3,014 – 17,898 (*) Total 970,186 173,082 367,002 430,102 (1) Shares granted under performance conditions. (2) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 1 April 2015, noted the partial achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (3) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 30 March 2016, noted the achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (4) The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 29 March 2017, noted the achievement of performance conditions attached to these shares. (*) The registration on the accounts will be made after a four-year period following the date of grant. Grants of Ipsen performance Shares to employees during the 2017 financial year During the 2017 financial year, the top ten Group employees (excluding executive officers) to whom have been granted the highest number of performance shares, received a total number of 34,695 shares. Ipsen Registration document 2017 231 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL ■■5.2.2.4 Authorized and non-issued share capital The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings held on 31 May 2016 and 7 June 2017 authorized the delegation of authority to the Board of Directors regarding shares capital increases as follows, it being specified that only ongoing delegations and authorizations as of 31 December 2017 are mentioned below: Issues reserved to shareholders Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal amount Shareholders’ of the share capital Meeting (resolution increase authorized number) Share capital increase by incorporating reserves, 7 June 2017 (20th) 26 months 20% of the share capital (a, c, e, i) profits and/or premiums as bonus shares grant (6 August 2019) and/or increase share par value Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 7 June 2017 (21th) 26 months 20% of the share capital (a, b, e, i) and/or securities with retention of preferential (6 August 2019) subscription rights for shareholders Issues without preferential subscription rights for shareholders Ongoing authorizations Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal amount Shareholders’ of the share capital Meeting (resolution increase authorized number) Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 7 June 2017 (22th) 26 months 10% of the share capital (a, c, d, e, i) or securities without preferential subscription rights (6 August 2019) for shareholders by offer to the public Share capital increase by issues of ordinary shares 7 June 2017 (23th) 26 months 10% of the share capital (a, c, d, e, i) or securities without preferential subscription rights (6 August 2019) for shareholders by private placement Share capital increase to compensate contributions 7 June 2017 (25th) 26 months 10% of the share capital (a, e, i) in kind of shares or securities (6 August 2019) Issues reserved to employees (and, if applicable, to executive officers) Autorisations en cours Date of the Duration (expiry) Maximum nominal Shareholders’ amount of the share Meeting (resolution capital increase number) authorized Share capital increase reserved for members 7 June 2017 (26th) 26 months 5% of the share capital (a, e) of a company savings plan (6 August 2019) Stock subscription and purchase options granted 7 June 2017 (27th) 26 months 3% of the share capital (e, f, h) to employees and executive directors (6 August 2019) Authorization to allocate free of charge existing 31 May 2016 (13th) 26 months 3% of the share capital (f, g, h) shares and/or shares to be issued to waged (30 July 2018) staff members and/or certain company officers (a) Based on a share capital of €83,557,864 as at the date of the combined Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017. (b) Global common limit of 20% of the share capital as of the date of the 7 June 2017 combined Shareholders Meeting. (c) The issues decided under this delegation are deducted from the global common limit of 20% of the share capital. (d) The issues decided under delegations by offer to the public or private placement are deducted respectively from limits of each delegation, in addition to the global limit of 20% of the share capital. (e) Unused. (f) Common limit of 3% of the share capital. (g) On the basis of the share capital at the grant day. This authorization has been used in 2016 up to a target amount of 245,738 shares, i.e., 0.60% of the share capital to date in case of maximum performance. In 2017, this authorization was used up to a target amount of 151,890 shares, or 0.33% of the share capital to date in case of maximum performance. (h) Sub-ceiling of 20% of the share capital within this envelop for allocation to company officers. (i) Supsended in period of public offer. 232 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL ■■5.2.2.5 Number of shares held by the Company Authorizations Share repurchase program and cancellation of shares Autorisations en cours Date of the Duration (expiry) Characteristics Shareholders’ Meeting (resolution number) Share repurchase 7 June 2017 18 months Maximum repurchase price per share: (18th resolution) (6 December 2018) €200 Limit of 10% of the number of shares comprising the share capital (a) Cancellation of shares 7 June 2017 24 months 10% of the share capital as of the date (19th resolution) (6 June 2019) of decision of cancellation (a) Supsended in period of public offer. Treasury shares (excluding liquidity agreement) Since 26 February 2007, the Company had mandated Natexis As of 31 December 2017, the Company held 1,139,829 of its Bleichroder, a subsidiary of Natixis, to implement a liquidity own shares dedicated to the covering of its stock purchase contract for a one-year period with tacit renewal. This contract options, bonus shares and performance bonus shares plans is compliant with the Business Ethics Charter of the AMAFI (see sections 5.2.2.3.1 and 5.2.2.3.2). (French Association of Investment Firms) which was approved by the French Autorité des marchés financiers. As per the As of 28 February 2018, the Company held 1,135,301 of its liquidity contract, the following assets appeared on the own shares dedicated to the covering of its stock purchase liquidity account: 46,838 shares and €1,259,939.79. options, bonus shares and performance bonus shares plans (see sections 5.2.2.3.1 and 5.2.2.3.2). On 8 June 2017, the Company announced having appointed Natixis to purchase 160,000 Ipsen SA shares, or about ■■5.2.2.6 Share repurchase program 0.2% of the share capital, for a period of at least 2 months. The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017 The shares purchased under this agreement will be mainly conferred to the Board of Directors a new authorization to allocated to cover its free performance share allocation repurchase the Company’s shares for a 18 month period and plan. The program ended on 8 August 2017 due to to the terminated the prior authorization granted on 31 may 2016. acquisition of the target number of shares. Pursuant to this decision, the Board of Directors decided on 27,200 treasury shares have been used in 2017 to cover the 7 June 2017 to set up a new share repurchase program with exercise of purchase options (see 5.2.2.3.1). a limit of 10%. Review of the share buyback program The following tables present the purchase and sale transactions carried out by the Company in respect of its own shares, between the opening and closing dates of the 2017 financial year: Number of shares purchased: 333,811 Average purchase price: €101.77 Number of shares sold: 321,726 Average sale price: €100.83 Total amount of dealing and brokerage expenses: €145,050 Number of shares used in 2017: 140,856 allocated shares: – 27,200 shares for the coverage of options plans – 113,656 shares as part of performance shares plans Number of shares registered in the name of the Company at the end 1,159,476 shares (of which 19,647 shares within of the financial year: the liquidity contract and 160,000 within the repurchase program Estimated value at the average purchase price: €117,999,872.52 Nominal value: €1,159,476 including: – €1,139,829 dedicated to the coverage of options and shares plans – €19,647 within the liquidity contract for the purposes of the animation of shares price Ipsen Registration document 2017 233 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Distribution of own shares % of the share capital Animation of share price 0.02% Coverage of stock purchase options or other employee share ownership system 1.36% Securities giving right to shares – Acquisitions – Cancellation – ■■5.2.2.7 Non-equity securities The financial memorandum on the commercial paper program As at 2 December 2015, the Company organized an emission and outstanding amounts issued can be consulted on the plan of commercial papers (NEU CP – Negotiable EUropean Banque de France website (www.banque-france.fr). Commercial Paper) to satisfy the general needs for financing the Group. 5.2.3 Shareholding ■■5.2.3.1 Share ownership and voting rights voting rights amounts to 131,607,413 and the number of net As of 31 December 2017, the Company’s share capital voting rights amounts to 130,463,495. amounted to €83,732,057, divided into 83,732,057 shares, The difference between the number of shares and voting each with a par value of €1. The corresponding theoretical rights results from the double voting right. number of voting rights amounted to 131,584,995 and the number of net voting rights amounts to 130,425,519. The difference between the number of theoretical voting rights and the number of real voting rights corresponds to the As of 28 February 2018, the Company’s share capital amounts number of treasury shares. to €83,782,308, divided into 83,782,308 shares, each with a par value of €1. The corresponding theoretical number of As of 31 December 2017, to the best knowledge of the Company, the main shareholders were: Share capital Gross voting rights Net voting rights Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage Mayroy SA 47,269,813 56.45% 94,539,623 71.85% 94,539,623 72.49% Free Float (bearer shares) 34,223,963 40.87% 34,223,963 26.01% 34,223,963 26.24% Treasury shares 1,159,476 1.39% 1,159,476 0.88% 0 0%, Other registered shareholders 740,922 0.89% 1,229,941 0.93% 1,229,941 0.94% Employee FCP (1) 178,366 0.21% 265,941 0.20% 265,941 0.20% Board of Directors 159,517 0.19% 166,051 0.13% 166,051 0.13% (excluding Mayroy SA) (2) Total 83,732,057 100% 131,584,995 100% 130,425,519 100% (1) FCP Ipsen Shares is the only mutual fund for employee participation in the share capital of the Company. (2) Certain Directors of the Company are presumed to act in concert: Anne Beaufour, who owns 1 share and 2 voting rights, Henri Beaufour, who owns 1 share and 2 voting rights, Carol Xueref, who owns 500 shares and 1,000 voting rights, Christophe Vérot, who owns 1,500 shares and 3,000 voting rights, Marc de Garidel, who owns 152,580 shares and 152,680 voting rights, the company Mayroy SA and Antoine Flochel. It is specified, to the Company’s knowledge and based on Directors’ statements, that VicJen Finance SA, a company of which Antoine Flochel is Chairman of the Board of Directors, holds as at 31 December 2017, 2,000 shares and 4,000 voting rights, and the company Financière de Catalogne of which M. Flochel is the manager, holds, 3,000 shares and 3,000 voting rights as at 31 December 2017. Subsequently the concert participation amounts to 56.64% of the share capital and 72.59% of the voting rights. 234 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL In accordance with the provisions of law and its bylaws • the Caisse des Dépôts declared to the Company that it providing for disclosure of any holdings greater than 1% of crossed: the share capital or voting rights, the Company has been –– downwards, on 9 May 2017, the 1 % share capital informed that the following thresholds have been crossed threshold; during the last three financial years: • the company BNP Asset Management declared to the • the company AXA Investment Managers, acting on its own Company that it crossed: account and the account of its affiliates, declared to the –– upwards, on 10 November 2017, the 1 % voting rights Company that it crossed: threshold. –– downwards, on 4 December 2015, the 1% voting rights threshold; To the Company’s knowledge, on this declaratory basis, no other shareholder owns, directly or indirectly, acting alone or • the company Franklin Resources Inc., acting for its own in concert, more than 5% of the share capital or voting rights account et the account of its affiliates declared to the except to what is described above. Company that it crossed: At the date of this registration document’s, and to the –– downwards, on 14 January 2015, the 1% voting rights Company’s knowledge, there were no significant alterations of threshold; the share capital distribution, with regard to the one presented –– downwards, on 9 February 2015, the 1% share capital above at 31 December 2017. threshold; Mayroy is a société anonyme organized and existing under • the company Opera Finance Europe SARL to the Company the laws of the Luxembourg. As at the date of filing of this that it crossed: registration document, its share capital is owned by Beech –– downwards, on 1 April 2015, the 4% and 3% share Tree S.A. (“Beech Tree”), also a société anonyme organized capital threshold; and existing under the laws of the Luxembourg, up to 93.22%, –– downwards, on 1 April 2015, the 2% voting rights including 58.10% directly, and 35.12% indirectly, through its threshold; subsidiaries FinHestia S.àr.l. and Bee Master Holding BV, these two companies are incorporated under the forms of limited –– downwards, on 27 May 2015, the 2% and 1% share liability companies existing under the laws of the Luxembourg. capital threshold; –– downwards, on 27 May 2015, the 1% voting rights Anne Beaufour and her brother, Henri Beaufour, hold together, threshold; directly and indirectly, 100% of Beech Tree share capital. None of them control Beech Tree, which in the absence of • the company Serimnir Fund SICAV declared to the Company any shareholders’ agreement, is governed by its Articles of that it crossed: Association. –– upwards, on 1 April 2015, the 1% and 2% share capital threshold; ■■5.2.3.2 Transactions on Company’s Shares –– upwards, on 1 April 2015, the 1% voting rights threshold; Definition of blackout periods –– downwards, on 17 April 2015, the 2% share capital The Company complies with recommendation no 2016-08 threshold; of the Autorité des marchés financiers of 26 October 2016, –– downwards, on 28 April 2015, the 1% voting rights and the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Accordingly, purchases and threshold; sales of Company securities or financial instruments are prohibited during the periods running from the date on which –– downwards, on 6 May 2015, the 1% share capital persons having managerial responsibilities, as well as any threshold; other person who has access to privileged information on a –– upwards, on 26 May 2015, the 1% and 2% share capital regular or occasional basis, have knowledge of information of threshold; a precise nature, which has not been made public, relating, –– upwards, on 26 May 2015, the 1% voting rights threshold; directly or indirectly, to one or more issuers or to one or more financial instruments, and which, if it were made public, –– downwards, on 27 May 2015, the 2% share capital would be likelty to have a significant effect on the prices of threshold; those financial intruments or on the price of related derivative –– downwards, on 27 May 2015, the 1% share capital financial instruments: threshold; • 30 calendar days prior to the publication of the press –– downwards, on 27 May 2015, the 1% voting rights release on the annual and half-year financial statements and threshold; the day of publication included, and • the company BNP Paribas Investment Partners declared to • 30 calendar days prior to the publication of quarterly the Company that it crossed: information and the day of publication included. –– upwards, on 12 February 2016, the 1% share capital threshold; At the beginning of every year, the Company draws up and releases, a timetable that defines the periods during which –– upwards, on 7 April 2016, the 1% voting rights capital trading in Company securities is prohibited and stipulates threshold; that the indicated periods do not anticipate the existence of –– upwards, on 30 June 2016, the 2% share capital other blackout periods triggered by knowledge of precise threshold; information that directly or indirectly concerns Ipsen, which, –– downwards, on 17 March 2017, the 2 % share capital if it were disclosed, would be likely to have a significant affect threshold; on the price of the securities concerned. Ipsen Registration document 2017 235 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF until the end of the holding period that has been decided by Code (section 24.3.3), hedging of any kind on securities of the Board of Directors. the Company, includeing options as well as shares resulting Transactions on the Company’s Securities carried out in from the exercise of options or to performance shares, is 2017 prohibited. Pursuant to Article 223-26 of the General Regulations of the Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Marc de Autorité des marchés financiers, the table below sets out Garidel, Chairman of the Board of Directors, undertook a transactions on Company’s securities carried out in 2017, as formal commitment not to engage in hedging transactions such transactions were declared to the Company and the either on their options or on shares issued following the Autorité des marchés financiers: exercise of options or on performance bonus shares granted Purchases Sales Exercice of stock-options Date Number Price Date Number Price Date Number Price per unite per unite per unite Philippe Robert-Gorsse, – – – 9 January 2017 3,330 71.30 – – – Executive Vice-President, Specialty Care Franchises (1) Philippe Robert-Gorsse, – – – 3 February 2017 2,130 75.00 – – – Executive Vice-President, Specialty Care Franchises (1) Marc de Garidel – – – 2 March 2017 4,041 89.16 – – – Chairman of the Board of Directors Marc de Garidel – – – 15 March 2017 12,000 90.54 – – – Chairman of the Board of Directors Marc de Garidel – – – 22 March 2017 4,282 89.11 – – – Chairman of the Board of Directors Marc de Garidel – – – 6 June 2017 21,653 119.63 – – – Chairman of the Board of Directors Benoît Hennion – – – – – – 20 June 2017 1,360 123,80 Executive Vice President and President, Consumer HealthCare (2) Benoît Hennion – – – – – – 20 June 2017 1,450 123,85 Executive Vice President and President, Consumer HealthCare (2) Benoît Hennion – – – 20 June 2017 825 123.76 – – – Executive Vice President and President, Consumer HealthCare (2) Benoît Hennion – – – 20 June 2017 3,707 123.80 – – – Executive Vice President and President, Consumer HealthCare (2) (1) Left his position during the year 2017. (2) Exercise followed by sale. 236 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL ■■5.2.3.3 E  volution of share ownership and voting rights over the past three financial years (as of 31 December 2017) 2017 Number of shares % Number of gross % Number of net % voting rights voting rights Mayroy SA 47,269,813 56.45 94,539,623 71.85 94,539,623 72.49 Free Float (bearer shares) 34,223,963 40.87 34,223,963 26.01 34,223,963 26.24 Treasury shares 1,159,476 1.39 1,159,476 0.88 0 0 Other registered shareholders 740,922 0.89 1,229,941 0.93 1,229,941 0.94 Employee FCP (*) 178,366 0.21 265,941 0.20 265,941 0.20 Board of Directors 159,517 0.19 166,051 0.13 166,051 0.13 (excluding Mayroy SA) Total 83,732,057 100 131,584,995 100 130,425,519 100 2016 2015 Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % of shares of gross of net of shares of gross of net voting rights voting rights voting rights voting rights Mayroy SA 47,269,813 56.57 94,539,617 71.96 94,539,617 72.58 47,269,813 56.78 94,539,617 72.15 94,539,617 72.78 Free Float (bearer shares) 34,019,228 40.71 34,019,228 25.89 34,019,228 26.12 34,026,745 40.88 34,026,745 25.97 34,026,745 26.19 Treasury shares 1,128,340 1.35 1,128,340 0.86 0 0 1,119,090 1.34 1,119,090 0.85 0 0 Other registered shareholders 750,581 0.90 1,196,456 0.91 1,196,456 0.92 689,809 0.83 1,098,450 0.84 1,098,450 0.85 Employee FCP (*) 201,000 0.24 288,575 0.22 288,575 0.22 91,135 0.11 182,270 0.14 182,270 0.14 Board of Directors 188,902 0.23 214,659 0.16 214,659 0.16 49,010 0.06 58,185 0.04 58,185 0.04 (excluding Mayroy SA) Total 83,557,864 100 131,386,875 100 130,258,535 100 83,245,602 100 131,024,357 100 129,905,267 100 (*) The FCP Ipsen Shares is the only employee shareholding fund to the share capital of the Company. ■■5.2.3.4 Shareholders’ agreements and parties • presence of six independent Directors of fourteen members acting in concert in the Company’s Board of Directors as described in chapters 5.1.1.1, 5.1.1.2 and 5.1.2.1 of the present registration Agreements between shareholders of the Company document; None. • presence of two independent Directors of five members in Agreements between shareholders of Mayroy the Innovation and Development Committee; None. • presence of two independent Directors of six members in Parties acting in concert the Nomination and Governance Committee; Certain Directors of the Company (Anne Beaufour, Henri • presence of three independent Directors of four members Beaufour, Antoine Flochel, Carol Xueref, Christophe Vérot and in the Audit Committee, including the Chairperson of the Marc de Garidel) and the company Mayroy SA are presumed Committee; to act in concert. • presence of two independent Directors of three members in ■■5.2.3.5 Nature of control the Compensation Committee; The Company is controlled as described above. Measures • presence of two independent Directors of four members taken to avoid any abusive control are as follows: in the Ethics Committee, including the Chairperson of the Committee. • separation of the functions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Ipsen Registration document 2017 237 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL ■■5.2.3.6 Information or agreements likely to exists for any fully paid-up registered under the name of involve a change in control or to have a same shareholder for at least 2 years as described in section 5.2.1.3 (Article 26 of the Articles of Association). an impact in the event of a takeover bid Agreements likely to involve a change in control • Control mechanisms provided for in an employee shareholding system if controlling rights are not exercised None. by said system: voting rights attached to the Ipsen shares Information likely to have an impact in the event of held by employees through the FCP Ipsen Shares, the a takeover bid only mutual fund for employees, are exercised by a person empowered by the supervisory board of the mutual fund to In accordance with provisions of Article L.225-37-5 of the represent it at shareholders’ meetings (see section 5.2.3 of French Commercial Code, the following information may have the present registration document). an impact in the event of a takeover bid: • Agreements between shareholders of which the Company • Ownership of the Company’s share capital: see section 5.2.3 is aware that may cause restrictions on transfers of shares of the registration document. and exercises of voting rights: see section 5.2.3.4 of the • Restrictions contained in the Articles of Association on present registration document. voting rights: none; except, in case of failure to declare the • Provisions governing the election and replacement of Board crossing of a statutory threshold, temporary suspension of Members: see section 5.1.1 of the present document. voting rights which may be requested during a shareholders’ meeting by one or more shareholders holding at least 1% of • Provisions governing the amendment of the Company’s the share capital or voting rights (article 10.3 of the Articles Articles of Association: legal rules. of Association, see section 5.2.1.5). • Powers of the Board of Directors, in particular concerning • Restrictions contained in the Articles of Association on issuance or repurchases of shares: see sections 5.2.2.4 transfer of shares or agreements of which the Company and 5.2.2.5 of the present registration document. has knowledge in accordance with the provisions of Article L.233-11 of the French Commercial Code: none. • Agreements entered into by the Company that are amended or expire in the event of a change of control of the Company, • Direct and indirect interests in the share capital known by unless this disclosure, except if required by law, may have a the Company in accordance with the provisions of Articles material negative impact on its interests: none. L.233-7 and L.233-12 of the French Commercial Code: see section 5.2.3 of the present document. • Agreements providing compensations tomembers of the Board of Directors or employees in case of resignation or • Shareholders holding any share conferring specific control dismissal without cause or if their employment ends as a rights and description: there are no shares conferring result of a takeover bid: see section 5.1.2 of the present specific control rights. However, a double voting right document. ■■ 5.2.3.7 Dividends Dividends paid in the past five financial years Dividends paid in 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total number of shares giving rights 83,580,494 83,246,502 82,882,958 82,611,659 84,100,253 to dividend Distribution (in euros, excluding 71,043,419.90 (*) 70,759,526.70 (*) 70,450,514.30 (*) 66,089,327.20 (*) 67,280,202.40 (*) tax credit) Gross dividend amount per share 0.85 0.85 0.85 0.80 0.80 (in euros, excluding tax credit) (*) Including dividends on treasury shares assigned to the carry-forward profit account. 238 Ipsen Registration document 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND LEGAL INFORMATION 5 INFORMATION RELATED TO THE COMPANY AND ITS SHARE CAPITAL Dividends and reserves distribution policy ■■5.2.3.8 Related-party transactions The dividend payout policy is determined by the Company’s Subject to, (i) the agreements entered into with the Schwabe Board of Directors based on an analysis of the Company’s group described in section 1.2.2.2 of the present document, financial results and position. The Company’s objective for (ii) information regarding related-party transactions described future years is to develop a payout policy consistent with its in chapter 3.2 note 26 of the present document, (iii) the growth strategy. agreements and commitments described in the Special Report of the Statutory Auditors on regulated agreements and Statute of limitations commitments presented in section 5.1.3 of the registration Dividends which are not claimed within five years of their document, there are no other agreements between the Group payment date shall lapse and become the property of the and related parties. State. Ipsen Registration document 2017 239 240 Ipsen Registration document 2017 6 ANNEXES 6.1 PERSON RESPONSIBLE 242 6.1.1 Attestation of the person responsible for the registration document 242 6.1.2 Person responsible for financial information 242 6.1.3 Person responsible for account audit and fees 242 6.2 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTERESTS 243 6.3 CONSULTATION OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS 243 6.4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 243 6.4.1 Cross-reference table for the Registration Document 243 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report cross-reference table 246 6.4.3 Cross-reference table of the Management Report and of the Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance 247 6.4.4 Cross-reference table for the filing of the financial statements 249 6 ANNEXES PERSON RESPONSIBLE 6.1 PERSON RESPONSIBLE 6.1.1 Attestation of the person responsible for the registration document Mr. David Meek, Chief Executive Officer of Ipsen “I affirm that having taken all reasonable care to ensure that included in the scope of consolidation, as well as a description such is the case, the information contained in this registration of the main risks and contingencies with which the Company document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with may be confronted. the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I’ve obtained a letter from the Statutory Auditors certifying that I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial they have verified the financial and accounting information statements have been prepared in accordance with the provided in this registration document and that they have read applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view the document as a whole.” of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the Boulogne-Billancourt, Company and all the other companies included in the scope 23 March 2018 of consolidation, and that the Management Report presented in paragraph 6.4.3 of the present registration document gives David Meek, a fair description of the business developments, results and Chief Executive Officer financial position of the Company and all the other companies 6.1.2 Person responsible for financial information Aymeric Le Chatelier Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Eugenia Litz Vice-President, Investor Relations Ipsen 65, quai Georges Gorse 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt cedex Phone: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00 Fax: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 01 investor.relations@ipsen.com www.ipsen.com 6.1.3 Person responsible for account audit and fees ■■6.1.3.1 Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés KPMG Audit Represented by Mr. Jean-Marie Le Guinier Department of KPMG S.A. 185, avenue Charles de Gaulle Represented by Catherine Porta and Cédric Adens B.P. 136 2, avenue Gambetta 92524 Neuilly-sur-Seine Cedex – France CS 60055 92066 Paris-La Défense Cedex – France First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 17 December 1998. Term of office renewed by the Annual First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held Shareholders’ Meeting held on 31 May 2016. on 18 June 2005. Term of office renewed by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 7 June 2017. 242 2017 Ipsen Registration document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES ■■6.1.3.2 Alternate Statutory Auditors ■■6.1.3.3 Auditors’ fees B.E.A.S. The auditors’ fees can be found in section 3.2.5, note 30. 7-9, villa Houssay 92524 Neuilly-sur-Seine Cedex – France First appointed at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 10 April 2002. Term of office renewed by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting held on 31 May 2016. 6.2 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF INTERESTS None. 6.3 CONSULTATION OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS During the validity period of the present registration document, Copies of the present registration document are available the Articles of incorporation, the Statutory Auditors’ reports, free of charge at the Company’s registered office (located the annual financial statements of the past three years, as at 65 quai Georges Gorse – 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt well as any reports, letters or other documents and historical cedex – France – Tel.: +33 (0)1 58 33 50 00) as well as on financial information of the Company and its subsidiaries Ipsen’s website (www.ipsen.com) and on the AMF’s website over the past three years and, valuations and statements (www.amf-france.org). made by experts, where such documents are provided for by law and any other document provided for by law may be consulted at the Company’s registered office. 6.4 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 6.4.1 Cross-reference table for the Registration Document To facilitate consultation of this registration document, the table below outlines the minimum information to be included in this registration document pursuant to Appendices I of Regulation no. 809/2004 of the European Commission dated 29 April 2004. INFORMATIONS Sections Pages 1. PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 1.1 Persons responsible for the registration document 6.1.1 – 6.1.2 242 1.2 Declaration of the person responsible for the registration document 6.1.1 242 2. STATUTORY AUDITORS 2.1 Identities and addresses 6.1.3 242 2.2 Changes NA 3. SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3.1 Historical financial information Introduction 3 3.2 Financial information for interim periods NA 2017 Ipsen Registration document 243 6 ANNEXES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES INFORMATIONS Sections Pages 4. RISK FACTORS 2.1 30 5. INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER 5.1 History and development 5.1.1 Legal and commercial name 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.2 Place of registration 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.3 Date of incorporation and duration 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.4 Headquarters – legal form – applicable law 1.1.1.1 6 5.1.5 Important events in the development of the company 3.1.1 48 5.2 Investments 5.2.1 Investments achieved 1.2.7.2 – 3.1.3 27 – 55 5.2.2 In progress 1.2.7.2 27 5.2.3 Scheduled NA 6. BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Principal activities 6.1.1 Operations and principal activities 1.1.1.2 – 1.2.1 6–9 6.1.2 New products 1.2.1 9 6.2 Principal markets 1.2.1 – 1.2.5 9 – 25 6.3 Exceptions factors 3.1.1 48 6.4 Extent to which the issuer is dependent 2.1 30 6.5 Competitive position 1.2.5.2 25 7. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 7.1 Brief description of the Group 1.2.7.1 26 7.2 List of significant subsidiaries 3.2.5 note 29 119 8. PROPERTY, PLANTS AND EQUIPMENT 8.1 Information regarding any existing or planned material tangible fixed assets 4.2 154 8.2 Any environmental issues that may affect the utilisation of the tangible fixed assets 4.2 154 9. OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 9.1 Financial condition Introduction – 3 3 – 47 9.2 Operating results 9.2.1 Significant factors 3 47 9.2.2 Material changes in net sales or revenues 3 47 9.2.3 Any factors that have materially affected, or could affect, directly or indirectly, 1.2.6 – 3 25 – 47 the issuer’s operations 10. CAPITAL RESOURCES 10.1 Capital resources (short and long term) 3.1.3 55 10.2 Cash flows 3.1.3 55 10.3 Borrowing requirements and funding structure 3.1.3 55 10.4 Restrictions on the use of capital resources 3.1.3 55 10.5 Anticipated sources of funds needed NA 11. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES 1.1.1 – 1.2.3 6 – 18 12. TREND INFORMATIONS 12.1 Recent trends production 1.2.6 – 3.1.6 25 – 65 12.2 Events that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on prospects 1.2.6 25 13. PROFIT FORECAST OR ESTIMATES 13.1 Principal assumptions NA 13.2 Report prepared by auditors NA 13.3 Forecast basis NA 244 2017 Ipsen Registration document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES INFORMATIONS Sections Pages 13.4 Disclose of forecast approval NA 14. A  DMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT, AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 N ame, business address, and functions of the corporate officers in the issuing 5.1.1.2 – 5.1.1.3 – 170 – 174 – 180 company 5.1.1.6 14.2 A dministrative, management and supervisory bodies and senior management 5.1.1.4 180 conflicts of interest 15. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Remuneration paid 5.1.3 203 15.2 Amounts set aside to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits 5.1.3 203 16. BOARD PRACTICES 16.1 Date of expiration of the current term of office 5.1.1.1 – 5.1.1.2 166 – 170 16.2 Service contracts 5.1.1.4 180 16.3 Committees 5.1.1.1 – 5.1.2.1.1 166 – 186 16.4 Compliance with principles of corporate governance 5.1.2.1 186 17. EMPLOYEES 17.1 Breakdown of employees 4.1 150 17.2 Shareholding and stock options 5.1.3.2 – 5.2.2.3 228 17.3 Description of any arrangements for involving the employees in the capital 4.1.2 152 18. MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 18.1 Interests in capital 5.2.3.1 234 18.2 Different voting rights 5.2.1.3 – 5.2.3.1 225 – 234 18.3 Control of the issuer 5.2.3.1 – 5.2.3.4 234 – 236 18.4 Description of any arrangements 5.2.3.3 – 5.2.3.5 235 – 236 19. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 5.2.3.7 237 20. FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES 20.1 Historical financial information Introduction – 3 3 – 47 20.2 Pro forma financial information NA 20.3 Financial statements 3.2 – 3.3 66 – 126 20.4 Auditing of historical annual financial information 20.4.1 Statement that the historical financial information has been audited 3.2.6 – 3.3.3 122-141 20.4.2 Indication of other information audited 5.1.2.2 – 5.1.4 202 – 221 20.4.3 Indication of other information unaudited NA 20.5 Age of latest financial information 3.2.5 note 4 85 20.6 Interim and other financial information NA 20.7 Dividend policy 5.2.3.6 236 20.8 Legal and arbitration proceedings 2.1.3.2.2 35 20.9 Significant change in the issuer’s financial or trading position 3.2.5 note 1 and note 2 74-75 21. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21.1 Share capital 21.1.1 Amount of issued and fully paid capital 5.2.2.1 – 5.2.2.4 – 227 – 231 – 232 5.2.2.5 21.1.2 Shares not representing the capital NA 21.1.3 Treasury shares or shares held by subsidiaries 5.2.2.5 232 21.1.4 Securities 5.2.2.3 228 21.1.5 Terms of any acquisition NA 21.1.6 Options or understanding NA 21.1.7 History of share capital 5.2.2.2 227 2017 Ipsen Registration document 245 6 ANNEXES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES INFORMATIONS Sections Pages 21.2 Memorandum and articles of association 21.2.1 Corporate purpose 5.2.1.1 225 21.2.2 Regulations of administrative, management and supervisory bodies 5.1.1.1 – 5.1.2.1.1 166 – 186 21.2.3 Rights and preferences attached to shares 5.2.1.3 225 21.2.4 Modification of the rights of shareholders 5.2.1.3 225 21.2.5 Shareholders’ meetings 5.1.2.1.4 – 5.2.1.4 195 – 226 21.2.6 Change of control 5.2.3.5 236 21.2.7 Shareholding thresholds 5.2.1.5 226 21.2.8 Conditions governing modifications to articles of Association 5.2.1 225 22. MATERIAL CONTRACTS 1.2.2 14 23. THIRD PARTY INFORMATION AND STATEMENT BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF ANY INTEREST 23.1 Statement of an expert 6.2 243 23.2 Other statements NA 24. DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY 6.3 243 25. INFORMATION ON HOLDINGS 1.2.7 – 3.2.5 note 29 26 – 119 6.4.2 Annual Financial Report cross-reference table INFORMATIONS Chapters Pages Attestation by the person responsible 6.1.1 242 Annual financial statements 3.3 126 Consolidated financial statements 3.2 66 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the annual financial statements 3.3.3 141 Statutory Auditors’ Report on the consolidated financial statements 3.2.6 122 Statutory Auditors fees 3.2.5 121 Management Report: see 6.4.3 247 Information contained in Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code: • Analysis of changes in the business, results and financial position of the 3.1.1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, 3.1 48 – 49 – 55 – 48 – Company and the Group and Notes 1 and 2 of 74 – 75 Chapter 3.2.5 • Financial and non-financial key performance indicators of the Company and the Introduction 3–4 Group • Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the Group 2.1, 3.1 and 30 – 48 – 74 – 75 Notes 1 and 2 of Chapter 3.2.5 • Internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation 2.2 40 and processing of accounting and financial information of the Company and the Group • Objective and hedging policy for transactions of the Company and the Group for 2.1 – 2.2 – 3.2.5 30 – 40 – 112 – 113 which hedge accounting is used Notes 23 and 24 • E xposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks of the Company and the Group • Use of financial instruments by the Company and the Group • Financial risks linked to the effects of climate change and low carbon strategy of 2.1.4.7 38 the Company and the Group Information regarding the buying back of shares (Article L.225-211 of the French 5.2.2.6 233 Commercial Code) 246 2017 Ipsen Registration document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 6.4.3 C  ross-reference table of the Management Report and of the Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance ■■Management Report INFORMATIONS Chapters Pages Information regarding the activities of the Company and the Group Position of the Company and the Group during the previous financial year, foreseeable 1.2, 3.1.1, 3.1.6 9 – 48 – 65 changes and significant events after the reporting period (Articles L.232-1 and L.233-26 of the French Commercial Code) Activities and results of the Company and the Group by business segment 3.1.2.4 54 (Article L.233-6 of the French Commercial Code) Objective and exhaustive analysis of developments in the business, results and 3.1.1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, 3.1 48 – 49 – 55 – 48 – financial position of the Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French and Notes 1 and 2 of 74 – 75 Commercial Code) Chapter 3.2.5 Financial and non-financial key performance indicators of the Company and the Group Introduction 3–4 (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the Group (Article 2.1, 3.1 and 30 – 48 – 74 – 75 L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Notes 1 and 2 of Chapter 3.2.5 Internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and 2.2 40 processing of accounting and financial information of the Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Objective and hedging policy for transactions of the Company and the Group for which 2.1 – 2.2 – 3.2.5 30 – 40 – 112 – 113 hedge accounting is used Notes 23 and 24 Exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risks of the Company and the Group Use of financial instruments by the Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Financial risks linked to the effects of climate change and low carbon strategy of the 2.1.4.7 38 Company and the Group (Article L.225-100-1 of the French Commercial Code) Research and Development activities of the Company and the Group (Articles L.232-1 1.2.3 18 and L.233-26 of the French Commercial Code) Existing branches within the Company (Article L.232-1 of the French Commercial Code) NA Legal, financial and tax information of the Company Breakdown and changes in share ownership (Article L.233-13 of the French 5.2.3.3 237 Commercial Code) Names of controlled companies and portion of the Company’s share capital they hold 1.2.7 26 (Article L.233-13 of the French Commercial Code) Significant holdings acquired during the financial year in companies whose NA headquarters are located in France (Article L.233-6 of the French Commercial Code) Cross-shareholding (Article R.233-19 of the French Commercial Code) NA Statement of employee profit-sharing (Article L.225-102 of the French Commercial Code) 5.2.3.1 234 Acquisition and disposal by the Company of its own shares (buyback of shares) 5.2.2.5 and 5.2.2.6 233 (Article L.225-211 of the French Commercial Code) Adjustments to securities giving access to the share capital in the event of financial NA transactions (Article R.228-91 of the French Commercial Code) Adjustments to securities giving access to the share capital and the stock options in NA the event of the buyback of shares (Articles R.228-90 and R.225-138 of the French Commercial Code) Dividends distributed for the three previous financial years (243 bis of the French 5.2.3.7 238 General Tax Code) Non-tax deductible expenses and charges (223 quater of the French General Tax Code) 3.3.4.14 146 Court orders or financial penalties imposed for anti-competitive practices NA (Article L.464-2 I paragraph 5 of the French Commercial Code) 2017 Ipsen Registration document 247 6 ANNEXES CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES INFORMATIONS Chapters Pages Payment deadlines and breakdown of the accounts payable and accounts receivable 3.3.4.13 145 balances (Article L.441-6-1; D.441-4; A 441-2 of the French Commercial Code) Amount of the inter-company loans (Article L.511-6 3 bis of the French Monetary and Note 3 136 Financial Code) of Chapter 3.3.2 Information on the operation of a SEVESO site (Article L.515-8 of the French NA Environmental Code) (Article L.225-102-2 of the French Commercial Code) Information regarding the corporate officers Summary of securities transactions performed by persons with managerial 5.2.3.2 236-237 responsibilities and closely affiliated persons (Article L.621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code; 223-26 of the AMF Regulation) CSR Information Taking into account of the social and environmental consequences of the activities, 4.2 – 4.3 154 – 168 including the impact on climate change and the impact resulting from the use of the goods and services produced, as well as the societal commitments promoting sustainable development, the circular economy, the fight against food waste, the fight against discrimination and the promotion of diversity (Articles L.225-102-1; R.225-105; R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code) Monitoring plan NA ■■Appendices to the Management Report INFORMATIONS Chapters Pages Report on payments to governments (Article L.225-102-3 of the French Commercial NA Code) Table on the Company's results during each of the last five financial years 3.3.4.17 147 (Article R.225-102 of the French Commercial Code) ■■Corporate Governance Report INFORMATIONS Chapters Pages Compensation information Information on the compensation policy of Corporate Officers (Articles L.225-37-2 and 5.1.2 209 L.225-82-2 of the French Commercial Code) Total compensation and benefits in kind paid during the fiscal year to each corporate 5.1.2 209 officer of the Company, the companies it controls or the company that controls it (Article L.225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code) Commitments of any type undertaken by the Company for the benefit of its corporate 5.1.2 – 5.1.3 209 – 223 officers (Article L.225-37-3 and D.225-104-1 of the French Commercial Code) Option selected by the Board regarding the procedures for the retention of free shares 5.1.1.1 – 5.1.2.2 181 – 212 and/or shares resulting from the exercise of stock options by the corporate officers (Articles L.225-197-1 and L.225-185 of the French Commercial Code) Information regarding the composition, operation and powers of the Board List of all offices and positions held by each of the corporate officers in or outside the 5.1.1.1 181 company during the financial year (Article L.225-37-4 1° of the French Commercial Code) Agreements entered into directly or via an intermediary (i) between a corporate 5.1.3 223 officer or shareholder holding a percentage of voting rights in excess of 10% and (ii) a company of which more than 50% of the share capital is held, directly or indirectly (with the exception of agreements involving ordinary transactions that are entered into under normal conditions) (Article L.225-37-4 2° of the French Commercial Code) Summary of the delegations regarding capital increases (Article L.225-37-4 3° of the 5.2.2.4 232 French Commercial Code) Form of Executive Management (Article L.225-37-4 4° of the French Commercial Code) 5.2.1.2 226 Composition, conditions for the preparation and organization of the work of the Board 5.1.1.1 181 (Article L.225-37-4 5° of the French Commercial Code) 248 2017 Ipsen Registration document ANNEXES 6 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES INFORMATIONS Chapters Pages Application of the principle of balanced gender representation on the Board 5.1.1.1 194 (Article L.225-37-4 6° of the French Commercial Code) Potential limitations that may be imposed on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer 5.1.1.3 202 by the Board of Directors (Article L.225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code) Reference to a corporate governance code and application of the “comply or explain” 5.1 180 principle as well as the location where this code may be consulted (Article L.225-37-4 8° of the French Commercial Code) Procedures for the participation of shareholders in the Annual General Meeting 5.2.1.4 227 (Article L.225-377-4 9° of the French Commercial Code). Information regarding items likely to have a material impact in the event 5.2.3.6 238 of a public offer (Article L.225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code) 6.4.4 Cross-reference table for the filing of the financial statements INFORMATIONS Chapters Pages Annual financial statements 3.3 126 Consolidated financial statements 3.2 66 Management Report 3.1 48 Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate Governance and conclusions of the statutory 5 – 3.3.3 179 – 141 auditors Activities of the Company and the Group/Other 1.2 9 Results of the last five financial years 3.3.4.17 147 2017 Ipsen Registration document 249 250 2017 Ipsen Registration document Designed & published by +33 (0)1 40 55 16 66 Contacts Readers can address any comments and questions on this document to: Ipsen 65, quai Georges Gorse 92650 Boulogne-Billancourt Cedex Phone: +33 1 58 33 50 00 Fax: +33 1 58 33 50 01 www.ipsen.com 2017 Registration document This Annual Report is also available on the Company’s website at www.ipsen.com. * Innover pour mieux soigner. www.ipsen.com
