2017 Sustainability Report HESS VALUES Hess Values set the framework and establish the ethical standards by which we conduct our business. ■ INTEGRITY: We are committed to the highest level of integrity in all our relationships. Integrity ■ PEOPLE: We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the best people by investing in their professional People Performance development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for personal growth. ■ PERFORMANCE: We are committed to a culture of Value Social performance that demands and rewards outstanding results Creation Responsibility throughout our business. ■ VALUE CREATION: We are committed to creating shareholder value based on sustained financial performance Independent and long-term profitable growth. Spirit ■ SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a long-lasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business. ■ INDEPENDENT SPIRIT: We are committed to preserving the special qualities and unique personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise. REPORTING STANDARDS AND ASSURANCE GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT IN ACCORDANCE OPTION COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the Core option. Our declaration of conformance with the GRI Standards has principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome been reviewed and confirmed by our external verifier, ERM Certification and feedback on its contents. Verification Services. See the assurance statement on page 54. INDEX OF REPORTING INDICATORS An index of our sustainability reporting indicators, including those from the GRI Standards, with cross reference to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry organization for environmental and social issues) sector-specific guidelines, can be found at hess.com/gri-index. The index includes all indicators required for a GRI ON THE COVER Standards Core report, as well as a number of additional indicators for which Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand we are able to provide supporting information. TABLE OF CONTENTS 11 33 37 2 11 37 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO HOW WE OPERATE CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Our CEO’s view on building The values that define our expectations Balancing the world’s growing energy a sustainable enterprise for sustainable management and needs with our cost-effective greenhouse performance gas emissions reduction policy 4 17 47 ABOUT HESS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT Our company operations in brief A review of social responsibility Responsible management as our way of doing business of our environmental footprint 5 25 52 PERFORMANCE DATA APPROACH TO REPORTING SAFETY AND HEALTH 54 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE A description of our materiality Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, STATEMENT assessment, reporting framework every day, home safe and boundaries 55 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION 55 MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS 6 33 PROGRESS AND GOALS OUR PEOPLE A snapshot of our progress Creating a company culture and and path forward high-quality workforce that innovates, leads and learns 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Hess is committed to helping meet the world’s growing energy performance. Sustainability issues are therefore examined by needs in a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive our Board of Directors and taken into account in formulating and profitable way that delivers long-term value and superior our company strategy. Our Board is climate change literate financial returns to shareholders. As part of this commitment, and evaluates various sustainability risks and global scenarios, we successfully completed an ambitious asset sales program including some of the most ambitious greenhouse gas reduction in 2017 to high grade and focus our portfolio by investing in our scenarios from the International Energy Agency, in making highest return assets — Guyana, which is one of the industry’s strategic decisions. The Board’s Compensation Committee also largest oil discoveries in a decade, and the Bakken, our largest has tied executive compensation to advancing the environmental, operated asset where we have more than 500,000 net acres health and safety goals of the company. in the core of the play — and by divesting higher cost, mature Our 2017 Sustainability Report shows how we are addressing assets. In Guyana, we continued our extraordinary exploration sustainability issues and integrating sustainable business practices success on the Stabroek Block with five world-class discoveries into our strategy and goals. Hess’ environment, health, safety and in 2017. The Liza Phase 1 development, which was sanctioned in social responsibility strategy is focused on several key areas for June 2017, will have the gross capacity to produce approximately our operations, including process safety, social responsibility and 120,000 barrels of oil per day, with first production expected climate change, which are described below. Detailed information in March 2020. The second phase of the Liza development is on our programs and performance is provided in this report and expected to start up by mid-2022, closely followed by a third on our company website at hess.com. phase of development that is expected to bring gross production to more than 500,000 barrels of oil per day. In the Bakken, SAFETY we continued to drive down drilling and completion costs and Our company’s top priority is the safety of our workforce and increase well productivity. Through the application of geosteering, the communities in which we operate. We work closely with our optimized spacing, higher stage counts and proppant loading, employees and contractors to promote a strong safety culture, we have increased Bakken well productivity by approximately with the ultimate goal of everyone, everywhere, every day, 50 percent over the last two years. In terms of developments, we home safe. As a result, we reduced both our 2017 workforce safely completed the North Malay Basin full field development in recordable incident rate and lost time incident rate by 38 percent Malaysia in 2017 and advanced the Stampede development in compared with 2016, with improvements in both employee and the Gulf of Mexico, which achieved first oil in January 2018. contractor performance. While our overall safety performance was positive, our severe safety incident rate did not meet our These achievements support our strategy to grow our resource internal target. After identifying an upward trend early in the year, base in a capital disciplined manner, move down the cost curve we implemented immediate corrective actions that resulted in an so we are resilient in a low oil price environment and be cash 18 percent reduction in our severe safety incident rate from June generative at a $50 per barrel Brent oil price post-2020. Our to December. Severe safety incidents will continue to be a focus strategy reflects our view that shale alone will not be enough of our key improvement initiatives in 2018. to meet the world’s oil demand growth and offset global base production declines. For the past several years the industry We continually work to increase awareness of process has significantly underinvested in conventional projects, which safety across the company and enhance our process safety currently represent approximately 95 percent of global oil supply. management systems, which are an integral part of our business and play a critical role in mitigating risk. In 2017 Sustainability practices are an integral part of our strategy we concluded a two-year assessment of our process safety and operations because we believe they create value for management systems across the company, along with a our shareholders and opportunities to improve business 2 “Our company’s mission is to be a trusted energy partner.” review of the mechanical integrity of our onshore and offshore to take steps to monitor and measure our progress, including locations as part of our ongoing integrity management program. additional infrastructure investments in the Bakken that will Recommendations and actions from both reviews will help continue to reduce flaring. inform improvement programs from 2018 onward. PEOPLE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Hess’ culture is defined by our Values of Integrity, People, Our company’s mission is to be a trusted energy partner, and Performance, Value Creation, Social Responsibility and as part of that mission we strive to make a positive impact Independent Spirit. As part of our Values, we are committed on the communities where we operate. We are guided by our to a diverse and inclusive workplace that fosters learning and commitments to international voluntary initiatives designed development, engagement and innovation. to advance transparency, environmental protection, human In 2017 we continued to reduce the size of our workforce as rights and good governance. Along with our other voluntary a result of our divestitures and cost-reduction initiatives and commitments, Hess continues to support the United Nations announced plans to introduce a new organizational structure in Global Compact and the Global Compact U.S. Network, which early 2018. Throughout these changes, the Hess Values guided share best practices in sustainable business conduct across our decisions and the support we provided to those affected. the private sector. Our leadership team regularly shares strategic updates, explains In 2017 our social investments totaled nearly $16 million, with the rationale for business decisions and listens to the views of our more than $8 million going toward education projects, more workforce through a robust program of employee engagement than $1 million going to disaster relief and recovery efforts in the and communications. aftermath of Hurricane Harvey and the balance directed toward economic development, health and capacity building. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE Our company views transparency in reporting as a key part of being Climate change is a global challenge that requires government, a trusted energy partner. We are proud to have been recognized business leaders and civil society to work together on costonce again in 2017 for the quality of our environmental, social and effective policy responses that recognize the vital role that governance performance and disclosure, reinforcing our position as safe, affordable and reliable energy plays in ensuring human a top-quartile performer in our industry. welfare, economic growth and security. In June 2017, the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures, which was Thank you to our employees, communities, customers, business an outgrowth of the G20 Financial Stability Board, issued its partners and investors. With your ongoing support and final recommendations on how the financial sector should take partnership, we are building a sustainable enterprise that makes account of climate-related issues. Our climate change strategy, a positive difference for all our stakeholders and the world which was implemented beginning in 2015, is closely aligned around us. with these recommendations. Our company has established 2020 reduction targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and flaring. Through 2017, we have reduced flaring and GHG emissions intensities by 38 percent and 23 percent, respectively, compared to our 2014 baseline. Between 2008 and 2017, we have reduced our equity John B. Hess GHG emissions by more than 6 million tonnes. We will continue Chief Executive Officer 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 3 ABOUT HESS Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. 2017 HIGHLIGHTS ■ We achieved continued exploration 1,154 10.2 306,000 success on the Stabroek Block (offshore Million Barrels of Oil Years of Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day Guyana), in which Hess holds a Equivalent Proved Reserves Reserve Life Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced 30 percent working interest, with four additional world-class discoveries announced in 2017. The ﬁrst phase of the Liza development was sanctioned in June 2017, with ﬁrst production expected HESS PORTFOLIO OF OPERATIONS by 2020. At the end of 2017, total gross discovered recoverable resources on the Block were estimated at more than 3.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent. ■ Our Bakken team increased well productivity by approximately 50 percent over the last two years through the application of geosteering, optimized spacing, higher stage counts and proppant loading. ■ The North Malay Basin Full Field Development, offshore Malaysia, achieved ﬁrst gas in July 2017 safely, on time and under budget. Production ■ We continued to advance the Midstream Stampede Development Project in the Developments deepwater Gulf of Mexico, achieving Exploration ﬁrst oil in January 2018. ■ We high graded and focused our portfolio by divesting mature, lowerreturn assets in Norway, Equatorial Production: Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; the Utica Guinea and West Texas. Our 2017 asset in Ohio; Baldpate, Conger, Penn State, Stampede and Tubular Bells in the monetizations resulted in total proceeds Gulf of Mexico; South Arne in Denmark and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. of $3.4 billion. Nonoperated assets include the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Shenzi and Llano in the Gulf of Mexico and the Waha Concessions in Libya. 2017 KEY ECONOMIC METRICS Midstream: Assets operated by Hess Midstream Partners LP include a natural $ MILLIONS gas processing plant, a rail-loading terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil Recordable Supplier Spend $4,656 truck and pipeline terminal, and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, (Exploration & Production) all in North Dakota. Capital and Exploration $2,168 Expenditures Developments: Activities are focused on the nonoperated Liza development Income Tax Expenses/(Beneﬁt) $(1,837) on the Stabroek Block, offshore Guyana. Wages and Beneﬁts (U.S.) $603 Royalties and Other Payments $379 Exploration: Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include Dividends $363 nonoperated interests in offshore Guyana, Suriname and Canada, and both Interest Expenses $325 operated and nonoperated interests in the Gulf of Mexico. Social Investments $16 Note: Divestitures in 2017 and early 2018 are not shown on the map. For the purposes of this Carbon and NOx Taxes $1 report, Hess Midstream Partners LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section. A portion of capital and exploration expenditures may include payments to suppliers. 4 APPROACH TO REPORTING In this report, we provide descriptions ■ Transportation Impacts Petroleum Industry Guidelines for of the company’s 2017 strategy and Reporting GHG Emissions (3rd edition, ■ Emergency Preparedness performance regarding material economic, 2015). We report social investments for and Response environmental and social issues. Our our operated assets, joint ventures and annual report, Form 10-K filing and ■ Process Safety and Spills nonoperated facilities in which we hold a proxy statement detail our financial and ■ Community Engagement significant interest. We include contractors governance information and can be found ■ Climate Change and Greenhouse in workforce metrics for those contractors on our website. Gas (GHG) Emissions whose hours we track. Additional sustainability and investor information See our expanded performance data at is available at hess.com/investors ■ Stakeholder Engagement hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ key-sustainability-metrics ■ Transparency in Business Conduct REPORTING STANDARDS This report was prepared in accordance ■ Human Rights and Security RESTATEMENTS We believe our approach to restating with the Core option of the Global These material issues have informed data complies with the GRI Standards’ Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. It was our environment, health, safety and social principle of comparability and the specific also informed by the Oil and Gas Industry responsibility strategy and helped to define disclosure regarding restatements of Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability the boundaries of this report. information, as well as IPIECA guidance. Reporting developed by IPIECA, the See reporting boundaries for each of these For GHG emissions, in cases of American Petroleum Institute and the issues at hess.com/sustainability/approach-toreporting/boundaries-for-material-issues acquisitions and divestitures and other International Association of Oil and Gas source ownership and control changes, Producers; the United Nations (UN) BOUNDARY SETTING we adjust our base year emissions if Global Compact’s Ten Principles; key Included within the scope of this report the change exceeds 10 percent of the environmental, social and governance are the principal facilities and assets original base year emissions total. The (ESG) ratings, including Disclosing the operated by Hess Corporation and our exact timing of the adjustment depends Facts, an investor scorecard developed subsidiaries during calendar year 2017, on several factors, as described in the by As You Sow, Boston Common unless otherwise indicated. Data presented Hess GHG Inventory Protocol. Asset Management and the Investor are gross figures from operated facilities, Environmental Health Network; and Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol at hess. unless specified otherwise. The report com/sustainability/climate-change-energy recommendations from the Task Force on includes partial-year data for the following Climate-Related Financial Disclosures. ASSURANCE assets that were divested in 2017: An index of GRI, IPIECA and UN Global In order to evaluate accuracy and Compact reporting indicators is available ■ West Texas, including the Permian Basin at hess.com/gri-index reliability, we conduct quality assurance/ enhanced oil recovery assets. Period quality control reviews and validation of of data included: January−July 2017. MATERIALITY both aggregated and facility-level data. Consistent with GRI’s materiality ■ Equatorial Guinea, including the Individual numbers in the charts, tables guidance, we identified and prioritized Okume and Ceiba production and text may not precisely sum to the new and emerging issues important operations. Period of data included: total amounts shown due to rounding. to our stakeholders when developing the January−November 2017. All currency in the report is in U.S. dollars. content for this report. Through a survey ■ Norway, including the (nonoperated) of select industry peers and external This report, including our sustainability Valhall production operations. Period stakeholder groups, as well as an annual, data and self-declared GRI “in of data included in GHG equity-share document-based assessment of key accordance” status, was assured emissions and social investment spend: stakeholder perspectives and Hess’ by ERM Certification and Verification January−November 2017. operational and regulatory risks, we Services (see page 54). This external identified the 10 most material issues We report GHG emissions on both an review helps to ensure consistent and for our company: operated and equity-share basis in objective data collection and reporting of ■ Regulatory Assurance accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and our sustainability performance. Gas Sector Supplement and the IPIECA ■ Water Management 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 5 PROGRESS AND GOALS This section offers a snapshot of our progress and path forward with respect to our most material sustainability programs and initiatives; as such, it provides an indication of our commitment to improve performance across a range of issues. Through continued implementation of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, we are improving how we understand and manage nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. Our strategic efforts planned for 2018 will build on our progress to date. Elements of our EHS & SR strategy are included in the summary table that follows, along with our key accomplishments in 2017 and select targets and metrics that we have established to measure how effectively we are implementing our strategy. Our progress and goals are categorized according to the six sections of the report in which they are discussed. HOW WE OPERATE DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Strengthened the use of our compliance As our regulatory compliance systems tracking tool through the addition of a mobile are becoming embedded in daily Continue to evaluate and application for ﬁeld assurance personnel and operations, begin to shift focus to more enhance our EHS management 51 synchronization with our work order system; formal assurance of Hess’ EHS system* formalized the process for assigning work management system in 2018 and material ﬂows to ﬁeld personnel beyond* Regulatory Assurance Reﬁne and enhance the Launch a regulatory tracking system regulatory advocacy process that aligns regulatory priorities with our Initiated quarterly regulatory risk to ensure that regulatory risks risk registers; further enhance U.S. presentations and monthly summary reports and potential impacts are offshore regulatory coordination 14 for U.S. onshore assets; formed a team appropriately characterized through quarterly presentations to focused on U.S. offshore regulatory risks and considered in company offshore leadership, aligned with their decision making* established operating rhythm in 2018* Published our 2016 Sustainability Report with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Publish our 2017 Sustainability Report Continue to reﬁne our G4 Core “in accordance” option, and in accordance with the GRI Standards sustainability disclosures to align prepared to align 2017 reporting with 5, 37–38 and aligned with the TCFD Transparency with stakeholder expectations recommendations from the Task Force recommendations in 2018 in Business on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Conduct (TCFD) and the GRI Standards Enhance our Global Trade Continue to enhance our Global Trade Revised our Code of Business Conduct and Compliance Program and revise Compliance Program and implement Ethics and supported employee training 13–14 our Code of Business Conduct training on our revised Code of programs and Ethics Business Conduct and Ethics in 2018 Revised our Procurement Policy to improve safety, minimize risk and standardize work Embed standard model contracts throughout the organization; continued to Continue to enhance standardization Supply and continue training on and advance the standardization and alignment and alignment on contractor Chain and implementation of standards, of our contractor selection, management selection, contracting and 14–15 Contractor driving consistency and efﬁciency and review process across the enterprise; management processes across our Management across all assets developed and began implementing new assets in 2018 and updated standard templates for supply contracts Continued Lean implementation and Expand Lean deployment across Hess, embedment across Hess: certiﬁed more than including developing Lean leaders in 80 employees in ﬁve basic skills who then our offshore organization; implement taught their teams; progressed development Further embed the Lean way Lean with our key Stampede of over 110 embedded Lean leaders; and 13 of thinking into Hess’ culture contractors, including at the offshore sponsored 12 kaizen workshops with six key drill ships, to apply Lean contractors, helping to improve safety improvements to routine drilling performance and deliver three producing Management activities in 2018 Stampede wells below budget Systems Continue to develop and Approved three new EHS global standards Continue progressing the EHS global implement EHS global standards and completed gap assessments for these 11–12 standards project through 2020 on a prioritized basis standards at selected assets Continue to measure effective Continued tracking individual EHS & SR Continue to measure effective implementation of the EHS & SR initiatives through project-speciﬁc work plans implementation of the EHS & SR 6–9 strategy through established as part of our business operating rhythm strategy through 2020* targets and metrics* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 6 Production Operations, North Dakota SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Review governance framework Approve and continue implementation and processes to ensure alignment Governance of the Social Responsibility (SR) and with our business strategy and Continued to integrate social and Human Rights Standards; integrate geographic footprint in 2018; build on responsibility considerations into our 17 Management SR and Human Rights Guidelines prior efforts to map business activities enterprise business processes Approach into enterprise business processes and social investment to the United to support policies and standards* Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals in 2018* Initiated stakeholder engagement and Community Continue to expand implementation grievance mechanism processes at and of stakeholder engagement and two assets and carried out an Continue to advance progress in 2018* 18–20 Stakeholder grievance mechanism processes* integrated stakeholder mapping Engagement review with one additional asset Review enterprisewide social, Conducted risk assessments in Continue to monitor potential risks and reputational and human rights risks North Dakota as part of an increase conduct risk assessments if needed 20–21 to update risk identiﬁcation* in activity level based on activity levels in 2018* Planned a training for Equatorial Refresh and conduct human Conduct human rights training as Guinea for 2017, but it was no rights training as needed based on needed based on identiﬁed risks 20–21 longer needed with the divestiture identiﬁed risks* in 2018 and beyond* Social Risk of that asset Management Continue to track the implementation of new standards through the number of employees and contractors No new training statistics to track; Continue to track implementation completing human rights training at continued to monitor contracts with 20–21 of these efforts in 2018 and beyond* high-risk assets, as well as the human rights clauses percentage of new contracts with human rights clauses* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 7 PROGRESS AND GOALS SAFETY AND HEALTH DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Build on our work with ICE through Continue to promote performance critical maintenance compliance (i.e., Achieved established targets for standards for integrity critical inspect, test and maintain ICE to ensure ICE performance standards and equipment (ICE) and complete asset it is performing as expected); actively 28 completed all asset integrity integrity assessments for all Hessmanage risks identiﬁed through the assessments operated production locations* asset integrity assessments through quarterly reviews in 2018 and beyond* Completed implementation of our Implement our enhanced barrier enhanced barrier management management approach in South Arne approach at Stampede through Complete implementation at these key in 2017 and at Stampede and North 29 the use of “bow tie” diagrams; offshore assets in 2018* Malay Basin as those assets come implementation at North Malay online* Process Basin and South Arne is ongoing Safety Pursue improvement programs based and Spills Completed several major efforts on recommendations from the Continue to make improvements in our to bolster our process safety 2016–2017 process safety assessment, process safety management system management systems, standards mainly around deeper integration of 27–28 and standards* and practices, as discussed in the our EHS and operational management Safety and Health section systems and increased focus on integrity risks in 2018* Continue to conduct audits and Further enhance the enterprisewide assessments under the tiered assurance competency strategy, with a focus Launched and implemented the program in 2018 and beyond; continue on integrating and enhancing existing enterprisewide three-tiered assurance to develop our enhanced enterprisewide 25 global systems; begin the program; met established targets for competency and training strategy in implementation of an enterprisewide number of Tier II audits completed 2018, with a risk-based implementation tiered EHS assurance program* program planned for 2019* Meet a workforce total recordable Surpassed this goal with a workforce Meet a workforce TRIR target of 0.20 incident rate (TRIR) target of 0.34 26 TRIR of 0.24 in 2017 or below in 2018 or below Occupational Did not meet this internal target, though Health after identifying an upward trend early and Safety Meet a severe safety incident rate in the year, implemented immediate Meet a severe safety incident rate 27 target of 0.15 or below corrective actions that resulted in an target of 0.16 or below in 2018 18 percent reduction in the rate from June to December OUR PEOPLE DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Promote a culture of engagement and continuous learning; embed the Hess Integrated the Hess Way of Working Way of Working into more of our (including Lean leadership behaviors) Offer four Managerial Essentials 34 people processes (e.g., performance into the performance review process programs in 2018 management and leadership for all Hess employees development programs) Leverage our newly implemented Continue to simplify and streamline Completed a project to streamline and Employment succession planning technology to talent management processes to further increase the alignment of our Practices identify, develop and track the progress 34–35 deliver targeted development and performance, compensation and talent of our high-potential talent and future succession plans management practices leaders in 2018 Continue to align our structure and Designed a new grading structure that Implement the new grading structure strategy to provide appropriate includes additional grades, to provide and provide a consistent evaluation promotion and development more career growth opportunities and framework for jobs across the 34–35 opportunities and more fully leverage improve internal equity between company; address job scope changes each person’s capability different jobs due to portfolio adjustments in 2018 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 8 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Due to organizational realignment and asset sales, deferred initiative to Assess opportunities to integrate EHS Begin to assess our value assurance further integrate EHS deliverables into deliverables into the value assurance process to identify opportunities to Risk our value assurance process; reviewed process for new projects; conduct a fully integrate EHS deliverables that 37–40 Management alignment of our EHS & SR strategy portfolio-speciﬁc carbon asset risk include climate change-related actions with TCFD recommendations, and scenario planning exercise in the (e.g., assessment protocols)* identiﬁed an action to conduct 2018–2019 timeframe* portfolio-speciﬁc scenario planning Pursue additional infrastructure projects Achieved startup of the Hawkeye Gas in 2018 that will continue to help Operate the Hawkeye Gas Facility Facility; initiated additional with ﬂaring reduction in the Bakken, 43 to help reduce gas ﬂaring* infrastructure projects slated for including an additional compressor completion in 2018 and beyond station and a new joint-venture gas plant slated for completion in 2018* Complete the capital phase of a project to pipe gas that had Deferred this project due to the No longer applicable, as the asset was traditionally been ﬂared in our Okume divestiture of the Equatorial Guinea — sold in 2017 operation to the Ceiba Field to use as asset in 2017 fuel gas to help power our operation* Strategy, Continue to make progress toward Metrics our 2020 goal to achieve a 25 percent Review and — if needed per the Hess Reduced GHG emissions intensity and Targets reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) GHG Inventory Protocol — adjust the by 23 percent, compared to our 2014 41–42 emissions intensity (tonnes per 2020 GHG intensity reduction target baseline thousand barrels of oil equivalent based on asset divestitures* (BOE)), versus our 2014 baseline* Continue to improve performance Maintained methane emissions below Continue to make progress against related to reducing methane the overall 2025 ONE Future target ONE Future sector-based 2025 45 emissions, through ONE Future of less than 1 percent of gross methane targets* sector-based targets* production across the value chain Continue to make progress toward our Reduced ﬂaring intensity by Review and — if necessary — adjust 2020 goal to reduce ﬂaring intensity 38 percent, compared to our 2014 the 2020 ﬂaring intensity reduction 42–43 (standard cubic feet per BOE) by baseline target based on asset divestitures* 50 percent, versus our 2014 baseline* ENVIRONMENT DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2017 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2017 GOALS FOR 2018+ (PAGE #) Continue to evolve the water data Continue to improve water data Enhanced our water data collection collection process to automate 47 quality* methodology collection for trending and future target setting in 2018* Water Management Began water risk planning efforts for Advance efforts to incorporate water assets in North Dakota and the Gulf of Conduct water risk assessment management in the risk assessment Mexico, considering the lifecycle of workshops for the North Dakota 47 process* water for each operational activity, as and Gulf of Mexico assets in 2018* well as mapping of key stakeholders Achieve a severe environmental incident Process Surpassed our target, achieving rate target of 0.027; continue to Achieve a severe environmental Safety a severe environmental incident 50–51 evaluate and enhance our pipeline incident rate target of 0.019 in 2018 and Spills rate of 0.016 integrity management program Continue involvement with the Continued initiatives to reduce the Conduct water-related pilot studies Environmentally Friendly Drilling environmental impacts of shale energy to assess alternative practices for Hydraulic program and the Energy and development, including advising the improving operating efﬁciencies 47–49 Fracturing Environmental Research Center EERC working group that developed in both onshore and offshore assets (EERC) and continue to evaluate water salt water remediation cleanup in 2018 reduction strategies guidance *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 9 Stampede Sailaway, Gulf of Mexico HOW WE OPERATE At Hess, we are committed to helping risks and strategies receive appropriate The company is governed by the Hess meet the world’s growing energy needs attention. Executive Committee, which is composed in a safe, environmentally responsible, See more on our approach to sustainable tax of Hess’ most senior executives and socially sensitive way, while delivering policy at hess.com/sustainability/how-wechaired by our Chief Executive Officer. operate/tax-practices long-term value to our shareholders and The Executive Committee focuses on other stakeholders. The Hess Values and The EHS Subcommittee of the Audit operational, strategic, financial, EHS and our company culture help us meet these Committee is tasked with assisting the social issues and is the highest approval high standards of corporate citizenship. Board in identifying, evaluating and body before the Board. While the Executive monitoring EHS risks and strategies Committee meets face to face at least The six core Hess Values support our with the potential to affect the people, every other month, our Chief Operating aim to be the most trusted energy environment or communities where we Officer chairs an operational subcommittee partner. Our Code of Business Conduct operate or our company’s business of the Executive Committee that meets and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social activities, performance or reputation. regularly to discuss these same matters. Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human The Subcommittee also develops KEY INITIATIVES Rights Policy and Environment, Health recommendations for the Audit Hess’ Operational Excellence (OE) and Safety (EHS) Policy build on our Committee and the full Board on policies, Network is made up of business leaders Values to define internal expectations programs and practices to address and process owners across the company for sustainable management and such strategies and risks. Our Vice who oversee high-impact, enterprise-level performance at Hess. We apply these President of EHS meets regularly with initiatives and align and integrate these principles to key company processes and the Subcommittee and the Chair of the efforts to create value for the company. initiatives, as described in this section. Subcommittee to prioritize actions. The The network enables us to more effectively GOVERNANCE Subcommittee met four times in 2017. design and implement key enterprise The highest level of oversight at Hess initiatives by fostering collaboration across Each member of the EHS Subcommittee rests with the Board of Directors, which Hess’ global resources and creating is independent and qualified under has three principal committees: the Audit standardized methodologies supported by standards established by applicable law, Committee, the Compensation and tools and processes. stock exchange listing standards and Management Development Committee Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. Employing this integrated, cross-functional and the Corporate Governance and Subcommittee members have extensive network helps us to ensure that projects Nominating Committee. oil and gas industry experience, including are planned and implemented holistically See Hess’ committee charters and Corporate Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors operations, research and development, — for example, by evaluating how a and financial expertise. To supplement new or changed process will impact The Audit Committee oversees the their expertise, Hess brings in outside other processes throughout Hess. We integrity of the company’s financial subject matter experts to brief members also establish metrics to monitor the statements, financial reporting practices, on current and developing issues relevant effectiveness of our processes and verify systems of internal accounting and to our business, such as climate change. we are sustaining improvements. financial and disclosure controls, and In addition, Subcommittee members, other financial matters such as tax together with our executive leadership, In 2018 we will restructure the planning, compliance and reporting for have engaged in field visits to better OE Network to reflect organizational income taxes. It also provides oversight understand our key EHS strategies changes made early in the year. The of issues relating to environment, health, and risks. In 2017, for example, group, which will be composed of safety and social responsibility (EHS & Subcommittee members visited two sites technical authorities in various disciplines, SR), compliance and risk management. to observe how Hess is managing and will remain focused on overseeing key Through the Audit Committee and the mitigating process safety risks to prevent enterprise-level initiatives. Board as a whole, Board members incidents: the Texas fabrication site for Over the past several years, we have actively oversee Hess’ sustainability the Stampede platform and hull and our been working on a number of initiatives practices, working alongside senior South Arne asset in Denmark. to enhance our operational effectiveness management so that sustainability and EHS performance. For example, 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 11 HOW WE OPERATE we are developing and implementing emphasize our assurance efforts by In 2017 we concluded a detailed review EHS standards across the company to conducting targeted, high-level reviews of integrity risk at our producing assets, formalize enterprisewide expectations and of the operators’ facilities and designs. as part of our ongoing asset integrity accountabilities and support a globally management process. This comprehensive Enterprise Risk Management consistent approach to operational effort, which focused on identifying Hess applies a comprehensive, excellence. These standards, which address and mitigating process safety and loss standardized approach to identifying key areas of EHS risk and performance, of containment risks, is described further and managing risks of all types across will be fully implemented by 2020. in the Safety and Health section. our operations. Our enterprise risk We also continue to implement Operations management (ERM) process is used to Value Assurance of the Future (OOTF), an operational develop a holistic risk profile for each asset Value assurance is a review process reorganization and improvement plan that and major capital project, drawing input Hess uses to characterize and assess focuses on better aligning job duties to from subject matter experts, performance our major investment opportunities. It business processes to maximize efficiency, data, incident investigations, lessons entails internal reviews by those who are reliability, integrity and surveillance; learned and recent internal audits. In not directly involved with the asset or optimize production and costs; and these risk assessments, we identify risks project to provide additional objectivity. drive continuous improvement, including and assess their likelihood and potential Following this process helps us ensure improvements to EHS performance. OOTF impact to people, the environment, our that our capital allocation and portfolio has been implemented at our Bakken and reputation and our business. management decisions are based on Gulf of Mexico assets, and we will begin independently reviewed, high-quality input. Our Risk Management Standard — to implement it at our North Malay Basin finalized in early 2017 — applies to We conduct value assurance reviews of asset in 2018. all assets and major capital projects our assets and major capital projects as Additional detail can be found at hess.com/ and has improved the alignment and part of the business planning cycle to sustainability/how-we-operate/key-initiatives integration of risk management across verify that they add value to our company KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES our operations and functional areas. The and that the relevant technical expertise We apply a number of key processes standard establishes a risk framework, has been incorporated. The reviews focus in our company that help to identify accountabilities and expectations across on economics, subsurface and facility and mitigate risks in potential, new and the organization to provide a consistent design, environmental and socioeconomic existing operations; achieve operational and integrated risk management process. considerations, regulatory requirements excellence; and evaluate investment and other nontechnical risks. We apply As part of our ERM process, risk opportunities. a carbon price of $40 per tonne to the assessments are conducted for all assets greenhouse gas emissions projected to While these processes are focused on and major capital projects annually and be generated by significant new projects our operated assets, it is important for all projects and new opportunities that to evaluate the potential impact of to note that we have also established go through the value assurance process carbon cost on project economics and to internal expectations for reviewing (described at right). Risk registers and compare alternative project configurations. potential risks in Hess’ nonoperated reports that are generated through these joint-venture developments. We prioritize processes are reviewed and updated The value assurance process is closely four main objectives: building respectful throughout the year as part of each asset’s aligned with our ERM process so that we relationships; influencing project and major project’s operating rhythm. can apply consistent methodologies and outcomes by focusing on issues with the criteria to risks across our company. We also require that functional-level greatest potential impact; establishing New Country Entry risk assessments be included in governance structures and project Our new country entry process helps us each asset’s or project’s risk plan, as assurance plans; and documenting and assess nontechnical, aboveground risks determined by each function. Examples internally sharing high-value lessons when evaluating opportunities in a new include identifying and validating concept learned. As nonoperated assets country of operation. The process also selection or confirming the technical basis represent a significant portion of Hess’ helps the project team mitigate identified of design for a facility. capital spend, we have continued to risks once a commitment is made to enter 12 a new country. Ultimately, the process templates and a health check. The health internal investigations and anti-bribery supports our ERM and value assurance check provides a structured approach and anti-corruption (ABAC) programs, workflows, utilizing the necessary for evaluating the process and ensuring as well as other enterprise programs information at key decision points in our accountability. We are now developing over and systems. In 2017 our Global investment and project planning processes. 110 ELLs, with more planned in the future. Compliance team investigated all issues See more detail on these processes at hess. See examples of success stories on the and allegations referred to the team com/sustainability/how-we-operate/keyLean section of our website at hess.com/leanthrough the various channels available to enterprise-processes advantage our workforce, including our dedicated Lean BUSINESS CONDUCT compliance hotline. In addition, Global At Hess, Lean is not a short-term program In the Hess Code of Conduct, we describe Compliance continued to manage the for achieving cost savings, but rather a the business conduct and behaviors company’s automated approval systems holistic cultural shift, changing the way we expect of our employees, officers, — which are used to review and approve we think and act. Central to this shift has directors and contractors. Any individual higher-risk transactions and relationships been encouraging our leaders to learn or company working on behalf of Hess with our business partners — including fundamental Lean skills and then apply or our subsidiaries is expected to follow our system for the disclosure, review and them to business problems. The leaders similar principles. To promote the Hess approval or mitigation of potential conflicts then coach and develop employees Values across our global operations, the of interest. Throughout 2017, Global and contractors to generate solutions Code of Conduct has been translated into Compliance also continued to partner themselves. The result is a distinctive Lean the local language of all of our countries of with key functions across the company, culture in which continuous improvement operation. Hess takes disciplinary actions including Legal, EHS, Human Resources comes from the entire workforce — our for violations of the Code of Conduct and and Corporate Audit, to review potential “army of problem solvers.” related policies. issues and implement appropriate remediation steps. For nearly a decade, we have been Hess’ compliance policies and procedures implementing Lean principles across our all stem from our Code of Conduct. These Providing employees with effective training operations to eliminate waste, create policies and procedures are communicated on the Hess Values is a key element of value and drive reliability and continuous to and available for all employees globally. strengthening our culture and helping improvement for our shareholders, Our Global Compliance team establishes, to ensure that employees understand and business partners, employees and other maintains and enforces the compliance embody the Values in their daily work. As stakeholders. policies and procedures, as well as other part of this effort, our Global Compliance processes and initiatives to prevent and team has developed in-depth online We continued Lean implementation trainings on our Code of Conduct and our detect compliance violations. Our aim across Hess in 2017. We certified more ABAC Policy and Procedure. The trainings is to promote an organizational culture than 80 employees as embedded Lean include examples of how employees can that is committed to ethical conduct leaders (ELLs), who then trained their translate the Hess Values into on-the-job and compliance with the law. The Chief teams in basic Lean skills. Our ELLs each actions. All employees who are active at Compliance Officer informs the Audit delivered one or more kaizen (Japanese the time training is launched, as well as Committee of the Board of Directors on for “improvement”) workshops that all new employees and certain contracted a regular basis regarding certain business endeavored to improve business results staff, are required to take these trainings conduct issues. for their respective assets. We also and certify compliance with the Code documented a standard process for ELL To continuously enforce compliance of Conduct and other applicable policies selection, training and development, and controls and embrace best practices, and procedures. assessment that includes standard content, our Global Compliance team focuses on EMBEDDED LEAN LEADER (ELL) CERTIFICATION PROCESS ELL Skill Development ELL Candidate ELL and Manager ELL Immersion ELL PostHealth Assessment and Selection Preparation Training Certiﬁcation Check Certiﬁcation Cycles 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 13 HOW WE OPERATE The Global Compliance team conducts Consistent with Hess principles and we participate. Our funding should not audits and ongoing monitoring to help values, our political engagement is be considered a direct endorsement of ensure that all employees complete done in accordance with all applicable the entire range of activities undertaken these online trainings. At year-end 2017, laws and regulations, and no direct by these associations, organizations or 94 percent of active employees had political contributions are made by Hess collaborative working groups. completed the Code of Conduct training employees using corporate funds. Hess has a strict internal policy that and 96 percent had completed the ABAC Hess complies with all lobbying reporting prohibits our employees from engaging training. The Global Compliance team requirements outlined in the Lobbying with elected officials or regulators as an further reinforced the training program Disclosure Act of 1995 and all substantial official representative of the company in 2017 by conducting live, in-person amendments made to the law by without the approval of the Vice President compliance training for our operations in P.L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership and of External Affairs. Our policy extends North Dakota. Open Government Act of 2007. In 2017 to Hess employees who serve on trade POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT the company’s lobbying expenses totaled association committees that advocate for HessPAC approximately $825,000. This includes policy changes. The policy helps to ensure HessPAC serves as the political action expenses for external consultants and that Hess continues to operate at the committee of Hess’ U.S. employees trade association dues used for lobbying highest level of integrity and transparency and acts in compliance with U.S. federal purposes, as required by the Lobbying and remains compliant with all reporting election law. HessPAC is used to promote Disclosure Act. requirements. the interests of Hess Corporation. In 2017 Hess belongs to a number of associations As part of the regulatory assurance HessPAC generated $87,319 in member that include our industry peers and other element of our EHS & SR strategy, we contributions and distributed $34,000 to companies in related sectors. Trade aim to align our advocacy priorities with candidates of both major parties at the associations provide forums through which our established processes related to state and federal levels. companies across the oil and gas industry ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing All federal contributions from HessPAC are can develop unified public policy agendas, assessments of our global advocacy publicly disclosed and accessible through exchange technical and industry best priorities, to drive improvements to our the U.S. Federal Election Commission’s practices and approach issues relevant to process for tracking and informing our website (www.fec.gov). State contributions our business with a common voice. Hess advocacy efforts. from HessPAC are publicly available on requires all trade associations to report all SUPPLY CHAIN the Secretary of State website of each expenses related to lobbying activities, as Nearly 70 percent of Hess’ total workforce respective state where HessPAC is active. outlined by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. hours are completed by business As legally permitted, Hess corporate Our trade associations’ lobbying activities partners, suppliers and contractors, funds were used to provide administrative accounted for 17 percent of our total making them critical to our overall success support for HessPAC. lobbying spend in 2017. and our ability to operate efficiently and Advocacy In 2017 none of Hess’ membership responsibly. In 2017 we purchased Hess is in regular communication with an fees or dues were used by any of our approximately $4.7 billion in goods and array of stakeholders in the public policy associations for direct political advocacy. services from more than 4,000 suppliers. arena, including legislators and regulators Furthermore, no payments made by Hess We work collaboratively with these both in the U.S. and internationally. to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations were suppliers to improve performance and Hess executives and our Government used for express political advocacy. A list create shared value. We jointly review and External Affairs team engage with of memberships and associations that processes, procedures and data with legislative and regulatory institutions to received more than $50,000 from Hess in suppliers to help drive the right actions offer a unique perspective on energy 2017 can be found on page 55. and foster continuous improvement. policy issues, to better understand federal We recognize that our positions do not and state requirements applicable to our While this section describes our general always align with all formal positions operations and to mitigate potential risks approach to engagements with our of the associations, organizations and to the company’s license to operate. suppliers, these practices may differ collaborative working groups in which 14 in certain instances if necessary to comply with applicable local laws and requirements. Management Approach We manage our key suppliers with a cross-functional team that works collaboratively to reach mutually agreedupon targets for safety, quality, delivery and cost. In 2017 we revised and improved our Procurement Policy to help us improve safety, minimize risk and standardize work throughout the organization. Our policy specifies who should participate in the evaluation of tenders, management of contracts and ongoing procurement of goods and services. It also includes code of ethics and conflict of interest guidelines and states that employees who violate Planning Room, Houston, Texas the Procurement Policy are subject to disciplinary actions. The combination of our updated policy with other parts of our additional review and develops mitigation conflicts of interest and anti-corruption supply chain management system help plans as needed. laws, and must maintain any licensing to ensure that suppliers understand and or permitting requirements with respect Contracts that involve higher risk, due abide by our high ethical, safety and other to their activities. Suppliers are also to either the number of workhours the performance standards, while helping required to meet the expectations set supplier will work for Hess or the scope us avoid unexpected commitments and forth in our Code of Conduct and Hess’ of that work, are subject to an EHS leverage our spend more effectively. Voluntary Commitments regarding labor review during the procurement process and human rights (see pages 17 and Hess follows a standardized approach to that covers training qualifications, 20). Standard contract clauses include evaluate and measure the performance safety programs and performance, requirements with respect to ethical of key potential and current suppliers on environmental management systems business practices, human rights, social the basis of total value, including safety, and measurement, and emergency responsibility, business integrity, search quality, delivery and cost. We employ a preparedness and response. As one part and seizure, quality and EHS. systematic prequalification and selection of the EHS review, we use recognized industry prequalification systems for Local Content process to help ensure we are working our areas of operation in the U.S. and Internationally we often prioritize local with qualified and safe suppliers. Where Europe. Outside of these areas, we use a suppliers when performing under appropriate, potential suppliers — as standardized process with a questionnaire production-sharing contracts or other determined by a risk-based decision based on our 14 EHS & SR management agreements with host countries. These matrix — undergo a risk review, an ABAC system elements. Further detail on our agreements vary, but may include use of and legal compliance review and a review EHS-related qualifications review during an approved supplier list, requirements of EHS performance and programs. procurement can be found in the Safety for government approval of suppliers In addition, our procurement staff and Health section. or threshold specifications for local reviews where appropriate the potential companies or workers. suppliers’ insurance, tax and quality The companies that supply Hess with information. If discrepancies with our See more on Hess’ expectations and requirements goods and services must comply with for suppliers at suppliers.hess.com and applicable requirements arise, the relevant hess.com/sustainability/how-we-operate/ applicable laws and regulations in areas department within Hess conducts an supply-chain such as EHS, drug and alcohol use, 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 15 Meal Preparation for Hurricane Harvey Relief Efforts, Houston, Texas SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our company has integrated social These Voluntary Commitments inform our Voluntary Commitments, to align them with responsibility (SR) into the way we do SR, Human Rights, and Security and our changed asset portfolio and risk profile. business every day, proactively engaging Human Rights Policies. Hess’ SR Policy, Organizational Structure with communities and stakeholders in all for example, obligates us to demonstrate Hess deploys SR resources across the our areas of operation. Hess’ approach high standards of ethics and integrity and organization. To do this effectively, we have to SR centers on three focus areas: outlines our commitments to communities a core SR team combined with local stakeholder engagement, social risk and our workforce. Our Human Rights resources who are embedded with our and impact management, and strategic Policy specifically prohibits child labor, assets and project teams. The role of the social investments that facilitate direct forced labor and workplace harassment core team is to develop governance, advise and indirect local benefits. These efforts in our operations; it also covers key executives, manage companywide social help us to maximize our business value, issues relating to our supply chain and performance, provide technical and manage social risks and impacts and community engagement. Our Security functional support to the assets and project create opportunities for stakeholders. and Human Rights Policy sets forth teams, and provide assurance across these guidelines governing the use of force by GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK efforts. The asset and project resources Hess employees and private security Hess’ commitment to ethical and report into the business line management contractors employed by Hess, when responsible business practices begins with structure and are responsible for such security is needed. These policies the Hess Values and Code of Conduct. developing and executing assetor are supported at the local level through The Hess Value of Social Responsibility project-specific SR plans. SR activities are training, toolkits and procedures specific commits us to meet the highest standards integrated and aligned between the core to the needs of our operational locations. of corporate citizenship by protecting the team at our operational headquarters in health and safety of our employees, In early 2018 we initiated a review of the Houston and global locations. safeguarding the environment and creating company processes that support our a long-lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business. Our THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Code of Conduct describes the business United Nations member countries have adopted a set of 17 goals — called the conduct and behaviors that we expect of Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs — as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable our employees, officers, directors and Development. It is widely recognized that governments, civil society and the private sector must all play a role in achieving these ambitious goals. In 2017 Hess undertook a contractors, including our expectations mapping exercise to review alignment between our current practices and the SDGs. regarding human rights. The exercise revealed that our contributions align with eight of the 17 goals, with the greatest positive impact on the following two: We have endorsed or formally joined a Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning number of voluntary initiatives designed Our ongoing commitment to supporting quality education is evident through our to protect the environment, promote ﬁnancial support for educational programs for young people, including Succeed 2020 human rights and encourage financial in North Dakota, PRODEGE II in Equatorial Guinea, English literacy in Malaysia and LEAP 2.0 in Houston, all of which are discussed later in this section. While the ﬁrst two transparency. We collectively call these our of these programs came to a close in 2017, education will continue to be a focus of our “Voluntary Commitments.” They include: social investments. We invested more than $8 million in education in 2017, representing ■ The Universal Declaration of 54 percent of our overall social investment spend. Human Rights Goal 8: Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth We prioritize hiring local workers across our areas of operation, and we purchase from ■ The International Labour Organization’s local vendors where practicable. In Denmark and Malaysia, for example, local nationals Declaration on Fundamental Principles represent 99 and 92 percent of employees at those locations, respectively. In 2017 we spent approximately $4 billion on local suppliers, or 85 percent of our total supplier and Rights at Work spend for the year. In the U.S., we are supporting the development of local resources ■ The United Nations (UN) Global Compact through the Job Experience Training program (discussed later in this section), as well as supporting current Hess employees through an early-career development program for ■ The Voluntary Principles on Security engineers. Hess’ joint venture in Guyana also seeks to employ local nationals and and Human Rights support local suppliers. ■ The Extractive Industries Transparency We plan to further evaluate the alignment of the SDGs with our material issues in 2018. Initiative (EITI) 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 17 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT trust-building opportunities created by individualized plans for engaging with Effectively engaging with stakeholders meaningful engagement, as well as the their priority stakeholders. Our Gulf of in our host communities helps Hess to business value that engagement brings Mexico, Denmark and Ghana assets responsibly access the resources we when it is integrated as a part of project developed engagement plans in 2017, require as an international energy risk management. Consistent with our and our other assets are in various stages company — from the earliest phases of continuous improvement methodology, we of developing their plans. our new country entry process through follow a “Plan, Do, Check, Adjust” cycle to Grievance Mechanisms the decommissioning of an asset. direct our stakeholder management We believe that developing strong and Proactive, two-way and ongoing efforts. As the expectations, priorities and transparent relationships with communities stakeholder engagement helps to concerns of our stakeholders evolve, we and addressing potential issues early — establish a mutual understanding of adjust our approach to align with their before they may grow into more severe expectations between Hess and those needs and our business activities. or widespread problems — helps to avoid who live and work in our areas of In 2017 we reviewed our stakeholder incidents. At the same time, formal operation. We understand that our engagement process and associated tools grievance mechanisms provide success is in part tied to our ability to at our Bakken asset as part of the regular stakeholders with a means for sharing mitigate the potential risks associated planning cycle. The result was a refreshed feedback with companies on their with our activities, which could impact and robust engagement strategy, which operational impacts, while also helping stakeholder relationships and public will be integrated into the asset’s 2018 companies respond to and act on that perception. We aim to create value business plan. We will also continue to feedback through an established process. through mutually beneficial opportunities integrate stakeholder issues and Through the use of our grievance with our stakeholders, which include engagement into our enterprise risk mechanisms, we aim to strengthen our communities, employees, contractors, workshops and value assurance reviews. relationships with communities and suppliers, customers, industry members, respond more effectively to their concerns. governments and investors. We are working with our other assets, as part of implementing our environment, At our Bakken asset in North Dakota, we Stakeholder Engagement Process health, safety and social responsibility maintain a grievance mechanism called Our stakeholder engagement process (EHS & SR) strategy, to develop Hess Community Connection. Launched focuses on the proactive relationshipand in 2015, this system accepts complaints (anonymously, if desired) through several STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROCESS access points, including via our Grievance Officer, Hess Owner Solutions 1 team, North Dakota front desk staff and CTIVES, RISK Surface Land department. We have OBJE S& IFY IMP ENT AC ID TS reached out to community members Long-Term & Short-Term Business Risks Impacts/ Issues through forums such as community Objectives meetings to share information about this grievance mechanism and explain how STAKEHOLDERS Understand: to contact us if they perceive a problem. LYZE & MAP Track Engagements & Stakes, Needs and Grievance Resolution Timing Interrelationships ANA MONITOR One-Off or Cross-Asset Hess Community Connection receives 4 Report Regularly 2 Map to Grids: and addresses concerns relating to Rate Influence & Interest Share Lessons Define: Rate Strength of employee or contractor performance, Desired Outcome, Relationship Learned Relationship Owner, behavior and activities toward external Engagement and/or Response, Indicators and Metrics stakeholders. We may also receive Implement Engagement Plan feedback on workplace, procurement, Grievance Management EHS and supplier issues. The most D EF I NE & I M P L E M E N T commonly raised topics include issues such as road conditions, erosion, land 3 18 EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for beneﬁting our host communities while improving our business and strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of external stakeholders — from local landowners and governments to community service agencies and indigenous groups. Recent examples of our stakeholder engagement activities are provided below. CATEGORY EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER GROUPS RECENT EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT Continued to work through the Hess Community Connection to increase Residents, landowners, communication with stakeholders. Conducted annual meetings with Land Users/Landowners commercial land interests, landowners. Developed a new process for monitoring pipelines after farmers, ranchers construction to prevent potential issues. Donated funds to landowners who are ranchers and farmers to help feed their livestock during a drought. Integrated our Stakeholder Management System with Hess’ Owner Mineral rights owners, water Relations function, enabling us to improve information sharing between Resources Users/ rights owners and users, hunters/ systems and decrease the turnaround time for answering questions and Rights Holders ﬁshers/gatherers resolving grievances. Also, improved the user interface and accessibility of the website for owners. Hosted the governor of North Dakota and his staff on a ﬁeld tour of Hess facilities in the Bakken, to increase awareness of our operations, Local, regional and national technology and safety. Hosted the director of the Bureau of Safety and authorities, national militaries, Environmental Enforcement at Hess’ operational headquarters in Houston, Governments international governing to tour Hess’ Emergency Operations Center and brief him on safety authorities measures and procedures in relation to severe weather and the impact on offshore operations. Also, a Hess representative serves on the North Dakota Oil and Gas Research Council, a public–private partnership. Implemented the Job Experience Training program in North Dakota, providing valuable work experience to students from Bismarck State College. Also, a Hess representative was appointed by the North Dakota governor to sit on the Innovative Education Task Force Advisory Investment partners, vendors and Committee, which is aimed at helping colleges meet the state’s workforce Direct Economic Interests suppliers, contractors, unions, needs. Through our joint venture in Guyana, hosted open houses for key shareholders business associations and launched an oil and gas literacy series through the newly opened Centre for Local Business Development. Also through the joint venture, opened an online supplier registration portal aimed at providing greater opportunities to Guyanese suppliers. A Hess representative served on the executive committee of IPIECA. Leaders of Hess’ EHS and SR functions actively participated in IPIECA and International Association of Oil and Gas Producers working groups and stakeholder engagement activities focused on topics such as social Chambers of commerce, industry responsibility, water, climate change, environment, health, safety and External Business Interests organizations, local businesses, sustainability reporting. A Hess representative also served on the advisory sustainability initiatives board for the University of North Dakota’s Petroleum Engineering Program, the board of directors for the Greater North Dakota Chamber of Commerce and the executive committee and board of directors for the North Dakota Petroleum Council. Participated in multi-stakeholder initiatives, including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the EITI and the UN Global Nongovernmental organizations, Compact, to advance responsible business practices globally. A Hess Special Interest Groups religious groups, cause-oriented representative served on the board of the North Dakota Outdoor Heritage nonproﬁts, community groups Fund, a governor-appointed position. Helped to fund the construction of a mountain bike trail in Theodore Roosevelt National Park in North Dakota. Continued to sponsor the Scholars Program in Ghana, which has provided secondary, vocational, technical and health education to underprivileged Local police/ﬁre/emergency students since 2012. Distributed food supplies, stoves and electrical medical services, health care Community Services equipment to almost 500 families affected by monsoon ﬂooding in services, education, human Malaysia, where we work with nonproﬁt groups to identify and respond service agencies to community needs. Donated signiﬁcant funds and volunteer time to Hurricane Harvey relief efforts in Houston. Formally recognized groups, tribal Continued engagement with local ﬁshing villages in Ghana, through coalitions, government supporting Indigenous Groups their Paramount Chiefs and community members, including providing agencies, indigenous advocacy updates on Hess business activities. groups 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 19 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY reclamation, fencing, cattle guards individuals can ask questions and share operate. Our strategy is to prevent human and weeds. In 2017 we received 281 concerns and complaints. Our Owner rights-related incidents by engaging with grievances through Hess Community Relations and Owner Support teams stakeholders to proactively address Connection. manage this system, and in 2017 they potential issues. The complex environments began using the SMS to track open in which we operate present an opportunity When alerted to a potential issue, our issues and ensure they are resolved. to make positive and lasting contributions response team draws employees from During the year, we received more than in the areas of governance, transparency, various disciplines within Hess such as 16,000 emails and 3,000 phone calls respect for rule of law, and social and EHS, drilling, completions, operations, through this mechanism, approximately economic development. maintenance, civil construction and human 2,500 of which developed into SMS resources in order to reach a resolution. For We have worked to align our business cases to be tracked and addressed. example, safety concerns are forwarded to practices with our SR, Human Rights, and Hess’ EHS department; individual worker SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT Security and Human Rights Policies. complaints are handled by Human MANAGEMENT Human rights issues are analyzed at all Resources; and business integrity or ethics When Hess enters a new country, phases of our business activities, beginning complaints are referred to our Code of commissions a new development or with new country entry. Business Conduct and Ethics hotline. By expands an existing facility, we engage with Hess is committed to educating our engaging each discipline as appropriate, stakeholders to proactively identify, mitigate personnel on the importance of respecting we are able to escalate management of the and manage aboveground risks that can human rights as well as raising internal grievance upward in the company as impact our activities or the communities awareness of the Voluntary Principles on necessary to help resolve the issue. where we operate. As part of our strategic Security and Human Rights (Voluntary planning processes for these activities, We maintain an internal database — the Principles). Over the years, we have invited we examine the social, political and stakeholder management system (SMS) external experts to provide human rights reputational environment to identify — to track these grievances from start training to our employees around the nontechnical risks and mitigation activities. to completion. (The SMS also supports globe. We also utilize an online human our stakeholder engagement process, We address human rights considerations rights training module for employees that described previously.) The response team throughout the process, including during explains the concept of human rights and strives to complete their investigation within due diligence and social risk identification, why they are important for Hess, reviews 14 days of the original report and provide a mitigation and management. We also our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance response and/or resolution within 30 days. have a Security and Human Rights Toolkit on integrating respect for human rights into As a final step before closing a case, we that we utilize locally for training security employees’ daily work and provides contact the stakeholder to confirm they feel personnel on human rights issues. directions on how to report suspected the issue has been adequately addressed. human rights violations. In North Dakota, risk assessment and Trending data on grievances are reported impact management are ongoing as We developed an internal SharePoint site upward to the Bakken Leadership Team we expand operations and choose new focused on Hess’ SR policies and initiatives as part of our weekly operating rhythm. well pad locations. Elsewhere around the that covers our Voluntary Commitments, As we continue to work toward the world, our business cycle is such that including the Voluntary Principles. Through integration of formal grievance mechanisms assessments have been completed in that site, Hess employees can link to the at additional assets, we are relying on our past years, with potential risks taken into Voluntary Principles website and key existing manual tracking process at those account, incorporated into management components of our security and human assets to resolve issues in a timely manner. plans and mitigated. rights governance framework. The internal SharePoint site is updated periodically with Separately, we maintain a grievance Human Rights additional reference materials, mechanism for landowners and mineral While we believe it is the duty of presentations and internal examples of rights holders associated with all of our governments to protect human rights, we security and human rights best practices. U.S. onshore assets. Specifically, we know that companies like ours must build have a telephone hotline, webpage and trusted partnerships and treat all citizens While we had planned to conduct security email address through which these with dignity and respect wherever we and human rights training for employees in 20 Equatorial Guinea last year, the event was In 2017 our social investments totaled 2017 Social Investment Spend by Country ($ Thousands) canceled due to the sale of that asset. $15.7 million, with $8.5 million going Instead, we focused on due diligence toward education projects. Another related to that transaction during the latter $5.9 million was earmarked for economic 67% portion of 2017. Implementation of the development, health and capacity building. Voluntary Principles and human rightsThe remaining $1.3 million was for disaster 2% related questions were part of the due relief efforts, mainly related to Hurricane 9% 22% diligence process. Harvey recovery. COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND Flagship Investments in Education CAPACITY BUILDING Hess has been supporting two flagship OU.S. $10,455 OEquatorial Guinea $3,444 At Hess, we seek to be a responsible social investment programs focused on OGuyana $1,365 OGhana $308 corporate citizen and to create positive, developing secondary education systems OAll Others* $98 mutually beneficial relationships with our and capacity: PRODEGE II and Succeed * Includes Denmark, Malaysia and Norway. host communities. Our programs are 2020. While these programs have been focused on creating shared value in local an important cornerstone of Hess’ 2017 Social Investment Spend communities and a favorable environment educational investment over the past by Type of Investment ($ Thousands) for our operations. At the local level, our five to eight years, we concluded our 1% assets create, maintain and implement involvement in both programs in 2017 and 2% 1% <1% strategic social investment programs are working to develop our forward-looking tailored to each operation and community. educational investment strategy in 2018. 6% 8% We evaluate our programs to confirm PRODEGE II a balance of strategic investment and The Program for Educational Development 54% support of local organizations, which helps of Equatorial Guinea, or PRODEGE II, has 27% us evolve along with the changing been a partnership between Hess and the development needs of the communities Equatorial Guinean government aimed at where we operate. Hess focuses on strengthening preschool, primary and junior established partnerships with key secondary education in that country. This QEducation $8,492 Q Community $4,302 organizations, projects best aligned with $50 million, public–private partnership has Q Disaster Relief $1,281 Q Environment $877 business and social risks and projects sought to increase the capacity of the Q In-Kind $348 Q Arts and Culture $194 identified from social assessments. We education sector and improve the work Q Health $102 integrate this strategy into our business, of teachers, school directors and public Q Civic and Employee $75 enhancing investment visibility and officials in their policy making. Over the past Note: These charts include all social investments in 2017, including those associated with joint-venture operations. leveraging volunteer opportunities for eight years, PRODEGE has accredited our employees. almost 1,000 teachers and reached more than 135,000 students. The following are Our social investment programs contribute ■ Developed the first Education the program’s most significant results: to education improvement and work skill Management Information System in development, which are fundamental to ■ Launched a new professional the country, to accurately identify sustainable economic growth. We also development program to certify up to weaknesses in the educational system seek to identify opportunities in our supply 1,500 preschool and primary school and make data-based policy decisions. teachers; when fully implemented, this chain to provide lasting economic benefit ■ Assisted the Education Ministry’s through local job creation. Our programs will decrease the number of unaccredited Statistical Unit in annual data collection; generally fall into two categories: corporateteachers by 33 percent. this data has since been used to produce led, multi-year, larger-scale programs and ■ Developed a new nationwide the census and educational reports asset-based projects with moderate professional development program, of several international organizations, funding levels. focused on reinforcing active learning including the World Bank, the UN methods, for approximately 7,500 and UNICEF. teachers in a peer-support network. 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 21 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY policies. During the 2016–2017 school year alone, more than 1,000 students took CTE courses and nearly 3,000 took part in career fairs, job shadows, internships and other career exploration activities. Overall, Succeed 2020 has served as a foundation and springboard for future advancements in North Dakota’s education system, with the REAs now poised to build on their accomplishments and continue helping students complete their educations and start their careers. We are currently evaluating inroads from Succeed 2020 and where future investment in education can link with English Literacy Program, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Hess’ business needs, as demonstrated in the Job Experience Training program ■ Developed the interventions needed by education to college and careers. The described in the next section. secondary schools to strengthen school program sought to achieve this goal by Local Program Highlights management and improve the quality implementing activities supporting access Hess’ global assets and Houston of teaching, including training more than to and success in rigorous academic and operational headquarters engaged in a 750 school directors and master career and technical education (CTE) variety of local social investment, capacity teachers in instructional leadership programs, ongoing college and career building and infrastructure improvement and active learning, and training lead counseling and planning, and targeted opportunities in 2017. teachers and department heads at 137 and coordinated support for students public secondary schools in updated needing additional help. Continued Commitment to Education and innovative teaching methods As illustrated in the previous two examples, In 2017, the last year of the program, FHI for mathematics. Hess has long supported educational 360 and the REAs assessed progress over opportunities for children and young adults We have transferred our role in the the preceding five years and prepared for around the world. In 2017 Hess also PRODEGE II program to the new operator the transition to post-Succeed 2020 teamed up with the British Council on of the Equatorial Guinea asset. We feel operations. Program outcomes revealed by a one-year project aimed at improving confident that the progress made during the assessment include an 8 percentage English literacy in three rural primary our participation will continue to pay point increase in the number of state schools near our operations in Malaysia. dividends for the country’s education scholarships and a 1 percentage point While children in urban regions in Malaysia system for years to come. increase in high school completion rates. often go to special classes to learn English, Succeed 2020 More than 90 percent of educators those in rural areas do not always have that In North Dakota, we initiated the five-year surveyed who took part in Succeed 2020’s opportunity. With funding support from Succeed 2020 program in 2012 with a professional development programs Hess, this project is helping to set up $25 million grant to FHI 360, a nonprofit reported a positive change in their teaching libraries in the three schools, conduct human development organization that ran practices and in student learning. Ninetyteacher training and mentor teachers the program. Succeed 2020 was three percent of students surveyed to ensure the project’s sustainability. During implemented through the state’s Regional reported knowing more about careers after the year, Hess Asia team members visited Education Associations (REAs). The taking part in the program. In addition, five each of the three schools to meet with program’s overarching goal was REAs developed strategic plans and children and parents and assess the ambitious: The successful transition of all created or updated their human resources program’s progress. North Dakota students from secondary 22 In the Houston area, Hess previously SUPPORTING HURRICANE HARVEY RECOVERY supported LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, IN HOUSTON Persevere) — a three-year pilot program that sought to prevent at-risk middle school In the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, Hess convened the cross-functional Hurricane Harvey Recovery Team (HHRT) to allow for a coordinated, holistic response to the students from dropping out. That program needs of our employees and the greater Houston community. Hess’ HHRT executed a concluded in 2016, so in 2017 Hess variety of actions to meet the following key objectives: launched LEAP 2.0 in collaboration with the ■ Implement an employee assistance program Greater Houston Community Foundation. ■ Identify and mitigate business continuity issues LEAP 2.0 is a three-year program that will ■ Deliver communications to stakeholders to help the workforce recover, meet business engage students at three elementary objectives, minimize disruption and enhance our reputation schools, one middle school and one high ■ Prioritize and implement a social responsibility program to support community school. Among other activities, the program recovery efforts will give books to the elementary-aged ■ Capture lessons learned from the HHRT to develop standard work for future students; offer a summer program for recovery efforts middle school students that focuses on To address the needs of the community, we donated $1 million to the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund (administered by the Greater Houston Community Foundation). This fund science, technology, engineering and math provided emergency supplies such as food, water and medicine, in addition to longer(STEM); and provide collegeand careerterm recovery assistance to help impacted individuals recover and rebuild. readiness training to high school students. We also established a matching gift program for employees worldwide who wanted to Hess is contributing more than $500,000 make a personal donation to one of three relief organizations that our company would annually to the program. match, and we accelerated the annual United Way fundraising campaign in our Houston operational headquarters. These efforts raised $645,000, which was disbursed as follows: Growing with Guyana ■ $250,000 to the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund Through our joint venture with Esso ■ $55,000 to the American Red Cross Exploration and Production Guyana Limited ■ $340,000 to the United Way of Houston (EEPGL), Hess is focusing on three key In addition, our Houston kitchen staff prepared 10,000 hot meals for evacuees and ﬁrst areas of social investment in Guyana responders. We also donated 19,000 Hess Toy Trucks to ﬁrst responders for their holiday — spending with local suppliers, toy drives and to schools near our Houston ofﬁce to brighten the holidays for children impacted by the hurricane. developing local resources and investing The immediate emergency response efforts are discussed further in the Safety and in the community. A key achievement for Health section of this report, and the employee assistance program is further detailed the joint venture in 2017 was the opening in the Our People section. of the Centre for Business Development, which aims to further the capabilities of and field components. The summer apprenticeship program for reliability local Guyanese businesses by helping session covered general waste operators and craft personnel developed them build their capacity and improve their management principles and practices in collaboration with Bismarck State competitiveness; providing opportunities (i.e., waste management strategy and College. Driven by the need for qualified for procurement, as well as mentoring, planning, waste management technologies personnel in North Dakota, we established coaching and financial support; and and cost recovery), while the fall session the JET program to train potential providing information on safety and focused on landfill design and operation. employees in our corporate culture and technical standards. Through EEPGL, Hess Other environmentally-focused trainings way of operating while also teaching them will contribute approximately $460,000 have covered oil spill management and the basics of several key Hess roles. The to the Centre over a period of three years. protected species observer certification. students, for their part, gain valuable job EEPGL also hosted several training events Hess is working closely with EEPGL to experience and earn academic credits. for potential suppliers and employees in develop social investments planned for Four students took part in the first year 2017. Two of the training events, which the coming years. of the JET program; three of them were were open to government agencies and subsequently hired by either Hess or our Apprenticeships in North Dakota private-sector groups (including EEPGL contractors. Although it began as a In May 2017 our Bakken asset launched waste contractors), focused on waste one-year pilot, JET is primed to continue Job Experience Training (JET), an management and included both classroom in 2018 with a new set of students. 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 23 Drilling Operations, Gulf of Mexico SAFETY AND HEALTH Hess’ first priority is the safety of our IDENTIFYING AND ADDRESSING ROOT CAUSES workforce. Our safety programs and THROUGH LEAN PRACTICES practices are designed to promote a culture in which employees and In line with Hess’ commitment to Lean practices, we held an enterprisewide “Go to Gemba” event in January 2017 to engage our workforce directly through open-ended contractors keep each other safe on conversations about pre-job planning. Gemba means “the real place” in Japanese and, the job so that everyone across our in practice, “Going to Gemba” means having EHS and Lean experts travel to our operations returns home safe every day. worksites to observe safety behaviors and interview personnel. Hess asset and central function leadership conducted Gemba site visits at several of our operational locations Our commitment to occupational and in 2017, including those in Equatorial Guinea, Denmark, the Gulf of Mexico, Malaysia, process safety begins at the top of our North Dakota, Ohio and West Texas. organization and is reinforced at every Based on our learnings from the ﬁeld visits, we were able to identify root causes that level. We include key enterprisewide have the potential to impact our safety performance and also develop countermeasures to address those root causes. One of the countermeasures, for example, was to develop safety metrics in our annual incentive plan a standard work instruction (SWI) to improve the pre-job planning process. The project formula for executives and employees. team held a kaizen (Japanese for “improvement”) workshop to collaboratively develop We reinforce the importance of safety the SWI, which was ﬁeld tested and ultimately ﬁnalized later in the year. We are through annual Chief Executive Officer’s planning a follow-up exercise in 2018 to review the status of the SWI’s adoption by our operational locations. and President’s Awards for Safety Excellence, which recognize Hess teams and individuals who exemplify Management System Manual serves as a as well as the boards of several of our outstanding safety performance. We have framework for managing and measuring joint-venture assets, as applicable. At the also been working to enhance our safety our safety performance. Tier II level, working collaboratively with leadership training program by developing assets, subject matter experts conduct operational leads as trainers, with pilots Through our global EHS standards assessments to evaluate conformance of the enhanced program planned for project, we have been working to with corporate and asset EHS standards implementation at selected assets in 2018. formalize and standardize many of our and procedures, as well as regulations, EHS practices across the company. Hess’ We aim for continuous improvement in and assist assets in addressing identified safety standards and procedures address safety performance, with the ultimate improvement opportunities. The Tier III key areas of safety risk — such as energy goal of zero safety incidents. Hess’ level constitutes routine self-assessments isolation, dropped objects and confined 14-element Environment, Health, Safety by assets against corporate EHS space entry — and promote leadership, and Social Responsibility (EHS & SR) standards, corporate and asset-level awareness, consistency and accountability procedures, and regulations. across all levels of the organization. EHS ASSURANCE STRUCTURE Hess’ Corporate Audit department In 2017 we formalized our EHS assurance conducted EHS audits and advisories program for reviewing conformance with across the organization during 2017, in our external and internal obligations, accordance with an EHS Tier 1 Audit Plan, including regulations, standards and which was reviewed and approved by the TIER I procedures. The program operates in Corporate Audit: Board of Directors’ EHS Subcommittee. Evaluates risk three tiers. At the Tier I level and as an Hess subject matter experts also and control structure independent assurance function, Hess’ completed 83 percent of our scheduled Corporate Audit department conducts Tier II assessments in 2017, surpassing TIER II annual audits following a risk-based plan Central EHS: our goal of 80 percent completion. At Verifies compliance to standards that covers various EHS topics, including the Tier III level, self-assessments in the occupational safety, process safety, form of behavioral safety observations, management of environmental impacts TIER III leadership site visits, hazard observation Assets and Facilities: and drilling process safety. Highlights Tests systems and barriers cards and other mechanisms are ongoing from Tier I audits are reported to the Audit and happen throughout the year. Committee of the Board of Directors, 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 25 SAFETY AND HEALTH OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY As a peer-to-peer observation program, parking and safety technology. Many We encourage a culture of ownership BSOP utilizes trained workers to observe of our bulletins are also provided to over occupational safety by tasking their colleagues’ workplace behaviors key contractors. workers with identifying and mitigating and then provide constructive feedback In 2017 we began installing upgraded the safety issues most relevant to on safe work practices. Behavioral safety performance-monitoring systems in their operations. As an example, our programs have been in place at our U.S. Hess-owned or -operated vehicles. Behavioral Safety Observation Program onshore assets since 2011, and best Technological advancements enable (BSOP) has helped to advance our global practices developed at those assets the new monitors to collect driver safety performance by identifying specific were codified into an enterprisewide performance data in greater detail than at-risk behaviors through trend analysis standard in early 2017. Later in the year, prior versions. The monitors provide and then providing feedback to our we began implementing this standard direct feedback to drivers, and data from workforce on mitigation strategies. at the Gulfstar 1 production platform the monitors help managers promote operated by Hess in the Tubular Bells continual improvement by allowing them Field (Gulf of Mexico). The 22 trained Employee and Contractor to reinforce positive driving behaviors and Safety Performance behavioral observers on Gulfstar 1 are Cases per 200,000 Hours directly address areas for improvement. obtaining valuable data to enable the 0.50 platform’s leadership to focus their efforts Key Performance Metrics to improve safe work practices. Our enterprisewide safety performance 0.39 was strong in 2017, with improvements in In 2018 we plan to extend BSOP key safety metrics. The total recordable 0.31 implementation to the platforms operated incident rate (TRIR) for our workforce — 0.24 by Hess in the Stampede and Baldpate which includes employees and contractors Fields in the Gulf of Mexico. — decreased from 0.39 in 2016 to 0.24 0.10 0.09 Transportation safety is another key in 2017. This 38 percent reduction was focus of our occupational safety efforts primarily driven by a significant decrease at Hess, as safe driving practices are in contractor incidents, which allowed us 2015 2016 2017 important to both our workers and the to surpass our target of 0.34 for the year. QEmployee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) Q Contractor TRIR communities where we operate. Our Working with companies whose safety Land Transportation Standard outlines the philosophy aligns with ours is critical, Workforce Safety Performance* three pillars of land transportation safety and we have been promoting Hess’ Cases per 200,000 Hours safety expectations with key contractors at Hess: driver training and competency, 0.39 the use of in-vehicle monitoring systems through implementation of our Contractor 0.36 for company-owned or -operated Management Standard, discussed later in vehicles, and journey management this section. planning. Hess workers take proactive 0.24 Also of note, we observed a positive trend driver training before operating a motor in our workforce lost time incident rate, vehicle on company business, with 0.13 which decreased 38 percent — from 0.13 refresher training required every three in 2016 to 0.08 in 2017. We experienced 0.08 0.08 years. Our key contractors are required to no workforce fatalities among either comply with Land Transportation Safety employees or contractors in 2017. Recommended Practice, Report No. 365, 2015 2016 2017 published by the International Association We believe that tracking leading QWorkforce TRIR Q Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP). safety indicators — such as near-miss incidents that have potential high/severe * Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. When Our Land Transportation group publishes calculating LTIR, calendar work days are used. A lost time incident consequences — is as important as involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day of the weekly safety bulletins that are sent to incident. Occupational illness and occupation-related disease for current tracking lagging indicators to improve employees are included in our companywide safety totals. Hess assets globally and address key safety performance. We require that topics, such as distracted driving, safe information concerning near-miss 26 incidents be reported internally and PROCESS SAFETY been a key aspect of our recent and recorded into our incident management Hess’ process safety program aims to ongoing development projects, including system. Hess’ enterprisewide annual prevent unplanned or uncontrolled loss the Stampede Project in the Gulf of incentive plan metrics include targets of primary containment of any material, Mexico; the North Malay Basin Full Field aimed at reducing the rates of severe including materials that are nontoxic and Development Project, offshore Malaysia; safety incidents and severe environmental nonflammable (e.g., steam, nitrogen, and the Hawkeye Gas Facility in North incidents; both rates include near-miss compressed air), that could result in an Dakota. These projects have applied incidents with potential high/severe incident such as an injury, fire, explosion, various risk assessment and mitigation consequences. toxic release or environmental impact. studies and tools — such as hazard and Our efforts focus on understanding and operability studies, layers-of-protection Our revised EHS Incident Reporting and identifying key points within process analyses, “bow tie” analyses and Investigation Standard, which took effect safety systems that could impact integrity quantitative risk analyses — throughout at the beginning of 2017, provides tools and the safe and proper operation of the development process, as appropriate. and procedures for classifying incidents equipment, as follows: and near misses; standardizes notification Key Initiatives requirements and action timelines for ■ Design integrity – reducing risks in the Across Hess operations, our approach incidents and near misses; and sets forth design and construction of facilities to process safety involves identifying, the appropriate investigation technique ■ Technical integrity – inspecting, testing managing and mitigating risks. We based on the severity of the incident. and maintaining hardware and software do this by raising awareness of risks Tracking and reporting incidents and barriers among our workforce, providing strong near misses enables us to communicate safety leadership and maintaining a ■ Operational integrity – working within lessons learned and take actions to commitment to continuously improving operational design parameters address at-risk behaviors and observed our process safety procedures, systems workplace hazards. Our design integrity processes, which and standards. In 2017 we completed involve detailed risk analyses, have several major efforts aimed at enhancing our practices. LOCAL EFFORTS: KNOWLEDGE-SHARING IN THE BAKKEN For example, we concluded an At our Bakken asset, joint employee–contractor safety committees have become a enterprisewide assessment of our successful aspect of our approach to safety. After convening these committees to process safety systems. We contracted address dropped object incidents in 2014, we expanded them to include consideration of a wide range of safety topics (e.g., energy isolation, lifting and hoisting, job safety an independent third party to review analyses, etc.) throughout our Bakken operations. We now have three committees in the and benchmark Hess’ process safety Bakken, representing the drilling and workover operations, completions, and construction organization, leadership, commitment and infrastructure groups. Each committee meets monthly to review key leading safety indicators and collaboratively decide how to manage opportunities for improvement. and culture; process safety management system documentation; and process In addition to these joint safety committees, we have a formal Bakken Safety Committee — composed of leaders from our production reliability operations, drilling and safety performance and metrics. completions, and construction and infrastructure groups — that meets monthly to discuss The assessment involved a review of current leading and lagging metrics and address any issues observed based on trends documentation and interviews with in the data. leadership and relevant subject matter Separately, we hold quarterly meetings with our key contractors to discuss topics such as experts, as well as field audits at facilities our respective behavioral safety observation programs. During these sessions, we discuss trends in safety metrics and actions taken to correct unsafe behaviors and conditions. in our Bakken, Denmark, Gulf of Mexico Among Hess employees, we also convene monthly BSOP meetings to discuss and North Malay Basin operations. The observations, scores (used to gauge the quality and effectiveness of the program), team also audited the Malaysia/Thailand behaviors (safe and unsafe) and the removal of potential obstacles to safe work. Joint Development Area operated by These processes complement other safety activities in the region, such as job safety the Carigali Hess joint venture, which analyses, job task hazard hunts, safety stand downs and monthly communication of operates under its own process safety program metrics. As a testament to all of these activities, the Bakken Well Factory organization (i.e., well planning, construction, drilling and completions) observed no organization and management system. recordable incidents — as deﬁned by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration These field audits focused, in varying — from February 2016 to year-end 2017. 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 27 SAFETY AND HEALTH previously in place for our production operations. For 2018 and beyond, we are building on this effort by formalizing our critical maintenance compliance program — that is, inspecting, testing and maintaining ICE to verify it is performing as expected and meeting the standards. We have also substantially finished addressing actions from a series of process safety health checks, which have provided a high-level, global assessment of process safety in our production and drilling operations. We completed 99 percent of the identified actions by the end of 2017 and are now closing out the few remaining items. Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand A survey of existing Hess engineering standards and specifications identified degrees, on the integrity and reliability of These Asset Integrity Assessments 52 additional standards that could be specific safety critical equipment (e.g., (AIAs) involved detailed reviews of the issued to further improve process safety the inspection and maintenance of fire mechanical integrity of wells, pressure and operations by establishing consistent systems, pressure relief valves, etc.), equipment, piping, flow lines, injection technical requirements across the training and competency, management lines, tanks, vessels and other equipment enterprise. Utilizing a Lean project plan of change, contractor management, that is intended to avoid or mitigate a loss we issued 49 of these standards by the emergency response, risk assessment, of primary containment. All Hess-operated end of 2017. stop-work authority, alarm management production locations completed their AIAs and incident investigation, among other by year-end 2017. We are using the results Deepwater assets, which include key topics. from the AIAs to augment our existing wells at a depth of more than 1,000 integrity risk management processes and feet underwater, can, in certain The assessment was designed to identify provide us with a consistent baseline for circumstances, present unique improvement opportunities directly relevant future risk studies. challenges compared to land-based to each asset, as well as systemic, wells. In particular, because offshore enterprisewide opportunities. For the In addition, we met our goal for wells tend to operate much deeper and improvement areas identified, we reviewed establishing performance standards under greater pressure, they present alignment with current and planned future and maintenance and test plans for all specific risks related to the containment EHS initiatives. Recommendations and integrity critical equipment (ICE), which of accidental discharges. Hess currently actions from the assessment will help acts as a barrier for the occurrence of operates offshore production facilities inform our process safety and management incidents through isolation, containment, in the Gulf of Mexico at the Baldpate, system improvement programs from 2018 prevention, detection, control, mitigation Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields — the onward. The Carigali Hess joint venture will or emergency preparedness and latter of which achieved first oil in early also utilize the assessment results to inform response. The standards set specific 2018. These assets are subject to the improvements to its process safety and expectations and criteria for inspections U.S. federal government’s Safety and management systems moving forward. and maintenance that help to ensure Environmental Management System each barrier is effective. By systematically Also in 2017 we concluded a regulations, which provide a systematic establishing performance standards for comprehensive review of mechanical approach for identifying, managing and individual pieces of equipment, we have integrity at our assets as part of our mitigating hazards. enhanced the maintenance programs ongoing integrity management program. 28 Our Stampede Development Project Key Performance Metrics EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS provides a positive example of how Hess collects information on process AND RESPONSE process safety is integrated into design safety key performance indicators (KPIs) Hess’ safety programs endeavor to from the outset, helping to support strong pursuant to the IOGP’s Process Safety prevent incidents from happening. At process safety performance. On the — Recommended Practice on Key the same time, we diligently prepare to platform, living quarters and other selected Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, respond effectively to any emergency that buildings are protected from fire and blast November 2011. Categorized as Tier 1 may occur. We regularly participate in hazards, stored quantities of hazardous and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an emergency preparedness and response substances are minimized, and some enterprisewide level in both internal and drills with our contractors, ranging from chemicals are stored in the hull (instead external reports. notification drills to full-scale equipment of on the deck) with double containment mobilization exercises. In the event of an We continued a positive trend in our to prevent leaks. In addition, pipelines incident, Hess’ emergency preparedness process safety performance in 2017, in and production flowlines are routed to and response program is designed to line with our goal to continually reduce our provide maximum separation between respond to injuries to people, spills and number of process safety events (PSEs). the hydrocarbons and personnel, and are releases to the environment, damage to We experienced seven Tier 1 events in located away from marine traffic and loads our assets and impacts to the company’s 2017, compared to 11 in 2016. Likewise, lifted by cranes. The design also includes reputation — in that order of priority. we had 22 Tier 2 events in 2017, down subsea isolation valves and boarding from 30 in 2016. The Hess Emergency Preparedness and valves on the platform to protect both the Response Standard, which every Hess facility and personnel in the event of an PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS asset is working to fully implement by accidental release. 2015 2016 2017 year-end 2018, establishes a framework At Stampede and our other offshore Tier 1 through which we can further improve 21 11 7 operations, “barrier thinking” has been PSE Count the effective management of emergency a key part of our ongoing process Tier 2 43 30 22 preparedness and response across PSE Count safety efforts. Barrier thinking involves our assets and defines company understanding the role of barriers in expectations for preparedness, training, Hess also tracks Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, relation to hazards, threats, events and exercises and continuous improvement. which are leading process safety consequences. Preparedness focuses on our threeindicators primarily designed to monitor tiered response organization (illustrated In 2017 we continued to use “bow tie” risk control systems and process safety below), engagement with officials and diagrams to help employees and barriers at the facility, asset or enterprise communities, emergency facilities and contractors visualize threats, barriers and level. We use these KPIs to support response plans. The training and exercise consequences. During the year we used continuous improvement at particular component defines and clarifies roles, bow tie models within our Gulf of Mexico facilities or within company systems. organization, to test awareness of the For instance, our global drilling and HESS EMERGENCY presence, use and effectiveness of completions function tracks Tier 3 KPIs RESPONSE ORGANIZATION barriers (both preventative and mitigative) specific to their operations, such as designed to guard against major well control system performance and TIER 3 Incident Support Team accidents. Stampede’s bow tie models loss of power events. An example of IST HOUSTON were developed and in place prior to first a Tier 4 KPI is the implementation of oil and were used to promote safe performance standard tests for ICE operations on the platform from day one (discussed on the previous page), which TIER 2 Incident Management Team IMT of production. Similarly, while still our was an indicator included in the 2017 ASSET asset, Equatorial Guinea used bow tie annual incentive plan bonus calculation models at the Ceiba and Okume facilities. for employees. Emergency Response Team TIER 1 Our South Arne and North Malay Basin ERT assets’ bow tie project implementation FACILITY is ongoing. 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 29 SAFETY AND HEALTH responsibilities and resources. Continuous worked with contractors impacted by the worksites must take part in an enhanced improvement is an essential element of the hurricane, resolving all key supply chain onboarding process. standard by which we incorporate lessons issues by September 29. Our contractor management process learned from incidents and exercises into CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT gives contractors a letter grade based on our preparedness, training and exercises. We rely on contractors — who comprise factors such as past EHS performance Our emergency preparedness and nearly 70 percent of our total workforce and existing safety management systems. response efforts were put to the test in hours — to perform key tasks in our Contractors must earn a satisfactory 2017 when four hurricanes struck the Gulf operations. Hess’ EHS management grade. If a contractor receives an of Mexico. The most challenging of these system helps us to keep contractors safe unsatisfactory grade based on EHS was Hurricane Harvey, a Category 4 storm on the job. criteria, the asset vice president or director that made landfall in Texas on August 26. or a more senior Hess employee must We use a recognized industry In response to this event, we activated our endorse a safety improvement action plan safety database to standardize our Gulf of Mexico Hurricane Response Plan, before that contractor may be approved prequalification processes and contractor Hess Tower Hurricane Response Plan and for procurement. If an operational situation data management across multiple sites Hess Tower Business Continuity Plan. (such as an emergency) requires the use for our U.S. operations. This enables us to of a contractor that has not completed During the storm, all three tiers of our more clearly communicate requirements the prequalification process or that has emergency response organization were and expectations to our contractors and received an unsatisfactory grade, the activated. The Tier 1 Emergency Response share information more efficiently across asset vice president or director must Teams de-manned four facilities — three Hess operations. approve the use of the contractor, platforms and one contract drilling rig — Our Contractor Management Standard and asset management must provide and shut-in the wells at two facilities. Our includes requirements for both current increased oversight. Tier 2 Incident Management Team (IMT) set and potential new contractors to whom the response objectives, tracked weather In 2017 we began implementing our the standard applies. For example, we updates, provided status reports and Contractor Management Standard across require compliance with the seven Hess monitored logistical support. The Tier 3 our international assets, and we continued Rules, which outline global safe work Incident Support Team at Hess’ operational our development of asset-specific practices. We also require our U.S. headquarters in Houston kept the Hess procedures. onshore contractors to submit HessExecutive Committee informed and stood specific workhour and safety incident For the evaluation of marine contractors ready to support the IMT as necessary. data for each of our asset locations. and vessels, we use our enterprisewide After the hurricane passed through, In addition, we expect our contractors marine assurance framework as well as we focused on getting business back to follow their own EHS programs and the Offshore Vessel Management and Selfto normal. We were able to re-man all comply with local, state and federal Assessment program, a tool developed assets by September 1. Hess Tower requirements as well as applicable by the Oil Companies International in Houston closed for business until industry standards and best practices. Marine Forum. The program helps September 5, primarily to help prevent ensure a clearer and more consistent For potential contractors subject to the our employees and contractors from communication of our needs and Contractor Management Standard, we traveling through flooded water and in expectations to our marine contractors continue to conduct reviews of those unsafe driving conditions. As discussed and enables us to review the qualifications who are considered higher risk, due to in the Social Responsibility section of of marine contractors from around the considerations such as the number of this report, we formed the Hurricane world using an internationally accepted, exposure hours for the job or the nature Harvey Recovery Team to allow for a standardized approach. Also as part of the of the work they will perform (e.g., drilling coordinated, holistic response to the program, we rate our marine contractors’ and completions or offshore work). The needs of our employees and the greater performance and use the resulting scores prequalification process may also include Houston community. Also, our Global to determine where improvement plans an on-location audit. In addition, new Supply Chain group identified and may be needed. contractors working on Hess-controlled 30 HEALTH AND WELLNESS recommendations on topics such as our workforce. For example, in 2017 we Hess strives to provide a healthy work manual tank gauging, levels of exposure completed a transition to truck-mounted environment for both employees and to particulates and vapors during the Lease Automatic Custody Transfer contractors. We provide annual on-site flu drilling and completions process, and (LACT) units. LACT units provide an vaccines, first aid and cardiopulmonary the effectiveness of personal protective automated way for employees to assess resuscitation training, and health and equipment in preventing exposure to the amount and quality of oil in a tank, wellness fairs for our workforce. Our health technically enhanced naturally occurring as manual tank gauging can potentially and wellness fairs bring local vendors radioactive materials. expose workers to harmful vapors if not directly to workers during business hours performed properly. LACT units are now We continually seek new ways to address and provide many options for improving used at various locations throughout our potential health risks that may arise for personal health, including meal plans Bakken and Utica assets. developed by a nutritionist, exercise programs shared by personal trainers and outdoor events to increase physical activity. We maintain a random drug and alcohol testing program for employees and contractors at our U.S. facilities. This effort includes the management of regulatory drug testing programs required by the U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Coast Guard. In early 2018 we approved a Drug and Alcohol Testing Standard, which updates and expands upon our prior Drug and Alcohol Procedure. Over the past several years Hess has worked with the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) — a branch of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention — in order to promote the organization’s efforts to partner with the oil and gas industry to help ensure the industry is taking appropriate measures to keep workers safe. Through Hess’ partnership with NIOSH under the National Occupational Research Agenda, we have provided support to NIOSH in its conduct of in-depth, on-site studies on occupational health and industrial hygiene topics. These studies help raise awareness among Hess employees of best practices and opportunities for improvement, in addition to leading to industrywide recommendations. For example, this collaborative Production Operations, North Dakota effort has led to the development of 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 31 Midstream Control Room, North Dakota OUR PEOPLE Our employees are critical to Hess’ for new employment. This approach group focused on better alignment of Hess success. We seek to maintain a is consistent with Hess’ values, which policies and practices, with the ultimate company culture that emphasizes include treating people with fairness, goals of attracting the best available talent leadership, continuous learning, employee honesty and respect. and more fully utilizing the potential and engagement and diversity and inclusion. contributions of all employees. Through this DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION effort we aim to better engage employees In line with our strategy to deliver Hess is committed to diversity and equal from across the organization to foster the significant long-term value to employment opportunities for all employees innovation that often comes from different shareholders, we divested our interests in and job candidates regardless of race, color, ideas and experiences. assets in West Texas, Equatorial Guinea gender, age, sexual orientation, gender and Norway in 2017 in order to focus identity, creed, national origin, genetic Also in 2017 we continued our diversity the company’s portfolio and allocate information, disability, veteran status or outreach efforts with organizations that capital to our higher-return assets. As any other protected status in recruitment, advocate for minorities, women, veterans a result, we had to make some difficult hiring, compensation, promotion, training, and the disabled, including the National choices about continuing to reduce our assignment of work, performance evaluation Business & Disability Council at the Viscardi workforce in line with Hess’ portfolio and all other aspects of employment. Center, the National Diversity Council, the going forward. Our decisions were U.S. Business Leadership Network, the We do not tolerate any form of workplace grounded in the Hess Values, with a National Action Council for Minorities in harassment, including sexual harassment. focus on long-term sustainability and Engineering, the Women’s Energy Network, We reinforce these expectations growth without compromising our focus the Society of Women Engineers and the through our Code of Conduct, our on safety. The company’s restructuring Veteran Jobs Mission. We also continue Equal Employment Opportunity and and associated staff reductions took to support additional membership-based Harassment-Free Workplace Policies and place in January 2018 and will not be organizations that promote a diversity of training (for U.S.-based managers), other reflected in our employee totals until next expression and thought. human resources policies and our Human year’s sustainability report. Rights and Social Responsibility Policies. Our proportion of women and U.S. EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS minority employees, as defined by the U.S. In 2017 we created the Hess Inclusion Hess began last year with 2,304 Department of Labor, remained relatively and Diversity Council to provide executive employees, and as of December 31, 2017, flat in 2017 compared to 2016. We are leadership and direction to our inclusion we had 2,075 employees. At year’s end, committed to fostering the professional and diversity initiatives. The council approximately 85 percent of employees growth of women and minorities develops strategies that align with our were located in the U.S. and 15 percent throughout Hess. As an example, Women overall business objectives and measures were in international locations. Inspiring Success and Excellence (WISE) progress on the strategies’ implementation — an internal networking group formed 2017 EMPLOYEES BY REGION throughout the organization. Last year the Americas 1,770 85% Asia-Paciﬁc 156 8% 2017 WOMEN AND MINORITY* REPRESENTATION WOMEN MINORITIES Europe 124 6% (U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL) (U.S.BASED EMPLOYEES) Africa 25 1% Total Total JOB Employees Number of Percent Employees Number of Percent CATEGORY in Job Women Women in Job Minorities Minorities EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITION Category Category Employees who were not retained through Executives and 42 5 12% 37 4 11% Senior Ofﬁcers the company’s restructuring in 2017 and early 2018 were offered severance First and Mid-Level 477 96 20% 382 73 19% Managers packages to help ease their transitions. Professionals 1,103 365 33% 937 245 26% The company also provided outplacement services to support them with resume Other 453 105 23% 399 74 19% preparation, interview skills and job search Total 2,075 571 28% 1,755 396 23% strategies as they launched their search *As deﬁned by the U.S. Department of Labor 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 33 OUR PEOPLE in 2015 at our operational headquarters In 2017 we implemented additional in our operations by continuing to train in Houston — has a vision to “help succession-planning functionality to the select employees to teach Lean and promote and cultivate leadership skills, system to further enhance the availability apply its concepts and tools to specific business practices, career opportunities of talent data, assessments and careerimprovement projects in their work areas. and personal contacts for women.” WISE planning tools. These improvements give We also assigned our most experienced expanded to include a chapter in North us the ability to analyze critical information Lean practitioners to facilitate a number Dakota in 2017 and has grown to more about our organizational capabilities and of high-value enterprise projects. Hess than 270 members companywide. The bench strength. In 2018 we will drive the will continue to build on these efforts group held monthly lunch meetings, and its usage of our talent tools deeper into the moving forward. members attended external conferences organization to provide additional guidance Learning and Development and networking events in the Houston area and resources to employees to support Our enterprisewide learning management throughout the year. their individual career development. system — CareerManager Learning — In keeping with our aim to foster diversity We regularly seek out opportunities for houses a variety of computer-based and cultivate leadership, we employ a continuous improvement in our talent training modules and supporting materials high number of local nationals in our management practices. In 2017, for for instructor-led courses. It also tracks international operations and report example, we convened a project team and records employee training and publicly where the number of employees to streamline and further integrate our measures training effectiveness through is 100 or more. Overall the percentage of performance, compensation and talent surveys and evaluations. local nationals, as well as the proportion management practices to better enable us In 2017 we piloted a new learning program of nationals holding managerial or to reward and retain our critical talent. focused on professional development. The professional positions, has increased Integrating Lean as a Way of training covered topics such as delivering significantly at our international operations Working presentations, improving individual over the past five years. In particular, the In 2017 we advanced our goal of productivity and project management. We percentage of local nationals increased establishing a distinctive Lean culture also continued to offer focused training for from 83 to 99 percent in Denmark and across the company. Notably, we employees who are new to supervisory from 72 to 92 percent in Malaysia during developed and launched a new Leanroles. Program topics in this course this period. based behavioral model we call the Hess include setting performance expectations, TALENT MANAGEMENT Way of Working, which represents an motivating team members, providing Hess’ comprehensive talent management evolution in our leadership model and effective feedback and more. process helps enable our employees to also builds on the Hess Values. The Hess Way of Working outlines multiple Throughout the year, individual operating develop the skills they need to perform expectations for employee and leadership and support functions within Hess their current jobs and to take on more behavior, organized into three categories: encouraged knowledge-sharing through responsibility as their careers progress. people, direction and results. In the people “lunch and learns” and other informal It also enables the company to develop category, as one example, the model gatherings. Employees also took part in succession and hiring plans and develop states that we expect leaders to focus on professional development opportunities, talent in support of Hess’ strategic goals. the needs of others before they consider including engagement with trade CareerManager, our integrated human their own. To support this new model, we associations, attendance at conferences resources system, provides a common introduced compulsory, computer-based and enrollment in external courses. platform for Individual Development Plans training for all employees, to set Lean New Hires and Early-Career (IDPs), objective setting and performance expectations and introduce core Lean skills Programs evaluations. We encourage every that employees can apply immediately Employees new to Hess benefit from our employee to prepare an IDP as a roadmap in their own work. Going forward, we onboarding and orientation program, for setting and achieving career goals, will use this model to assess the annual Passport to Hess. This year-long program developing capabilities and maximizing performance of every employee. is designed to facilitate a smooth career opportunities. assimilation into the company through In addition to launching the Hess Way close interaction between supervisors and of Working, we have embedded Lean 34 new employees. The experience begins vendors that provide these services, and Malaysia, where we connected with with access to a pre-hire portal that we moved our savings and pension plans another 400 employees. enables new employees to learn about to the same financial firm that administers We also held three global town hall their work location prior to their first day our employee stock ownership programs. meetings in 2017. The town halls were on the job. After beginning their jobs at EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT webcast to all company locations and Hess, employees can access a structured, Hess regularly shares information with sought to communicate business updates, on-demand learning program that explains and solicits feedback from employees reinforce strategy and values and answer our culture and values. In addition, about our business performance questions. Each meeting was followed supervisors receive tools and coaching and processes. We use a range of by a pulse survey to solicit feedback on to guide them in helping a new hire engagement tools, including one-onkey company issues and measure the successfully integrate into a work team. one and small-group discussions, focus meeting’s effectiveness. The Passport to Hess program intersects groups and town hall meetings and with our employee engagement activities Our employees continue to participate in webcasts. We also utilize the company (discussed at right) to help new hires get volunteer activities that demonstrate the intranet, digital signage at our major to know our senior leadership. Hess Value of Social Responsibility. All told, locations and feedback surveys to share the data we gathered for 2017 show that In 2017 we launched an early-career information and connect with employees our employees volunteered approximately development program for engineers in in a timely and meaningful manner. 6,700 hours during the year. We are our Drilling and Completions function. As an example, our Chief Executive especially proud of their efforts to help The program is designed to help Officer and Chief Operating Officer the Houston community in the aftermath these individuals develop the skills and continue to host small-group sessions, of Hurricane Harvey, as described below. proficiencies needed to succeed in their called Leadership Dialogues, to discuss Employees also raised funds during the current and future jobs. enterprise opportunities and challenges. year through activities such as the MS 150 Early-career engineers and geoscientists In 2017 Hess convened 24 Leadership bike ride and the Easter Seals Walk. In May, can also take part in our Foundation Dialogue sessions, reaching more we held a volunteer fair at our Houston Program, which helps prepare them for than 400 employees at our Houston operational headquarters where a dozen their careers through focused training, operational headquarters. Additional nonprofit groups set up tables and talked mentoring and on-the-job assignments. sessions were held at our regional offices to employees about volunteer needs The Foundation Program maintains in North Dakota, Denmark, Norway and and opportunities. relationships with universities that align with our values, standards and business RESPONDING TO HURRICANE HARVEY operations. As a part of our commitment When Hurricane Harvey hit Houston in August 2017, Hess joined ﬁrst responders, city to education in the engineering and ofﬁcials and neighbors in responding to the disaster and providing relief — including sending geosciences fields, Hess leaders serve money, preparing meals, providing transportation and starting the process of rebuilding. as members of the academic advisory Through Hess’ Hurricane Harvey Recovery Team, we created a Qualiﬁed Disaster Relief Plan committees of some of these universities. to provide recovery assistance to employees who were personally impacted by the storm. The plan included four formal assistance programs: cash disaster relief, temporary BENEFITS accommodations, transportation and loans. Sixty-six employees received assistance through these programs. Hess provided more than $112 million in benefits to our U.S. employees in 2017. To provide employees enough time to volunteer if they wished, Hess developed and announced guidance for Harvey-related volunteering that included paid time off for up to During the year, we also updated some of two days per month through year-end 2017. In total, Hess employees volunteered about our benefit offerings as part of a long1,290 hours of time in 2017 related to Hurricane Harvey response and recovery, including at term strategy to provide better service for local nonproﬁts such as the Avenue Community Development Corporation and the Houston employees. In particular, we introduced Food Bank. new short-term disability, maternity and Hess employees were also generous with donations, contributing $143,000 to the American sick leave policies. We simplified the Red Cross and Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund. In addition, our annual United Way campaign was accelerated and received a total employee contribution of $170,000. With the employer administration of our benefits and health match, Hess’ and our employees’ total contribution to these three organizations (not and welfare programs by changing our including Hess’ separate $1 million gift to the Hurricane Harvey Relief Fund) was $645,000. 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 35 Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Climate change is a global challenge that actions we can undertake to control and EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT requires government, business leaders reduce our carbon footprint. We engage with key stakeholders — and civil society to work together on costincluding government agencies, private Hess will continue to take cost-effective, effective policy responses that recognize landowners and communities — on appropriate steps to monitor, measure the vital role safe, affordable and reliable select issues, including climate changeand reduce emissions through the energy plays in ensuring human welfare, related issues, and we will continue following actions: economic growth and security. to communicate our performance on ■ Setting targets to reduce the carbon these topics in our annual sustainability Oil and gas are essential to meet intensity of our operations report and the sustainability section the world’s growing energy demand, ■ Accounting for the cost of carbon in of our company website (hess.com/ and we are committed to developing sustainability). these resources in an environmentally significant new investments responsible and sustainable manner. ■ Applying innovation and efficiency to Hess is an active member of IPIECA on Our environment, health, safety and reduce energy use, waste and emissions sustainable development issues such social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy across our operations as climate change, biodiversity impacts incorporates climate change into our risk and access to energy — issues that are management process and addresses too complex for individual companies ALIGNMENT WITH THE TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES In June 2017, the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), an outgrowth of the G20 Financial Stability Board, issued its ﬁnal recommendations on how the ﬁnancial sector should take account of climate-related issues. The TCFD structured its recommendations around the four core elements of how an organization operates: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. We believe that our strategy is aligned with the TCFD recommendations to evaluate the potential impacts of climate change-related risks and opportunities on our organization’s businesses, strategy and ﬁnancial planning. The table below highlights the TCFD’s four core elements and the actions Hess is taking or will take to integrate these elements into the way we do business. TCFD FRAMEWORK: DISCUSSION CORE ELEMENTS HESS EHS & SR STRATEGY: CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONS (PAGE #) ■ Maintain the EHS Subcommittee of the Board of Directors, which oversees our climate change strategy and other EHS matters Governance ■ Continue to have a climate change subject matter expert brief the Board of Directors, to help ensure 3, 11 they are climate change literate and that climate change-related risks are considered in the development of company strategies and policies ■ Maintain a Climate Change Position (Policy) Statement ■ Continue to take proactive steps to measure, manage and mitigate emissions; set targets to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, methane and ﬂaring Strategy 37, 41–45 ■ Continue environmental, social and governance disclosures, such as our annual sustainability report and the CDP Climate Change survey ■ Purchase renewable energy credits and carbon offsets to mitigate a portion of annual emissions totals ■ Utilize an enhanced enterprise risk management (ERM) process to manage climate change-related risk ■ Screen new projects to balance risk and return on investment Risk ■ Factor carbon pricing of $40 per tonne into signiﬁcant new project evaluations 12, 38–40 Management ■ Continue to publish a carbon asset risk analysis (ﬁrst published in Hess’ 2013 Sustainability Report) that evaluates the most ambitious GHG reduction scenarios from the International Energy Agency ■ Plan a carbon asset risk scenario planning exercise for execution during the 2018–2019 timeframe ■ Continue to track progress against Hess’ three global targets that align with the TCFD’s considerations Metrics for target-setting; i.e., whether the target is absolute or intensity, timeframes over which the target applies, 41–45 and Targets base year against which progress is measured, and key performance indicators used to assess progress against targets 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 37 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY screened to verify they meet or exceed established threshold return-on-investment criteria to balance risk and return and meet Hess’ capital discipline philosophy. In addition, we actively evaluate viability for significant projects based on potential future carbon constraints. We apply a theoretical carbon price of $40 per tonne of carbon dioxide — based on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimate (under the Obama Administration) of the social cost of carbon — in economic evaluations for significant new projects. Factoring carbon dioxide prices into our valuation process enables us to evaluate project viability Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico based on differing ranges of potential future carbon constraints. Hess has a physical risk management to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its status, the highest category, for the ninth framework in place that includes members by engaging with stakeholders consecutive year and was among the topsevere weather management plans and and governments on climate changeranking energy producers on the list. procedures, and we utilize business related topics. It enables collaborative Also, for the eighth consecutive year continuity plans that address severe work with stakeholders and governments we were included in the Dow Jones weather events. We maintain insurance by promoting an understanding of the Sustainability Index North America, coverage for physical damage to our key role the oil and gas industry should which highlights public companies with property. The amount of insurance play in providing innovation, global reach, outstanding performance across economic, covering physical damage is based knowledge and technical expertise to help environmental and social factors, including on the asset’s estimated replacement develop and implement feasible future those related to climate change. value or the estimated loss. energy solutions. Access our latest CDP Climate Change response at hess.com/sustainability/climate-changeAs part of our ERM process, each Hess Hess has consistently been recognized energy asset maintains an emergency response as a leader in the oil and gas industry for plan that details procedures for potential our disclosure and transparency relating RISK MANAGEMENT emergency scenarios. In addition to to sustainability, and we remain committed Through our ERM process we have our own experts, Hess has established to our goal of top-quartile performance in developed risk profiles for each of our strategic relationships with thirdthis regard. In addition to preparing this assets that capture key risks identified — party specialists who are experienced sustainability report in accordance with including those related to climate change. in emergency response and crisis the Global Reporting Initiative’s Standards For each risk scenario, we estimate the management. We also have regional at the Core reporting level, we participate likelihood and potential impact that these and worldwide mutual aid agreements in a number of voluntary initiatives related risks could have on our business. We and relationships with emergency to climate change disclosure. In 2017 compile all risks we identify as critical on an response organizations that have we were recognized on the prestigious integrated risk register that catalogs actions strategically positioned equipment and CDP Global Climate List as a leader in for managing or mitigating each risk. All personnel to supplement and support our addressing climate change-related risks new significant projects are rigorously response efforts. See the Environment and opportunities. Hess earned leadership section for a listing of these organizations. 38 CARBON ASSET RISK ASSESSMENT Our stakeholders have expressed an interest in understanding The charts below show world energy demand and carbon dioxide how Hess’ oil and gas portfolio might be impacted by a transition emissions under the IEA’s three main scenarios. to a lower-carbon economy. In particular, a select group of Hess’ focus is on the New Policies scenario, which we, along stakeholders and investors has raised concerns that energy with the IEA, view as the most likely environment in which we will companies may be overvalued in a future carbon-constrained operate. While the Sustainable Development scenario would be world because these companies may not be able to produce extremely challenging to achieve, as discussed in more detail a portion of their reserves and, hence, these reserves will be below, we also consider that scenario in examining potential risks “stranded.” and opportunities associated with our oil and gas portfolio in Since 2013, in our annual sustainability report, Hess has been a low-carbon environment. providing an assessment of our company’s view on climate In the New Policies scenario, worldwide energy use will change-related risks and opportunities that might result from grow approximately 28 percent between 2016 and 2040. In a potential transition to a lower-carbon economy. In order to this scenario, energy demand for oil and gas is projected to evaluate any potential exposure to our portfolio in a lowergrow by 24 percent during the same period and account for carbon environment, we ﬁrst consider the long-range outlook 52 percent of the energy mix in 2040, down slightly from for energy supply and demand. Hess uses the International 54 percent today. Energy Agency (IEA) World Energy Outlook 2017 to examine various supply and demand scenarios through 2040 (see www. According to the IEA, in this New Policies scenario, the oil and iea.org/weo2017/). The World Energy Outlook 2017 contains gas sector requires cumulative investment of some $21 trillion three main scenarios, as follows: between 2017 and 2040, three-quarters of which is in the upstream sector. Upstream capital spending needs to average ■ Current Policies – the business-as-usual case around $640 billion every year to avoid potential mismatches ■ New Policies – incorporates existing energy policy as well as an between supply and demand. This ﬁgure takes into account the assessment of the results likely to stem from the implementation need to meet growing oil and gas demand while compensating of announced policy intentions (chieﬂy the Nationally for underlying declines in existing sources of production. Annual Determined Contributions — i.e., the emission reductions agreed investment in the upstream sector alone under this scenario to by individual countries under the Paris Accord) needs to increase from $435 billion in 2016 to about $535 billion per year through 2025 and then to $710 billion per year through ■ Sustainable Development – reﬂects a pathway to achieving key 2040 to balance oil and gas supply and demand. This would energy-related components of the United Nations Sustainable represent a 25 percent per year increase from current investment Development Agenda, including universal access to modern levels through 2025 and a 60 percent increase from current energy by 2030, urgent action to tackle climate change and investment levels from 2025 through 2040. measures to improve poor air quality World Primary Energy Demand by Fuel, and Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions, by IEA Scenario Current Policies New Policies Sustainable Development 25 50 Trillion Tons of Oil Equivalent Gigatons of Carbon Dioxide 20 40 15 30 10 20 5 10 0 0 2000 2016 2025 2040 2000 2016 2025 2040 2000 2016 2025 2040 ■ Coal ■ Oil ■ Gas ■ Nuclear ■ Renewables Carbon Dioxide Emissions 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 39 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY CARBON ASSET RISK ASSESSMENT CONTINUED The IEA states that “the impact of the near-record lows of new producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs and conventional oil projects receiving approval in recent years has yet under existing economic conditions, operating methods and to be fully seen” and stresses the dangers of a possible shortage government regulations. of supply in the future (World Energy Outlook 2017, p. 155). Stranded asset advocates argue that extractive companies will Even in the Sustainable Development scenario (which is consistent be left with stranded reserves over the next 30 to 40 years, thus with a 50 percent chance of limiting the concentration of carbon undercutting valuations. According to IHS Energy, while proved dioxide in the atmosphere to around 450 parts per million), reserves on average account for only 24 percent of the resource worldwide energy use is projected to grow by 2 percent through base by volume, they account for 84 percent of the 2014 resource 2040 and oil and gas is expected to account for 48 percent base that drives a company’s total valuation. Therefore, reserves of the energy mix in 2040, down slightly from 54 percent today. that are expected to be produced beyond a 15-year time horizon appear to have limited impact on a company’s valuation. The IEA has indicated that the challenges of achieving the Sustainable Development scenario are substantial, requiring The stranded asset theory also assumes that coal, oil and natural a major reallocation of energy-sector investment capital. gas are equally vulnerable to climate policies restricting energy The IEA states that “even in the carbon-constrained world of sources, without considering the differences in carbon intensities. the Sustainable Development scenario, upstream oil and gas Coal is the most carbon-intensive energy source, with a investment remains a major component of a secure energy signiﬁcantly larger carbon footprint than natural gas. As a result, system” (World Energy Outlook 2017, pp. 27–30). Therefore, coal is most likely to experience demand degradation in a Hess has no reason to assume widespread stranding of carbon-constrained economy, while the production of less carbon upstream assets. intensive natural gas is being promoted as part of the transition to a lower-carbon environment. Furthermore, according to IHS Energy’s September 2014 report Deﬂating the Carbon Bubble, the intrinsic value of an oil and gas Based on the IHS study and the IEA positions cited in this section, company is based primarily on its proved reserves, 90 percent Hess believes there is a high likelihood our reserves will be of which are expected to be monetized during the next 10 to 15 monetized and that markets are currently valuing our carbon years. According to IHS Energy, the stranded asset theory assets rationally. However, in order to further evaluate any underestimates the realities of the projected growing demand potential climate change-related risks and opportunities for hydrocarbon resources through 2040 as well as how the associated with Hess’ portfolio, senior management has approved categorization and timing of reserve development contribute a carbon asset risk scenario planning exercise to test the resilience to the market valuation of a company. of our portfolio against the IEA’s main scenarios. This exercise will establish a range of energy supply, demand, oil price and By using an extremely broad deﬁnition of proved reserves, emissions estimates that are projected to prevail under different stranded asset proponents misstate how reserves contribute publicly available, long-term scenarios for environmental policy to market valuation. The Securities and Exchange Commission and market conditions. We anticipate this exercise will allow us to deﬁnes “proved reserves” as those quantities of oil and natural qualitatively assess any areas of potential stress on Hess’ portfolio gas that, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can in a lower-carbon environment. We expect to conduct this within reasonable certainty be estimated to be economically scenario planning exercise in 2018 and publish the results in 2019. 2017 Hess Proved Reserves by Region* 2017 Hess Proved Reserves by Resource Type* 1,154 Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent 15% 31% 5% 69% 13% 54% 13% ■ Conventional (Including Acid Gas) ■ Unconventional ■ Deepwater * Hess’ proved reserves consist of 72 percent liquids (light and medium crude oils, condensate * Deepwater is a conventional resource, but it is shown separately here to provide more clarity and natural gas liquids) and 28 percent natural gas. on our reserve base. Deepwater refers to reserves found below 1,000 feet of water depth. 40 METRICS AND TARGETS nitrous oxide — reported in units of 2017 Operated Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). In Emissions by Source As part of Hess’ climate change strategy, Thousand Tonnes CO2e we established three targets aligned with 2014 Hess began using global warming the TCFD’s criteria for target-setting. We potentials based on the values in the 6% have committed to: Fourth Assessment Report: Climate ■ Reduce our GHG emissions intensity Change 2007 (AR-4), prepared by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate by 25 percent for our 2014 portfolio 42% 52% Change, to estimate CO2e totals. GHG of operated assets, by 2020 (versus a data from 2013 and prior have not been 2014 emissions baseline) restated, because the impact on historical ■ Reduce our flaring emissions intensity values was not material (about 1 percent). by 50 percent for our 2014 portfolio Q Flaring 1,918 of operated assets, by 2020 (versus a Approximately 94 percent of Hess’ direct Q Fuel Combustion 1,579 Q Other 226 2014 emissions baseline) (Scope 1) operated GHG emissions are ■ Lower methane emissions to less than from stationary combustion sources such as flaring, heaters, turbines and engines. 1 percent of gross methane production Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions The factors used to estimate emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) across the U.S. natural gas value chain for these sources enterprisewide are by 2025 6 5.6 50 those prescribed by the U.S. EPA in its GHG Intensity (Tonnes per Thousand BOE) 5.4 45 During the second half of 2017, Hess GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR 5 4.6 40 divested several assets, including our 43 Part 98, Subpart C). The remaining 4.1 35 Million Tonnes CO2e 4 interests in Equatorial Guinea and 6 percent of our operated GHG emissions 36 35 30 33 31 enhanced oil recovery assets in the are from a variety of noncombustion and 3 25 Permian Basin in West Texas. These fugitive emission sources such as storage 20 2 divestitures may impact our 2020 flaring tanks, compressor seals, pneumatic 15 10 and GHG intensity reduction targets, pumps and valves. For such sources at 1 5 which were established in 2014 with an onshore facilities, we use the emission 0 0 emissions baseline that included these factors prescribed by the U.S. EPA in its 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 now-divested assets. In 2018 we plan to GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR QScope 1 Emissions QScope 2 Emissions restate our 2014 baseline and evaluate Part 98, Subpart W). Hess uses other OGHG Emissions Intensity Q2020 Target the potential impact of these divestitures appropriate regulatory or industry-specific on our current targets. If necessary, we factors to estimate fugitive emissions for will adjust these targets and present all other facilities. 2017 Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions revised targets in our next sustainability by Country (Scopes 1 and 2) We also report indirect emissions Thousand Tonnes CO2e report. It is not anticipated that our associated with purchased electricity methane emissions reduction target, (Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) which relates to U.S. assets, will be emissions. impacted by these divestitures. Operated Emissions 77% Our performance against our three (Scopes 1 and 2) established targets is detailed in the In 2017, of the estimated 4.1 million 15% next section. tonnes of gross GHG emissions from our 5% GREENHOUSE GAS operated oil and gas assets, 3.7 million 3% PERFORMANCE tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, primarily We report GHG emissions from our oil and from flaring and fuel combustion, and QU.S. 3,178 Q Equatorial Guinea 628 gas assets on both operated and equity approximately 0.4 million tonnes were Q Denmark 201 bases. Our GHG emissions estimates Scope 2 emissions, from purchased Q Malaysia 140 include carbon dioxide, methane and electricity. Process operations (primarily 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 41 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions fuel combustion) and flaring accounted Scope 3 Emissions by Country for 42 percent and 52 percent of our Million Tonnes CO2e Scope 3 GHG emissions are those Scope 1 GHG emissions, respectively. generated from corporate value chain 12 activities that are not accounted for and 10.8 In 2017 our absolute GHG emissions reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 10 decreased by 0.5 million tonnes compared 2 emissions. To assess our Scope 3 to 2016, due primarily to reduced flaring in emissions, we use the Petroleum Industry Equatorial Guinea related to a decline 8 Guidance for Corporate Value Chain in production. Accounting methodology. 6.0 6 5.5 Our GHG emissions intensity (i.e., tonnes The Petroleum Industry Guidance of emissions per thousand barrels of oil 4.2 4.0 is based on the World Resources 4 equivalent (BOE)) decreased by 23 percent Institute’s and the World Business in 2017 versus our 2014 baseline. This Council for Sustainable Development’s 2 cumulative improvement brings us close GHG Protocol Scope 3 standard, to achieving our 25 percent emissions which includes 15 categories of Scope 0 intensity reduction target for 2020. 2008 2014 2015 2016 2017 3 emissions. Only two of the Scope Q U.K. Q Gabon Q Indonesia Equity Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) 3 emissions categories — Use of Q Norway Q Ghana Q Malaysia Products (emissions generated from Since 2007 Hess has tracked GHG Q Denmark Q Libya Q Thailand Q Algeria Q Azerbaijan Q U.S. emissions from our operated and our natural gas sales) and Processing Q Equatorial Q Russia Q U.S. Virgin Guinea Islands nonoperated oil and gas assets based of Sold Products (emissions generated on our equity interest. Between 2008 and from energy used to refine petroleum 2017, we reduced our absolute equity products) — are material to Hess. 2017 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS GHG emissions by over 6 million tonnes, MILLION TONNES CO2e The table at left details our Scope 3 achieving a GHG emissions intensity of emissions. In 2017 we sold 503 million Use of Sold Products 10.0 37.5 tonnes per thousand BOE, primarily standard cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) through a combination of improving Processing of Sold Products 3.1 of natural gas which, when burned by operating practices, selling assets and customers, accounted for an estimated Total 13.1 shutting down refinery operations. 10.0 million tonnes of GHG emissions. Our major source of emissions from We sold 182 thousand barrels per nonoperated oil and gas assets in day (MBPD) of crude oil, which, when Hess Flaring Rates 2017 was the Malaysia/Thailand Joint processed by refiners, accounted for 99 99 Development Area. Our equity emissions another 3.1 million tonnes of GHG 100 300 from this asset were approximately emissions, for an estimated total of Flaring Intensity (SCF per BOE) 287 80 74 250 1.3 million tonnes. Major sources of 13.1 million tonnes of Scope 3 emissions. Flaring (MMSCFD) 228 60 200 emissions from operated assets in 2017 60 203 Although not material, we also track 177 150 included those from the Equatorial Guinea and report emissions associated with 40 145 production asset and the Seminole Gas 100 employee business travel. Combined Plant (both now sold), as well as the North 20 50 emissions from employee business Dakota production asset and the Tioga travel via commercial air carrier and rail 0 0 Gas Plant, which altogether accounted 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 in 2017 were about 4,600 tonnes of for an estimated 2.1 million tonnes of CO2e, down 14 percent compared to last QNorth Dakota equity emissions. Our other operated QEquatorial Guinea year, representing a continued effort by QOther and nonoperated assets made up OFlaring Intensity management to limit employee travel. As the balance of equity emissions at an Q2020 Target an element of our EHS & SR strategy, we estimated 0.6 million tonnes. have purchased carbon credits annually 42 since 2010 to offset at least 100 percent processing capacity of the Tioga Gas this raw, rich natural gas. The GTUIT of business travel emissions. In 2017 we Plant — 250 MMSCFD of natural gas and equipment successfully addresses some purchased 5,300 tonnes of carbon credits 2.5 million gallons per day of liquids — is of the technical challenges associated with from First Climate Markets AG, for the helping us to achieve our reduction target capturing NGLs from the Bakken gas — retirement of offsets related to a landfill by processing gas that was previously the units are modular and mobile, they can gas recovery project in Nebraska. This flared upstream. In addition, the new operate reliably unmanned and they can contribution more than offset the GHG Hawkeye Gas Facility is operating as adapt to the ever-changing flow conditions emissions we estimate were generated designed and is resulting in significantly of the well and the changing chemistry of from employee business travel. reduced flaring in the region. the associated gas. EMISSION REDUCTION We anticipate that expansion of the In 2017 we operated 15 of these mobile INITIATIVES Bakken midstream gas gathering units, allowing us to capture 7 million In support of our GHG emission and infrastructure, including additional gas gallons of NGLs. As a result, we avoided flaring intensity reduction targets, we compression facilities and natural gas more than 470 MMSCF of gas flaring, track and monitor air emissions at each liquids (NGLs) and gas gathering lines, reduced CO2e emissions by an estimated of our assets and undertake a variety will continue into 2018. These midstream 43,600 tonnes and saved about 14,200 of emission reduction initiatives. Our infrastructure projects will leave Hess well tonnes of volatile organic compounds efforts focus on our largest emitting positioned to reduce flaring by 2020 in (VOCs) from entering the atmosphere. We facilities and on opportunities that are line with our target. are planning to install additional mobile technically and economically feasible units in 2018, increasing our capacity by Natural Gas Capture and where we are able to achieve 4 MMSCFD. This project provides dual Using technology developed through our stakeholder approval. In 2017 ongoing economic and environmental benefits, as it partnership with GTUIT — a designer, reduced oil and natural gas production converts gas into marketable products as manufacturer and operator of well site related to the continued low price of oil well as reduces the amount of gas flared natural gas capture and NGL extraction again presented us with a reduced pool and the associated air emissions. equipment — we are recovering high-BTU of emission reduction opportunities. We See additional examples of emission reduction (British thermal unit) gas from locations in initiatives at hess.com/sustainability/climatehave, however, been able to continue North Dakota that were previously flaring change-energy/emission-reduction-initiatives achieving emission reductions through a number of ongoing programs. Flaring In 2017 flaring from Hess-operated assets — which totaled 60 MMSCFD — was down 18 percent compared to 2016. On an intensity basis, we continued to make progress toward our 50 percent reduction target by reducing our cumulative flaring intensity by 38 percent through 2017, compared to our 2014 baseline. We expect to continue to make progress as a result of major stakeholder-approved initiatives in our Bakken asset in North Dakota. Over $2.6 billion has been invested in midstream infrastructure in North Dakota between 2012 and 2017 to capture and monetize natural gas produced from Midstream Operations, North Dakota our operations and minimize flaring. The 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 43 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Energy Use ENERGY USE In 2017 our U.S. operations accounted Thousand Gigajoules Reducing our energy use has the dual for all of our purchased electricity — 40,000 38,246 benefit of lowering costs and GHG approximately 790,000 megawatt 36,148 emissions, and it is a central focus of hours (MWh), or a 12 percent reduction 35,000 33,121 both our EHS & SR strategy and our Lean from last year. This reduction is mainly 30,000 approach to managing the business. We attributable to the sale of our interests in 25,000 generate and purchase energy primarily for the Permian Basin, including the Seminole 20,000 power, processing, heating and cooling. Gas Plant. Based on U.S. electricity 15,000 In 2017 energy consumption from Hessgeneration profiles, we estimate that 10,000 operated assets was approximately approximately 19 percent of this electricity 5,000 33 million gigajoules (GJ), 13 percent lower was generated from renewable sources, 0 than in 2016. Seventy-eight percent of primarily wind power. We also support 2015 2016 2017 Hess’ energy use was directly generated renewable energy through the purchase QDirect from our operations, primarily at the of renewable energy certificates (RECs) Q Indirect Seminole and Tioga gas processing equivalent to at least 10 percent of the net plants and at our production facilities electricity used in our operations. In 2017 2017 Energy Use by Country in North Dakota, Denmark, Equatorial we purchased 90,000 Green-e Energy Thousand Gigajoules Guinea and the Gulf of Mexico. The certified RECs for wind power, equivalent 3% remaining 22 percent was indirect energy to 90,000 MWh or about 11 percent of (energy used by utilities to provide net the electricity purchased for our operated 9% purchased electricity) purchased for the exploration and production assets. In 11% West Texas and North Dakota production total, including the RECs, approximately operations and the Seminole and Tioga gas 30 percent of our indirect energy use processing plants. came from renewable sources. 77% See more detail on our purchased electricity use at hess.com/sustainability/climate-changeenergy/energy-use Q U.S. 25,387 Q Equatorial Guinea 3,656 Q Denmark 3,092 Q Malaysia 986 2017 Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source Thousand Gigajoules 18% 82% Q Natural Gas 21,248 Q Diesel 4,584 Production Operations, North Dakota 44 MANAGING METHANE EMISSIONS The advancement in shale energy technology in recent years 1. Leak Program for Natural Gas and Oil Production Sources: has resulted in an increased supply of abundant, low-cost natural Participants will implement monitoring and timely repair of gas. The clean-burning characteristics of natural gas can play fugitive emissions at selected sites utilizing detection methods a critical role in the transition toward a low-carbon economy. and technologies such as U.S. EPA Method 21 or optical gas Although natural gas burns cleaner than other fuels, there is imaging cameras. considerable debate about fugitive methane leakage along the natural gas value chain, which may have the potential to reduce 2. Program to Replace, Remove or Retroﬁt High-Bleed its climate beneﬁts. Pneumatic Controllers: Participants will replace, remove or retroﬁt high-bleed pneumatic controllers with lowor Stakeholder interest in this issue has continued in recent years, zero-emitting devices within ﬁve years. and in 2016 the U.S. EPA and the Bureau of Land Management ﬁnalized several regulations aimed at controlling fugitive 3. Program for Manual Liquids Unloading for Natural Gas methane and VOC emissions. However, those regulations are now Production Sources: Participants will minimize emissions subject to administrative reconsideration as well as litigation associated with the removal of liquids that, as a well ages, challenges. Industry maintains that these regulations are largely can build up and restrict natural gas ﬂow. unnecessary, as methane emissions have decreased at a time of growth in natural gas production and because it is in industry’s In addition to these programs, the Environmental Partnership will best interest to monetize gas to generate additional revenue. provide a platform for industry to collaborate with stakeholders and learn from one another. One element of our EHS & SR strategy has been to pursue voluntary reductions in methane emissions. As a result, Hess In order to meet both our ONE Future and Environmental became a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition, a Partnership commitments, we continued implementation of our group of companies from across the natural gas industry leak detection and repair (LDAR) program across all of our focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that yield production facilities (existing and new) in North Dakota and Ohio continuous improvement in the management of methane and at the gas plants in West Texas and North Dakota. emissions associated with the production, processing, Further detail on our LDAR program is provided in the Environment section of transportation and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future this report and at hess.com/sustainability/environment offers a performance-based, ﬂexible approach that is expected to yield signiﬁcant reductions in methane emissions. The goal is to voluntarily lower methane emissions to less than 1 percent of gross methane production across the value chain by 2025. Peer-reviewed analyses indicate that a leak/loss rate of Methane Emissions Rate (ONE Future Protocol)* 1 percent or less across the natural gas value chain provides immediate GHG reduction beneﬁts. 0.6 0.56 To achieve this goal, ONE Future has established methane emission rate targets for each sector of the natural gas value 0.5 0.47 chain: production (0.36 percent), processing (0.11 percent), transmission and storage (0.30 percent) and distribution Methane Emissions Rate (%) 0.4 (0.22 percent), which cumulatively total to the 1 percent target. 0.36 Hess has activities in two sectors, production and processing. In 2017 our methane emissions rate for production was 0.13 percent, 0.3 and our emissions rate from processing was 0.14 percent. Our combined methane emissions rate from the production and 0.2 0.19 processing sectors was 0.13 percent, which is well below the ONE 0.14 0.13 0.13 Future combined target of 0.47 percent for those two sectors. 0.11 0.1 In a related voluntary effort, in 2017 Hess became one of the initial participants in the American Petroleum Institute’s 0 Environmental Partnership. A key activity of the Environmental Production Processing Upstream (Production and Processing) Partnership is furthering action to reduce air emissions, including methane and VOCs, associated with natural gas and oil QNatural Gas Value Chain 2012 production. To accomplish this, the Environmental Partnership Q Hess 2017 Q ONE Future 2025 Target has developed three separate Environmental Performance Programs for participating companies to implement and phase * The methane emissions rate represents the ratio of methane emitted (in tonnes) to methane produced into their operations starting January 1, 2018. Hess has agreed to or processed (in tonnes) from U.S.-operated assets. implement all three programs, which are not required for participation in the Partnership. They include the following: 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 45 Drilling Operations, North Dakota ENVIRONMENT Safeguarding the environment is a key operations, where it is used primarily for Freshwater Use Million Cubic Meters aspect of the Hess Values, which set the cooling purposes in both our upstream 10 framework for how we operate. Managing and midstream operations, as well as 8.9 environmental impacts — including water for drilling and completions, including 8 7.6 7.7 and energy use, air emissions, waste hydraulic fracturing. We know water is also and spills — is an important aspect of an important resource for the communities 6 the work we do every day. We dedicate and ecosystems in which we operate. In significant staff and resources to help some areas where we operate, our water 4 ensure compliance with environmental use may be restricted by local limitations laws and regulations, international on water supply and disposal. 2 standards and voluntary commitments. To We are committed, throughout our 0 track our environmental performance and 2015 2016 2017 operations, to evaluating and reducing drive improvement over time, we use key our water footprint. In 2017 we continued QGroundwater performance metrics — including several Q Municipal Water development of our risk-based, lifecycle Q Surface Water factored into our annual incentive plan — approach to managing water, as well as at the asset and enterprise levels. associated improvements to our water 2017 Freshwater Use by Hess sponsors and actively participates data collection process. Facility/Business Function* Thousand Cubic Meters in the Bakken Production Optimization Our total freshwater use for exploration Program — a research program led by and production in 2017 was essentially flat 4% 5% the Energy and Environmental Research compared with 2016. The Seminole Gas Center and funded by the North Dakota 17% Plant in West Texas, which uses water Industrial Commission — that aims to primarily for process cooling, remained our improve Bakken system oil recovery and largest single user of fresh water. The rate 74% reduce the environmental footprint of of freshwater use at the plant increased in Bakken oil and gas operations. Through 2017 because the facility resumed normal this program, Hess has supported operational levels after experiencing research on issues such as TENORM Q Seminole Gas Plant 5,649 downtime for various reasons in 2016. Q North Dakota Drilling and Completions 1,302 (technologically enhanced naturally Due to the sale of our interests in the Q Tioga Gas Plant 318 occurring radioactive material) disposal, Q All Other Operations 383 Permian Basin — including the Seminole flaring reduction and produced water and * There was no freshwater use by Ohio Drilling and Completions in 2017 Gas Plant — we expect our drilling and as there was no drilling activity there during the year. hydrocarbon spill remediation. We also completions activities in North Dakota and voluntarily sponsor and participate in the Ohio to account for the majority of our Hess participates in two industry forums Environmentally Friendly Drilling (EFD) freshwater use going forward. focused on water management to advance program, a partnership among oil and gas companies, academia and environmental We are assessing a range of projects our own performance and contribute organizations and coordinated by the to reduce our freshwater use in North to industrywide knowledge-sharing and Houston Advanced Research Center that Dakota and Ohio, where it is primarily progress. First, we are active participants aims to develop science-based solutions used for hydraulic fracturing. For example, in the IPIECA Water Working Group, to environmental issues associated with we continue to use small quantities which aims to help companies improve oil and gas development. of brackish groundwater for reservoir their water use performance and reduce management in North Dakota. In 2018 we their water footprint by providing sound WATER MANAGEMENT will be ramping up activity levels in these analysis, assessment tools, good practices, Water management is one of our regions, so we expect to see an increase credible data sources and appropriate material issues and a key element of in absolute water use in the short term. indicators. We are also members of the our environment, health, safety and However, as our assets and operational Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. profile continue to change, we are among 18 oil and natural gas companies Water is a critical resource for our assessing the best ways to reduce water to study, describe and improve lifecycle onshore exploration and production use impacts across our operations. water use and management in upstream 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 47 ENVIRONMENT SHALE ENERGY Advances in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing have Certain U.S. state agencies require operators to design casing and resulted in signiﬁcant and rapid growth in shale oil and gas cementing plans that will isolate any underground fresh water development in the U.S. Hess has made signiﬁcant investments in from the contents of the wellbore. Where applicable, we submit two unconventional oil and gas plays — the Bakken Formation in this information in applications for well construction permits, North Dakota, one of the premier U.S. tight oil plays, and the Utica which must be reviewed and approved by regulators. Well designs Formation in Ohio. Oil and gas from these plays constitute about can vary from asset to asset due to differences in the formation, 44 percent of Hess’ total operated production. the management of drilling risks and the application of technology. We recognize that some stakeholders have concerns about the potential effects of shale energy operations on the environment, To help ensure well integrity, our drilling process for new shale public health and safety. The practices we use are well established wells is to line wellbores with multiple layers of steel pipe encased and, in most cases, have been employed in conventional oil and in cement to depths well below the deepest freshwater zones. gas development for many years. Speciﬁcally: We aim to develop our resources responsibly and with minimal ■ A surface casing is installed from the surface to below the lowest impact and, as discussed in the Social Responsibility section, we known freshwater zone and then cemented in that interval to seek to identify and address stakeholder concerns to improve our isolate the freshwater zone, thereby creating a physical barrier performance and enhance our license to operate. All assets between the materials in the well and the strata containing the undergo several stages of detailed, activity-based risk groundwater being protected. assessments during the appraisal, capture, development and ■ Inside the surface casing, another casing is installed and production phases. These multidisciplinary risk assessments allow cemented in place, and an acoustic cement bond log is us to identify mitigation measures we can pursue to help us employed to conﬁrm that the cement barrier meets regulatory protect the environment, the communities in which we operate requirements, where applicable. and the safety of our workforce. Our enterprise risk management process, discussed in the How We Operate section, includes the ■ The well completion is performed through a ﬁnal casing (Ohio) or identiﬁcation and ranking of environmental considerations as well liner (North Dakota) placed inside the production or intermediate as technical review and value assurance activities. We also casing to the depth of the lateral. In North Dakota, a “frac string” perform numerous EHS audits on an annual basis. is then run and connected to the top of the liner. This provides an additional physical barrier to isolate ﬂuids within the well. Well Integrity Whether for conventional or unconventional resource production, ■ To prevent potential fracture stimulation interference — that a key to protecting groundwater is well integrity — that is, working is, stimulating one well and having it result in hydraulic to ensure physical barriers between the wellbore and the communication in nearby wells — existing offset oil and gas surrounding rock and underground aquifers. wells are shut-in during fracturing activity. In addition, the wellhead systems in nearby wells are tested prior to being While hydraulic fracturing processes occur several thousand feet shut-in or additional equipment is installed on wellheads below the Earth’s surface, wellbores pass through groundwaterthat can safely operate within proper distances. bearing zones at shallower depths. Before designing or constructing any well, we investigate the depth and lateral extent ■ During hydraulic fracturing, procedures are in place to of any underground fresh water so that the well can be drilled and operate surface and downhole equipment within their design completed in a way that protects groundwater resources and parameters. conforms to regulatory requirements and Hess standards. Induced seismicity from hydraulic fracturing or underground injection wells has not been an issue for our operations in North Dakota. In Ohio, regulators have implemented measures through the permitting process to address seismicity concerns in the state. Hess follows a monitoring methodology and an operational control process for performing hydraulic fracturing in areas of known faults or areas where previous seismic activity greater than 2.0 magnitude has occurred. Well integrity continues to be an important issue for safeguarding the subsurface long after the construction and initial hydraulic fracturing has been completed. At the end Intermediate Conductor Casing of well life we follow similar measures to ensure the wells are Casing permanently plugged and abandoned in compliance with Hess, regulatory and industry standards. Cement Freshwater Aquifer Surface Casing Frac String See the expanded Shale Energy section at hess.com/sustainability/ environment/shale-energy Bakken example. Drawing is not to scale. 48 unconventional oil and natural gas In addition, we are identifying locations We also participate in the Cross-Sector exploration and production. In 2018 Hess where we may need to conduct new Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of will partner with the EFD program to review biological risk assessments and develop IPIECA, the International Council on Mining beneficial uses of produced water in shale mitigation plans as a result of these listings. and Metals and the Equator Principles energy operations. Already, we have adjusted drilling site Association. This initiative brings the locations to accommodate habitat features mining, oil and gas and financial sectors BIODIVERSITY and priorities for certain species. together to develop and share good We are committed to conserving practices for safeguarding biodiversity and biodiversity and habitats in the places Hess utilizes third-party software programs, ecosystems. where we operate. We consider the such as the Integrated Biodiversity protection of biodiversity in our decision Assessment Tool, to identify protected WASTE making and management from the earliest areas and key biodiversity areas as well We generate a variety of waste streams, stages of exploration and development as specific species listings. We maintain a including waste specific to drilling and through production and closure at every list of IUCN Red List species with habitats production activities. For each Hess Hess location around the globe. that overlap with our operations. (See asset, we manage waste through specific table below, which provides a snapshot of waste management plans designed to We conduct formal environmental and relevant species at the time of publication comply with all applicable regulatory and social impact assessments (ESIAs) on of this report.) The IUCN updates the Red Hess requirements for that location, as major capital projects as part of site List species classifications regularly based well as protect human health and the evaluation, selection and risk assessment. on new information and improved data environment. These plans, which are These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline from ongoing third-party studies, and we developed to align with the Hess Waste studies as well as screenings of identified update our species list accordingly. Management Standard, require application species using the International Union of our waste minimization principles of for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red IUCN RED LIST SPECIES “Remove, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, List and other threatened, endangered CATEGORY SPECIES (COUNT) Recover, Treat and Dispose” — with and protected species lists. We use Critically Endangered 22 disposal being the least-preferred option. the results of ESIAs to create mitigation strategies, where appropriate. Even Endangered 61 In 2017 we generated approximately where the conditions or circumstances Vulnerable 240 157,000 tonnes of solid waste, more do not call for a full ESIA, we still routinely than 98 percent of which was classified Near Threatened 258 conduct biodiversity risk screenings and as nonhazardous according to applicable impact assessments and undertake We also identify IUCN protected areas regulations. Our overall waste generation appropriate mitigation activities. In (categories I-III) adjacent to our operations. volume was higher in 2017 compared addition, we conduct assessments when In 2017 there were two such areas, both in to 2016 due to an increase in asset the classification of species and habitats North Dakota (Lostwood Wilderness Area retirement obligations. changes in areas where we operate. and Theodore Roosevelt National Park). We also disposed of approximately As part of our goal to mature biodiversity We regularly work with our industry 39,700 tonnes of drill cuttings from our management at Hess’ global assets, peers on biodiversity-related issues. For North Dakota asset at licensed disposal we have been developing threatened example, we are an active member of sites in 2017. These drill cuttings, as and endangered species field guides for the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services well as the discharges from our offshore personnel to use during field activities. We Working Group of IPIECA. We also facilities (discussed in the next section), have completed guides for our Bakken participate in the Endangered Species are not included in our overall waste and Utica assets, as well as our Permian Working Group of the American Petroleum totals per IPIECA reporting guidance. asset (sold in 2017), with guides for other Institute (API) to discuss oil and gas We have continued our efforts to assets planned over the next few years. development with the goal of proactively reduce landfilled piping waste by balancing development with environmental We monitor the addition of new species to decontaminating it (i.e., removing the decision making that aims to minimize the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s national TENORM) and recycling it instead. biodiversity impacts. endangered and threatened species lists. 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 49 ENVIRONMENT Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea In 2017 we recycled 3,561 tonnes of International SOS. Hess representatives nonhazardous piping waste in North serve on the board of directors of the Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) 90 87 30 Dakota due to these efforts. OSRL and on the executive committee Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) 81 80 of Clean Gulf Associates, a not-for-profit 70 25 DISCHARGES FROM OFFSHORE 70 oil spill cooperative that supports the Gulf FACILITIES 60 18 17 20 of Mexico. 50 15 Discharges from our offshore facilities 15 40 include drilling mud, drill cuttings and Our international subsea preparedness and 30 10 produced water. These waste streams are response capabilities are supported by the 20 5 either reinjected for disposal or reservoir Subsea Well Intervention Service and Wild 10 management, discharged directly to Well Control. In the Gulf of Mexico, we 0 0 2015 2016 2017 the ocean (when allowed by applicable are members and serve on the executive regulations) or transported to shore for committee of the Marine Well Containment OOil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) OOil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) treatment and disposal or recycling. Company. These organizations provide well capping, containment and dispersant In 2017 our offshore facilities discharged capabilities as well as equipment and to sea approximately 6,700 tonnes of Hydrocarbon Spills personnel mutual aid. nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, 6,000 200 which included 600 tonnes of nonaqueous We are also active members of the Oil 5,130 180 base fluid. Spill Response Joint Industry Project 5,000 160 organized by IPIECA and the International Volume of Spills (Barrels) 140 Offshore produced water discharges 4,000 Association of Oil and Gas Producers. Number of Spills 120 to sea totaled an estimated 5.7 million Hess also participates in several of the 3,000 86 85 100 cubic meters in 2017. Produced water API’s preparedness and response efforts, 80 66 discharges had an average oil content 2,000 60 including serving as the chair of the of 17 parts per million volume (PPMV), 984 40 Oil Spill Emergency Preparedness and 1,000 626 totaling 70 tonnes of oil discharged. 20 Response Subcommittee, the Pandemic This data reflects a decrease in both the 0 0 Planning Working Group and the Oil-Rail 2015 2016 2017 concentration and total oil discharged Emergency Response Joint Working QVolume of Spills compared to 2016. Group. We also contribute to the IPIECA ONumber of Spills SPILL PREVENTION Oil Spill Working Group in support of our Hess maintains spill preparedness and international businesses. Nonhydrocarbon Spills response plans and conducts emergency We track LOPC events through our incident response exercises at each of our assets. reporting system by size and material and 25,000 200 To support a swift and effective response report spills following applicable industry 180 to any loss of primary containment (LOPC) 20,131 and regulatory guidance. We also use 20,000 160 incident, we maintain strong relationships leading and lagging indicators to monitor Volume of Spills (Barrels) 127 140 with mutual aid and emergency response Number of Spills 15,000 120 LOPC performance, including continuing organizations at the local, regional and 100 to tie LOPC performance to our annual global levels. Hess’ international oil spill 10,000 61 80 incentive plan. 60 response needs are supported by our 5,000 27 40 partnership with Oil Spill Response Limited Hess continues to have a trend of year2,667 20 (OSRL), an international, industry-funded over-year reductions in overall (hydrocarbon 600 0 0 cooperative that responds to oil spills and nonhydrocarbon combined) spills. In 2015 2016 2017 globally. Our domestic needs are supported 2017 our number of hydrocarbon spills QVolume of Spills by Marine Spill Response Corporation, increased slightly, but the volume of spills ONumber of Spills Clean Gulf Associates, Sakakawea Area decreased. The number and volume of Spill Response Mutual Aid, Tri-State Bird nonhydrocarbon spills decreased in 2017 Rescue and Research, Control Risks and compared to 2016. Our overall decrease 50 in 2017 can be attributed in part to a We observed a decrease in normalized SO2 Air Emissions reduction in activity during the year and emissions for 2017, mainly due to reduced 102.1 100 an increased focus on improvement. We flaring at the Seminole Gas Plant (which had Emissions (Tonnes per Million BOE) 83.1 86.4 realize that in order to maintain this positive experienced a number of operational upset 77.2 80 trend, we will have to remain diligent in our events leading to increased SO2 emissions 72.8 71.1 spill prevention efforts as activity continues in recent years) and the Tubular Bells Field 60 to ramp up in 2018. (which was being commissioned in 2016 and therefore had relatively higher flaring 40 28.6 We have been working to implement a 23.6 24.1 and lower production during that year). range of programs to continue our focus 20 on spill prevention. To address spills that REGULATORY COMPLIANCE 0 result from corrosion and integrity issues, AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 2015 2016 2017 for example, we continue to enhance our Hess, as well as a number of other OSO2 Intensity O NOX Intensity O VOC Intensity inspection and surveillance programs, Bakken operators, entered into a Consent upgrade external corrosion protection and Decree with the North Dakota Department use of corrosion inhibitors, and replace or of Health (NDDoH) in 2017 resolving Strengthening our regulatory assurance redesign pipes. We have also continued alleged noncompliance with state air program is one of the six components to expand spill-related worksite controls, pollution laws and provisions of the federal of our EHS & SR strategy. Internal such as fluid transfer checklists, and spill Clean Air Act. Hess helped lead the assurance also helps us to ensure prevention training. The process safety consultative process within the industry, the effectiveness of our management assessment completed in 2017 and the which was foundational for individual systems. As part of our long-term asset integrity assessments we have company discussions with the NDDoH. compliance strategy, our regulatory been pursuing (see the Safety and Health team continued to expand the use of The majority of our expenditures on section) should also help to drive improved a compliance tracking tool at our U.S. environmental fines and penalties in 2017 LOPC performance. assets in 2017. Key enhancements to — $798,850 of the total $841,600 — were our compliance tool in 2017 included AIR EMISSIONS the result of this agreement. We worked the addition of a mobile application The normal operation of fuel combustion quickly to make our operations compliant for field assurance personnel and and processing equipment as well as with the agreement, and the amount paid synchronization with our work order flaring activities results in air emissions of represents a reduced penalty based on system. We are already seeing benefits nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur dioxide (SO2) our meeting compliance dates within from this enhancement in North Dakota, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). the Consent Decree. Other expenditures where we have decreased the turnaround Fugitive emission sources, including those were related to various alleged offshore time for repairs identified through LDAR related to product loading and storage, also violations ($32,750) and an alleged inspections. We have also formalized the can contribute to VOC emissions. water discharge permit exceedance process for assigning work material flows at a remediation system within our In 2017 our normalized emissions of to field personnel — with the goal of discontinued operations ($10,000). VOCs and NOX increased compared to increasing accountability and efficiency of 2016.The upward trend in VOC emissions As mentioned in the Climate Change any repairs that are needed. intensity may be attributable to the initial and Energy section, we have established In addition, we are working through the quantification of VOC leaks as determined an LDAR program across all of our U.S. API’s Pipeline Safety Management System by our newly implemented leak detection operations as a way to achieve reductions group to implement API Recommended and repair (LDAR) program for upstream as part of our ONE Future and API Practice 1173, which is related to pipeline facilities in the Bakken. The upward trend Environmental Partnership commitments, safety management systems. A key in NOX emissions intensity is attributable in addition to complying with the Consent aspect of our commitment to this initiative in part to a continued increase in drilling Decree in North Dakota. is the evaluation and enhancement of our activity — and the associated increase in For a detailed description of our LDAR program integrity management systems pertaining the use of diesel-powered equipment — visit hess.com/sustainability/environment to pipelines. at Hess assets in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Malay Basin. 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 51 PERFORMANCE DATA UNITS 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 5,466 4,762 6,636 10,737 11,905 Net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million (4,074) (6,132) (3,056) 2,317 5,052 Total assets $ Million 23,112 28,621 34,157 38,372 42,482 Total debt $ Million 6,977 6,806 6,592 5,952 5,765 Stockholders’ equity $ Million 12,354 15,591 20,401 22,320 24,784 Debt to capitalization ratio % 36.1 30.4 24.4 21.2 19.0 EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION Total net hydrocarbons produced Thousand BOE/D 306 322 375 329 336 Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,154 1,109 1,086 1,431 1,437 Liquids (crude oil (light and medium oils), condensate & natural gas liquids) % 72 74 76 78 77 Gas % 28 26 24 22 23 Reserve life Years 10 9 8 12 12 Replaced production % 351 119 NM 158 118 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 2,168 2,154 4,338 5,606 6,209 Income tax expense/(beneﬁt) $ Million (1,837) 2,222 (1,299) 744 565 Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 379 330 457 707 807 Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 363 350 287 303 235 Employee wages and beneﬁts (U.S.) $ Million 603 707 791 1,040 1,037 Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 325 338 341 323 406 Operating costs $/BOE 14 16 15 17 17 Supplier spend (approximate) $ Billion 5 6 7 8 8 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Total social investment $ Million 16 20 22 42 37 Education % 54 82 83 80 52 Health % 1 <1 1 1 2 Disaster relief % 8 1 <1 2 3 Community contributions (not in-kind) % 27 15 14 13 25 In-kind % 2 1 <1 4 12 Civic and employee % <1 1 0 <1 0 Arts and culture % 1 <1 1 <1 6 Environment % 6 1 <1 <1 <1 OUR PEOPLE Number of permanent employees # 2,075 2,304 2,770 3,039 12,128 U.S. % 85 83 79 78 91 International % 15 17 21 22 9 Part-time employees % 0 0 0 1 27 Full-time employees % 100 100 100 99 73 Employee turnover – voluntary ¤ % 5 5 5 9 13 Employee layoffs ¤ % 13 18 8 20 15 Female employees (U.S. and international) % 28 27 27 28 43 Minority employees (U.S.) % 23 25 24 24 39 Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 2 2 3 1 4 SAFETY PERFORMANCE Fatalities – workforce (employees + contractors) # 0 0 0 0 0 Hours worked – workforce Million hours 20.8 21.7 28.6 37.8 47.1 Employee total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.09 0.10 0.24 0.20 0.20 Contractor total recordable incident rate* Per 200,000 hours worked 0.31 0.50 0.39 0.45 0.60 Workforce total recordable incident rate* Per 200,000 hours worked 0.24 0.39 0.36 0.40 0.52 Employee lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.03 0.06 0.03 0.00 0.05 Contractor lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.10 0.15 0.10 0.14 0.16 Workforce lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.08 0.13 0.08 0.12 0.14 Employee occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.06 0.00 0.09 0.00 0.02 Contractor occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.08 0.14 0.25 0.24 0.13 Workforce occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.08 0.10 0.21 0.20 0.11 Products with Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100 Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. See Approach to Reporting for details. NM: Not meaningful. ¤ The values for 2015 and 2016 voluntary employee turnover and employee layoffs have been updated from those stated in our 2016 Sustainability Report to address discrepancies noted during a recent review of the data. * The 2016 total recordable incident rates for contractors and workforce have been revised from those stated in our 2016 Sustainability Report to reﬂect the removal of a medical treatment case, which was determined to be non-Hess-related. 52 UNITS 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Volume of ﬂared and vented hydrocarbons MMSCF 22,009 26,991 36,121 35,987 29,356 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million tonnes CO2e 3.7 4.1 5.1 4.8 4.4 CO2 Million tonnes CO2e 3.4 3.7 4.7 4.4 4.2 CH4 Thousand tonnes CO2e 313.4 296.9 403.7 403.1 166.5 N2O Thousand tonnes CO2e 2.7 2.3 2.7 28.4 31.1 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source Flaring/venting % 52 52 63 61 54 Fuel combustion % 42 43 33 35 41 Other % 6 5 4 3 5 Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million tonnes CO2e 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.6 0.8 CO2 Million tonnes CO2e 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.8 CH4 Thousand tonnes CO2e 0.9 0.2 0.2 0.3 nil N2O Thousand tonnes CO2e 1.9 2.4 2.4 2.7 3.1 Equity GHG emissions (includes HOVENSA) Million tonnes CO2e 4.0 4.2 5.5 6.0 6.6 Scope 3 emissions – use of sold products Million tonnes CO2e 10.0 9.1 9.7 11.5 13.9 ENERGY USE Production energy intensity ◊ Gigajoules/BOE 0.27 0.29 0.23 0.23 0.25 Operated direct energy use Thousand gigajoules 25,831 29,973 27,506 25,829 26,421 Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand gigajoules 7,290 8,273 8,642 8,597 7,429 Net purchased electricity by primary energy source** Thousand MWh 790 896 936 865 688 Green-e certiﬁed renewable energy certiﬁcates (wind power) Thousand MWh 90 100 135 125 140 FRESHWATER USE Groundwater Million cubic meters 5.6 5.7 6.0 6.2 6.3 Municipal water Million cubic meters 1.2 0.6 1.2 1.9 3.8 Surface water Million cubic meters 0.8 1.2 1.7 2.2 0.5 Reused/recycled (estimated) % 7.7 14.5 12.0 9.0 8.0 SOLID WASTE Nonhazardous Thousand tonnes 154.4 92.5 252.5 118.8 144.2 Hazardous Thousand tonnes 2.6 0.9 0.4 1.1 3.6 Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Tonnes 0 0 0 0 22 LIQUID WASTE† Nonhazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 48.28 73.05 7,275.07 5,295.63 2.22 Hazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 0.00 10.52 18.44 0.50 0.00 SPILLS Hydrocarbon spills – number # 85 66 86 116 110 Hydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 626 984 5,130 1,448 1,090 Nonhydrocarbon spills – number # 27 61 127 103 99 Nonhydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 600 2,667 20,131 2,813 2,786 AIR EMISSIONS (EXCLUDES GHGS) ◊ Sulfur dioxide (SO2) Tonnes 2,987 3,804 3,727 2,016 2,888 SO2 intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 24.1 28.6 23.6 13.7 21.7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Tonnes 12,665 10,261 11,515 9,595 10,270 NOx intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 102.1 77.2 72.8 65.2 77.2 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 10,724 9,441 13,133 13,288 12,279 VOC intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 86.4 71.1 83.1 90.3 92.3 EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION DISCHARGES Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 70 87 81 70 136 Oil in produced water to sea PPMV 17 18 15 14 10 Produced water to sea Million cubic meters 5.7 6.4 6.5 6.0 16.7 OTHER ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS ISO 14001-certiﬁed operations % of production 5 6 5 7 2 ISO 14001-certiﬁed operations # 1 1 1 2 2 Environmental ﬁnes and penalties – operated $ Thousand 842 24 25 84 509 Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 15 10 13 12 16 Environmental reserve $ Million 80 80 80 80 65 Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. See Approach to Reporting for details. 9 The annual gross operated hydrocarbon production (normalization factor) for 2017 was 124,064,440 BOE. ** Third-party power generation. † Historical waste data have been restated to separately report solid and liquid waste where possible. Liquid waste totals include wastewater treatment. Liquid waste totals for 2014–2017 include deep well disposal. Deep well disposal for 2013 is included in the landﬁll category and cannot be separated out. 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 53 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance on the 2017 Sustainability Report (the Report). ENGAGEMENT SUMMARY Scope: Whether the Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. Reporting Criteria: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2016 (Core option). Assurance Standard: ERM CVS’s assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). Assurance Level: Limited assurance. Respective Responsibilities: ■ Hess is responsible for preparing the Report and for its correct presentation, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary. ■ ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgment. OUR CONCLUSIONS Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Report is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Standards 2016 (Core option). OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusion. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed the following activities: ■ A review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period. ■ Interviews with relevant staff to understand Hess’ sustainability strategy, policies and management systems. ■ Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the information. ■ A site visit to Hess’ asset in the North Malay Basin, offshore Malaysia, as well as a remote verification of Hess’ production operations in North Dakota, to verify the source data for the assets’ sustainability performance indicators for 2017 and to review sustainability management implementation at the asset level. ■ An analytical review of the 2017 data for the sustainability performance indicators from all assets and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the data consolidation at the Hess corporate level. ■ A visit to Hess’ head office in Houston, Texas, to review the consolidation process and the results of the internal data validation process, and to conduct interviews with subject matter experts regarding the content of the Report. ■ A review of samples of documentary evidence, including internal and external documents, relating to the assertions made regarding 2017 sustainability performance and activities in the Report. ■ A review of selected evidence related to the design, information collection and production of the Report in accordance with GRI requirements. ■ A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings. THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. OUR OBSERVATIONS We have provided Hess with a separate detailed management report including our observations. ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc., Atlanta www.ermcvs.com Email: post@ermcvs.com Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Head of Corporate Assurance 22 June 2018 ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conﬂict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff who have undertaken this engagement work have provided no consultancy-related services to Hess in any respect. 54 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION SUSTAINABILITY WORKFORCE ■C  DP Climate Change leadership status for ■ STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index for fifth ■ Woman Engineer magazine’s Top 50 ninth consecutive year consecutive year Employers ■D  ow Jones Sustainability Index North ■ MSCI ESG Indexes for sixth consecutive year ■ Workforce Diversity magazine’s Top 50 America for eighth consecutive year – MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes Employers ■C  orporate Responsibility Magazine’s – MSCI SRI Indexes ■ Hispanic Network magazine’s Best 100 Best Corporate Citizens for tenth – MSCI KLD 400 Social Index of the Best Employers consecutive year ■ The Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Award ■ Black EOE Journal’s Best of the Best – Leading independent oil and gas company for Excellence in Health and Safety Employers ■C  orporate Knights’ Global 100 Most ■ Excellent MPM Award for Safety, Health ■ Careers and the disABLED magazine’s Sustainable Corporations for the third time & Environment Top 50 Employers ■T  homson Reuters Top 100 Global Energy Leader MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS ■ American Petroleum Institute ■ Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative ■ IPIECA ■ Center for Offshore Safety ■ Independent Petroleum Association ■ Oil Gas Denmark ■ Center for Strategic and International of America ■ National Petroleum Council Studies ■ International Association of Oil and ■ U.S. Chamber of Commerce ■ Council on Foreign Relations Gas Producers SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Social This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, Responsibility Policy or Human Rights Policy, or for more information expectations and other forward-looking statements, including regarding our operations, please visit our website at hess.com. information about sustainability goals and targets and planned We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this social, safety and environmental policies, programs and initiatives. report. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more These statements reflect the company’s current views with respect information or additional copies of this report, please contact: to future events and the company’s performance. No assurance can be given that the development or continuation of any policy, program Vice President, or initiative expressed in any forward-looking statement will be Environment, Health and Safety achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those Hess Corporation expected for a number of reasons, including risk factors affecting 1501 McKinney Street the company’s business. A discussion of these risk factors Houston, TX 77010 is included in the company’s annual report of Form 10-K filed You can also send us an email at sustainability@hess.com. with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified The savings below are achieved when PCW Savings from the use of emission-free printer with Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC®) Chain of Custody, printed the Hess Sustainability recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: wind-generated electricity: Report with the use of renewable wind power 73 trees preserved for the future 5,307 pounds of GHG emissions not generated resulting in nearly zero carbon emissions. This report was printed on FSC®-certified Mohawk Options 5 pounds of water pollutants not created Displaces this amount of fossil fuel: paper, a process-chlorine-free 100 percent postconsumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely 34,217 gallons of water saved 2.65 barrels of natural oil unused with 100 percent certified wind energy and containing Design: incdesign.com 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber. 6,309 pounds of net greenhouse gases In other words your savings from the use of (GHGs) prevented wind-generated electricity are equivalent to: 33 million British thermal units of energy 2,720 miles not driven not consumed 30 trees planted 2017 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 55 LEARN MORE AT WWW.HESS.COM/SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SAFETY AND HEALTH OUR PEOPLE A review of social responsibility as Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, Creating a company culture and a way of doing business every day, home safe high-quality workforce that innovates, www.hess.com/sustainability/socialwww.hess.com/sustainability/safety-health leads and learns responsibility www.hess.com/careers/life-at-hess ENVIRONMENT CLIMATE CHANGE Responsible management of our GRI CONTENT INDEX AND ENERGY environmental footprint Performance against GRI Standards Balancing the world’s growing energy www.hess.com/sustainability/environment indicators needs with cost-effective greenhouse www.hess.com/sustainability/ gas emissions reduction policy sustainability-reports/GRI-Index www.hess.com/sustainability/climatechange-energy www.hess.com
