Road to sustainability 2018 Sustainability Report Content CEO Message 003 1 HIGHLIGHTS 1.1 Milestones 005 1.2 2017 Highlights 008 5 1.3 CSV Highlights 012 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 2.1 Company Overview 032 2.2 Corporate Governance 036 2.3 Business Performance 038 2.4 Financial Highlights 041 8 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values 042 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 3.1 Our System 044 3.2 Our Value 050 43 4 APPENDICES 4.1 Facts & Figures 4.2 GRI Index 111 121 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement 126 4.4 About This Report 129 12 4.5 S  ustainability Management Materiality Analysis 130 This report has been published as an interactive PDF, allowing readers to move quickly and easily to pages in the report, and including shortcuts to related web pages. Reference Page Related Link Video Clip homepage facebook youtube instagram twitter CEO Message For Hyundai Motor Company (Hyundai), 2017 was a worthwhile year sized enterprises to convert their production sites into a ‘smart-factory’ in that the efforts and investments we had made to secure sustainable by 2019, and thus help them reduce product defects and improve future yielded definitive results. Though the business environment productivity. Moreover, we will be more proactive in providing support remained challenging amid the protracting low-growth trend worldwide for our suppliers so that they secure future competitiveness. in addition to the spread of protectionism and intensifying competition in the automobile industry, all of us at Hyundai worked in unison to As for respecting our people, labor rights and workplace safety have ensure a fundamental competitiveness that can sustain the weight of been improved significantly in 2017. ‘Nine Safety Golden Rules’ any hardships. We also strived to build on the customer and market were adopted at our production sites, ‘Global Safety Standards’ were trust we had earned, and created the value of happiness which grows established by country, management safety leadership lectures were together based on the belief that innovative technology can change our conducted, video conferences were held on safety checks in overseas society for the better. factories, and other safety-focused measures were implemented. As a result of these efforts, we recorded 0% in fatal accident rate both at As a result of these efforts, in 2017 we made meaningful achievements in home and abroad. all our five sustainability values – Customer, Environment, Collaboration, People and Community. Lastly, in creating sustainable value for local communities, we faithfully fulfill our responsibilities as a responsible global corporate citizen In enhancing customer value, we focused on providing automobiles that through the conduct of diverse community action programs, including excel in convenience and safety as well as quality. Our superior quality creating the IONIQ Forest and running traffic safety campaigns in Korea, was once again acknowledged worldwide as we received top ratings in and helping educate children and improve the local environment of the Vehicle Dependability Study (VDS), conducted by J.D. Power and the Valparaiso region, Chile, supporting a rainwater filtration project Associates, and Genesis brand ranked No. 1 in the US Consumer Report in the Philippine for supplying drinking water, and the Hyundai Green satisfaction survey. Also, by rolling out ‘Sonata Custom Fit’, of which the Zone China project for preventing desert encroachment. Moreover, by origin was inspired by customer suggestions, we have demonstrated redefining our CSV strategy system, we further solidified the platform that we listen to customer voices and reflect their needs in product for more systematic social contributions. development. Moreover, by successfully conducting IONIQ EV’s Dear Readers, autonomous driving at night and daytime in downtown Las Vegas, U.S., Looking forward, we will do our utmost to create shared value together we substantiated our will and technical prowess to bring auto accidents with communities in all our business operations by cultivating a I sincerely appreciate all of to zero. creative and can-do mindset in communicating and cooperating with your steadfast support for all stakeholders. Though the global automobile market environment is In being responsible for the environment, we set up a mid-to-long-term more than likely to remain challenging in 2018, we will cope with any Hyundai Motor Company. electrification vision centered on electric vehicles, and made public our difficulties by proactively responding to the ever-changing environment goal and strategies to lead the global electrification market by 2025. and accelerate the speed of innovation toward sustainable growth. We In addition, we opened ‘Hydrogen Electric House’ in Seoul as a way to will do our best to help more people see automobiles not just as a means publicize the eco-friendliness and convenience of hydrogen energy. of transportation but a lifetime partner leading to more convenient and Going forward, we plan to expand the exhibition house into a special pleasant lives than ever before. Please continue your interest in and place where the future energy can be experienced today. support for Hyundai Motor Company as we move forward, not through short cuts but through right ways, toward a new horizon of sustainability. President & CEO, In promoting win-win collaboration, we strived to establish a longHyundai Motor Company term trust, supporting the growth of and building lasting relationships Thank you. Won Hee Lee with business partners. We will support around 650 small and medium2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 003 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai Motor Company marked its 50th anniversary in 2017. We have grown into a global automaker by taking on challenges and driving innovation in the Korean automobile industry, which had no infrastructure at all when we first began our business. 2017 was the year of laying the foundation for new growth, and 2018 will be the first year of opening the new era of change and innovation, based on which we will achieve sustainable growth in partnership with our stakeholders. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 004 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Milestones History of Hyundai Motor Company 1967 1976 2000 Incorporation of Launch of Hyundai Pony, the first September of 2000 marks the Hyundai Motor Company Korean passenger car; and First foundation of Hyundai Motor export of Hyundai Pony to Ecuador Group. The launch of Korea’s first auto-specializing group 1967-2000 Beginning of the Global Era with Hyundai Motor Company and Kia Motors as its flagships The beginnings. With its first overseas subsidiary, established in 1983 in Canada, Hyundai has been expanding into Europe and Asia, building a has ushered in another era of growth for Korea’s auto industry, marked by the global network worthy of a global automaker. Group’s setting of a one million Since its establishment in 1967, Hyundai Motor Company has grown milestone in vehicle exports in 1983 Incorporation of the Canadian subsidiary HAC the year. to become a global automaker by tirelessly challenging itself to 1985 Incorporation of the U.S. subsidiary HMA new possibility and thus setting a number of first and best records, 1995 Inauguration of the Hyundai Motor Europe Technical Center (HMETC) including the Korea’s first passenger car ‘Pony’. 1995 Completion of the Jeonju commercial vehicle manufacturing plant 1996 Inauguration of the Namyang Technology Research Center 1997 Completion of the Turkey plant and Asan plant Record of Firsts 1998 Completion of India plant 1991 • Development of Alpha engine, the first engine 1989 O  verseas exports of Excel surpass 1 million units created in Korea 1994 Annual production surpasses 1 million units 1992 • Unveiling of HCD-I, 1,000,000 Korea’s first concept car 1999 • Development of Korea’s first automotive fuel cell battery 2000 • Development of Korea’s first passenger diesel engine and large commercial engine; and Development of Korea’s first fuel cell electric vehicle Santa Fe 1996 Cumulative production surpasses 10 million units 10,000,000 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 005 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Global Management Hyundai has built production bases in the U.S., China, India, Czech Republic and Russia in order to establish a global production system, and by practicing global management based on localization, gathering growth momentum in the global market. 2002 2003 2004 2001-2010 Production of Establishment Cumulative exports 2005 Establishment of the Alabama plant and New momentum. Sonata begins of the Europe surpass 10 million units Hyundai America Technical Center in China Technical Center Exports to Central & South 2006 America surpass 1 million units 2007 2008 2009 2010 Coming into the 21st century, Hyundai Motor Company built new growth momentum as it focused on creating not only economic value Cumulative sales in the U.S. Establishment of the Establishment of Cumulative sales of surpass 5 million units; Launch 2nd plant in India; the Czech plant; Sonata surpass 5 million as a global company but also social and environmental values as of European strategic model i30; and Establishment and Sales of Santa units; Cumulative sales a global corporate citizen. and Inauguration of the Brazilian of the 2nd plant in Fe surpass 2 million by HMI surpass 3 million CKD plant Beijing units units; and Establishment of the Russia plant Environmental Value No. 1 in the World 2003 P  roclaimed Global Environmental Management 2004 Sonata placed first in J.D. Power’s IQS 2005 Establishment of the Environmental Technology 2006 No.1 non-premium nameplate in J.D. Power’s IQS Research Center 2008 Tau engine named ‘10 Best Engines Winners’ 2008 Launch of Blue Drive brand for green models by Ward’s Auto 2009 Genesis named ‘North American Car of the Year’ 2010 2012 Elantra received the Residual Value Award from ALG; Tucson ix named as the safest car by Sowing the seeds of innovation for the IIHS of the U.S. Clean Mobility Social Value 2001 Unveiling of the fuel cell electric vehicle Santa Fe 2005  Launch of the volunteer corps and the ‘Moving 2007 Unveiling of the 3rd generation fuel cell concept the World Together’ campaign car i-Blue 2007 Launch of Korea’s first Global CSR Website 2010 Development of Tucson fuel cell electric vehicle; 2008 Launch of the Happy Move Global Youth and Launch of the eco-friendly electric car Volunteers BlueOn 2010 Establishment of a social enterprise, Easy Move Inc.; Production presentation of ‘Robocar Poli’ and appointment ceremony for road safety ambassadors 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 006 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Global Brand Ranking by Interbrad Since its 2005 selection as one of top 100 ‘Best Global Brands’ chosen by Interbrand, 2016 Hyundai has steadily been improving its brand value, making the top 50 list in 2013 and then 2013 2005 ranked 35th in 2017 for two consecutive years. 2011-2017 Lifetime partner. Future Mobility Hyundai Motorstudio 2011 B  lue Link introduced at the 2011 International Establishment of Hyundai Motorstudio 2014  Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in the U.S. Seoul 2013 W  orld’s 1st mass production of ix35 (Tucson) 2015 E  stablishment of Hyundai Motorstudio fuel cell electric vehicles; and Unveiling of Moscow and Hyundai Motorstudio Digital HND-6, next generation smart car concept 2016 E  stablishment of Hyundai Motorstudio Hyundai Motor Company pursues a ‘Lifetime partner in car, at the CES Hanam automobiles and beyond’. By seeing a crisis as opportunity 2016 L  aunch of Project IONIQ; and Unveiling of the 2017 E  stablishment of Hyundai Motorstudio development strategy for future connected Beijing and seeking possibilities among limits, we will write a new cars chapter of future mobility as a most beloved brand. 2017 U  nveiling of the 3 future mobility directions at the CES; Establishment of the Intelligent Safety Technology Center dedicated to the development of autonomous vehicles; and Establishment of Hyundai CRADLE In Silicon Valley Launched global luxury brand ‘Genesis’ and EQ900 in 2015; Launched Genesis G80 in 2016; and Launched Genesis G70 in 2017 Eco-friendly Model Line-up 2011 Sonata Hybrid 2013 Grandeur Hybrid 2015 Sonata Plug-in Hybrid 2016 IONIQ Hybrid, IONIQ Electric 2017 IONIQ Plug-in Hybrid 2018 NEXO, Kona Electric 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 007 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices 2017 Highlights Surround View Blind Spot Blind Spot Detection Detection Customer Surround View Surround View Traffic Sign Recognition Hyundai Motor’s Autonomous IONIQ in Las Vegas Cross Traffic Alert Pedestrian Detection Adaptive Cruise Control Product Succeeded Level 4 autonomous driving at Achieved the best ranking in VDS conducted by night for the first time in the world J.D. Power and Associates Hyundai’s IONIQ autonomous driving vehicle won favorable reviews Hyundai has achieved its best ranking ever in the 2018 Vehicle from participants at the 2017 International CES held in Las Vegas, U.S., Dependability Study1) conducted by the US market research firm, especially following a demonstration of the night-time autonomous J.D. Power and Associates, recording 6th of all 31 brands and 3rd of driving capabilities that are enabled by its high-performance Light 19 non-premium brands. The Tucson was ranked 1st in the small SUV Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) sensor, object-recognition camera, GPS category, and the Santa Fe won second place in the mid-sized SUV antenna, and high-resolution mapping data technology. It successfully category. This important achievement is a result of our commitment completed nighttime autonomous driving on crossroads, underpasses, to quality innovation. crosswalks, and lane-joining sections in the city surrounding the Las 1) Conducted with customers who purchased their vehicles in the U.S. no less than three Vegas Convention Center, proving our advanced autonomous driving years ago, and between September 2014 and February 2015, in order to ascertain their technology. The IONIQ thus became the first car to achieve nightsatisfaction towards dependability on 177 items; based on the number of complaints per 100 units, lower score means a higher quality satisfaction level time Level 4 autonomous driving, as categorized by the US Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE). This is the second-highest of the five P. 62 defined levels, which is defined as ‘High Automation’. P. 52-53 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 008 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Opened the Hyundai Motorstudio Beijing We opened the Hyundai Motorstudio Beijing in 2017 in order to widen the channels through which we communicate with customers and publicize our brand in China. The two-story H-Ombudsman Sonata Custom Fit Hyundai Motorstudio Beijing offers a book lounge on the first floor with an air-purifying system and car-related books, and there are a number of art galleries on the second floor. We will use Hyundai Motorstudio Beijing to create opportunities to publicize our brand through a convergence between cars and art, and as a space for supporting the active exchange of ideas between designers, artists and the public. P. 60 Service Launched the ‘Sonata Custom Fit’, created by customers The ‘Sonata Custom Fit’ was created in partnership with our customers through the ‘H-Ombudsman’ customer communications program, and it was launched in December 2017, and sold for one month. This was the first time in Korea that customers provided ideas for a vehicle that was then actually produced and sold. Approximately 30 customers participated in the overall production process, ranging from key specifications to trim composition and the model name. Basic specifications include a 1.6-liter turbo gasoline engine, rack-type motor-driven power steering, and tuning amplitude selective damper. P. 59 Hyundai Motorstudio Beijing 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 009 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Expanded the visiting EV charging service Environment to nationwide In Korea, our visiting charging service for electric vehicles (EV) was expanded to cover entire nation. In the event of an emergency, such as a discharge of electricity while driving, our staff goes directly to the site and takes necessary measures. This service was previously available Promoted the popularization of FCEVs only in Seoul, but, with vehicles now in operation nationwide, we have Hyundai focused on publicizing fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEVs) and expanded coverage to entire nation. The visiting EV charging service related technologies during the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Olympics can be used for free four times a year for five years, and a single charge and Paralympics, as part of our efforts to promote the popularization enables around 44km1) of travel. of FCEVs. We used third-generation FCEV buses as Olympic shuttle 1) Based on the IONIQ EV buses, showcasing their substantially improved driving distances P. 56 and charging times, the air purification function, and safety features, including fatigue prevention. We also provided visitors with the opportunity to experience autonomous driving in the ‘Nexo’ FCEV. By offering test-drives of the Nexo, which is equipped with Hyundai’s advanced autonomous driving technologies as well as air purification and other eco-friendly functions, we were able to publicize not only our own technological prowess, but also the whole concept of FCEVs. Collaboration In addition, we operated the ‘Pavilion’, a hydrogen energy experience hall, for visitors to the stadiums throughout the Winter Olympics. Visitors were able to experience a new future of unlimited possibilities that FCEVs are helping to bring about at the ‘WATER Hall’, which showed the potential of hydrogen, and the ‘HYDROGEN Hall’, where Raised funds for tier 2 and 3 suppliers to provided people experienced FCEV technologies. support for smart factories P. 66 We believe that the growth of automotive parts companies is vital to the competitiveness of automobile companies, and we are therefore unsparing in support of our suppliers as they seek to improve their competitiveness. In 2017, we provided KRW 50 billion to around 5,000 automotive parts companies in order to build a win-win cooperation system with tier 2 and 3 suppliers. In addition, we created a supplieronly loan program of approximately KRW 100 billion, and helped suppliers ease the burden of their labor costs due to the minimum hourly wage rise.2) We will also support around 650 small and mediumsized enterprises (SMEs) to convert their production process into a ‘smart factory’ from 2015 to 2019 as part of the industry innovation campaign. As of now, 344 SMEs have introduced smart plants thanks to our support, and they have made an average of 45.4% improvements to their key performance index, such as productivity, quality, cost, delivery, safety, environment and management. 2) Based on the performance of Hyundai Motor Group P. 80 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 010 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices People Community 1 Urban regeneration to re-vitalize local communities Achieved “zero” fatal accidents at all business 1 Mallang Street Mural Alley Hyundai has been conducting diverse urban and regional regeneration sites by the safety-first management Project projects for local communities that are relatively alienated and 2 Beautiful Hands Our safety goal for 2017 was to achieve “zero” fatal accidents at are becoming dilapidated due to reckless redevelopment and 2 all our business sites across the globe. In particular, we focused reconstruction. We have joined hands with social enterprises, local on spreading a safety culture by strengthening safety leadership residents, and young activists to revitalize Balsan Village in Gwangju at the company level, setting Nine Safety Golden Rules, and which has been suffered from the inner city decline. The ‘Youth Balsan revising safety key performance indicators (KPIs). As a result of Village Project’ aims to make improvements to design, people, and the safety-first management, we achieved zero fatal accidents culture, so that we carried out a color art design project to attract at all of our production sites around the world. tourists while remodeling deserted houses into a business space for youths. In addition, we have been helping village residents improve P. 92-93 their financial conditions through the Balsan Marketplace and cultural experience projects. Making the old hillside Balsan Village in Hyundai’s Ulsan Plant has launched the ‘Mallang Street Mural Alley Gwangju to be young! Project’ in partnership with local communities. This urban regeneration project is to improve urban aesthetics by encouraging staff, local residents and young people who are majoring in art to decorate old alleyways near Hyundai’s business sites with murals. The project name Enhanced Hyundai’s employment ‘Mallang Street’ is derived from a regional dialect that refers to the brand value and customer experiences summit of a mountain. This project, based on close cooperation with using H-Career Fair and Job Fair the local community, is expected to become a leading model of local urban regeneration, improving the environment while maintaining the Hyundai hosts the H-Career Fair and Job Fair at the existing appearance of a village. Hyundai Motorstudio to enhance our employment Making the walls of Seoul beautiful – brand value while also providing distinctive Hyundai’s ‘Beautiful Hands’ In addition, Hyundai has been implementing the ‘Beautiful Hands’ customer experiences. In addition to offline event, project to regenerate old spaces in Seoul since 2014, two times a year. we have been using social media live broadcasting In September 2017, Beautiful Hands came to Yeouido Park in Seoul at to reach out more applicants who were not able the same time as the Seoul Garden Show was being held. Our staff and to attend onsite, and thus provide them with undergraduate PR ambassadors created a Hyundai Park based on the rich content, including information regarding concept of a board game. They also set up a large-scale installation art our recruitment system and job duties, as well as wall, and communicated the company’s commitment to environmental dialogues with Hyundai staff. preservation by encouraging citizens to become interested in rare animals and plants. Recruiting website of P. 87 Hyundai Motor Company P. 95-100 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 011 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices FUTURE Mobility Connected, shared and open We pursue a future mobility for all in which freedom in movement will free even our thoughts. In the era of fusion and connectivity, automobiles evolve into the center of our lives. At the center of change lies the future mobility Hyundai pursues. We study how people move, how they spend their time, and what kind of life they want. As they move to where they want to be without burdening their societies and the environment, our lives become more pleasant and safer. As a lifetime partner, we will be the first to realize the future mobility. Related core issue: Customer safety and health ● Social Interest: 1st ● Business Impact: 3rd P. 54-56 CSV perspectives for the efforts to win the future mobility market Hyundai Value Social Value Secure future growth drivers Offer customers better mobility Secure technological advantage services in the global automobile market Improve mobility options for Increase product safety and the mobility impaired convenience Prevent traffic accidents and Grow through open reduce air pollutants innovation-based collaboration Support innovative start-ups 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 012 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Connecting today to tomorrow Automobiles, once filled with technologies, become a work and living space. Connected to more things, they will function as a life hub. The work space inside an automobile enhances Wellness care service work efficiencies and keeps children busy with its slew of things to play with. Even the old and Measure and analyze the driver’s bio-signals through radar sensors embedded in the wellness care seat and fiber infirm go for a safe and stress-less ride. With a creative mindset like no other, a technology electrodes on the steering wheel, and offers features of convenience tailored to the driver’s conditions approach that puts people first, and a willingness to collaborate with others for greater Intelligent Personal Cockpit growth, Hyundai leads in connected car technology. Setting milestones of future mobility our investment in related infrastructure and R&D projects in Korea and the U.S. As a result, Hyundai continues to expand its investment in in February 2018, we became the world’s first and support for the development of connected to succeed in the autonomous driving of FCEVs Automobile personalization cars. Having set up an auto cloud system on the highway. technology years ago, we have been developing our Create “my own space” inside the car own connected car operating system (ccOS), by greeting the driver and riders based which seamlessly processes all types of data on the information of preferences input generated within the automobile. In 2017, in Experiencing the auto life of Voice-recognition assistance service prior to driving, by suggesting seat configurations appropriate to their particular, by opening our first global big data tomorrow today Q&A services related to auto controls and functions, such individual height, and by changing the as text message exchange; search of addresses and other center in China, we established a system of Hyundai has introduced a future automobile places of the driver’s interest; search and play of music by inside light to the color of their choice artist, album or genre; weather information and schedule strategic collaboration with global leaders in that has become a reality beyond our management; and control of A/C, sunroof and door locks networking, cyber security, telecommunication imagination. At the CES 2018, we unveiled and Internet of Things (IoT). Moreover, in January the ‘Intelligent Personal Cockpit’ that features 2018, in collaboration with the autonomous voice-recognition assistance, wellness care driving tech firm Aurora, we introduced a services, an automobile personalization ‘Roadmap on Commercialization of New technology, and other artificial intelligenceAutonomous Driving’, a plan to commercialize based technologies. At the 2017 Seoul Motor Level 4 High Automation1) autonomous driving Show, we visualized IoT services of the future. technology in the smart city by 2021, at the With these as starting points, we plan to debut Consumer Electronics Show (CES) 2018. in Hyundai vehicles a ‘Home-to-Car’ service, which enables control of automobiles from In addition, we have been enhancing our the outside, from 2018, and a ‘Car-to-Home’ completive advantage in the connected car service, control of the living space from the car, Acoustic user interaction technology for fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEVs). from 2019. In the era of the Fourth Industrial Open the driver side door at a door knock In 2015, we have obtained the license to selfRevolution in which the landscape of industry by an authorized person based on the drive Tucson FCEVs from the state of Nevada and science will go through a fundamental recognition of the driver or riders in the U.S., and we also obtained Korea’s first change, our connected cars will overpass the license to test-drive self-driving vehicles in existing boundary of roles given to automobiles 2016. Furthermore, we have continued to make and move into the living and other spaces never 1) imagined before. Fully-automated based on Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) standard 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 013 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices New Roles of Cars Intelligent Personal Agent Just say “Hi, Hyundai” and a smart assistance will be ready to serve you. At the CES 2018, Hyundai introduced the voice recognition and AI technologies developed jointly with SoundHound, a Silicon Valley start-up of the U.S. Upon the hearing of users’ voice commands or questions, the AI server either controls the auto or provides most relevant information. Also, we are working with China’s Internet tech giant Baidu on a connected car equipped with a navigation system, ‘Baidu Accident-free, Emission-free, Smart Driver MapAuto’, and a conversation voice recognition system, ‘DuerOS’. These systems, Hyundai succeeded in the challenge of setting new records as did many of the athletes which offer not only real-time traffic information but also other big data-based at the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Winter Games. In February 2018, we successfully diverse and useful information, have been applied to Hyundai vehicles since completed the 190 km accident-free self-driving of an emission-free FCEV on the highway November 2017, a first among global automakers. linking Seoul to PyeongChang. FCEV is ideal for long-hour autonomous driving for its ability to produce electricity. In addition, its 5G network-based rear-seat entertainment system enables riders to check and control the IoTs of their living space and enjoy the riding experience for hours. By succeeding in the real-situation autonomous driving test without an accident Hyundai has demonstrated that our three future mobility visions, ‘Connected Mobility’, ‘Freedom in Mobility’ and ‘Clean Mobility’ are closer to reality than ever before. Hyundai Autonomous Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle Long-range Drive 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 014 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Shaping the future of shared mobility Sharing economy, which encompasses both profit pursuit and social value creation, has been emerging as a new alternative in corporate management, in order to solve inequality, polarization, and other issues of capitalism. In step with this rising trend, Hyundai has been increasing investment in companies of the sharing economy, expanding our market presence. Going beyond the limits of corporate social responsibility (CSR) into the dynamic realm of creating shared value (CSV), we are opening a new future of compassionate capitalism. Car-sharing – setting a new standard in the sharing economy In the sharing economy which allows us to sharing company, promoting free rides of the consume goods without owing them, we can compact SUV Kona. enjoy more goods. More than anything else, DRIVER HOME mobility services have been growing as one of Throughout Germany run Hyundai’s fuel cell the most ideal business models of the sharing electric vehicles (FCEV). In 2016, we supplied economy. Accordingly, global automakers 50 Tucson ix35 models to ‘BeeZero’, the world’s are building platforms for sharing economic first FCEV sharing service operated by the business through smartphone app-based carLinde Group of Germany in the city of Munich. sharing and hailing services. By bringing together zero emission vehicles and car-sharing, which is the major trend in According to Goldman Sachs, the global carthe automobile industry, we have introduced sharing market will grow from USD 36 billion in a new concept of eco-friendly transportation. 2017 to USD 285 billion by 2030, an eightfold In Netherland, the IONIQ electric vehicle (EV) RIDER HOME increase. This means that the number of auto sharing service was launched in October 2017, buyers will decrease while the number of while the similar service is under way in the cars sold for sharing will rise. In another word, U.S. In 2018, a strategic investment decision automakers must make substantial inroads was made with regard to Grab, a leading carinto the car-sharing market in order to secure sharing company in Southeast Asia, where the a position to win the future market and attract car-sharing market is growing at a rapid rate potential customers. on the back of fast-expanding O2O (online to offline) services. While helping maximize the As a global automobile company, Hyundai has growth potential of auto markets through its been developing a keen interest in the sharing Grab investment, Hyundai plans to gain growth economy. In addition, we have been searching momentum in the southeast Asian market, and for ways to create value of coexistence and go a step further toward solidifying its global RIDER OFFICE innovation within the economy. Having launched market position by contributing to the growth DRIVER ‘Deal Car’, a car-sharing service, in 2017 with of future mobility services as well as the sharing OFFICE Hyundai Capital, we also conducted a joint economy. marketing campaign with ‘GreenCar’, a car2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 015 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Official website of IONIQ Electric car-sharing service in Amsterdam By using car-sharing services, people can save on car maintenance costs, while helping solve emissions, noise, traffic congestion and other environmental and social issues. We seek the most efficient way of mobility not only for people but also for the environment by accelerating our innovation in the car-sharing service. Setting a new trend in urban life in Amsterdam In October 2017, Hyundai launched an EV-only Sharing economy is a new economic model car-sharing service using the IONIQ Electric in that interconnects people and facilitates Europe. IONIQ EVs are available for rent from sharing and communicating among them. one minute minimum to seven days maximum As it helps reduce auto-related costs and for those who have signed up for the service eliminates the pressure of owning a car, carthrough the app and website, and can be sharing enjoys a rising popularity throughout dropped at numerous return centers located the world in general, and in major European throughout Amsterdam. cities in particular, among people who are interested in the efficiency and convenience For its one-time charge range of 280 km, the of transportation. As our EV-only car-sharing I am proud of the fact that we have helped the city of IONIQ Electric is ideal for the whole country service brings more freedom in mobility to Amsterdam reach its climate change goals through of Netherland. Also, a total of around 2,200 EV European consumers, we will use this as an Europe’s first EV-only car-sharing service. As we have led charging stations are set up nationwide, making opportunity to enhance our corporate image, it one of the best in terms of EV infrastructure. and thus take a step further to realize our future the eco-friendly mobility services industry, we will continue In addition to this extensive network, we also mobility vision. to expand the supply of eco-friendly models and keep pace plan to provide a mobile rapid charging service with the fast-changing lifestyles of customers. that covers up to 100 IONIQ EVs of the carsharing service in a bid to further enhance Thomas A. Schmid customers’ convenience. Chief Operating Officer, Hyundai Motor Europe 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 016 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Open innovation to open new horizons When people put into practice their various thoughts, imagination turns into an idea which, in turn, is fused to technology, and thus leading to innovation. To innovate the future mobility where automobiles will evolve into an integral part of our lives, our ideas and collective intelligence need further expansion. As fusion has become the norm these days, Hyundai will strive to open up a new horizon of innovation and create new growth engines by expanding our collaboration with global corporations, start-ups, academic experts and young innovators. Open innovation to grow together Open Innovation Center – through innovation a cradle of innovation We will help create a world where idea Ideas that change the world can also be found Start-ups, which are brimming in ideas and is powered by heightening the value of outside corporate boundaries. Expert insights passion, will become major driving forces diverse opinions and rich experiences. about the future set the direction of corporate of future innovation in the era of the Fourth management and new ways of seeing phenoIndustrial Revolution. To collaborate with these mena launch creative services. This sums up innovative players of great growth potential, the strengths of “open innovation” which Hyundai has been setting up ‘Open Innovation sources technology and ideas that corporations Centers’ in five areas where the ecosystem of need from outside the company and sharing start-ups is most active. China Germany inside resources, in order to create new services U.S. Seoul, Korea Israel and products. The first one was opened in November, 2017, recognition, AI, music search and related in the Silicon Valley of the U.S. Named ‘Hyundai areas, and began a joint development of auto Launched in July 2016, the Project IONIQ Lab is CRADLE (Center for Robotic-Augmented infotainment systems in 2012. In 2014, a music Hyundai’s research activity most representative Design in Living Experiences), this center is information search service, the first fruit of joint of the spirit of open innovation and studies built upon the existing ‘Hyundai Ventures’. As efforts, was installed on Hyundai vehicles sold long-term effects of changes in the future its name implies, the center researches artificial in the U.S., and the voice assistance service mobility on customer lifestyles. In addition intelligence (AI), sensors, data analysis and is scheduled to feature in our products to be to developing future mobility scenarios in other robotics-based technologies related to released in 2019. collaboration with experts in the futurology, mobility, through open innovation with Silicon mobility, urban construction, humanities, arts Valley start-ups. The conversational voice Having opened ‘ZERO1NE’ in Seoul in March and technology areas, the project supports assistance service debuted at the CES 2018 is 2018, we plan to open additional innovation Open innovation center, a cradle of innovation the company in planning future products and the product of innovation jointly developed with centers in Berlin of Germany and Beijing of that will lead the Fourth Industrial Revolution devising strategies. SoundHound of the U.S. Back in 2011, Hyundai China this year. Also, based on this world-linking and realize the future mobility had started to invest in this start-up with high network, we will create synergy with start-ups level of technological capabilities in the voice in the long run. Project IONIQ Vision 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 017 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices FUTURE Energy Envision, encourage and engineer the future What can we do for sustainable future? Hyundai answers, “Build ultimate eco-friendly vehicles.” Hydrogen, a clean and zero-emission energy, is Nature’s gift to humankind. For hydrogen is an energy source for diverse industries and contributes a great deal to creating jobs and solving climate change issues. We, too, are creating a new future by using hydrogen. Fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEV), an ultimate compilation of next-generation automobile technologies, will validate the unlimited possibility of hydrogen and stand tall as the winner of future technology. Related core issue: Air emissions ● Social Interest: 3rd ● Business Impact: 5th P. 66-68 CSV perspectives for activities and technologies relating to hydrogen ― a future energy Hyundai Value Social Value Lead the development of Establish a hydrogen hydrogen society ecosystem Win and expand the Lead popularization of eco-friendly vehicle market eco-friendly vehicles Develop and promote Respond to climate change eco-friendly vehicle technology 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 018 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Envision a future of clean mobility Envisioning a new future for Complete line-up of eco-friendly cars clean mobility The global eco-friendly vehicle market has been steadily growing. For green cars have been gaining an increasing popularity as a mode of transportation that safeguards both the safety of customers and the future of Earth facing climate change. Though the immediate direction of the market is still unclear amid a rapidly changing and ever-competitive environment, it is clear that eco-friendly vehicles are the future of the global automakers. To secure the leadership of the eco-friendly vehicle market, Hyundai has established a complete line-up of green cars, ranging from electric vehicle (EV) to plug-in hybrid vehicle (PHEV), hybrid vehicle (HEV), and fuel cell electric vehicle (FCEV). Of these, our HEVs are the world’s best in fuel efficiency, while EVs in energy efficiency, attesting to our advanced technology. Tucson FCEV, which set a world record by going into mass production in 2013, has garnered various awards in the global market, proving its technological excellence. In 2015, it became the world’s first FCEV to make the ‘World’s 10 Best Engines’ of WardsAuto’s, a US-based survey specialist, brightening the future of FCEVs led by Hyundai. We are also thoroughly and proactively responding to the eco-friendly vehicle market emerging on the horizon. While sharpening our competitive edge in types of all eco-friendly cars through accurate market prediction and HEV EV FCEV preemptive acquisition of future auto technology, we are particularly focused on becoming a first mover of the FCEV, the ultimate green vehicle. We are helping create a future where people can breathe only clear air, free of Worlds’ best fuel efficiency Worlds’ best energy efficiency World’s first mass-production energy concerns. • IONIQ HEV • IONIQ EV • Tucson FCEV in 2013 • 58 mpg (24.7 km/L2)) – the best among all internal combustion • 136 MPGe (57.8 km/L2)) – the best of all vehicles1) 1) Certified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency engine vehicles and HEVs1) • Selected as the ‘Greenest’ car by American Council for an 2) Based on the unit converted to the Korean standard Energy-Efficient Economy (ACEEE) 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 019 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Proposing a new direction for clean mobility Hyundai offers an increasingly diverse selection of ecoThe newly established roadmap includes a plan to friendly vehicles. To proactively respond to the ecoincrease the number of eco-friendly vehicle models Hyundai Motor Group’s roadmap for eco-friendly cars friendly vehicle market, we have continued to shift from 13 as of the end of 2017, to 38 by 2025. The 38 our business focus from internal combustion engine models represent 22 HEVs and PHEVs, 14 EVs, and 2 vehicles (ICEVs) to zero emission vehicles (ZEV). Also, FCEVs, and thus we will offer customers all types of ecoby unveiling a new roadmap for eco-friendly cars in friendly vehicles ranging from compact cars to large December 2017, we accelerated our shift into clean SUVs. mobility. Downsizing The global eco-friendly vehicle market has been growing at an average 24% over the years on the back of many DCT countries offering the carrot of purchase incentives and the stick of tougher environmental regulations, and is Turbo GDI expected to reach 16.27 million units by 20251). Though it is not clear to which direction the market will grow, based SGI R&D on our advanced technology and firm commitment to a better tomorrow, we will override the waves of ZERO Clean uncertainty and lead the ultimate future of eco-friendly diesel vehicles. EMISSION 1)  Hyundai’s own figure based on the compilation of many institutions’ Natural forecasts gas VEHICLE CLEAN MOBILITY Clean energy system EV FCEV EFFICIENCY TECHNOLOGY HYBRID SYSTEM Improve fuel efficiency and Electric powertrain and reduce carbon emissions improved fuel efficiency Gasoline Diesel HEV PHEV EV ICEV ICEV + EV 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 020 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Conversion to a carbon-less hydrogen energy system is essential to the successful implementation of the Paris Agreement. As the chair company of the Hydrogen Council, Hyundai will exert Encourage a clean energy – efforts to put hydrogen energy on the national agenda for climate action. hydrogen society Woong Chul Yang Vice Chairman at Hyundai Motor Company The Hydrogen Council – Hydrogen Electric House – bringing hydrogen society closer to reality a window to the hydrogen society of Hydrogen, a clean energy that arises from and returns by companies from automobile and energy industries tomorrow to water. Facing depleting fossil fuels and multiplying to fulfill the goals of the 2015 Paris Agreement through In the near future where hydrogen energy is available environmental pollutants, humankind has dreamed development of hydrogen energy. Through collaboration in our daily lives, FCEVs also will function as a power of a society thriving on hydrogen energy. According a with Air Liquide, the Council’s co-chair company, and plant on the go. Every time ‘Nexo’ is charged, the FCEV roadmap to the hydrogen economy provided by the other member companies, we will push forward diverse produces 70kw of electricity, enough to power a fourglobal consulting firm McKinsey & Company, hydrogenefforts to bring the hydrogen society closer to reality. member family for 10 days. The electricity generated related industries will be worth USD 2.5 trillion by 2050, during the charging of FCEVs can power household employing over 30 million people, as hydrogen fuels the For example, as the representative of the Hydrogen electronic goods, and the water produced as a byproduct growth not only of electricity production and storage but Council, Hyundai has taken part in the Clean Energy can be used as residential water. Hydrogen Electric House also of transportation, building, industrial raw materials Ministerial, a global forum of high-level government and other upstream and downstream industries. officials in charge of energy issues of many countries, and Hyundai opened a ‘Hydrogen Electric House’ in Seoul contributed to the launch of a global joint R&D project in 2017 and another one in Ulsan in 2018, to promote Of these, we will focus on the transportation sector in promoting the use of hydrogen energy. In addition, as a FCEVs as clean energy sources as well as eco-friendly an effort to bring the hydrogen society closer to reality. joint chair company of the council, we are coordinating transportation. As customers glimpse a future of zeroIn November 2017, Hyundai has been chosen as the collaborations among international energy institutions in emission energy in a house powered by the energy from chair company of the Hydrogen Council, thereby taking order to make hydrogen part of the global agenda. green automobiles, they will have a better understanding the lead in realizing the global hydrogen society. The of what a hydrogen society will be like and look forward Hydrogen Council is a global consultative body formed Official website of the Hydrogen Council to its coming. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 021 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices FCEV – an air purifier on wheels Each FCEV purifies air, Driving range of Short charging time Can be used as FCEVs are useful either running or idling on the street. enough for two adults 609 km by which takes around a utility power for a year a single charge three to five minutes generator FCEVs use the most eco-friendly and economical fuel, such as a byproduct hydrogen discharged from chemical plants and a hydrogen produced through steam methane reformation. The only thing that is emitted by the FCEV is water (H2O) as it uses oxygen and hydrogen to produce electricity to run on. Also, in the process of producing electricity, a high-performance air filter is used to generate an oxygen of high purity, purifying in the process the air we breathe in. As FCEVs can filter out 99.9% of very fine dust (PM2.5), they are often called an “air purifier on wheels”. Hyundai’s Nexo FCEV, launched in 2018, has overcome many practical issues that had long been thought as limits to FCEVs. A smaller battery is used, and though a hydrogen tank is put in place of the fuel tank, a storage space is maintained similar in size to that of vehicles with the internal combustion engines of the same horse power. Also secured is a driving range of 609 km (domestically certified), the best among all FCEVs currently available Engineer a clean future – in the market. Hydrogen charging time is three to five minutes, similar to the time it takes to fuel conventional zero emission vehicle ICEVs. Being a power plant on the go, FCEVs can supply electricity to external devices. 100,000 FCEVs match one nuclear power plant in terms of power generation. In an energyintensive future where automobiles effortlessly exchange Generate and convert data and connect with each other while self-driving, FCEV electric power will be excellent sources of electricity. Charge EVs or PHEVs Convert electric power Provide emergency power to a disaster area and utility power 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT to a residential area 022 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices NEXO – a first mover of the FCEV A smart transportation, an air purifier on wheels, and a personal power plant – all these are assembled in a The Nexo is Hyundai’s first vehicle by the advanced technology of Hyundai. As a FCEV-dedicated model follow-up to the August 2017 roll-out of a next-generation equipped with our exclusive FCEV, we introduced the Nexo to the world in January hydrogen fuel cell technology at the CES 2018. Meaning ‘spirit of water’ in ancient as well as a technological German and ‘fusion’ in Latin and Spanish, Hyundai Nexo flagship model compiled completely embodies the characteristics of FCEVs which of the company’s superior produce energy and water through the fusion of oxygen technological prowess in and hydrogen. electric motor parts. Through the Nexo, one can glimpse future mobility today. It is a futuristic SUV compiled of new fuel cell system techperformance and fuel efficiency than ICEVs of the same nology, advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and class – its most prominent feature and strength. Moreover, Ki Sang Lee other future technologies, embodying Hyundai’s three its aerodynamic design and use of bio-based interior Senior Vice President at mobility visions1). In addition, true to our eco-friendly materials, certified by Underwriters Laboratories (UL), Hyundai Motor Company vehicle development philosophy of high energy efficiency clearly show why the Nexo is an automobile representing From the speech at the CES 2018 without a loss of power, the Nexo delivers a better power the future we dream of. When many companies were vacillating over technical limitations, Hyundai focused on popularizing FCEVs for we have been confident that the future will be in need of a clean and efficient energy. The FCEV market has now opened. Believing that hydrogen technology will sweepingly solve the problems of humankind and Earth, as the first mover of the FCEV, Hyundai will advance Steering clear of traditional toward the future driving the vehicle that will fuel the auto design practices, we have designed everything world. anew, from top to bottom. In particular, we focused on developing a futuristic design that would stand out and at the same time, complement FCEVs. Luc Donckerwolke Executive Vice President at Hyundai Motor Company From the speech at the CES 2018 1) Connected Mobility, Freedom in Mobility, Clean Mobility 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 023 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices FUTURE Generation Our ability to drive positive change to communities worldwide. We make unified efforts to be positive force for future generation. The future of the human race looks brighter when the future generation realizes their dreams and local communities solve their problems. We will be a trustworthy partner for our society along the journey ahead. The capabilities we have accumulated as a global automaker and the passions developed as a global corporate citizen will form the basis upon which the future generation develops their dreams in all local communities across the globe. Related core issue: Social contributions ● Social Interest: 5th ● Business Impact: 10th P. 99-108 CSV perspectives for social contribution activities for the future generation Hyundai Value Social Value Enhance the image as Contribute to health a model corporate citizen development of local Leverage capabilities as communities a global automaker Improve the convenience of Secure outstanding talents for the mobility impaired future and expand potential Foster and support future customers talents 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 024 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Sincerity To fight for hope Hope on Wheels – Hope Detector spreading gentle yet deep inspirations delivering hope to little heroes fighting pediatric cancers During the 2018 National Football League Super Bowl championship match, Hyundai ran a commercial based Launched in 1998, ‘Hyundai Hope on Wheels’ is our leading social contribution on a Hope on Wheels story. Viewed by millions tuned program helping the fight against pediatric cancers. The program’s donation comprises into the biggest US sports festival, the commercial contributions of Hyundai Motors America’s (HMA) auto dealers pitching in a certain touched a number of hearts by celebrating true winners Official website of Hyundai Hope on Wheels amount every time they sell a new car and of HMA matching the dealers’ share. Over the of the most important fight of their lives without last 20 years, participated by around 830 dealers throughout the country, the program showing a car. Official Facebook page of Hyundai Hope on Wheels has donated a total of USD 145 million to more than 200 pediatric cancer hospitals and research centers1). In addition to donation, through social media and portal site advertising, fundraising and charity activity, the program promotes pediatric cancer awareness and donation. All activities of the program are recorded in the Congressional Record of the United States every year. The road is paved by Hyundai, but it is the dealers who have chosen it. The small drops of individual participations collect into a torrent of social change. And when efforts of true sincerity long continue, the resultant hope will double in power. We will therefore continue to help little heroes triumph over their cancers. 1) As of the end of June 2018 Hyundai has been earning respect from many Americans not only through its business success but, more importantly, through its proactive social contributions. Ho Young Ahn, Korean Ambassador to the U.S. From the speech at a 2017 U.S. Congressional event held to promote pediatric cancer awareness Pediatric cancer is a terrible disease that impacts far too many kids each year and robs them of their youth. As part of our efforts to help children, who stand for our future, Hyundai and its dealers have been taking active part in the fight against this disease since 1998. An officer of Hyundai Motor America 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 025 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Creativity To build a better society ‘Able Road’ helping the blind navigate street obstacles, created by Able Move Big city sidewalks, as well as roads, are littered with obstacles that can H-Social Creator – pose a serious threat to the safety of sight-challenged pedestrians. an innovative idea for a better world ‘Able Road’ pedestrian navigation system therefore has been developed ‘H-Social Creator’ is a program developed in 2015 to encourage young social to help the blind navigate big city streets without worries. Based on innovators to take active part in social innovation. By supporting college students’ Hyundai’s advanced driver assistance system (ADAS) technologies, development of creative ideas of how to solve social problems, the program aims Able Road detects nearby obstacles and helps the user avoid them by to make positive impacts on society for the better. making sounds. In 2017, after a starting ceremony in May, the program began to build up basic competencies through workshops and design camps. In October, the How Able Road works ‘H-Ombudsman Presentation’ was held at which participants presented the social innovation ideas they had developed for months. The presentation was significant ADAS-based pedestrian navigation in that the H-Social Creators met in person ‘H-Ombudsmen’ who are tasked with system for the visually impaired setting things straight in the interest of Hyundai. Turning the problems we face today into social issues to be solved by communities and viewing the world from a perspective unlike any other are future leaders of our society as well as customers of Hyundai. Together with H-Social Creators, Hyundai will continue to pursue better ways to sustain our society. The H-Social Creator class of 2018 plans to write new growth dramas on issues related to four social Input GPS guidance Detect ‘Help’ Arrive at destination system obstacles function destination impacts – invigoration of eco-friendliness, participation of the growing generation, support for culture and art, and improving of traffic safety. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 026 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices I believe small yet refreshing ideas of young social innovators together can contribute to solve problems facing our society. By suggesting ideas that can lead to beautiful changes in the world, I will do my best to help create value that has a positive and pervasive effect. Ka Eun Paek H-Social Creator, 4th Class I have received positive influences through H-Social Creator activities. In particular, I have realized that Pick-up services for the mobility impaired self-growth begins with challenging myself to a goal, by using car-sharing service based on which I have grown a lot. I hope to challenge myself and other young creators together to the task of guiding our society toward a better future. Yoon Jo Chung H-Social Creator, 3rd Class Destination Pick-up zone ‘DELIGHT’ offering freedom of movement to the disabled created by Zero-Back This ride share program got its idea from the fact that Korea has only one wheelchair-accessible taxi per every 200 disabled people. The idea has become viable by bringing in customers of Hyundai Capital’s delivery car-sharing service ‘Deal Car’ willing to pick up disabled people being along the same routes as their movements. In addition to providing freedom of movement to the disabled, the program awards the drivers rental discount and other benefits. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 027 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Ingenuity To connect today and tomorrow Chatty School Bus Project (Sketchbook Window) ‘Chatty School Bus Project’ video, developed in a documentary format, got over 10 million hits in six months of its release, touching countless hearts at home and abroad. It also received the Gold Award at the ‘2017 Korea Advertising Awards’, and was selected as one of the most beloved advertisements in Korea hosted by Korea Advertisers Association. Furthermore, it won the Bronze Lions at the 2018 Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. Chatty School Bus – a technology of happiness, Sketchbook Window It is 64 km between the city of Cheong-ju and Chung-ju Sungsim School – the distance many students travel to the school for the deaf and Technology may change our lives beyond our imagination, mute. Four hours a day, the students, all seat-belted, would endure the numbing boredom of watching the same street scenery pass by outside but can never override people. This is the reason why we the window day after day in silence. Until one day Hyundai installed a first thought of children with hearing disability when we new technology on the bus. When we heard about the news of this sad were developing the application of Sketchbook Window sight, Hyundai knew that ‘Sketchbook Window’, a digital drawing and technology. Because we had the objective – technology that sketching program grand-prized at the 2016 Hyundai Motors Group R&D makes children happy – we believe we were able to succeed Idea Festival, was the right one for the students. The program fogs up bus windows when its barometer sensor senses human breaths, allowing the in developing the technology. students to draw pictures on the windows, and save them on the linked cloud server, or send them wirelessly. The hearing-impaired students are the first recipient of this technology, which is sure to be an infotainment hit of the connected car. So Young Kim, Min Young Yoon, These days, Suk-hoon looks forward to going to school. Yea-rim, too, says Ji Won Yun, Seung Ho Jeong, she is happy to be able to send her dad birthday draws. Eun-ju wants to Chung Hoon Cho Research Engineers at Namyang R&D Center become a developer of cool technologies someday. For it can nurture of Hyundai Motor Company wonderful memories and help foster limitless imagination, Sketchbook Window is a technology that warms hearts. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 028 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Safety Towards zero traffic accidents Traffic safety campaign for kids as fun to learn as a play Safety is the value that should not be compromised in any circumstance and one of the foremost values Hyundai pursues. This is why we conduct many types of traffic safety education and training for the future generation in local communities across the globe. In particular, to help children enjoy learning traffic safety, we have developed the ‘Traffic Safety Stories with Robocar Poli’, an animated road safety education campaign to be shared through various online and offline activities. In Korea, we have been offering traffic safety-related education and experience programs since 2010 by using the ‘Robocar Poli’ character. In 2017, we opened ‘Hyundai Poli Traffic Safety Playground’, a year-round experience space. Designed for children to play traffic safety together with their parents, the playground helps children learn that traffic safety is not difficult or boring but fun and easy to learn and apply to their daily lives by offering educational and entertaining programs tailored to children’s curiosity and cognition levels. In china, ‘Hyundai Kids Traffic Safety Zone’ is under way. In 2017, a traffic safety space based on Robacar Poli contents was opened as a pilot program Safety is the foremost of values we pursue. at three car dealer branches of Beijing Hyundai Motor Company (BHMC), To help our dear future generation have fun includes Beijing Zingxian Motor Safeguard Service. Around 60 Korean and learning and practicing it, we will keep our Chinese college students participated as volunteers to teach children on expectations and pace at their level. traffic safety at the opening ceremony, thereby making the event more meaningful. By expanding the program to include Taiwan and conducting it in link with our social contribution programs in China, we aim to launch a traffic safety campaign for Chinese children across the Greater China region, and thus endear the Hyundai brand image to the Chinese public. Robocar Poli with Hyundai Motor Company 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 029 1.1 Milestones 1.2 2017 Highlights 1.3 CSV Highlights 2 Annual Performance 3 Sustainability Performance 4 Appendices Sustainability To drive resilience and prosperity Global CSV activities dreaming of sustainable future Dream Village Project in India – improving a village environment for a better life The sound of children running through the alleyways is delightful. Drinking water is now available and what used to be dilapidated buildings are made new. Moms and dads are working again and schools are filled with sounds of learning. These are some of the delightful changes brought by the Dream Village Project. Since 2010, Hyundai Motor India (HMI) has been carrying out Dream Village Project to improve a village environment in the Chennai region where HMI is based. The company has been repairing school facilities, improving the water quality of a village pond to lessen the problems of limited drinking water supplies Providing Drinking Water Project that had plagued village people for years, and supporting small entrepreneurs in the Philippines in the hope of steering the whole village in the direction of economic independence. In particular, by offering diverse economic opportunities to women, the illiterate and other socially marginalized people, HMI supports the village’s sustainable growth. The Dream Village Project is one of our global social contribution activities through which we envision the self-reliance of, and coexistence with local communities. Providing Drinking Water Project in the Philippines – To take the first step of dreaming a future a miracle made of rainwater is to live today. By shouldering some of what local communities have long carried A loud downpour of rain quenches the thirst not only of the field but also of on themselves, we seek to become a good village people. It is the miracle made of rainwater and also made possible neighbor they love and respect. by the efforts and passion Hyundai has exerted for the sake of global local communities. Dream Village Project in India In 2017, we launched a providing drinking water project to solve water shortage problems that had long agonized people of the Tandang Kutyo village in the Tanay autonomous region of the Philippines. Situated 70 km southwest of the nation’s capital, Manila, the village is isolated from governmentrun infrastructure systems so that it has no running water. Wells, streams, underground water and other water sources of the village are too polluted that getting water safe enough to drink was a daily challenge for village people. By constructing a 60-ton water tank equipped with a rainwater purification system, Hyundai has helped secure drinking water for the village. In addition, through collaboration with a group of experts and an NGO, we have been providing education, consulting and infrastructure supports. Going forward, we plan to continue our support to help the village operate and build up the project facilities into a sustainable water circulation system. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 030 ANNUAL 2 PERFORMANCE In 2017, Hyundai Motor Company strived to overcome uncertainties in the global automobile market and developing future growth drivers based on the experience and expertise we have accumulated over the last 50 years. We also focused on establishing transparent and advanced corporate governance, and ensuring outstanding company management. Now we are well positioned to create greater value and achieve sustainable growth, while at the same time sharing that success with all of our stakeholders around the world. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 031 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Company Overview Company Profile 2 2017 Best-selling Models ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Corporate Information (Unit: Vehicle sold globally) Company Name Hyundai Motor Company 2.1 Company Overview Avante CEOs Mong Koo Chung, Won Hee Lee, Ha Eon Tae 669,663 2.2 Corporate Governance No. of Employees 122,217 persons 2.3 Business Performance Manufacturing business 2.4 Financial Highlights Type of Business (Production and sales of automobiles) 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values Date of Establishment (IPO) December 29, 1967 (June 28, 1974) Total Assets KRW 178,199.5 billion Sales Revenue KRW 96,376.1 billion 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Production 4,506,996 units Tucson 644,598 * As of the end of 2017; Based on K-IFRS consolidated financial statements 4 APPENDICES Global Production and Sales in 2017 (Unit: Vehicle) Production Sales Korea 1,651,718 688,939 Overseas 2,855,278 3,817,336 Global 4,506,996 4,506,275 Accent Global production by region (P. 111) Global sales by region (P. 38) 411,724 Number of Employees as of 2017 Total 122,217 (Unit: Person) Korea 68,876 i10 373,032 Overseas 53,341 North America 10,942 Europe 9,955 China 19,100 India 9,318 Others 4,026 * As of the end of 2017 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 032 Search Product Line-up 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai offers sedans, sports utility vehicles (SUVs), multi purpose vehicles (MPVs), recreational vehicles (RVs), commercial vehicles such as trucks and buses, and an eco-friendly line-up. The company also has the premium brand Genesis. 2 Sedan SUV RV MPV Eco-friendly vehicle Commercial vehicle Genesis ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 2.1 Company Overview 2.2 Corporate Governance Eon i10 Kona Grand Starex IONIQ Hybrid Porter II County G70 2.3 Business Performance 2.4 Financial Highlights 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values Grand i10 Xcent Creta Grand Starex Urban IONIQ Electric Porter II Special Vehicle Aero Town G80 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Elite i20 i20 Tucson Grand Starex Special Vehicle IONIQ Plug-in Hybrid Mighty Green City G80 SPORT 4 APPENDICES i20 Coupe ix20 Santa Fe Sonata Hybrid Mega Truck Super Aero City EQ900 Accent 5DR Accent New Santa Fe Sonata Plug-in Hybrid Xcient Unicity Elantra Sport Elantra Grand Santa Fe Azera Hybrid Solati Universe i30 i30 N Kona Electric Solati Special Vehicle Elec City Veloster i40 Sedan ix35 Fuel Cell i40 Sonata NEXO Sonata Turbo Azera Official website of Hyundai Motor Company 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 033 Search Global Network 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai operates production plants, technology research institutes, and design centers in major markets overseas. We sell vehicles across the globe, with around 6,200 sales networks in approximately 200 countries. 2 2 1 4 3 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 6 7 5 2.1 Company Overview 37 2.2 Corporate Governance 36 10 8 26 38 41 9 13 30 35 29 23 27 42 33 2.3 Business Performance 14 31 32 24 25 50 2.4 Financial Highlights 11 12 40 49 28 51 48 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values 39 43 34 44 16 19 47 15 17 46 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 21 22 18 45 4 APPENDICES 52 20 MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA ASIA & PACIFIC 21 Africa & Middle East Regional Headquarter 22 CV Africa & Middle East Regional Headquarter 1 Namyang Technology Research Center / Namyang Design Center EUROPE 2 Korea Central Research Institute 3 Environmental Technology Center 23 Hyundai Motor Europe Headquarter (HME HQ) 4 Namyang Technology Research Center Proving Ground 24 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Czech 5 Hyundai Motor Ulsan Plant 25 Hyundai Motor Czech NORTH AMERICA, 6 Hyundai Motor Asan Plant 26 Hyundai Motorsport GmbH (HMSG) CENTRAL & SOUTH AMERICA 7 Hyundai Motor Jeonju Plant 27 CIS & Eastern Europe Regional Headquarter 8 Hyundai Motor Group China (HMGC) 28 Hyundai Motor Company Italy (HMCI) 40 Hyundai Motor North America Headquarter (HMNA HQ) 9 Beijing Hyundai Motor Company (BHMC) 29 Hyundai Motor Deutschland GmbH (HMD) 41 Hyundai Auto Canada (HAC) 10 Hyundai Motor China R&D Center 30 Hyundai Motor United Kingdom, Ltd. (HMUK) 42 Hyundai America Technical Center Inc. (HATCI) 11 Sichuan Hyundai Motor Company (CHMC) 31 Hyundai Motor France (HMF) 43 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Alabama (HMMA) 12 Sichuan Hyundai Product Development Research Center 32 Hyundai Motor Europe Technical Center GmbH (HMETC) / 44 Central & South America Regional Headquarters 13 Japan Technical Center Design Center 45 CV Central & South America Regional Headquarters 14 Hyundai Motor Japan (HMJ) 33 Hyundai Motor Poland (HMP) 46 Hyundai Motor de Mexico (HMM) 15 Hyundai Motor India Headquarter (HMI HQ) 34 Hyundai Motor Espana, S.L. (HMES) 47 HYundai Prccision MEXico (HYMEX) 16 India Technical Center 35 Hyundai Motor Netherlands b.v (HMNL) 48 Hyundai Translead (HT) 17 Hyundai Thanh cong Commercial Vehicle (HTCV) 36 Hyundai Motor Commonwealth Independent States (HMCIS) 49 America Technical Center (California Proving Ground) 18 Asia & Pacific Regional Headquarter 37 Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Russia (HMMR) 50 Hyundai Motor America (HMA) 19 Hyundai Thanh cong Hyundai Motor Vietnam (HTMV) 38 Hyundai Truck and Bus Rus (HTBR) 51 Hyundai Design Center America 20 Hyundai Motor Company Australia 39 Hyundai Assan Otomotiv Sanayi (HAOS) 52 Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) * As of July 2, 2018 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 034 Search Major Facility Investments Major Investments in 2017 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai operates the Seoul headquarters, Namyang Technology Research ‘Hyundai CRADLE’ in Silicon Valley Center, and Ulsan, Jeonju, and Asan Plants, as well as other plants and The former Silicon Valley Office of the company has been expanded and 2 business sites around the world. Important facilities used in the production of automobiles, which is the main activity of the company, include land, reorganized into Hyundai CRADLE. It will discover and invest in start-ups in Silicon Valley and undertake joint development regarding key technologies, ANNUAL PERFORMANCE buildings, structures, machines, delivery equipment, tools and apparatus, including artificial intelligence (AI), robots and mobility, in addition to and furnishings and fixtures. Please refer to the following table for the providing support to promising Korean start-ups so that they can enter into 2.1 Company Overview status of major facility establishment and expansion in 2017. the Silicon Valley technology community. It will also cooperate closely with 2.2 Corporate Governance other global open innovation centers of Hyundai Motor Group, and thus 2.3 Business Performance (Unit: KRW billion) identify new growth drivers more efficiently. 2.4 Financial Highlights Details Expenditures Open Innovation Center in Israel 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values Land 68.9 Hyundai has been forming a partnership with promising start-ups in Israel Buildings and structures 558.7 in order to lead the automotive industry by increasing investments into 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Machinery 1,030.6 the development of the new technologies of the future. We therefore Tools 95.4 established the Open Innovation Center in Tel Aviv, Israel in 2018, and will develop it as a joint research center with start-ups which have innovative 4 APPENDICES Molds 491.3 technologies, such as future mobility and AI, over the midto long-term. Office equipment 186.5 Vehicles 48.4 Chongqing Plant in China On July 19th 2017, Hyundai’s Chongqing Plant, our fifth plant in China, held Total 2,479.8 a ceremony to celebrate the beginning of production. Full operations began * Based on 2017 Business Report in late August to support Hyundai’s business in Midwestern China. The Chongqing Plant is a strategic production base centered around a 298,000 m2 plant, built on a 2,034,000 m2 site in the Liangjiang New Area, a national economic development zone in Chongqing. It is equipped with press, body frame, painting, and design lines, as well as an engine plant. Hyundai Motor Company and Beijing Automotive established the Chongqing Plant together through a joint investment of USD 1 billion. The plant has an annual production capacity of 300,000 vehicles, and, once full production is under way, we will have five passenger vehicle production bases across China with total production capacity of 1.65 million vehicles. 1 Hyundai CRADLE 2 Open Innovation Center in Israel 1 2 3 3 Chongqing Plant in China 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 035 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Charter Expertise of the BOD 2 The Corporate Governance Charter was established in 2016 as the foundation Outside directors of Hyundai visit production plants and research centers ANNUAL PERFORMANCE for global standards of transparent and responsible management at Hyundai. at home and abroad on a regular basis to enhance their expertise. Also, the 2.1 Company Overview Corporate Governance Charter of Hyundai Motor Company company helps them better perform their duties by providing educational opportunities at professional institutions outside the company. 2.2 Corporate Governance 2.3 Business Performance 2.4 Financial Highlights Composition and Operation of the BOD Protection of Shareholder Rights and Interests 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values As the company’s top decision-making body, our Board of Directors (BOD) with independence and expertise acts on behalf of shareholders and other Notification for the annual general meeting (AGM) is given three weeks in stakeholders in order to meet their interests. It makes decisions on key advance, earlier than the two weeks stipulated in the commercial law, so 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE management issues and other matters stipulated in laws and the articles of that shareholders have sufficient time to examine the agenda in detail. We association, and also supervises the activities of directors and executives. also notify shareholders with holdings of less than 1% about the AGM, so 4 APPENDICES that all shareholders can assert their rights and interests. We disclose our The BOD is comprised of a total of nine directors – four executive directors audit report two weeks ahead of the AGM, rather than one week that was and five outside directors. By age and gender, the BOD consists of one previous policy. In addition, we report directly to shareholders at the AGM male member aged between 30 and 50, and eight male members aged on the appointment of an independent auditor. All these measures ensure 50 or more. It holds regular quarterly meetings and other BOD meetings the prompt, full and transparent disclosure of information. as required in order to pass a resolution of the BOD. A resolution is valid if supported by at least half of the votes cast, and with more than half of the Although the BOD can approve financial statements and dividend BOD members being present, unless otherwise stipulated in relevant laws. payments under the current law, Hyundai deals with these issues at Composition of the BOD (registered directors) and other BOD information the AGM, to encourage shareholders’ participation and feedback. More information on the BOD and executive compensation is available in our business report. Other matters relevant to shareholders, including details Qualification for Director of stock issues, ownership of related Group stocks, stock distributions, and dividends for the last three years, are available on the Hyundai Motor Directors of Hyundai are required to hold qualifications as specified in Company website. relevant laws and regulations, possess exemplary ethical and professional Annual report of Hyundai Motor Company Shareholders value sets, and diligently exercise the duty of representing the rights and interests of shareholders and other stakeholders in a balanced manner. They also should be able to allocate sufficient time to the conduct of their duties, and demonstrate strategic thinking, practical knowledge, and the mature ability to make judgment as well as a strong sense of responsibility. Outside directors are required to have expertise and experience in finance, economy, management, law, accounting, or relevant fields. They are also required to have no major conflicts of interest with the company and make independent decisions. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 036 Search Corporate Governance & Communication Committee BOD Sub-Committees 1 HIGHLIGHTS On April 23rd 2015, we expanded deliberated matters and functions of the The sub-committees under the BOD are the Audit Committee, the Outside previous Ethics Committee, a BOD sub-committee, and reorganized it to Director Candidate Nomination Committee, and the Corporate Governance the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee through a BOD 2 & Communication Committee. Roles and responsibilities are broken down among the sub-committees to promote professional decision-making. resolution. All four members of the Committee are outside directors, excluding the executive directors that were previously members of the Committee, ANNUAL PERFORMANCE In particular, the Audit Committee and the Corporate Governance & resulting in increased independence and transparency in activities. Communication Committee consist only of outside directors. FUTURE VISION 2.1 Company Overview To actively respond to investor demand for governance improvements, we continue 2.2 Corporate Governance to increase shareholder return, and enhance communication with shareholders, 2.3 Business Performance BOD while improving transparency and expertise of the BOD 2.4 Financial Highlights Increase Enhance communication Improve Strengthen 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values shareholder return with shareholders transparency expertise Outside Director Corporate Governance • Enhance shareholder • Continually hold • Disclose the activities of • Provide outsourced value through a governance NDRs the Corporate Governance education for outside Audit Committee Candidate Nomination & Communication transparent dividend & Communication directors Committee Committee policy Committee 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE • Reach the average • Expand application to • Implement the • Hold seminars with payout ratio of global domestic institutions shareholder governance specialists Information regarding auditors peers in the long-term recommendation system for appointing an outside director 4 APPENDICES Look for ways to achieve corporate governance to global standard Audit Committee The Audit Committee includes at least one accounting and financial expert, In particular, the committee member whose mandate is to protect shareholder and at least two-thirds of the members are independent outside directors rights and interests attends domestic investor discussions and non-deal who do not have business relations with Hyundai. Audit Committee roadshows (NDRs) for overseas investors, in order to serve as a channel for members are appointed through the AGM, and the Committee is responsible communications between the BOD and shareholders. for auditing the company’s finances and operations. It also requires directors to provide information on business operations and investigates the financial The committee made interim dividend payments for the first time in 2015, status of the company, which is then reported to the BOD. In addition, it and established the Corporate Governance Charter in 2016. It also publicly discusses with external auditors about the plans and the results of audits of announced the midto long-term dividend policy in 2017, and adopted the company’s financial statements to perform auditing work. the shareholder recommendation system in 2018, in addition to other various activities intended to increase shareholder rights and interests and Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee BOD transparency. The committee plans to actively communicate with In accordance with a law stipulating that outside directors account for a shareholders and perform key roles to build a corporate governance which majority of the outside director candidate nomination committee, we have meets global standard. made our Outside Director Candidate Nomination Committee consist of five GOAL members – outside directors Sung Il Nam, You Jae Yi, and Eun Soo Choi, and Adopt a shareholder recommendation system for appointing an outside director who executive directors Mong Koo Chung and Won Hee Lee. The Committee has is in charge of protecting shareholder rights and interests to increase shareholder the right to recommend outside directors. When designating new outside rights and interests while enhancing management transparency directors, Hyundai submits a ‘Confirmation of Qualification for Outside • W  hen an outside director • A n outside director candidate • A dvisory group → Outside Director Director’ to Korea Exchange that ensures the independence of new directors who is in charge of protecting advisory group that consists of Candidate Nomination Committee shareholder rights and interests is domestic and overseas governance → BOD → Final appointment through and other legal compliance. Two outside directors Dong Kyu Lee and Byung appointed, candidates are publicly experts verifies and selects AGM invited through shareholder candidates Kook Lee were re-elected based on recommendation by the Outside Director recommendations Candidate Nomination Committee at the 2018 AGM, which is the recent AGM Adopting a shareholder recommendation system as of the date of report issuance. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 037 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Business Performance Performance Overview 2 Growth in the global automobile market in 2017 saw low growth and a Global Sales Performance ANNUAL PERFORMANCE difficult business environment, with the exception of some emerging markets. Among the three major automobile markets, the U.S. saw a +17.6% 2.1 Company Overview clear downward trend, and China and Europe grew more slowly than +7.2% -31.3% 2.2 Corporate Governance -2.4% +4.6% the previous year. Given this very challenging environment, our business 2.3 Business Performance remained sluggish, so that we did not meet sales targets in China, the U.S., -13.5% 2.4 Financial Highlights +5.4% the Middle East and Africa, and profitability also went down. 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values +6.5% Even amidst these difficulties, we strived to retain our position as a worldleading automobile company, and enjoyed some meaningful achievements -5.9% 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE as a result. In particular, the IONIQ, our first line-up consisting solely of ecoCommercial friendly cars, achieved year-on-year growth of 150% worldwide, thanks to vehicles, etc. very positive responses from customers in Korea and overseas. This proved -12.7% 4 APPENDICES that Hyundai will be a leader in the new automotive market for electric cars. Global Sales The recently launched G70 from our luxury brand ‘Genesis’ won positive reviews from customers in Korea, leading to a strong sales performance. In the U.S., the G80 continued to maintain strong sales, and also won the Total 4,506,275 vehicles Best Residual Value Award from the Automotive Lease Guide, one the most Korea 688,939 trusted guides in the U.S. for evaluating the residual value of used cars. Passenger vehicles 656,618 Our market share in Korea rebounded in 2017 as we actively sought to Commercial vehicles 32,321 regain customer trust and launch customer-focused new cars. Sales in Overseas 3,817,336 important emerging markets, such as Russia and Brazil, also recovered. North America (U.S., Canada, Mexico) 881,250 India 527,322 Europe (Western, Eastern, Turkey) 600,811 Russia 165,804 Central & South America (Brazil, Other Latin American countries) 304,095 Middle East & Africa 311,335 Asia-Pacific (Other countries in Asia-Pacific region, Australia) 181,669 China 785,006 Overseas commercial vehicles, etc. 60,044 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 038 Search Market Condition and Business Review by Region 1 HIGHLIGHTS Korea U.S. Market Condition Sales of small SUVs in the Korean market grew by 33.6% Market Condition Sales of small commercial vehicles in 2017 grew by 2 in 2017. In contrast, sales in the semi-midsize and midsize segments were sluggish, and fell by 11.0% and 12.0%, respectively. A total of 1.56 million 3.7% thanks to strong sales of SUVs and pickup trucks. In contrast, however, sales of mid-size and large passenger cars saw declines of 15.9% and 11.6%, ANNUAL PERFORMANCE vehicles were sold in Korea in 2017 (excluding imports), a year-on-year respectively, reflecting the sluggishness of the overall market. Total sales in the decline of 2.5%. US automotive market fell by 1.8% year-on-year, down to 17.23 million units. 2.1 Company Overview 2.2 Corporate Governance Sales in Korea Market Share in Korea Sales in the U.S Market Share in the U.S 2.3 Business Performance 2.4 Financial Highlights 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 689,000 vehicles 44.2% 686,000 (excluding imports) units 4.0% 4 APPENDICES Business Review In 2017, Hyundai sold 689,000 units, a year-on-year Business Review In 2017, Hyundai sold 686,000 units in the US market, increase of 4.6%, driven by the continued new car effect of the Grandeur down 11.5% compared to the previous year, and recorded a market share and strong sales of the new Kona. Our market share recorded 44.2% of 4.0%. Although sales of the Tucson rose by 27.9%, sales of the Sonata (excluding imported cars). and the Elantra went down by 33.9% and 4.9%, respectively, causing the reduction in overall sales. Even in a difficult market, Hyundai strives to deliver customer satisfaction through product, price, and service. With customer lifestyles becoming However, there were meaningful successes during the year. As a result ever more diverse, we launched a range of new models to meet customer of our active quality management, Hyundai ranked 3rd among nonrequirements, including the i40 Saloon and Tucson gasoline model, and premium brands for the second consecutive year in the ‘2018 U.S. Vehicle we also expanded our line-up of diesels. In 2017, we launched the Kona, a Dependability Study (VDS)’ from the US market research firm J.D. Power and small SUV, and the Genesis G70, which strengthened our range of SUVs and Associates. The Tucson was chosen as the Best Car in the small SUV segment. premium cars. In addition, we implemented the ‘nice price’ policy, reducing In the ‘2018 Brand Report Card’ by Consumer Reports, a consumer survey the price of popular midto large-size models and four high-performance firm, the Genesis recorded an excellent score in four categories – driving models to increase our product accessibility. The ‘bluemembers’ service performance, reliability, customer satisfaction, and collision safety – winning brand was expanded and reformed as the foundation for a major innovation first place overall ahead of vehicles from the U.S., Germany, and Japan. in customer services. Our brand value also grew as a result of improvements in product quality We remain focused on creating environmental and social value by and customer satisfaction. Of the 100 major global brands assessed in 2017 developing eco-friendly cars, supporting a low-carbon society, and achieving by Interbrand, a global brand consulting company, Hyundai ranked 35th for joint growth in partnership with our suppliers. We have selected 37 social the second consecutive year, and was recognized as the fastest-growing welfare projects through an open and transparent process, and provide them automotive brand. In addition, the Elantra won the International Design with diverse support. Award (IDEA) in the Automotive & Transportation Design category, one of the world’s three major design awards, and the Sonata was selected as a top ten automobile by Kelley Blue Book, a vehicle valuation company. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 039 Search Asia Europe 1 HIGHLIGHTS Market Condition 24.14 million passenger cars (including mini vans) were Market Condition The automotive market in Europe saw signs of recovery. sold in China in 2017, a year-on-year increase of 1.3%. Although SUV sales Automotive sales were up in four major economies – Germany, France, went up by 13.9%, sales of other models declined by 6.2%, resulting in the Italy, and Spain – but down in the UK. A total of 16.01 million units were sold, 2 small increase in the overall market. In India, sales rose to 3.21 million units, recording a year-on-year increase of 3.2%. a year-on-year increase of 8.7%. Maruti Suzuki was the leading company, ANNUAL PERFORMANCE with sales up by 14.9% to 1,603,000 units. Honda and Tata sold 178,000 and 172,000 units respectively, increases of 14.5% and 18.4%. 2.1 Company Overview 2.2 Corporate Governance Sales in China Sales in India Sales in Europe Market Share in Europe 2.3 Business Performance 2.4 Financial Highlights 785,000 527,000 527,000 3.3% 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE units units units 4 APPENDICES Business Review Hyundai sold 785,000 units in China in 2017, a year-onBusiness Review Hyundai’s sales in Europe in 2017 grew by 3.4% over year decline of 31.3%. This was the result of a change in purchase tax policy the previous year, to reach 527,000 units, a market share of 3.3%. This was and Sino-Korean political conflict due to the deployment of the THAAD mainly the result of new car effects of the IONIQ EV and Kona. Hyundai anti-missile system in Korea. However, thanks to our efforts to improve remains focused on profitability, and thus strives to achieve qualitative customer satisfaction in China, we won the No. 1 position from among growth by strengthening business fundamentals and avoiding excessive 43 non-premium brands in the China Sales Satisfaction Index (SSI) Study sales incentives. from J.D. Power and Associates in two years after being selected in 2015, demonstrating once again our quality competitiveness. We have also Our position in the European market continues to improve, thanks to our increased our social contribution activities, including a child traffic safety technological prowess and excellence in design. We were ranked first and campaign and raising funds to help children bereaved by traffic accidents. third in 2016 and 2015, respectively, in a survey on quality satisfaction from In addition, Hyundai is involved in sports marketing in China, including Auto Bild, one the most prestigious automobile magazines in Europe, ahead sponsoring China’s national soccer team and the Beijing Marathon. These of local European automakers, thereby earning considerable recognition activities show customers in China how our brand is closely related to their for our quality competitiveness. In March 2014, thanks to the success of the lives. advanced technologies of the Tucson FCEV, we were chosen to implement an EU project on hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. In addition, the new Genesis Sales in India in 2017 recorded 527,000 units, a year-on-year increase of and the i10 won Red Dot Design Awards in 2014, followed by awards for 5.4%. In particular, the Grand i10, the Elite i20, and the Creta was designated the i20 and Sonata in 2015 and the IONIQ in 2016. Winning Red Dot Design the Indian Car of The Year (ICOTY) in 2014, 2015, and 2016, respectively, Awards, one of the three major global design awards, for three consecutive reflecting that we are satisfying local customer expectations. years was further recognition of our design excellence. Furthermore, we unveiled our high-performance brand, ‘N’, at the 2015 Frankfurt Motor Show, and continue to launch cars that maximize the enjoyment of driving. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 040 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Financial Highlights Balance Sheet Cash Flow 2 (Unit: KRW billion) 2015 2016 (Unit: KRW billion) 2017 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 2015 2016 2017 Cash and cash equivalents at the Assets 165,368 178,836 178,199 7,097 7,331 7,890 beginning of the year 2.1 Company Overview Current assets 67,529 72,450 73,976 Net cash flows provided by 2.2 Corporate Governance 1,248 997 3,922 operating activities Non-current assets 97,839 106,386 104,223 2.3 Business Performance Net cash flows used in 2.4 Financial Highlights Liabilities 98,487 106,491 103,442 -8,060 -6,312 -4,744 investing activities 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values Borrowings 64,932 73,444 72,001 Net cash flows provided by 7,214 5,691 2,181 financing activities Equity 66,881 72,345 74,757 Cash and cash equivalents at the Total asset growth 12.3% 8.1% -0.4% 7,331 7,890 8,822 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE end of the year 4 APPENDICES Income Statement Credit Rating (Unit: KRW billion) 2015 2016 2017 Domestic Overseas Sales revenue 91,959 93,649 96,376 Korea Ratings Operating income 6,358 5,194 4,575 AAA Moody’s Income before income tax 8,459 7,307 4,439 Profit for the year Sales growth 6,509 3.0% 5,720 1.8% 4,546 2.9% NICE Investors Service Baa1 Profit growth -14.9% -12.1% -20.5% Financial Ratio AAA S&P 2015 2016 2017 Korea Investors Service ALiability to equity Borrowing ratio 147.3% 97.1% 147.2% 101.5% 138.4% 96.3% AAA Return on sales 7.1% 6.1% 4.7% * Sources of financial information, financial statements, and notes to the financial statements Basic EPS (KRW) 23,861 20,118 14,993 Financial information 2017 Consolidated and separate financial statements and notes to the financial statements Credit ratings 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 041 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Distribution of Economic Values Hyundai shares our economic gains with our stakeholders, including shareholders, investors, suppliers, local communities and government agencies, as part 2 of our commitment to fulfilling our social responsibilities. We will continue to flourish through economic growth and stability, and to share more value with our stakeholders. ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 2.1 Company Overview Distribution of Economic Value in 2017 (Consolidated figures basis) (Unit: KRW billion) 2.2 Corporate Governance 2.3 Business Performance Shareholders and Employees Suppliers Government Local communities Distributed investors 2.4 Financial Highlights economic value 2.5 Distribution of Economic Values Generated economic value 63,334 Dividends and Interest expenses Salaries Raw materials costs Income tax (benefits) Donation 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Sales revenue 1,413 8,921 53,039 108 69 4 APPENDICES 96,376 Retained economic value 33,042 * Retained economic value is the value that results from subtracting distributed economic value from generated economic value. It is therefore not equal to retained earnings or internal reserves (Unit: KRW billion) 2015 2016 2017 Dividends (Shareholders and investors) 1,080 1,080 1,080 Interest expenses (Shareholders and investors) 259 272 333 Salaries (Employees) 8,846 8,878 8,921 Consolidated Raw materials costs (Suppliers) 52,095 52,102 53,039 Income tax (Government) 1,950 1,587 -108 Donation (Local communities) 66 76 69 Total 64,296 63,995 63,334 Dividends (Shareholders and investors) 1,080 1,080 1,080 Interest expenses (Shareholders and investors) 111 129 191 Salaries (Employees) 6,259 6,265 6,266 Separate Raw materials costs (Suppliers) 26,740 25,001 25,828 Income tax (Government) 1,245 841 526 Donation (Local communities) 51 50 48 Total 35,486 33,366 33,938 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 042 SUSTAINABILITY 3 PERFORMANCE Hyundai Motor Company is creating a more sustainable future through automobiles. As a global automaker, we are leading the future mobility market, and we are also striving to fulfill our role as a global corporate citizen. Based on our five values – customer, environment, collaboration, people, and community – we are leveraging our position as a leading global automaker to shape a better future and create a society filled with hope and happiness. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 043 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Management Philosophy 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Management Philosophy, Vision, and Core Values Management Philosophy The spirit and values that have driven Hyundai Motor Group are defined 3 CORPORATE VALUE SYSTEM by three key phrases: ‘unlimited sense of responsibility’, ‘realization of possibilities’, and ‘respect for humankind’. Based on these, Hyundai Motor SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Realize the dreams of humankind by creating Company has established a management philosophy to ‘realize the dreams a new future through ingenious thinking and of humankind by creating a new future through ingenious thinking and 3.1 OUR SYSTEM continuously challenging new frontiers’. continuously challenging new frontiers • Management Philosophy Management philosophy of Hyundai Motor Company • CSV Strategy System • Ethical and Compliance Unlimited sense of Realization of Respect for Management responsibility possibilities humankind 3 Key phrases of management philosophy • Risk Management • Stakeholder Engagement VISION • Pursuing sustainable growth with a sense of responsibility 3.2 OUR VALUE Unlimited towards employees, suppliers, and their families Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond sense of responsibility • Pursuing the highest quality, to be responsible for the safety and happiness of customers 4 APPENDICES Partner for lifetime Partner for everyday life Partner for happiness Provide brands, Provide services at all Redefine automobiles products, and services stages of the ownership as a space for comfort that cater for our process to ensure and pleasure, and pursue • DNA that strives for unlimited growth and advancement customer at all stages of the best customer innovation in eco-friendly • Entrepreneurship that enables us to break out of our comfort their lives experience and IT technologies Realization of zone and to take risks possibilities • Creating real value by turning small possibilities into real achievements CORE VALUES • Improving living conditions by providing products and services of the highest quality to the greatest number of people Respect for humankind • Being proactive in tackling environmental issues Customer Challenge Collaboration People Globality • Contributing to the global community by sharing our success 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 044 Search Vision Core Values 1 HIGHLIGHTS We have set our core vision to become a ‘Lifetime partner in automobiles We have selected five core values to practice our management philosophy and beyond’ based on which we will redefine the concept of automobiles and to realize our vision – customer, challenge, collaboration, people, 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE that used to be focused on mobility. We will therefore provide new space and globality. These core values were created by identifying the unique to make a better life by creating the best in mobility through customercharacteristics embedded in the mind-set of our employees that have centered, eco-friendly, innovative technology and comprehensive services. contributed to our success, and then adding to that a set of values that will 3 act as guidelines for everyone at the company. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 3 Major Strategic Directions The core values will guide not only our business operations but also the decision-making and daily work lives of our employees. They will also 3.1 OUR SYSTEM We have adopted three major strategies in order to realize our vision for help us develop a strong sense of community among our employees, and • Management Philosophy the future and take a step closer to our customers. These strategies are provide a basis for sustainable growth. • CSV Strategy System providing the best customer experience, finding new growth opportunities, • Ethical and Compliance and optimizing global operation. Furthermore, as a member of the Hyundai Management Customer Motor Group, we are fully committed to the Group’s vision – Together for a • Risk Management We promote a customer-driven corporate culture by providing better future. the best quality and impeccable service with all of our efforts aimed • Stakeholder Engagement at satisfying our customers. 3.2 OUR VALUE • Service innovation across all customer contact points Providing • Ensuring perfect quality Challenge the best customer • Improving brand value 4 APPENDICES experience We refuse to be complacent, embrace every opportunity for greater • Developing human-centered technology challenge, and are confident in achieving our goals with unwavering for the future passion and ingenuity. • Launching localized strategic models, and improving sales channels Collaboration Finding • Expanding and strengthening the materials We create synergy through a sense of “togetherness” that is fostered new growth by mutual communication and cooperation within the company and and parts industries opportunities with our business partners. • Developing eco-friendly cars, green technology, and new materials People We believe that the future of our organization lies in the hearts and • Realizing ‘smart scale’ capabilities of individual members and will help them develop their Optimizing • Creating synergy between potential by creating a corporate culture that respects talent. global operation overseas business sites • Social contributions and globality Globality We respect the diversity of cultures and customs, aspire to be the world’s best at what we do, and strive to become a respected global corporate citizen. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 045 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS CSV Strategy System 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Vision As public interests have been increasing in sustainable growth, so are calls for corporations Lifetime partner in to create social value through their business 3 automobiles and beyond operations. Also, non-financial factors including environment, social contribution and governance SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE are considered during the process of credit Mission Scaling social impact and building evaluations. As a result, creating social value has 3.1 OUR SYSTEM become an essential factor not only in securing • Management Philosophy a sustainable business ecosystem by creating shared value sustainable future growth engines, but also in • CSV Strategy System evaluating corporate value. • Ethical and Compliance Value Management Innovation Communication Growth To stay in step with these developments in the • Risk Management business environment, Hyundai has upgraded our • Stakeholder Engagement strategy for newly defined creating shared value 3.2 OUR VALUE (CSV) by realigning the business operations with the solution of social issues and strengthening Develop ideas on value Take actions based on Build a future society where the content of our social contribution programs. 4 APPENDICES creation through a creative communication and we and communities and innovative approach collaboration with stakeholders grow together in harmony By linking the CSV strategy to all our business operations, we will take steps that are designed to transform the economic value we create into social Strategy value which will bring about positive changes in Create social value Contribute to solve Support community every corner of global local communities where thorough business model social problems by using development based on and innovation business capabilities social responsibility we operate our business. Based on the newly established strategy, we will accelerate our pace of innovation. Taking a step further, we will help create a better future by Area communicating with more stakeholders about ways of growing together with local communities. Eco-friendly Mobility innovation Traffic safety Future generation Community 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 046 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Ethical and Compliance Management 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Ethical Management Compliance Management Hyundai practices corporate-wide ethical management, based on our Hyundai has established a compliance management support system, and 3 Ethics Charter, the Code of Conduct, and the Guidelines for Ethical Business Conduct. In order to ensure that we continue ethical management over undertakes a range of compliance activities in order to identify in advance any legal risks associated with our operations. This also helps to earn the SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE the long-term, we have also established an ethical management system trust of all of our stakeholders, and fulfills our social responsibilities. based on the same guidelines, and undertake continuous monitoring to 3.1 OUR SYSTEM ensure that it is put into practice. This system is regularly updated to reflect Compliance support activities • Management Philosophy changes in the business environment, regulations, and laws. Under the slogan ‘The Right Way, A Bright Future’, Hyundai has produced • CSV Strategy System Ethical management website of Hyundai Motor Company compliance guidelines to help our employees better understand the legal • Ethical and Compliance risks that may occur in their work, and how to properly respond to those Management risks. In addition, to improve staff awareness of compliance management, • Risk Management we continually provide compliance training to new hires with or without Guidelines for Establishment previous work experience. We also offer online training and distribute • Stakeholder Engagement Ethics Charter Code of Conduct Ethical Business of a foundation Conduct compliance newsletters to all staff, which is strengthening the compliance 3.2 OUR VALUE Provide a basis for A code of conduct Stipulate detailed mindset corporate-wide. ethical decision-making for all employees and procedures and content while carrying out work suppliers to practice for all employees in Compliance self-assessment 4 APPENDICES for Hyundai staff and its the spirit of the Ethics relation to practicing suppliers Charter ethics We have put into place a compliance support manager system whereby each Full text of Full text of Full text of department creates a self-assessment checklist for each legal area related the Charter the Code of Conduct the Guidelines to its specific work. The department then undertakes a regular compliance self-assessment based on the checklist. A compliance self-assessment Corporate Governance & Communication Committee consists of three parts – inspecting the level of knowledge of compliance, Governance identifying work-related risks, and establishing countermeasures for work Expanded and realigned the composition and mandate of the previous Ethics Committee under the BOD risks. Departments that are subject to these self-assessments are able, and encouraged to, compare self-assessment results. Staff members Overview of the Corporate Governance & Communication Committee (P. 37) participating in the self-assessment use the compliance support IT system to check results, and also to access interpretations of relevant laws whenever Compliance Joining of Cyber Audit the need arises. Related activities Program the UNGC Office at work Ensure fairness and Declared, both internally Perform the role of In 2017, a compliance self-assessment related to corruption, prohibition of transparency when and externally, our receiving reports and solicitation, personal information, and trade secrets was conducted across doing business with compliance with ethical providing counseling suppliers management by joining on unfair trade that various departments. We plan to expand the number of areas that are subject the UNGC in 2008 may lead to corruption, to self-assessment, and we continually encourage voluntary participation unfair demands, and corrupt practices by all departments that are subject to self-assessment. This will help us to develop systems and support programs that promote effective compliance. Compliance UNCG Cyber Audit Program (P. 77) Participants Office 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 047 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Risk Management 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Global Risk Management System Key Risk Factors and Opportunities In order to respond effectively to the various internal and external risks The automotive industry is currently facing an unprecedented level of 3 that have arisen as a result of the recent rapid changes in the automotive industry, in 2014, we set up a corporate-wide risk organization within risk. Hyundai is therefore concentrating on responding preemptively to macroeconomic, social and environmental risks, including climate change. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE the Headquarters Corporate Strategy Department. In addition, all of our overseas business sites designate a risk management team and manager, 3.1 OUR SYSTEM which has helped us to establish a global risk management system at sites • Management Philosophy across the world. • CSV Strategy System • Ethical and Compliance This global risk management organization undertakes daily monitoring of Management the internal and external risk factors in our businesses around the world. • Risk Management We preemptively respond to risk by performing scenario analyses for major • Stakeholder Engagement risk factors, and by establishing a strategy to counter risk. 3.2 OUR VALUE 4 APPENDICES Macroscopic risk factors Industry risk factors Business operation risk factors Since the 2008 financial crisis, long-term stagnation Such trends as autonomous driving, mobility, electric Extremely diverse risks are arising in relation to corpohas hit the economies of China and other emerging vehicles, and connectivity have been gaining speed, rate operation as well due to large-scale recalls, outflow countries which had led global economic growth, not resulting in sharp changes in stakeholder demands for of key personnel to other industries and the resulting to mention demand for automobiles. Also, there is vehicles, such as electrification and smart technology. shortage of personnel, regulation violations, patent greater intensity in such risk factors as natural disasters Since the Dieselgate emissions scandal, demand for right disputes, and increased terrorism and violence as well as oil price and foreign exchange fluctuations. eco-friendly vehicles is growing quickly especially due to political conflict. This points to the need to build In addition, the recent strengthening of protectionin Europe and China. This is pointing to the need to customer trust by enhancing product and service qualism of major countries and increasing trade conflict strengthen technological development through active ity, developing products and services that are adequate between the U.S. and China (G2) are impacting our investments in the relevant field and M&As and collabfor market characteristics, and carrying out responsible business. oration with other industries, such as ICT. activities for local communities. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 048 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Stakeholder Engagement 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Stakeholder Communication By strengthening communication across all areas of our business activities, we do our utmost to reflect and develop stakeholder expectations and solidify 3 relations of trust. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Definition of key stakeholder groups Customers and Dealers Employees Government Shareholders and Investors Suppliers Local Communities 3.1 OUR SYSTEM • Management Philosophy • CSV Strategy System • Ethical and Compliance Dealers deliver Hyundai’s Employees handle product The government enacts Shareholders and investors Suppliers provide parts Local communities refer to Management products and services to development, production, laws and regulations provide finance and capital or materials to Hyundai, residents in areas located customers, while customers sales as well as all activities that are related to the to the company, so that enabling the company to close to our business sites • Risk Management decide on making a purchase that support the above. Their automobile industry or Hyundai can maintain growth produce quality products. as well as all global citizens • Stakeholder Engagement based on delivered product competencies mean the decides on regulation levels engines while implementing Their quality competitiveness who are influenced by the and service information. company’s competencies. on corporations’ business diverse strategies or running has impacts on Hyundai’s company’s activities. Hyundai 3.2 OUR VALUE operation, so that it can its business. quality. strives for their sustainable influence the company’s development. business activities. 4 APPENDICES Communication channels by key stakeholder groups • Test driving • Labor-Management Council • P  olicy-making discussions, • Company briefing • W  in-win growth and fair trade • Social contribution programs • Before Service • Employee satisfaction surveys briefings, public hearings, etc. • IR meetings agreement • C  ommunication with local • M otor show and new car • Meetings and events • Annual general meeting • E  nergy-Saving Technology communities nearby the launching ceremony Exchange Meeting company’s business sites • Grievance handling system • C orporate Governance & • Customer satisfaction survey Communication Committee • R&D Tech-Day • Recruitment • O ccupational Safety and • Car club Health Committee • R&D symposium • Family inviting events • On-line communication • W ork-related education and • R&D Motor Show • Website training • S  eminar and training for suppliers • My Car Story 2.0 • F  oundation of Korea • Sports sponsorship Automotive Parts Industry • Dealer seminars Promotion • Dealer conventions • Dealer events • Agent conventions Issues of interest by key stakeholder groups • Sustainable mobility • E mployee satisfaction  ompliance with laws and • C • Improvement of the corporate • Win-win growth • Invigoration of local economy • Excellent quality improvement regulations value • Fair trades • Job creation • Enhancement of vehicle safety • F ostering outstanding • Fulfillment of tax obligations • P rotection of shareholder • Long-term partnership • Social contribution activities employees interests • C ustomer satisfaction improvement • Human rights protection • Stable growth • Health and safety • T ransparent information disclosure 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 049 CUSTOMER What is the primary value a corporation should pursue? At the center of all areas in which Hyundai operates lie customers. From product development to production, supply and to after-sale service, we always think and act from a customer’s perspective. Through safe and superior products and convenient and practical services, we will enhance not only customer satisfaction but also the value of their lives. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 050 We care our customers. Hyundai strives to deliver value and a sense of pride to customers by enhancing safety and convenience as part of the underlying performance of vehicles, and by offering innovative technologies. We are aiming to maximize the customer experience value while actually using our vehicles by delivering the best in emotional product quality. In addition, we are becoming leaders in customer safety and convenience through detailed relevant research and development. We do our utmost to ensure the safety and health of customers. We focus on transparency with our customers. We are committed to providing customers with ‘high quality vehicle with no defects’. We therefore We have overhauled our communication channels at the corporate level, so that we can deliver continue to research the entire vehicle process, from production to delivery, so that we deliver detailed and transparent product information to customers, and also communicate with them about safe vehicles that customers can trust entirely. We have built a creative quality management all their experiences with our products. We do our utmost to ensure effective sharing of customer system through which everyone at Hyundai communicates and collaborates to bring about the opinions, at the right time and in the right place. We aim to predict and prevent any problems that best in safety and quality for our customers. Through this system, we focus on the entire quality customers might have in using our vehicles, and communicate with customers in advance. We also management chain, including development, manufacturing, sales and after-sales servicing. communicate in-depth with customers and undertake regular reviews, so that voice of customers can contribute to product and company development in the midto long-term term. Preemptive and creative quality management Best response to customer safety Before After Carry out customer-centric quality Actively undertake recalls to management activities at the corporate resolve safety issues of vehicles, level by offering customers with + and respond with continuous quality ‘high quality vehicle with no defects’ and enhancement and repairs for vehicles > building a preemptive, creative quality with minor quality issues management system Respond after customers Provide preemptive solutions make inquiries about a product issue to inconveniences that may be experienced while driving Efforts made in 2017 to ensure customer safety Efforts made in 2017 to enhance communication regarding products and services P. 52-56 P. 57-61 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 051 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Product and Service Responsibility 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Protecting Customer Safety The Global Safety Office was created in 2016 to perform a central role in Autonomous Driving Experience 3 ensuring the quality of major safety parts and enhancing customer safety throughout the entire process of vehicle development and production. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE The Department collaborates closely with Hyundai’s research centers and business units, and also with affiliates and suppliers that support Seoul PyeongChang 3.1 OUR SYSTEM our manufacturing and R&D. It also communicates with the government 3.2 OUR VALUE and NGOs in order to identify and respond to safety-related laws and During the PyeongChang 2018 Olympic Winter Games, we unveiled the ‘Nexo’ regulations. autonomous driving vehicle to Korean and international media, and offered rides • Customer in these vehicles at locations close to stadiums. We also successfully completed a Product and long-distance autonomous driving demonstration in which government officials Service Responsibility In particular, we are focused on developing new safety technologies that used autonomous driving vehicles to travel the entire 190-kilometer distance Customer Communication could prevent automobile accidents, and offering them to a greater number between Seoul and Pyeongchang. These driving experiences demonstrated the of customers. We strictly manage the materials used in our vehicles, and effectiveness of our advanced autonomous driving technologies. • Environment have eliminated entirely any dangers to our customers from the use of • Collaboration hazardous substances. • People • Community Developing New Safety Technologies 4 APPENDICES Hyundai is moving beyond passive safety, which protects customers in the event of a collision, and we are focusing on innovative safety technologies that actively prevent collisions. Moreover, in the preparation for the era of autonomous vehicles, we are researching an active and passive safety control that minimizes injury by putting a driver into the safest position possible when there is the risk of an accident. Autonomous driving technology Hyundai has been developing autonomous driving technologies based on our long-term, constant planning around this technology. We are embedding technologies those instantly responding to drivers’ mistakes and unexpected accidents into our products. We will continuously apply smart autonomous driving technologies to our vehicles with an aim to remove short comes and therefore to produce technology-leading products. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 052 Search Developing the next-generation powertrain technology Strengthening Safety Management Products 1 HIGHLIGHTS Powertrains are the key to overall car performance, including fuel efficiency, We strictly manage safety, so that no harm is caused throughout the entire acceleration, and drivability. Hyundai has lifecycle of our vehicles, from development to production, commercialization, 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE been wor king on developing ‘Smartstream’, delivery, and use by customers. All departments related to safety collaborate a next-generation powertrain, by bringing closely with each other as well as with suppliers. In addition, we thoroughly together the technologies we have used in monitor the production process and completed vehicles. 3 engines that have now been selected as ‘10 Best Engines’ in the world eight times Establishing a hazardous substance response system SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE over the last decade. We will continue to In 2017, Hyundai established a team dedicated to systematically managing improve our powertrains by developing the chemical substances used in its products, and to ensuring that no 3.1 OUR SYSTEM new technologies that will enable engines hazardous substances get into its vehicles. This team was created when the 3.2 OUR VALUE Smartstream to increase fuel efficiency and power previous system, whereby each unit responded to any issues, was integrated • Customer performance, and transmissions to meet diverse needs of customers into a corporate-wide management system. Also, Hyundai Chemical Product and regarding drivability. Management System (HCMS), an integrated hazardous substance IT system, Service Responsibility Development of powertrain technology was built in the early 2018, and is under operation to manage hazardous Customer Communication substances by such category as parts and materials. HCMS covers not only • Environment Hyundai, but also all of our suppliers related to chemical substance, so that • Collaboration Hyundai SmartSense we are now able to check regulatory information on hazardous substances • People SmartSense is an intelligent safety technology that we have been using in as well as suppliers’ regulatory test and responses on a real-time basis. • Community our vehicles since the Grandeur IG, and enables vehicles to actively prepare Regulatory information prior to the establishment of HCMS is managed by for situations that may result in accidents. By preventing lane deviation, existing regulatory response system. We also run meetings by the corporatemaintaining a certain distance between vehicles, providing driving side committee, which consists of staff in change, more than two times per 4 APPENDICES assistance, and analyzing driver patterns and fatigue, SmartSense vehicles month with an aim to respond to hazardous substances through the system can assess situations that may threaten driver safety and take necessary operation, and also to build a system to respond to hazardous substances in measures. a preemptive manner. Technologies included in SmartSense Lot Tracking System Parts and materials used in vehicle manufacturing are managed at the level MOU with the KIDI of each lot. A lot tracking system is a product risk back-tracking system Despite accident prevention effects of the advanced driver assistance used to identify a part that is the cause of a faulty product, as products that system (ADAS), drivers in Korea were until recently not able to benefit use parts from the same lot are more vulnerable to similar risks. This system from reductions in their insurance premiums. However, given the recent enables us to identify potential vehicle breakdowns or other parts issues increase in the availability of ADAS functions and smart sensors, we that may affect customer safety. We are expanding the use of this system signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Korea Insurance to all of our business sites around the world. Development Institute (KIDI) to provide ADAS premium discounts so that more customers can enjoy the benefits offered by these new technologies. We will widen this scheme through collaboration with more individual insurance companies in the near future. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 053 Search Increasing Customer Safety 1 HIGHLIGHTS and Convenience through Service Blue Members The ‘Blue Members’ system reflects our commitment to service, so that our Hyundai is committed to increasing customer convenience and economic customers are able to enjoy their automobiles more, and use our services 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE efficiency by constantly monitoring and upgrading the state of our vehicles, according to their requirements. as improving service quality will ensure the safe use of vehicles. Blue Link 3 4 Service directions The ‘Blue Link’ service is a connected car service that brings together automobiles and IT. It provides a safer, more convenient driving environment SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE by increasing safety in emergency situations, enabling remote control using Proactive Smart Cost Saving Connected Caring Convenience Enabler Efficiency smartphones, and providing fastest route information in real time. 3.1 OUR SYSTEM Manage safety Continue Save costs Enhance time 3.2 OUR VALUE preemptively to increase for use and efficiency through Blue Link services • Customer convenience maintenance connectivity Product and • Vehicle inspection Vehicle • Monthly report Service Responsibility maintenance • Driving information Customer Communication Service network • Environment We operate ‘Bluehands’, our official service supplier, and offer our customers Concierge • Blue Link Concierge • Collaboration the safety and convenience of the largest network in Korea, with some 1,400 • People sites. In addition to providing rapid services that reduce car maintenance • Blue Link route information • Community and repair time, Hyundai is widening the scope of our vehicle diagnostics (real-time information on the fastest route) Route • Portal site area search through dealer workshop servicing, pre-delivery inspection, Auto Link information • Sharing my car’s location while driving, and visiting Before Service. These self-diagnosis and repair • Server-based voice recognition 4 APPENDICES services are part of our response to a shifting market landscape that is now characterized by technologies such as autonomous driving and the • SOS emergency dispatch • Theft tracking Safety • Automatic notice on • Theft alert Internet of Things (IoT). security airbag deployment • Careless driving alert Bluehands services • Remote air-conditioning • Confirm parking location Remote control • Transmit destination Car repair Home-toEmergency Installation of Blue control • Remote door unlock and • Check vehicle state lock control Home Service dispatch TUIX Members Autolink In 2017, we adopted the smartphone-based ‘Autolink’ service so that • Warranty repair, • Pickup and • 24/7 service • Specialized • Joining Blue customers overseas who could not use Blue Link could enjoy the same general repair delivery of that is provided TUIX Members level of service. Autolink offers a range of convenience functions and maintenance through installation and providing • Consumables (repair) Hyundai’s service services automobile maintenance information based on customer preferences in exchange and vehicle vehicles Emergency after vehicle each country. management Dispatch processing Support Center 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 054 Search Connected car technology HACKAROAD – Hyundai Hackathon 1 HIGHLIGHTS ‘Connected Mobility’ is one of the three directions for the future mobility that Hyundai has been hosting the Hackathon1) since 2016 to anticipate the Hyundai announced at the 2017 CES, and connected car technology is the future of the automobile industry, including connected cars, by providing key to connected mobility. an arena for competition on ideas related to connectivity technology. In 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 2017, participants competed for 24 hours, generating unique ideas on the We will develop and apply connected car technologies across various themes of ‘infotainment’ and ‘connected cars’. fields, including vehicle control, artificial intelligence (AI), networks, and 3 security technology, which are used in all aspects of daily lives. 1)  Hackathon is a compound which word refers to how participants must conceive and develop ideas by striving over long hours, just like a marathon. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Components of connected car technology 2017 HACKAROAD 3.1 OUR SYSTEM 3.2 OUR VALUE • Customer Product and In-Vehicle Network (Ethernet1)) Service Responsibility Customer Communication • Environment • Collaboration • People Head Unit (ccOS2)) • Community 4 APPENDICES Car Cloud (ccSP3)) Complete a project on developing a service that will be implemented in future connected cars based on creative ideas Big Data/AI • Participated by undergraduate or graduate students, start-up employees, and others, the Overview Hackathon had teams, with each team consisting of no more than three members, plan and implement services in the fields of connected car and infotainment • The allotted time was a total of 24 hours, starting from the morning to the morning on the following day 1) Ethernet is a next-generation in-vehicle communications network that will replace the conventional 1Mbps controller area network. With its 100Mbps ultra-high-speed Connected Car Infotainment communications capability, Ethernet enables rapid data collection, including videos, for the real-time sharing of vehicle maintenance information and video data. It also provides external services related to connectivity. 2) The connected car Operating System (ccOS) is an independent operating system for Tasks Car Cloud, In-Vehicle Network, Develop new vehicle technologies by connected cars, and an advanced software platform that is capable of creating a stable AI/Big Data, Security using display, service, input control, connectivity environment and swiftly processing and handling large quantities of data. and biometric 3) The connected car Service Platform (ccSP) is an integrated management platform for a wide range of connected car services, including connecting a vehicle to another vehicle, * Results were determined by comprehensively considering marketability, creativity, and feasibility to home, or to mobile phones and other smart devices, as well as managing security. ccSP also processes and analyzes the massive amounts of data generated by vehicles, • Prize money totaling around KRW 18 million, and recruitment and internship benefits to outstanding talent and manages various other vehicle services. Prize • Priority is given for submission for the TIPS program and connection is made to advanced development after internal reviews 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 055 Search Visiting charging service Global Service Support 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai is providing a range of visiting services for customers with EVs, Hyundai ensures world-leading service quality under the slogan ‘Right Here, including the IONIQ, in response to the increasing number of eco-friendly Right Care’. The company has established a global service organization, vehicles on the road. Eco-friendly cars risk energy depletion while driving, strategies and service methods to make sure that the quality of products 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE and in order to minimize this risk, we plan to expand both charging sold overseas and the level of services are the same as those offered to infrastructure and the visiting charging service. customers in Korea. In 2017, we improved our global service operations by strengthening the dealer management system and by establishing digital 3 Automobile selective warranty system In the past, customers were offered the same warranty, irrespective of their and other specialized services for vehicles including the Genesis and our eco-friendly cars. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE driving habits and life patterns. Hyundai became the first company in Korea to offer the ‘selective warranty system’, which allows customers to choose Stakeholder communication channels have been overhauled by bringing in 3.1 OUR SYSTEM a warranty period that aligns with their requirements, personal preferences, new systems for overseas service promotions, PR and efficient marketing. 3.2 OUR VALUE and lifestyle. Customers of vehicles launched after January 1, 20181) can We have improved service quality in Korea, and now use ‘workshop • Customer select warranty repair conditions, depending on time period and distance. automation’ overseas to collect in-the-field service information which Product and They can also change warranty conditions as many times as they want. is then used to generate service quality improvements. The ‘Workshop Service Responsibility automation’ system has computerized and automated the processing of all Customer Communication 1) This system does not yet apply to the Genesis or to business and small commercial vehicles. tasks that are handled inside workshops, from first receiving the vehicle to • Environment processing. In addition, we are now using the ‘Hyundai Assurance Program’ • Collaboration in various regions overseas. • People • Community In recognition of the different cultural and social environments in each country where we operate, Hyundai uses distinctive sales support programs in each region, aiming to build a service system that connects 4 APPENDICES most effectively with local circumstances. Responses to global services are independently monitored and measured, including through the initial quality, durability, reliability indices and the customer satisfaction index. Visiting charging service 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 056 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Customer Communication 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Enhancing Customer Satisfaction through Communications 3 Hyundai always focuses on listening to the voices of its customers as Strengthening customer communications and listening attentively to our effectively as possible. We therefore recently created a department that looks customers will enable us to enhance product quality and services, and we SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE at customer complaints and inconveniences, and aims to collect all customer will continue to find better ways to align ourselves with customer opinions. opinions, without omission. These customer communications are quickly 3.1 OUR SYSTEM delivered to the relevant departments to develop measures for improvement. 3.2 OUR VALUE In addition, we have overhauled the corporate system for categorizing these • Customer measures, so that they are immediately reflected in product quality. Product and Service Responsibility VOC-based customer satisfaction enhancement process Customer Communication Receive customer opinions Internal process review Communication Derive the outcome of application • Environment • Collaboration We ascertain trends by identifying • People the needs and subjects of interest • Community of customers who are planning to Collaboration purchase our products, and come up Team with improvement measures by learning Positive customer Publication, and PR materials about the complaints of customers who satisfaction level 4 APPENDICES purchased our products. PR Team Awards for products and services Voice of customers who are planning to purchase a vehicle Planning Team Exhibition, test driving, and experimental exhibition Product quality upgrade Technology Complaints of Team customers who have purchased a vehicle Social media and Service upgrade other media channels Finance Team 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 057 Search Delivering Value through Communications 1 HIGHLIGHTS We use various channels to share with customers the technologies that are embodied in our vehicles, our commitment to eco-friendliness, our design philosophy, and the “brand sensitivity” that we seek to deliver. In addition to product brochures, sales and marketing promotions, and advertisements, we are 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE working on different channels and activities that will enable us to share our unique philosophy and values. Technology Design Brand Motor Shows 3 Technology Eco Design Philosophy Modern Premium N Brand Hyundai Motorstudio SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 3.1 OUR SYSTEM 3.2 OUR VALUE • Customer Product and Service Responsibility Customer Communication  Provide customers with  Realize clean mobility  Next-generation design  Deliver a sense of  A high-performance line A brand experience safety and convenience that is free from direction that embodies pride and an emotional up that was developed space where visitors can • Environment by combining perfect environmental issues Hyundai’s unique design experience to customers based on technology and encounter Hyundai’s • Collaboration basic performance and  Develop and produce DNA by providing value and experience accumulated modern, premium sensitivity various eco-friendly  Maximize emotional value experience that exceed through motor sports lifestyle • People customer expectations cars that are free from through perfect harmony  Deliver the enjoyment of  Deliver the new value • Community environmental issues, among proportion and in this era dynamic driving in daily of Hyundai, which has such as HEVs, PHEVs, EVs, structure, styling, and  Provide Hyundai’s life – not only race tracks become a partner in and FCEVs technology unique modern premium – through the outstanding life, through a culture experience that is driving performance and art experience 4 APPENDICES concise, creative, and and high-performance that is connected to thoughtful sensitivity of the highautomobiles performance N Smart Caring FCEV Sensuous Sportiness Premium emotion World Rally Goyang, Hanam, Seoul, offered by Hyundai Championship Digial, Beijing, Moscow Safety PHEV HEV/EV Technology Eco Design Modern Premium N & World Rally Championship Hyundai Motorstudio ART  Look for new perspectives towards the future, and provide more opportunities to experience and enjoy art MMCA Hyundai Motor Series 2017: IM HEUNG SOON – “Things that do us part”  Form partnerships with National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art, Photography by GIM IKHYUN Tate Modern, and Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and share thoughts about what Provided by National Museum of Modern and automobile and art industries need Contemporary Art 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 058 Search H-Ombudsman 1 HIGHLIGHTS H-Ombudsman is a customer suggestion program through which Hyundai listens carefully to customer opinions on various matters, including products, marketing, and creating shared value (CSV), and then reflects those 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE opinions in the direction of its corporate development. The H-Ombudsman program is an opportunity to reflect customer opinions in actual products. It performs an important role as a bridge allowing us to communicate 3 openly with our customers about product quality, and then develop better quality new products that reflect customer requirements. Outline of the Sonata ‘Custom Fit’ SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE My City Edition – suitable for downtown driving Key activities of H-Ombudsman 3.1 OUR SYSTEM Functions for road congestion 3.2 OUR VALUE • Smart blind spot detection (BSD) • Customer • Electric parking brake (EPB) Product and H-Ombudsman Festival Launching ceremony Workshop Customer suggestion Service Responsibility presentation Design and auxiliary lights Customer Communication 2016 2017 • LED rear combi lamp, LED turn signal, LED auxiliary brake • Environment Period From early July to early December From May to early December light, 18” dark sputtering wheel and tire • Collaboration Participants 79 86 • People • New technology Parking assist system • Product • Community Areas of idea • Product development • Front parking assist system suggestion • Customer value • Marketing communication • Around view monitoring system (optional item) • Social contributions • Sales and services 4 APPENDICES • Safety Door • Sonata Custom Fit • First-time buyer marketing • Blue Assistant My Trip Edition – suitable for long-distance driving Selected ideas • Personalized intelligent • New option of a ventilation navigation handle Functions for long-hour driving assist • Emotion-driven services for • Eye Link • Advanced smart cruise control (ASCC) female customers • Automatic emergency braking (AEB) • Lane keeping assist system (LKAS) An open innovation program was carried out in 2017 to run a customer• Driver attention alert (DAA) participated experiential program that involved commercializing products that reflected customer needs and ideas. For a total of 168 days from May Nighttime driving assist functions through October, the 2nd Group of H-Ombudsman participated in the • LED headlamp overall process of developing the Sonata Special Edition, ranging from key • Hi-pass room mirror (ECM) specifications to trim composition and the final model name. The finished • Smart high beam special edition was named the ‘Sonata Custom Fit’ and was actually sold. We held the ‘H-Ombudsman Festival’ at the end of the year, where six top teams were invited to share their ideas with customers. There were also special lectures by Jeong Tae Kim, CEO of MYSC Social Company, Gil Yeong Song, Vice President of Daumsoft, and Professor Dennis Hong from the UCLA School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 059 Search Hyundai Motorstudio 1 HIGHLIGHTS The ‘Hyundai Motorstudio’ is a brand experience space that aims to share with customers our brand direction, ‘Modern Premium Experience’. It provides a new car experience through creative, innovative content and 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE cultural communications with customers. We have continued to innovate in our brand experience halls, ranging from Hyundai Motorstudio Seoul, our first brand experience hall opened in 2014, to Hyundai Motorstudio Moscow, 3 our first overseas brand experience hall, Hyundai Motorstudio Digital, which allows people to see all of our models in a digital environment, and Hyundai 1 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Motorstudio Hanam, which was the first Motorstudio in a mall. 3.1 OUR SYSTEM Visitors to Hyundai Motorstudio can enjoy the Hyundai brand experience, 3.2 OUR VALUE helped by the automotive culture expert ‘Guru’ and the exhibition commentator • Customer ‘Storyteller’. There are also culture and art exhibitions, live performances, Product and a library specializing in automobiles, expert lectures and talk shows, and Service Responsibility delicious cuisines. Customer Communication • Hyundai Motorstudio 2 • Environment A space to create a new lifestyle through cars, and a space to reflect on the way cars enrich our lives • Collaboration • Hyundai Motorstudio Seoul • People Stories about culture beyond automobiles • Community • Hyundai Motorstudio Moscow A space where inspiration and innovation unfold • Hyundai Motorstudio Digital 4 APPENDICES The here and the space of hereafter, Beginning of the new car experience • Hyundai Motorstudio Hanam Welcome to a new form of brand space, Explore and experience the future vision of mobility 3 • Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang 1, 2 Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang Inviting you on a new automotive journey with experiences you can see, hear and touch 3 Hyundai Motorstudio Beijing • Hyundai Motorstudio Beijing We communicate with customers through creative thinking and art Opened in 2017 Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang Opened in April 2017, the Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang is an automobile theme park, where visitors can see, hear, and touch automobiles. In the Permanent Exhibition Zone, visitors can experience the entire process of automobile manufacturing, starting right at the beginning with molten metal at our plants, through to research centers that develop our innovative automotive technologies, and the designs that embody Hyundai’s philosophy. In Showcase, the largest car exhibition space in Korea, visitors can see our major models as well as recently launched new vehicles. The Theme Exhibition Zone features various exhibits, in addition to stories about the World Rally Championship. Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang offers other experiences as well, including ‘Drive Out’, a themed test-drive program, the food and drink facilities ‘KITCHEN’ and ‘CAFÉ’, and a brand shop. We have also opened a cutting-edge maintenance facility and service lounge that use digital information to enable customers to get car maintenance while they are enjoying the exhibitions. Hyundai Motorstudio Beijing Hyundai Motorstudio Beijing was officially opened in November 2017, in an artistic community in Beijing known as The 789 Art Zone. The space was built to reflect the kind of sustainability and creative energy that can resolve modern social issues, and which is reflected in our brand direction, defined as ‘Modern Premium Experience’. In particular, the cutting-edge air handling units located at the entrance and in the hallway depict real-time outdoor air quality and the indoor air purification process in an artistic, intuitive way using indoor and outdoor LEDs, and showing visitors that they are breathing clean air. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 060 Search Providing Information in an Ethical, Transparent Way Information System (PIS) manages the entire process of distributing customer 1 HIGHLIGHTS data and the post-processing phase. We fulfill all the privacy obligations Hyundai ensures at all times that communications relating to its products stipulated in relevant laws, and improve security by inspecting all business units and services are completely free from any infringement of stakeholder and systems regularly, as well as by constantly implementing improvements. 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE privacy, including customers, and never include dual standards or attempts to In addition, Hyundai’s service providers are subject to thorough verification influence vulnerable groups. We respect and adhere to the ethical and cultural prior to the signing of contracts. They are also subject to security controls and standards of every region in which we operate, and we review these standards periodical on-site assessments during their period of service, to ensure that our 3 in advance of launching any communications. Marketing communication activities only take place after a detailed process of listening to and reflecting standards of data security are being maintained across our business network. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE local opinions. Product labeling Hyundai has established and fulfills all labeling obligations in every market in 3.1 OUR SYSTEM Protecting customer information which it operates, to ensure that customers have the complete information 3.2 OUR VALUE We have established the Personal Information Protection Committee which is they need when purchasing or using its vehicles. • Customer responsible for protecting the personal information of our customers and other Product and stakeholders. In addition, our Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) is responsible for Product labeling obligation by market Service Responsibility managing the personal information management process, and our Personal Customer Communication Product ID labeling (year of production, vehicle weight, vehicle identification information number, types of car, model name, etc.) • Environment Organization chart of the Personal Information Protection Committee Fuel efficiency • Collaboration Korea (environmental) Fuel efficiency labeling; and exhaust gas-related sign information • People Chairperson • Community Chief Privacy Officer (CPO)1) Product safety Recommended tire air pressure, and front passenger seat airbag -Domestic Sales Directorinformation warning for children sitting in front seats Product ID labeling; and VIN (Vehicle Identification Number, stamped, information W/screen) 4 APPENDICES Assistant Administrator (Sales/Member Information CPO) CPO in charge of legal affairs Fuel efficiency China (environmental) Fuel efficiency labeling Execution Assistant Administrator information (Working-level Member on Sales/ CPO in charge of IT Member Information) Product safety COC labeling; child restraint system (CRS) warning labeling; airbag information labeling; and anti-theft labeling ID labeling (vehicle weight, WVTA certification number, etc.); and CPO2) Working-level Member2) Product E-mark for various item certification (lamp, safety belt, horn, tire, information Working-level Member mirror, glass, etc.) Sales/Member Information CPO on Sales/Member Information Fuel efficiency Refrigerant labeling: diesel engine car smoke labeling (corrected Working-level Member EU Service Customer Information CPO (environmental) absorption coefficient value indication); battery recycling labeling; on Service Customer Information information and fuel labeling (law planned to take effect in October 2018) Commercial Customer Working-level Member Information CPO on Commercial Customer Information Product safety Airbag warning labeling; temporary spare tire (if provided) speed information alert labeling; brake fluid labeling; and ISOFIX CRS anchor labeling Working-level Member Blue Link Member Information CPO on Blue Link Member Information Product Manufacturer’s suggested retail price (MSRP) labeling (Fuel Working-level Member information efficiency, NCAP information, etc.) Staff Information CPO on Staff Information VECI labeling (certified exhaust gas data); and refrigerant labeling North Fuel efficiency Working-level Member (refrigerant information, refrigerant volume, type of compressor Information Protection Support CPO (environmental) on Information Protection Support America lubricant, lubricant volume, manufacturer information, SAE (U.S., information compliance information, warning symbols, etc.) Canada) * As of April 2018 Tire air pressure information labeling (proper air pressure and vehicle 1) Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) is in charge of overseeing the organization’s personal information Product safety load capacity); safety certification labeling (vehicle weight, tire protection management and operations, as well as relevant policy and decision-making information information, etc.); and airbag warning labeling (consumer warnings/ 2) precautions in relation to deployment of airbag) CPO: Executive in the respective area | Working-level Member: Member of each department 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 061 We will further care our customers. In order to maximize customer safety, Hyundai is committed to ensuring that a greater number Achievements in Customer Safety of customers can enjoy the benefits of the safety features in its vehicles. We are therefore aiming to apply the insurance discounts that are currently available for personal passenger vehicles to No. 1 in the 2018 IQS by J.D. Power and Associates commercial cars, including taxis, and trucks from 2018. We finalized roles and responsibilities The Genesis, our premium brand, ranked first among a total of 31 brands, including non-premium brands, and first among 13 premium brands in the ‘2018 U.S. Initial Quality Study (IQS)’ conducted by the J.D. related to hazardous chemicals management in 2017, and we will standardize it for our global Power and Associates. In particular, it ranked No. 1 among premium brands for two consecutive years, and business sites as well, starting in 2018. received its best ever score at 68 points only in two years after entering into the US market. In customer communications, we will focus on providing customers with a better experience The Best Car Brand of the Year selected by the US Consumer Reports throughout the entire ownership process, from purchase to use. We are also making In the ‘2018 Brand Report Card’ by Consumer Reports which comprehensively evaluates driving improvements in how we measure customer satisfaction. In particular, for eco-friendly vehicles, performance, reliability, customer satisfaction, and safety, the Genesis recorded an excellent score – 81 out of 100 – and thus won first among a total of 34 brands. we will use communications to help customers feel more familiar with these types of vehicles as a whole, and not just Hyundai vehicles. This reflects our responsibilities as the leader in the Korean automobile market, and our commitment to the environment. No. 1 in KSQI for three consecutive years We ranked first for three consecutive years in the automobile follow-up management category at the 2017 Korean Service Quality Index (KSQI). Stakeholder Interview Achievements in Customer Communication Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang Received the Red Dot Design Award I am greatly honored that the ‘Boat Travelling on Land’ exhibition won an Opened in April 2017, the Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang received Red Dot Design Awards in three categories, award at the Hyundai Blue Prize held at the Hyundai Motorstudio Beijing. The including the ‘Best of the Best’ award and ‘Winner’ placing for the space category, and the ‘Winner’ placing theme of the exhibition was onsite projects by Chinese artists in Nature and for the retail space category, in recognition of our efforts for consistent communication with consumers social spaces, from the 1990s to the present. Beijing’s exhibition space was regarding our brand identity, which is the most important characteristic of a brand. remodeled to create mountains and canyons, enabling visitors to experience the exhibition from various different angles. Selected as one of the most beloved advertisements in Korea The ‘Hydrogen Electric House’ and the IONIQ’s outdoor advertisements in 2017 were selected Hyundai Blue Prize has encouraged professional exchanges and dialogue as the most beloved advertisements in Korea hosted by Korea Advertisers Association in the online between curators, even those who differ in their artistic perspectives. It has category and outdoor advertising category, respectively. provided important support to many curators and social innovators who are looking for new art and a wider social dialogue. I was pleased to participate, as it seemed to be a rare platform and opportunity within Asia, and I hope it develops Ranked top 35 on the list of ‘Best Global Brands 2017’ by Interbrand into a long-term program. I also hope that it will encourage the establishment of We ranked 35th among all brands and sixth in the automobile category for two consecutive years. Li Jie (李杰) more arenas of international exchange for the curation of the arts. Our brand value rose 5.1% over the previous year to reach USD 13.2 billion. Artist participating in the Hyundai Blue Prize 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 062 ENVIRONMENT What should a corporation do for a sustainable future? Hyundai thinks thoroughly about ways to balance economic and environmental values for the sake of the healthy growth of the company and the communities where we belong to. Our eco-friendly management of keeping the environment beautiful for our future generations and green technology of making the ultimate clean mobility free of pollutants combine to give a green light to a sustainable future. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 063 We pursue eco-friendly growth. Hyundai recognizes the automobile industry’s impact on the environment, and the consequent responsibilities that we have. As a result, we have set out our ‘global environmental philosophy and guidelines’, and we do our utmost to build a sustainable future through eco-friendly cars and management. We are actively responding to climate change by improving fuel efficiency and developing eco-friendly vehicles and technologies that reduce exhaust gas emissions. In addition, we focus on reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by improving energy efficiency, recycling our resources, and controlling the hazardous substances in the manufacturing processes at all our business sites. We maximize the eco-friendliness of our products. We minimize the environmental impact of our business operations. Hyundai has developed numerous eco-friendly vehicles, including hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs), Hyundai is responding to climate change by minimizing greenhouse gas emissions from energy usage plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (PHEVs), electric vehicles (EVs), and fuel cell electric vehicles (FCEVs). in its manufacturing processes. Our internal control criteria for air and water pollutants, which are We will expand the number of eco-friendly car models to 31 by 2020 and then to 38 by 20251), generated during the manufacturing process, are stricter than required by law and regulations, and becoming a leader in the global eco-friendly car market. In addition to offering new eco-friendly cars, we continue to focus on preventing environmental accidents, thereby minimizing the environmental Hyundai continues to use the automobile manufacturing technologies that it has accumulated over impact of our business operations. the last 50 years to improve fuel efficiency and thus maximize eco-friendliness. Reducing the environmental impact of Developing vehicles that use eco-friendly fuel existing vehicles HEV・PHEV Make lightweight vehicles FCEV Use eco-friendly materials EV Recycle waste resources 1) Based on the Hyundai Motor Group’s line-up Efforts made in 2017 to maximize eco-friendliness of our products Efforts made in 2017 to minimize the environmental impact of our business operations P. 65-69 P. 70-73 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 064 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Maximizing the Eco-friendliness of Products 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Developing Eco-friendly Vehicles Establishing an Eco-friendly Vehicle Line-up In order to reflect on recent trends with stakeholders ever more aware of The most effective way to maximize the eco-friendliness of vehicles is to 3 the impact of climate change, Hyundai has been actively researching and developing ‘faster and more convenient cars’, and ‘cars with a reduced change the basic mechanism for generating power by avoiding the use of fossil fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and LPG. Many car manufacturers are SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE impact on the environment’. Based on that, the company aims to become therefore focusing on developing vehicles that replace internal combustion a leader in the fast-growing eco-friendly vehicle market, and will also fully engines with electric motors, including HEVs, PHEVs, FCEVs, and EVs. 3.1 OUR SYSTEM support the expansion of the infrastructure and services required by eco3.2 OUR VALUE friendly cars, so that customers can use them with complete convenience. Hyundai has eco-friendly variants, such as an HEV, for existing car models, • Customer and is also developing new model lines that will consist exclusively of eco• Environment Furthermore, as well as launching eco-friendly cars, we will maximize the friendly vehicles, including EVs and FCEVs. Maximizing the Eco-friendliness eco-friendliness of our internal combustion engine vehicles (ICEVs). This of Products commitment can be seen throughout the entire vehicle process, from Minimizing the Environmental product planning to manufacturing, including by making our vehicles Impact of Business Operations lightweight and using eco-friendly and renewable materials. • Collaboration • People Eco-friendly Vehicle Line-up • Community 4 APPENDICES Sonata Grandeur Kona IONIQ Nexo  Hybrid  Hybrid  Electric  Hybrid  Fuel Cell  Plug-in Hybrid  Plug-in Hybrid  Electric Adding eco-friendly line-ups to Making an exclusive line-up of existing models ecofriendly models 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 065 Search Leading the FCEV Market 1 HIGHLIGHTS In order to lead the global FCEV market, we began mass production of the Hyundai plans to establish 210 FCEV charging stations by 2025, and the Tucson ix FCEV, the world’s first FCEV, in 2013, and launched the Nexo FCEV, price of FCEVs is forecast to fall by 40% compared to the current level by 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE a second-generation FCEV, in 2018. The Nexo is a futuristic SUV that brings 2030 with increased supply of FCEVs. Hyundai is a member of the Board of together our outstanding technologies relating to the electricity-driven Directors at the H2KOREA, a hydrogen convergence alliance established parts of HEVs, PHEVs and EVs, our FCEV technology, and other advanced car jointly by the Korean government and the private sector in August 2016, 3 technologies. with an aim to promote FCEVs and expand charging infrastructure. Hyundai is also a founding member of the ‘Hydrogen Council’, an organization of SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Hydrogen Council global hydrogen leaders, and the company was selected as a co-chair company in 2017. By doing so, we are making efforts in a range of areas 3.1 OUR SYSTEM to develop the competitiveness required to lead the global eco-friendly 3.2 OUR VALUE vehicle market. • Customer • Environment Driver assistant system in FCEV Maximizing the Eco-friendliness Launching the ‘NEXO’, a Next-Generation FCEV of Products Minimizing the Environmental In September 2017, Hyundai first unveiled the ‘Nexo’, a second-generation FCEV that Impact of Business Operations has reduced charging time to just five minutes and has increased the driving range for a single top-up of charging to around 609 km. The Nexo was officially launched at the CES • Collaboration in January 2018. • People * Outline of the drive system and how it works, energy flow information, station information, possible The Nexo is powered by electric energy produced by a reaction between hydrogen and • Community driving distance information, hydrogen tank monitoring oxygen. It therefore does not discharge any exhaust gases or other substances that could pollute the environment. It maximizes its eco-friendliness by using a high-performance air purification filter which filters out 99.9% of ultrafine particles (PM 2.5 or less). How FCEVs work 4 APPENDICES NEXO FCEV Zero exhaust gas and air purification effect Generating electricity O2 eeH+ Providing oxygen Providing + hydrogen H O2 O2 O2 O2 H2 H2 H2 H2 H2 + H2 H2 H H2 H2O H2O H+ H2 Producing water Hydrogen reaction 2H2 4H+ + 4eOxygen reaction O2 + 4H+ + 4e2H2O 100% Driving force distribution motor * The ‘stack’ uses electricity that is created by combining hydrogen stored in tanks with oxygen to power a motor. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 066 Search Expanding the Eco-friendly Vehicle Market 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai strives to lower the psychological barriers still slowing down the development of the eco-friendly vehicle market, so that customers embrace eco-friendliness as an important factor in their choice of vehicle, and prioritize eco-friendly vehicles over other models. We therefore operate diverse eco2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE friendly vehicle experience zones, enabling customers to experience the benefits of eco-friendly vehicles, such as FCEVs and EVs, and green energy with greater convenience. 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Activities to Promote Eco-friendly Vehicles 3.1 OUR SYSTEM Hydrogen Electric House At the unveiling of the Nexo, Hyundai also opened the The IONIQ Jeju Diorama Project Hyundai has been providing sufficient information ‘Hydrogen Electric House’, an experiential exhibition space in the Yeouido Hangang on EVs, in response to increasing global demand for EVs. Jeju Island in Korea is an eco3.2 OUR VALUE Park in Seoul. Here visitors can learn about the eco-friendliness and safety of hydrogenfriendly region, and has an extensive EV charging infrastructure. We therefore linked Jeju • Customer electric energy, experience how the electric energy created by FCEVs is actually used, Island and the IONIQ EV by setting up an outdoor diorama at a baggage carousel at Jeju • Environment and how FCEVs work. Hydrogen Electric House offered visitors augmented reality International Airport to inform visitors of how lives can be changed by EVs. Maximizing the Eco-friendliness (AR) devices, so that they could experience the eco-friendliness of FCEVs, and the of Products technologies which enable FCEVs to produce only clean water and electricity, without discharging any harmful gases or ultrafine particles. After the very positive customer Minimizing the Environmental response to the Hydrogen Electric House, which was open from August to November Impact of Business Operations 2017, we now plan to open Hydrogen Electric Houses in various regions, including Ulsan, • Collaboration across Korea in 2018. • People • Community 4 APPENDICES Experience augmented reality Experience zero emission Experience how FCEVs work 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 067 Search Project IONIQ 1 HIGHLIGHTS The major industry changes now under way are opportunities for advancement to us. Hyundai therefore launched the Project IONIQ, an innovation incubating project, in 2016. We have set the ‘Freedom in Mobility’ as an ultimate goal, selected four major areas of research, and connected them with the future of Hyundai in 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE order to research and improve the inherent limitations of vehicles. Under the direction of the ‘Project IONIQ’, we run the Project IONIQ Lab where we use collective intelligence-based research to forecast and respond to industry changes, host the ‘IONIQ Longest Run’ and create the ‘IONIQ Forest’ because the IONIQ does not cause air pollution by not discharging carbon while being driven, and carry out other various activities connected to the Project IONIQ. 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 4 Major Areas of the Project IONIQ 3.1 OUR SYSTEM and Major Activities 3.2 OUR VALUE 4 Major areas of ‘Freedom in Mobility’ • Customer 1 Free from Traffic Hazard, Congestion & Burden Automobiles • Environment are developing fast, but the issues created by vehicles, such Project IONIQ Lab The IONIQ Longest Run Maximizing the Eco-friendliness as traffic congestion, accidents, and the physical burden of Products of driving, have yet to be completely resolved. Hyundai will This Project IONIQ research We donate funds that match Minimizing the Environmental create vehicles that better forecast traffic, avoid accidents, group conducts open innovation the number of kilometers Impact of Business Operations and travel independently to their destinations, thus minimizing research into the future of society, covered by participants in the • Collaboration customer inconvenience and the risk of accidents. engineering, and design. It is PROJECT Longest Run. The funds are shaping the future of Hyundai used to help people who are • People 2 Free to Connect Everyday Life With the development through active exchange with our exposed to air pollution, and to • Community of network technologies, automobiles are more than just Strategy & Technology Division. improve the environment. a simple means of transportation − they are becoming a Unveiled the ‘2030 Future Mega Trends’, mobile living space, and the boundaries between travel and developed the future mobility and everyday life are breaking down. Hyundai is converging scenario 4 APPENDICES travel and everyday life, creating a freer lifestyle in which all aspects of daily life are possible even inside a car, including work, shopping, rest, and everything in daily lives. 3 Free to Use Mobility Wherever & Whenever Changes in society and lifestyles are triggering sharp changes in patterns of vehicle usage. Transportation in the future may be quite The Roadable Synapse The IONIQ Forest different from the image that comes to mind now when Jonathon Keats at the Los Angeles Hyundai has signed an agreement people hear the word ‘car’. Hyundai will provide innovative County Museum of Art has utilized with Sudokwon Landfill Site means of transportation, so that everyone can enjoy true Hyundai’s technological advice Management Corporation freedom in mobility, without restrictions of time and space. and sponsorship to combine (SL Corp.) and Tree Planet neuroscience with automobiles, and to create a forest at a 4 Free from Environmental Pollutant & Energy Exhaustion has realized a synapse that delivers Sudokwon (metropolitan) Landfill The mobility of the future must use eco-friendly technologies, the internal and external status of Site, and plans to plant up to so that automobiles and the environment can co-exist. The vehicles, and applied it into 30,000 trees by 2021 at IONIQ’s line-up of HEV, PHEV, and EV is the first of its kind in the IONIQ. the Dream Park-IONIQ Forest. the world, and marks the beginning of Hyundai’s journey Applied a creative technology into Created the Dream Park-IONIQ Forest, to deliver the enjoyment of driving free from any sense the IONIQ by sponsoring and planted 8,450 trees as of April, 2018 of burden related to environmental pollution and energy the ‘art + technology’ project waste. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 068 Search Enhancing the Eco-friendliness of Existing Cars 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai uses various technologies and systems to maximize the eco-friendliness of its market-leading ICEVs as a complement to developing high growth potential eco-friendly vehicles, such as EVs and FCEVs. 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 3 Enhancing the Eco-friendliness of Cars SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 3.1 OUR SYSTEM 3.2 OUR VALUE • Customer • Environment Maximizing the Eco-friendliness of Products Minimizing the Environmental Impact of Business Operations • Collaboration • People Improving engine fuel • Community Expanding the application of Making Reducing environmental impact efficiency of ICEVs and reducing new materials lightweight vehicles of end-of-life vehicles exhaust gas 4 APPENDICES Developing new process Increasing the application of Next-generation powertrain: Recycling waste resources technology lightweight materials “Smartstream” We plan to actively use lightweight aluminum We are developing new lightweight materials We are bolstering powertrain competitiveBy developing recycling methods for material for vehicle body frames to improve that deliver high durability and corrosion ness to respond to the sharply-changing automobile engineering plastics and seat fuel efficiency. To overcome the limitations resistance, and replacing existing materials market. As part of this effort, we released the foams, we are increasing the recycling rate of the previous aluminum casting, we are to reduce the weight of vehicle body frames. Smartstream, a next-generation powertrain of resources that were used for end-of-life currently developing ‘centrifugal casting’, To more actively apply new materials, such that is the outcome of development efforts vehicles. Engineering plastics are mainly in which molten aluminum is rotated at high as aluminum and carbon fiber materials, to carried out over the last five years to develop applied to functional components, such speed to increase the pressure and cooling body frame steel sheets, we plan to develop global leadership in engine•transmission as engines and chassis parts. In case of efficiency, and also ‘counter pressure lowjoining methods for a wide spectrum of technology. By applying the Smartstream, seat foams, we developed a technology to pressure casting’, which uses the pressure materials and joining techniques that can be which was developed with the aim of convert these foams into sound absorpdifferences between the mold and the molten used in mass production. improving fuel efficiency and practical tion materials. We are currently using this aluminum to increase the pressure. performance and reducing exhaust gas, we technology to mass-produce package trays will respond to strengthening fuel efficiency and luggage coverings. and environmental regulations in different countries and satisfy various driver demands for car power performance. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 069 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Minimizing the Environmental Impact of Business Operations 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Reducing the Environmental Impact of Business Sites Hyundai’s facilities consist of Headquarters, manufacturing plants, research Minimizing air pollutants 3 centers, and overseas business sites. Because all of these facilities are The air pollutants generated in our manufacturing processes consist mainly different in their purpose and main work, there are major differences in the of dust and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). VOCs, which are mainly SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE amount of energy that they consume and the environmental pollutants that generated at paint shops, produce fine dust, thus requiring strict management. they generate. Hyundai therefore annually plans and implements customized We therefore strive to reduce the generation of VOCs by improving and 3.1 OUR SYSTEM environmental preservation activities in line with each site’s purpose and installing more waste thinner recovery facilities, and minimizing the discharge 3.2 OUR VALUE activities. Moreover, in advance and from a midto long-term perspective, of pollutants by installing regenerative thermal oxidizer (RTO) facilities. • Customer we detect any changes needed at our business sites in terms of sources of energy and product trends, and collaborate with stakeholders, including the Minimizing water pollutants • Environment Maximizing the Eco-friendliness government, to identify effective responses. We are committed both to minimizing the discharge of water pollutants of Products and managing rivers in order to minimize critical operational risks due to Minimizing the Environmental We have been replacing old and less efficient facilities in order to reduce local stream pollution. We have installed CCTVs, oil detectors, and drains Impact of Business Operations energy consumption and environmental pollution in a preemptive manner. within the plants and nearby streams to constantly monitor potential leaks • Collaboration We are also making efforts to develop an environmental mindset within our of water pollutants. In addition, in order to address the underlying issue of • People staff through corporate-wide campaigns and environmental monitoring. water pollutants flowing into streams through rainwater, we have installed • Community diaphragm seal water-oil separators along the major drains that lead to nearby streams. Building Accident-free, Eco-friendly Green Plants 4 APPENDICES Minimizing waste materials In order to ensure that our plants are as eco-friendly as possible, Hyundai’s We focus on increasing the number of items that we recycle, while making internal control criteria for the air and water pollutants generated in its comprehensive efforts to reduce the amount of waste being generated. manufacturing processes are stricter than regulatory requirements. We We will continue to implement waste reduction measures, including have also set in place urgent measures in case of an emergency by holding improving old waste equipment and minimizing the use of arm-roll boxes chemical incident response drills and oil spill drills. In addition, we do our for designated and general waste. utmost to prevent environmental accidents by operating an integrated environmental facility control system that checks the operation status of Minimizing hazardous chemical materials environmental facilities, such as wastewater treatment facilities and air In order to comply with the Toxic Chemicals Control Act that took effect in pollution prevention facilities, and whether there is any pollutant leakage into 2015, Hyundai has strengthened standards for our facility inspections, and streams and drains. is replacing highly hazardous materials such as caustic soda, nitric acid, hydrochloric acid and sulfuric acid, with less hazardous materials. This is being done in close cooperation with our suppliers, including suppliers of chemical products. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 070 Search Managing Energy and 1 HIGHLIGHTS Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Hyundai has been carrying out a wide range of activities to reduce the Establishing the GEMS 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE use of energy, and the resultant greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Its As a global company, Hyundai has built a Global Energy & GHG Management manufacturing plants systematically manage their energy usage in many System (GEMS) that allows real-time energy monitoring and management ways, including leakage management, high-efficiency facilities, process of all of its overseas and domestic business sites. GEMS identifies energy 3 improvements, and better heat sources. All of its business sites, including manufacturing plants, focus on building sustainable management systems usage, GHG emissions, and energy expenses by analyzing energy indicators in real time. In addition, outstanding energy-efficient business sites share their SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE from a midto long-term perspective to overcome the limitations of technical abilities with other sites, thereby operating energy management the previous mere facility replacement and the personnel management techniques that are befitting for our stature as a global company. 3.1 OUR SYSTEM paradigm. 3.2 OUR VALUE Expanding sustainable clean power generation • Customer In addition, Hyundai has formed the GHG Council, which consists of energy In addition to developing EVs that replace the use of fossil fuels, we strive to • Environment managers from all of its business sites working together to build eco-friendly build eco-friendly manufacturing plants by establishing midto long-term Maximizing the Eco-friendliness plants. In 2017, we saved energy by utilizing new & renewable energy plans for low-carbon operations at our plants and research centers. After of Products wherever possible, and by replacing existing facilities with high-efficiency beginning photovoltaic power generation at the Asan Plant, we plan to Minimizing the Environmental facilities. We also participated in outside programs, including the ‘energycreate Korea’s largest single plant photovoltaic power generation scheme at Impact of Business Operations saving technology guidance program for joint green growth between small the Ulsan Plant. In addition, since June 2018, Hyundai has been operating a • Collaboration and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and large companies’. Moreover, we co-generation plant that uses clean town gas as its energy source. This plant • People became the first company to receive Energy Champion certification from will replace old diesel emergency generators, and will operate when Korea’s • Community the Korean government. demand for electricity peaks in summer, thus reducing demand for fossil fuels. We also plan to install hydrogen fuel cell stations at our manufacturing plants. Hyundai’s direction to manage energy and reduce GHG emissions 4 APPENDICES Reducing other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3)1) GHG emissions are generated both through direct combustion as part of the company’s business activities and by consuming energy produced by outside parties. Hyundai also indirectly adds to GHG emissions through related business activities, such as the transportation of staff and products, and through its suppliers and the companies that it has invested in. In order to be Review new Strengthen Present energy technology basic energy Manage precise and comprehensive in our communications about GHG emissions, guidelines performance Hyundai aims to measure and disclose the indirect GHG emissions that are investments management caused not by our business activities but by other indirect activities. 1) Types of GHG emissions Saving energy as an eco-friendly company Scope 1: GHG emissions that a company directly generates through direct combustion of energy Hyundai received government certification as a ‘Green Company’, which sources (gas, kerosene, etc.) Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions through consumption of energy that is produced by an outside party is for an eco-friendly worksite. Also, the Ulsan Plant and Asan Plant earned through combustion of energy sources (steam, electricity, etc.) ‘Energy Champion’ certification, which is the first energy-related certification Scope 3: Indirect GHG emissions through business activities from areas which are not directly owned or controlled by organization (business partners, logistics, travel, etc.) in Korea. By taking part in the joint green growth policy between SMEs and large companies, we provide technical guidance on saving energy to SMEs, thereby engaging in win-win cooperation to curtail energy costs and reduce GHG emissions throughout the industry. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 071 Search Energy Management and GHG Emissions Reduction 1 HIGHLIGHTS Programs at Major Business Sites Beginning in 2018, the Korean government is strengthening the GHG In 2017, the Ulsan Plant installed a 2,000 kWh energy storage system (ESS) 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE emissions trading scheme and adopting policies to phase out nuclear power to curtail energy expenses. Efforts are being made throughout the company and reduce the use of fossil fuels. As a result, Hyundai is making strenuous to increase energy efficiency and reduce GHG emissions, including the efforts to reduce its energy consumption and build eco-friendly plants. use of photovoltaic energy, installing new inverters, using high-efficiency 3 compressors, changing to low power LED lighting, and adopting external steam that uses waste as its energy source. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 3.1 OUR SYSTEM 3.2 OUR VALUE • Customer • Environment Maximizing the Eco-friendliness of Products Minimizing the Environmental Impact of Business Operations Operating the Co-generation Plant Adopting the External Steam Photovoltaic Power Generation Facility (Ulsan Plant) (Ulsan, Namyang) (Asan Plant) • Collaboration • People The co-generation plant established at our Ulsan Plant is a We outsource external incineration plants to dispose The photovoltaic (PV) power generation facility that has • Community clean energy power plant that was adopted for the first time domestic and plant wastes that are generated at our been in operation on the roof of our Asan Plant since 2013 in the domestic automobile industry. It can save annual business sites. Steam is produced by using heat that is annually produces 12.97 million kWh of electricity, reducing energy expenses of around KRW 900 million. Also, the generated when incinerating wastes, and we purchase around 6,049 tons of carbon dioxide a year, which can be 4 APPENDICES co-generation plant replaces diesel emergency generators the steam to use at our business activities. Through accomplished by planting more than 1 million pine trees. We to reduce use of fossil fuels. By operating this plant when this program, we can safely incinerate wastes and thus are looking into ways to adopt alternative energy, including electric power demand reaches its peak in the summer minimize the amount of wastes in landfills, in addition to photovoltaic power generation, at our other production and winter, we can reduce the amount of electricity we being supplied with steam at affordable costs. We can facilities as well, including our Jeonju Plant, in addition purchase from KEPCO and thus contribute to stabilizing the thereby reduce environmental impact while enhancing to the Asan Plant, in our efforts to expand eco-friendly national electric power system. corporate competitiveness. management to cover all our business sites. Co-generation Plant at the Ulsan Plant Completion of the construction to adopt external steam at the PV power generation facility at the Asan Plant Ulsan Plant 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 072 Search Eco-friendly Site Management Roadmap 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai will continue to thoroughly analyze each global business site’s major activities and their resulting environmental impact, and will make every effort to minimize each site’s short-term, mid-term, and long-term environmental impact. 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 3 Action Plan to Reduce Environmental Impact Repetitive, short-term Mid-term Long-term SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE (5-10 years) (10-15 years) (More than 15 years) 3.1 OUR SYSTEM • Reduce energy consumption used in daily life • Install hydrogen/photovoltaic generators when • Adopt hydrogen/fuel cell generators 3.2 OUR VALUE at the corporate level building the new Hyundai Global Business at Headquarters • Report and set budgets for internal expenses Center • Establish hydrogen power plants • Customer related to energy at the corporate level and • Monitor GHG usage by suppliers • Environment by facility • Operate a GHG Council consisting of Maximizing the Eco-friendliness • Carry out energy-saving activities through representatives of business site Headquarters of Products the Restart campaign of Go Together • Connect business sites on Jeju Island to ESS Minimizing the Environmental • Hold workshops regarding GHG reduction Impact of Business Operations • Conduct activities to enhance energy • Expand co-generation plants (add two plants) • Curtail energy expenses through • Collaboration profitability of the Ulsan Plant (every year) • Increase the application of ESS direct import of gas • People • Install an ESS with 2 MWh-capacity • Adopt a hydrogen fuel cell power plant • Review the matter of internal power plants with direct gas import • Community • Adopt steam from Hyundai Heavy Industries’ (Tucson fuel cell) incinerators • Adopt an energy management technique • Build outage-free production plants by • Operate pressure differential power generation that uses IoT connecting internal power plants with (350 kWh) using steam co-generation • Move forward with photovoltaic power 4 APPENDICES • Increase new & renewable energy power • Win an Energy Champion for excellence generation as part of the Clean Development in energy-saving Mechanism (CDM) generation Manufacturing • Build power plants by recycling waste facilities • Conduct energy-saving activities through • Adopt a waste-to-energy plant (use wastes the Go Together campaign generated in the plants) EV batteries • Implement large-scale photovoltaic power • Build smart factories that handle self energy generation at the Ulsan Plant (government diagnosis agreement project) • Replace production lines to become • Build a co-generation plant (5.8 MWh) eco-friendly in tandem with a rise in production of eco-friendly products • Rebuilt an incinerating facility in 2017 and • Increase the installation of photovoltaic generators • Adopt hydrogen/fuel cell generators were supplied with steam • Build a smart grid • Expand photovoltaic generators • Conduct an environmental review by • Manage energy efficiency in connection a third party with ESS • Measure and inspect GHG Research centers • Conduct daytime/nighttime energy-saving patrols on a regular basis • Adjust air-conditioning and heating by season • Measure energy consumption at overseas • Conduct a CDM project at the Indian plant, • Expand the CDM projects at overseas business sites and continually identify the reduction amount to business sites Overseas reach at the emission rights target level business sites 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 073 We will continue to pursue green growth. Achievements in Eco-friendly Vehicles Selected as the ‘Greenest Vehicle’ by ACEEE The automobile industry is facing strict environmental regulations in all of its major markets, The IONIQ EV ranked top among 12 eco-friendly vehicles assessed by the American Council for an including the Americas, Europe, and China. As a result, eco-friendly vehicles, including EVs, have Energy Efficiency Economy (ACEEE) by recording 64 points. It also achieved the best score in the Environmental Damage Index1) at 0.78. been becoming ever more important, which is why Hyundai is committed to actively offering eco-friendly vehicles to achieve sustainable growth. NEXO won ‘CES Editors’ Choice Awards’ at CES 2018 Hyundai’s Nexo and Kia’s Niro Electric were winners in the automotive category of the CES Editor’s In addition, the automobile industry is a large-scale manufacturing industry that makes Choice, based on their innovation, key technologies, design, and value. The Consumer Electronic Show substantial use of raw materials, energy and manufacturing facilities. It is also burdened with (CES) is held every January in Las Vegas. It showcases new consumer products, and also offers the chance for sample products that are not shown to the public to be evaluated. very high levels of obligations related to the environmental impact of its plant operations. Hyundai will therefore respond to global regulations by operating its manufacturing processes Won the ‘Innovation Award’ at 2018 CES Asia in an eco-friendly way, and by making investments that help to reduce carbon emissions. The Nexo FCEV was acknowledged for its cutting-edge ADAS technology and futuristic interface technology based on the hydrogen fuel cell system, which is the next-generation power system, and became the only finished vehicle to receive an award in the ‘vehicle technology’ category at the ‘CES Asia 2018 Innovation Awards’, chosen by the CES Asia Organizing Committee. Stakeholder Interview Achievements in Eco-friendly Manufacturing Process Chosen as the ‘Energy Champion’ The Hydrogen Electric House campaign was set in motion in order to increase The Energy Champion system was created in 2017 to reward major energy-consuming companies that have made understanding of hydrogen energy ahead of the launch of the ‘Nexo’, Hyundai’s significant efforts to substantially improve energy efficiency. Hyundai’s Ulsan Plant and Asan Plant were chosen next-generation FCEV, and to publicize our vision for an eco-friendly hydrogen as Energy Champions, and the Asan Plant manager was awarded as an outstanding energy efficiency worker, and energy ecosystem. It has helped visitors understand how FCEVs work, their was given an overseas trip as a reward. (21 companies, 27 business sites in total) The ‘Korea Energy Champion eco-friendliness, and the potential for a hydrogen society. Visitors can also Award Ceremony’ was held in Seoul in November 2017, welcoming major energy-consuming companies – experience the hydrogen electricity homes of the future. The first Hydrogen account for 40% of overall energy use in the industry and power generation sectors – that had reduced their Electric House was located in the Hangang Citizen’s Park in central Seoul, in energy consumption by 3% over the previous year. Hyundai was recognized for its energy consumption-reduction line with its concept as an eco-friendly and accessible residential space. efforts, thus earning additional points for various government awards, as well as receiving other government benefits such as inclusion in the Energy Hall of Fame. The Hydrogen Electric House was very positively received, welcoming more than 30,000 visitors. They were delighted with the eco-friendliness of FCEVs, Reported energy diagnosis results as part of GGP and hoped to have more exhibitions to learn more about hydrogen energy. As part of the Korea Energy Agency’s Green Growth Partnership (GGP) project, Hyundai shared our energyHyundai will therefore host an exhibition in Ulsan in the first half of 2018, and saving know-how with both suppliers and the overall industry, thus helping to resolve environmental issues and expand it to include Changwon and Gwangju, and potentially other cities in identifying the way to achieve joint growth with SMEs. Held in October 2017, the presentation was attended by Jae Hyung Kim Korea, in the second half of the year. Because the Hydrogen Electric House is the Korea Energy Agency, Hyundai, the Korea Construction Engineers Association, and five suppliers. Manager in charge of the Hydrogen Electric House, built in a mobile modular form, visitors throughout the nation will see the same Hyundai Motor Company Hydrogen Electric House. 1) Comprehensive evaluation of fuel efficiency·exhaust gas emissions of EVs, charging raw materials, environmental impact during manufacturing and disposal, estimated emissions with a reduction in gasoline’s sulfur content, and electricity release factor adjustment-related criterion 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 074 COLLABORATION Why should a corporation collaborate for win-win growth? Hyundai firmly believes that the competitiveness of our suppliers adds to our own competitiveness, and strong partnerships lead to robust growth of both Hyundai and our suppliers. Accordingly, we endeavor to grow together with suppliers based on win-win collaborations with them. Taking a step further, we bolster the healthy growth of overall automobile industry with fair trade practices. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 075 We grow together with our suppliers. Hyundai directly produces certain parts for its finished cars, but most of its parts and materials are procured from its suppliers. We have therefore built strong mutual relationships with our suppliers, through which we pursue our business based on fair trade. In order to support this joint growth, we undertake various activities to help our suppliers. We pursue fair, transparent trade. We support our suppliers’ growth. We have participated in the fair trade agreement system implemented by the Fair Trade Commission Hyundai is determined to create a virtuous cycle with its suppliers, ensuring stable and longsince 2008. We present and implement detailed fair trade plans every year along with various support term supply of parts from them, which in turn will improve the quality of Hyundai’s finished programs for our suppliers to achieve win-win cooperation. In addition, since 2002 we have adopted cars. The positive economic and social effects generated from this improved level of quality and the Korea Fair Competition Federation’s Compliance Program (CP) to establish a transparent and fair customer satisfaction can then be shared with suppliers. In addition, we seek to establish an equal order of trade with our suppliers across the board, led by the Compliance Officer. complementary relationship with our suppliers, not a one-sided partnership, to achieve win-win relationship, thereby setting a new standard for sustainable growth for all. Past partnership Current partnership Closed Type of trade Open Simple Role of suppliers Complex role involving manufacturing design, development, etc. Vertical Mutual relationship Horizontal Efforts made in 2017 to comply with the Compliance Program Efforts made in 2017 to achieve win-win growth with suppliers P. 77 P. 78-82 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 076 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Compliance Program 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Establishing Fair Trade Order Implementing Compliance Program Hyundai first adopted Korea Fair Competition Federation’s Compliance We implement fair and transparent management to fulfill our duties and 3 Program (CP) in 2002 in order to ensure that we comply with fair trade laws, as we are keenly aware that it is essential to maintain fair trade and responsibilities as a global leading company. In the first and second half of every year, our CEO proclaims his commitment to practice fair trade SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE competition to ensure our corporate growth. Our CP is independently compliance. We implement fair trade education and share news letters on supervised and implemented by our Compliance Officer, with authorization fair trade to promote our employees’ awareness of precautions regarding 3.1 OUR SYSTEM and responsibility delegated from the CEO, and with the support of various fair trade and their practice. In addition, every year, we ensure that CP 3.2 OUR VALUE organizations within Hyundai. The results of our CP are reported to the results and the next year’s CP plan are reported to the BOD. • Customer Transparent Management Committee of the Board of Directors. • Environment CP implementation process We will continue to comply strictly with fair trade laws relating to our • Collaboration suppliers so that we can build relationships of trust not only with them, but • CEO proclaims his will to practice fair trade compliance Compliance Program Planning (January/July) also with governments, local communities, and other stakeholders around Supporting Suppliers’ Growth • Operate the CP Council the world. • People • Provide employees with education on Fair Trade Act, • Community Boosting employees’ including field training and online training awareness • Send our fair trade news letters 4 APPENDICES Report of results • Report CP results and plans to the BOD CEO’s commitment to compliance In the first and second half of the year (twice a year), our CEO publicly proclaims his will to practice fair trade compliance. Accordingly, we establish CP action guidelines to be practiced within the work of our employees. CP education Every year we offer education on CP to new executives and new employees to make our employees aware of the importance of the Fair Trade Act. This is especially focused on staffs who engage in work highly relevant to the Act. By doing so, we do our utmost to establish a culture of fair trade compliance at the corporate-level. In addition, we publish and distribute newsletters every year on fair trade, so that our employees can familiarize CP education themselves with and practice precautions pertaining to fair trade. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 077 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Supporting Suppliers’ Growth 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Supporting the Growth of Suppliers Average trade period and suppliers of Our suppliers consist of tier 1 suppliers, who supply parts directly to us, 10 and more years of trade 3 tier 2 suppliers, who supply the tier 1 suppliers, and general suppliers, who SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 3.1 OUR SYSTEM supply general products. Our Joint Growth Team leads the implementation of the policies that are put in place to achieve win-win cooperation with our suppliers. 31 years • 31 years of trade with Hyundai 97 % • Suppliers of 10 or more years of trade: 98% 3.2 OUR VALUE Improving our suppliers’ capabilities improves the competitiveness of the Motor Company and Kia Motors on • Suppliers of 20 or more years of trade: 84% average • Customer Korean automotive parts industry. Over the long term, we are endeavoring • Suppliers of 40 or more years of trade: 24% • Average life span of domestic small • Environment to support our suppliers in terms of production technologies and R&D. and medium-sized manufacturers • Continuing to trade with Hyundai since (12.6 years) its establishment in December 1967 We will continue to provide positive support for suppliers to improve their • Collaboration businesses, so that we can enhance our own quality, and further upgrade Compliance Program the competitiveness of the automobile industry in Korea. Supporting Suppliers’ Growth Effects of joint growth by building long-term partnerships (2001 vs. 2017) • People • Community Effects of Joint Growth through Long-Term Cooperation Financial Corporate size Joint entry into improvement growth overseas markets No. of suppliers by trade period Increase in corporate size 4 APPENDICES (Unit: Company) Large companies and Joint entry a Increase in sales medium-sized firms into overseas markets b increased e 3.9 times 3.4 times 772 companies Increase in gross sales Total market c Number of suppliers capitalization of listed with over 100 billion suppliers increased d in sales increased a. b. Under 10 years 10-20 years 6 (2%) 40 (14%) 2.5 times 12.1 times c. 20-30 years 79 (27%) d. 30-40 years 95 (33%) Strengthening financial Enhancing corporate value e. More than 40 years 68 (24%) stability thanks to financial by expanding global sales improvement channels, including through * Target of analysis: tier 1 part suppliers (excluding our affiliates and non-specialist firms on which joint entry into overseas markets we depend under 10%) 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 078 Search Win-win Growth Strategy for Suppliers 1 HIGHLIGHTS Our strategy to achieve joint growth with suppliers aims to cultivate global competitiveness, to reinforce the basis for sustainable growth, and to establish a joint growth system. To that end, we will reinforce our existing collaboration programs and to explore new systems and programs, so that we can build up a virtuous 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE cycle in which Hyundai and our suppliers grow together. 3 Joint Growth Strategy and Programs SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 3.1 OUR SYSTEM 3.2 OUR VALUE Fostering quality Enhancing Developing R&D • Customer competitiveness productivity capability • Environment •  Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts •  Industrial innovation campaign R&D Support Group for Suppliers •  • Collaboration Industry Promotion •  Fostering smart plants •  Guest engineers •  5-star system Compliance Program Cultivating •  Resident technology guidance •  Exhibitions and seminars global competitiveness •  Operation of a quality/technology •  Resident management consulting for new technologies Supporting Suppliers’ Growth school •  R&D Supplier Tech Day •  Education on quality by work type •  Benchmarking advanced technology • People •  Improvements toward confidence in •  R&D Motor Show durability • Community •  Protecting patents and technologies Building infrastructure Expanding global sales Strengthening foundation 4 APPENDICES STRATEGY for growth channels for sustainable management •  Consortium to develop human Joint entry into overseas markets •  Cash payment for product delivery •  resources •  Support for suppliers’ export expansion prices Reinforcing the basis for Seminars for future CEOs •  Overseas plant of tier 2 and 3 suppliers •  Adjusting raw materials prices •  sustainable growth Helping suppliers recruit outstanding •  •  Support for export marketing of Financial support programs •  talents suppliers •  Making early payment for product Operating the In-vehicle IT Innovation •  delivery prices on holidays Center •  Joint purchase •  Providing education to suppliers’ employees Strengthening Expanding supports for tier Creating a culture the collaborative network 2 and 3 suppliers of joint growth •  Operating a collaborative council •  Fostering product quality of tier 2 and 3 •  Joint growth agreement by tier 1 suppliers suppliers •  Transparent Purchase Practice Center •  Operating a Win-win Portal •  Providing funds to tier 2 and 3 suppliers •  Support for supplier ethical Establishing •  Sharing information on raw materials •  Promoting joint entry into overseas management a joint growth system price markets with tier 2 and 3 suppliers •  Awarding to best practice joint •  Operating a joint growth system growth case for tier 1 and 2 suppliers •  Socially responsible management •  Operating welfare programs for suppliers 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 079 Search Cultivating Global Competitiveness 1 HIGHLIGHTS Our quality competitiveness is ultimately linked directly to the quality of the parts within our products. We therefore undertake a range of activities to develop our suppliers’ quality competitiveness, technological development, and productivity. This minimizes defects within our finished products 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE and helps to earn the trust of our customers. 3 Fostering quality competitiveness Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion Developing R&D capability R&D Support Group for Suppliers Our R&D Technology Enhancing productivity Industrial innovation campaign A group of large companies, SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE In partnership with Kia Motors, Hyundai has established the Support Group is the first of its kind in the Korean automobile tier 1 suppliers, and experts has been carrying out an industrial Foundation of Korea Automotive Parts Industry Promotion in industry, and is part of our joint growth program to share innovation campaign in order to overhaul technologies, working 3.1 OUR SYSTEM 2002 and has since invested about KRW 5 billion every year to technology with suppliers and thus enhance quality. It works environment, and production process, and thus manage the 3.2 OUR VALUE foster the quality, technology and management of the domestic together with 270 tier 1 suppliers by helping them improve their quality of mass-produced parts. • Customer automotive parts industry. We send our professional Quality and R&D and technological skills through customized support for • Environment Technology Volunteer Group and the Supplier Support Group for each supplier, enabling them to manufacture better quality Building smart plants We use ICT to operate a lot tracking suppliers to provide appropriate consultation to them. products. system in our manufacturing processes. This is minimizing • Collaboration defects in parts and products, and enables us to trace and Compliance Program Guest engineers Engineers from tier 1 suppliers’ research identify problems, and even to temporarily stop the entire car Quality and Technology Supplier Support Other Supporting Suppliers’ Growth Volunteer Group Group supports centers are invited to work at Hyundai’s research center and production where the defective parts are found, if necessary. participate in the design of parts for new cars. After learning the Hyundai plans to set up 650 suppliers with this smart factory • People relevant technologies, they re-join their own companies and are system by 2019, and will offer suppliers consultation regarding • Community 5-star system We evaluate the quality of delivered products able to make greater contributions to improving the supplier’s the system. We will also directly invest into facilities to ensure quantitatively, select excellent suppliers, and provide incentives technological prowess. the computerization of suppliers’ process data, which will reduce to them in order to boost their morale and to enhance quality. lead times, failure rates and disposal costs, and improve delivery 4 APPENDICES •  Quality Evaluate the quality management system; Sharing patented technology We share our patented rates and sales revenues. inbound failure rate; claim cost repayment rate; and quality technologies with suppliers free of charge, and, where necessary, management results transfer patents to them. This encourages joint growth and Field guidance for tier 2 and 3 suppliers Hyundai runs a also helps them improve their technological capabilities and field guidance program for its tier 2 and 3 suppliers in order to •  Technology Evaluate the manpower, investment, and other commercialize their technologies. Every month we present a list improve their product quality and to ensure a focus on quality. basic capabilities; performance abilities associated with of Hyundai patents available to be transferred to suppliers, and This program includes a parts inspection system, quality design and prototype abilities; future capability of technical suppliers can then apply to have those patents transferred to management for manufacturing processes, and assessing quality competitiveness; and technical achievements, including them. management. We perform inspections on equipment and molds, performance related to patents and improvements inbound parts, suppliers’ inspection processes and finished • D  elivery Evaluate operational failures of production lines; the products, and we also inspect their process management. parts delivery rate for after-sales service; and the delivery rate of complete knock down (CKD) parts Quality and technology education At our quality and technology school, we develop quality experts who maintain and improve the quality management systems at our suppliers. We also offer direct education to suppliers in order to maintain and improve the quality of mass-produced parts. We have overhauled the processes in place to resolve major field claims from suppliers, and we share durability improvements that are developed at our research centers in order to diagnose and resolve any chronic problems. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 080 Search Reinforcing the Basis for Sustainable Growth 1 HIGHLIGHTS We support our suppliers’ development of quality and technology competitiveness. We also endeavor to strengthen the base on which our suppliers can grow into stable, sustainable companies. Furthermore, we strive to ensure our suppliers a stable supply of parts as well as to improve their quality 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE and technology, in our efforts to help them continue to grow. 3 Sustainable management foundation Cash payment for smaller suppliers Since May 2006, we have paid our small and Expanding global sales channels Promoting joint entry into overseas markets As Hyundai expands its overseas SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE medium-sized suppliers in cash for the entire price of their supply of subcontracted parts production volume, we help to increase the exports not only of tier 1 suppliers with whom and general materials. For parts for domestic use, we make weekly cash payments to we have a direct business relationship, but also the exports of tier 2 and 3 suppliers. 3.1 OUR SYSTEM small and medium-sized suppliers (sales of under KRW 500 billion). For large companies Partnerships that have been built up in Korea are now going overseas as well, backed 3.2 OUR VALUE and medium-sized suppliers with sales of more than KRW 500 billion, we make weekly up by a range of programs so that Hyundai’s global operations can also offer greater • Customer payments using electronic bills. For export parts, we make monthly cash payments. opportunities to our suppliers. • Environment Adjusting raw materials prices When more funds are required ahead of national • Collaboration holidays, such as Lunar New Year and Chuseok, we assist suppliers by paying for products Strengthen export Ensure overseas Support to build export Compliance Program earlier. This program has been in place for tier 1 suppliers, but we check that tier 1 competitiveness clients infrastructure Supporting Suppliers’ Growth suppliers subsequently support tier 2 and 3 suppliers, and the results of those checks • Helping suppliers • Expanding joint • Conducting domestic and are used to evaluate tier 1 suppliers. Hyundai will expand this program to include direct enhance their overseas entry to overseas export logistical • People support of tier 2 and 3 suppliers. parts quality and strengthen export base activities to operate joint ensure technical logistics • Community competitiveness • Conducting PR Early payment for products on holidays In preparation for national holidays, such as the activities for small • Helping suppliers Lunar New Year and Chuseok, when more funds are required, we pay for products earlier and medium-sized establish the country of part suppliers to origin certificate system to help resolve our suppliers’ financial difficulties. In addition to tier 1 suppliers, we will overseas finished car 4 APPENDICES continue to expand this program to include tier 2 and 3 suppliers. We also evaluate tier manufacturers • Helping parts suppliers by providing total services for 1 suppliers to check if they subsequently support tier 2 and 3 suppliers, with the results exporting their products used to evaluate tier 1 suppliers. • Identifying difficulties regarding parts exports and Build a monitoring system providing assistance Making early Making early Making early Increase the volume of CKD parts to be payment of payment of payment of Increase CKD1) parts to be supplied to supplied to suppliers which have jointly overseas factories entered overseas markets KRW 992.3 billion KRW 1,070.8 billion KRW 522.2 billion Lunar New Year and Lunar New Year and Lunar New Year Chuseok in 2016 Chuseok in 2017 in 2018 Helping tier 2 and Sharing the benefits Fostering small 3 suppliers achieve from our overseas giants with global stable sales increase factories’ production competitiveness Building infrastructure for growth and contributing to the expansion with small stabilization of their and medium-sized management suppliers in Korea Consortium on human resources Since 2004, Hyundai has been part of a consortium to develop human resources in partnership with the Ministry of Employment and suppliers. 1) CKD: Complete knock down, disassembled items that are assembled at overseas factories by We provide personnel, facilities and financial support for the education of suppliers, and we being exported as parts and semi-finished products offer professional technical training and cyber training courses. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 081 Search Establishing a Joint Growth System 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai runs a range of programs to support not just its tier 1 suppliers, but also tier 2 and 3 suppliers, supported by a commitment to transparent trade practices and a culture of joint growth within our business ecosystem. 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Strengthening the collaborative network Expanding supports for tier 2 and 3 suppliers Creating a culture of joint growth 3 Collaborative council by tier 1 suppliers The tier 1 supplier collaborative councils share our policies on purchasing and Ensuring product quality We send our specialists and consultants to suppliers free of charge in order to share our Joint growth agreement We sign annual joint growth agreements with our suppliers. These agreements cover SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE quality with suppliers, and also establish a culture of fair expertise about automobiles, and help them to enhance their action agenda for subcontractors, financial support programs, trade between tier 1 suppliers and tier 2 and 3 suppliers. The quality, technology, productivity, and global competitiveness. support for tier 2 and 3 suppliers, and price adjustments in 3.1 OUR SYSTEM collaborative councils exchange policies and information, relation to increases in raw material prices. 3.2 OUR VALUE and also serve as a communications channel by collecting and investigating tier 2 and 3 suppliers’ difficulties and Transparent Purchase Practice Center The Transparent • Customer recommendations. Purchase Practice Center on our corporate website shares • Environment our suppliers’ code of ethics and ethical guidelines. In • Collaboration particular, the code of ethics clearly prohibits child labor and Compliance Program forced labor. Quality and Technology Supplier Support Group Supporting Suppliers’ Growth Volunteer Group • Resolution to practice the code of ethics • People • Consisting of specialists by • Consisting of consultants with • Suppliers’ Chart of Ethics work type professional experiences in Suppliers’ • Code of conduct for employees of suppliers • Community • Stay at the suppliers for 5-7 automobile industry as senior code of ethics • Our attitude months to provide guidance executives Tier 1 suppliers free of charge • Stay at the suppliers for 3-12 • Action agenda for advisable conclusion of 4 APPENDICES • Area of guidance: Injection, months to provide consultation contracts rubber, painting, electric regarding overall management free of charge • Action agenda for new supplier registration and electronic, cutting, heat and management Collaborative council treatment, press, welding, • Area of consultation: R&D, metal plating, cast iron casting, production, production 4 Action agendas • Action agenda for management of an by tier 1 supplier internal subcontract deliberation committee aluminum casting, forging, etc. technology, quality, business for subcontract management, overseas • Action agenda for advisable document marketing, planning, etc. issuance and preservation Promoting joint entry into overseas markets We help our • Information on the suggestion box outstanding tier 2 and 3 suppliers to advance into markets where we have overseas plants, so that they can both minimize Transparent and • Writing suggestions and outcome of measures the risks associated with overseas expansion and also secure a ethical practice suggestion box stable source of revenue. Support for Dissemination Support operation of notices system Tier 2 and 3 Tier 2 and 3 Tier 2 and 3 suppliers suppliers suppliers Awards for commitment to win-win partnerships Since 2009, Hyundai has evaluated the efforts made by tier 1 and 2 suppliers to generate joint growth, including better payment conditions, and gives awards to suppliers who have shown outstanding win-win efforts. Between 2009 and 2017, we have awarded prizes to a total of 30 suppliers for their excellent joint growth activities. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 082 We help our suppliers achieve robust growth. Hyundai is well aware that the primary way to help its suppliers grow is through transparent Achievements in Fair Trade Compliance fair trade, so as to build up solid and mutual trust. We therefore continue to inform all of our employees about the importance of fair trade, and the company’s commitment to a culture Declared will towards fair trade compliance of fair trade. The CEO shares a declaration that embodies the company’s will to comply with fair trade with all Hyundai staff in the first and second half of every year. A voluntary compliance declaration was shared in January and July 2017. In accordance with this declaration, fair Furthermore, we continue to strive towards achieving our three goals for joint growth trade compliance guidelines are reflected in the work of all staff. – cultivating global competitiveness, reinforcing the basis for sustainable growth, and establishing a joint growth system. These goals will then support the virtuous cycle through which Hyundai and its suppliers can grow together. Stakeholder Interview Achievements in Supports for Suppliers Chosen as the best company in joint growth index For a supplier entering overseas markets in partnership with Hyundai, it is very Hyundai was chosen as the Best Honorary Company for five consecutive years in the joint advantageous to share the language and cultural infrastructure which Hyundai growth index that was evaluated by the Commission on Shared Growth for Large and Small has already built up in the target market. In particular, cooperative work in the Companies in 2018. An evaluation is conducted on 169 companies to choose companies early stages of market entry significantly lowers the barriers for suppliers to that have significant ripple effects among top-ranking companies in Korea, in terms of sales advance into overseas markets. At the same time, because the supplier already pursuant to ‘Article 20 of the Act on the Promotion of Collaborative Cooperation Between knows Hyundai’s processes, it can guarantee delivery dates and product Large Enterprises and Small-Medium Enterprises’, and government incentives are provided quality, which helps Hyundai. to the best honorary companies. Therefore, because both Hyundai and its suppliers benefit from mutual cooperation, I believe that joint entry is essential in achieving win-win growth. In addition, supplier growth will provide the base for the development of the Korean automotive parts industry, and even for the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Continued support for suppliers regarding technologies and the risks involved in overseas expansion will enable win-win cooperation to be Young Chang Jang developed yet further. * Major evaluation items: Contract fairness, efforts to prevent law violation and to comply with laws, support for win-win cooperation, Managing Director, SL Corporation business relations and cooperative relations, active participation (CP agreement, CCM certification, re-agreement, improvements to payment conditions for companies with which an agreement was not signed, etc.) 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 083 PEOPLE What makes a corporation progress and grow? Hyundai’s biggest asset is our employees. Employees with a creative mindset and inspiring leadership qualities have made possible our 50 years of continued growth and will help us realize our visions, including sustainable growth, in the future. Together with our employees of the highest caliber, Hyundai does our best to shape the world as a ‘Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond’. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 084 We value our talents. For Hyundai to continue to grow, hiring and fostering talent is of utmost importance. We therefore make various efforts to hire essential talent fairly and help them contribute to the development of the company. In addition, as a responsible employer, Hyundai communicates with them in various ways to ensure that they can enjoy their inherent rights in a better working environment. We work with outstanding talents from around the world. We guarantee employees’ rights and communicate with them. Under an employment brand of ‘What makes you move? Moving the world with you’, Hyundai Hyundai not only complies with all the labor-related laws and regulations of individual hires talented people needed by each area of our management activities fairly, and fosters them countries where we operate our business but also does our utmost to identify and deal with our in a way that they can contribute to the company’s continuous development. Moreover, Hyundai employees’ requirements and potential demands preemptively. Such efforts include regular does our utmost to respect the diversity of our employees, provide equal opportunities and communication with employees including labor unions to respect their legal rights, such as make fair compensation for their efforts, so that hundreds of thousands of employees around their right to organize and collective bargaining while guaranteeing them other rights as much the world can form a more lasting and healthy relationship with the company. as possible. In addition, we make every effort to guarantee safety and health to our employees including production professionals. Health안전보건 & Safety방침Policies 노사관계Relations Labor-management 방침 Policies Vision Enhance corporate image Safe Together for by establishing a sound Happier Tomorrow organizational culture Operation Policy Reach the plant of Create jobs by enhancing the highest possible quality manufacturing by placing safety at the top competitiveness. Efforts made in 2017 Efforts made in 2017 Efforts made in 2017 to guarantee health and Efforts made in 2017 to guarantee employees’ right to hire outstanding talents to provide equal opportunities to talents safety of employees to organize and collective bargaining P. 86-87 P. 88-90 P. 91-93 P. 94-95 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 085 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Hiring Outstanding Talents In recent years, the automobile industry has been experiencing new trends Major channels for pre-recruitment: Intern employment 3 in automobile manufacturing based on internal combustion engines, such We continue to expand and make improvements to the employment of as vehicle electrification that links the lives of automobiles and customers interns to choose and foster outstanding talent in advance. People who are SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE based on smart IT technology, and the introduction of eco-friendly energy chosen to receive intern training take an introductory program for around a including electricity and hydrogen. Hyundai therefore strives to recruit week which is followed by a field training for five weeks. Through the field 3.1 OUR SYSTEM talents who can not only contribute to the development of the company training, participants can gain a better understanding of the company and 3.2 OUR VALUE but also lead the changing era through innovative perspectives and check their aptitude for the respective area that they applied for. Mentors • Customer creative ideas. We seek to hire outstanding talents that can collaborate with and facilitators provide support, so that participants can smoothly adapt • Environment various areas, such as R&D and product planning, and devote themselves to the new environment. After the field training, a final decision is made on to the development of new business. their joining the company. • Collaboration • People We will continue to look for better human resources (HR) recruitment and Hyundai’s intern employment process Recruiting and Supporting development systems, so that our HR system can contribute to the advance Global Talents of the human resources development (HRD) culture of not only Korea’s Hyundai Motor Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights Application automobile industry but the country’s all other industries as well. Application Group Aptitude Test and Communication Review (HMAT) • Community Internship Diversifying Recruitment to Get Ready Interview (introductory program 4 APPENDICES for Future Trends + field training) In addition to the existing major recruitment channels, including open recruitment of new college graduates, internship, and regular recruitment Global Top Talent Forum of experienced professionals, Hyundai strives to discover and attract Hyundai always strives to attract outstanding overseas talents. 2017 marks outstanding talents through diverse recruitment channels, such as researcher the eighth holding of the Global Top Talent Forum, which is different from scholarships and contracted college departments to hire exceptional R&D the general recruitment process in that it is an academic forum where talents in advance. In the meantime, we are breaking away from traditional participants freely give presentations on their respective research content career fairs, and hold career fairs and job fairs, available both online and and engage in debates. It is an arena where overseas masters and doctoral offline. In addition, we take actions to get rid of unnecessary elements in the degree students in natural sciences or engineering and other talents recruitment process and make improvements to alleviate social cost burden who have as much experience come together to exchange professional on job seekers. knowledge. Outstanding participants are provided with various benefits, Recruiting website of Hyundai Motor Company such as receiving prize money, being granted with qualifications to join Hyundai, and being given an opportunity to be chosen as a researcher scholarship student. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 086 Search H-Career Fair/Job Fair Researcher scholarships/Contracted college departments 1 HIGHLIGHTS We hold the H-Career Fair in the first half of the year and the Job Fair in Hyundai discovers and fosters those with outstanding potential who will the second half of the year in line with the open recruitment season. Staff take the lead in future trends based on the perspective change about working in areas with job openings also participate to provide detailed cars from ‘means of transportation’ to ‘spaces of life’. Since 2003, we have 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE explanation on duties and to share information on the latest trends and selected researcher scholarship recipients every year to provide them with issues. Also, the H-Casting Center is run to answer any questions that mentoring services as well as scholarships. In 2015, Hyundai designated applicants may have. Through Self-PR, applicants are given the opportunity college departments with which to build a continuous industry-academic 3 to introduce themselves, resulting in strengthened communication through diverse content. We also use major social media, such as Facebook, to collaborations system. The talented students selected through researcher scholarships and contracted college departments will immerse themselves SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE provide online live broadcasting to ensure easy access to people who could in their fields, create outstanding results, and contribute to the company’s not attend. In this way, we are continually strengthening the customer continued growth. 3.1 OUR SYSTEM experience aspect. 3.2 OUR VALUE • Customer H-Job Fair 2017 Projects for researcher scholarships and contracted college departments • Environment • Collaboration Researcher scholarships Researcher scholarships Contracted college • People in science and engineering in design departments Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and Communication • Community 4 APPENDICES Time and Place M  arch and August 2017 Hyundai Motorstudio Seoul and Hyundai Motorstudio Goyang Autonomous Electronics/ Programs • Directions of Hyundai employment car design and Hyundai/Kia control • Information on the recruitment of new, intern and experienced manufacturing design project engineering employees project research • Special lecture entitled ‘My Vision and Pride’ • Job talk for each job category • Employment talk Development of Design changes Implementation of autonomous driving features for futuristic cars future technology tasks The H-Casting, Dialogue with HR personnel A participant and a Hyundai employee talking on the H-Casting Applicants selected as outstanding interviewees Fostering outstanding Having hands-on experience Car body electronics/ talents in basic job in automobile design control engineering research on the H-Casting are competencies through through participation in through on-site training, granted favors in the participation in an 8-month the Hyundai-Kia seminars and industryrecruitment process autonomous car design collaboration project academy cooperation tasks A special interview including exemption of and manufacturing project program ‘5-Minite PR’: application review An applicant doing self-introduction in a car 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 087 Search Supporting Global Talents Support for Female Employees 1 HIGHLIGHTS With the advent of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, a wide range of workplaces Female engineers at Hyundai are proving their outstanding competencies for ICT, venture investment, and others have been established all over the in a host of areas, such as research and development and maintenance. 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE world. Hyundai therefore has set differentiated personnel management Therefore, Hyundai actively seeks to support them not only by arranging for systems that fit the characteristics of different job categories, business sites, them to gather and share their unique difficulties and grievances among countries, organizations and duties of each employee. Hyundai guarantees them but also by empowering them to develop their competencies and skills 3 its employees all the benefits and opportunities they deserve regardless of their gender, origin, race, or position. One of our five core values includes ‘We and achieve their career visions in it. In 2017, we held ‘the 1st R&D Female Vision Conference’ under the theme of ‘Engineering Your Dream’ for female SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE respect diversity in cultures and customs’. In fact, we regard the efforts to employees. The conference featured lectures by female leaders, a special enable our employees’ diversity to be respected in all our organizations as the lecture by an invited outside speaker, and a panel talk. Female engineers who 3.1 OUR SYSTEM most important value. participated in the conference said, “It was wonderful to join the gathering 3.2 OUR VALUE where we were able to talk about our common concerns and share women • Customer Expanding local recruitment at overseas business sites leaders’ visions”. Hyundai is planning to divide the conference into two • Environment As of the end of 2017, the total number of Hyundai employees is 122,217, which sessions – women’s career insights and visions, and empathy programs • Collaboration is 3,897 more than compared to the end of 2016. 68,876 people or 56.3% of designed to promote work-life balance. We will launch the Women’s Vision • People the total employees work in Korea while 53,341 people or 43.6% of the total Conference Preparation Committee that will reflect female engineers’ diverse Recruiting and Supporting employees work overseas after being hired locally. In the overseas business perspectives in the conference agenda. Global Talents sites, the number of local employees increased slightly over the previous Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights year mainly because of the construction of additional plants in China and and Communication Vietnam. Employee Welfare Benefits • Community Strengthening local executives’ decision-making system Hyundai offers its employees a wide range of welfare benefits so that they Executives at Hyundai overseas business sites consist of 90 overseas-stationed can enjoy a higher quality of life both at work and at home while striving 4 APPENDICES Korean employees and 201 local employees, which brings locally hired to providing them with comprehensive benefits that include their family executives to 69% of total. Under our management strategy placing priority members. on local market conditions and local customer characteristics, Hyundai strives to maintain an appropriate ratio of local talents who can make responsible Support for leisure activities decisions and to create a working environment conducive to timely decisionHyundai has set the Refresh Vacation System in place to offer a variety making based on an in-depth understanding of local markets and culture. of vacation and leisure programs, so that our employees can enjoy their off-duty hours. The programs available to employees at any time are highly appreciated by them. In connection with the two continuous day Organizational Culture Assessment shift system, we also implement a point system, so that employees can engage in various activities like travel, performance attendance, and selfAn integrated organizational culture assessment was carried out for the first development. In addition, we run the ‘H-Culture Class’, an in-house culture time in 2017 which integrated internalization level of key values, employee classes year-round that fit the latest trends in cultural life and meet our satisfaction level, and WorkSMART assessments. A total 75% of general employees’ interests. To pay back long-term employees’ devotion to the staff and research staff took part in the assessments, which identifies the company, Hyundai supports their refresh activities whereby they can go on organizational culture level from an integrated perspective and emphasizes paid vacation with their spouses. leader-led change. To ascertain the culture level by unit organization, the assessments consists of a total of seven categories – business, people, work, leadership, organizational effectiveness, HR system, and infrastructure – and 76 questions. It is planned to be conducted in September 2018. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 088 Search Retirement pension Programs to enhance business site competitiveness 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai has put into place a retirement pension system to help its staff fund To enhance the competitiveness of the company’s business sites including and plan for their lives after retirement. Pension contributions are invested production, sales and service, Hyundai runs specialized programs designed outside the company as a way of protecting retirement pensions, and the to strength on-site leadership, job skills, and on-site organizational 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE company also provides education for pension subscribers about retirement culture in addition to customized education to create a culture of creative planning, including all necessary information on personal pension products. innovation and close communication at the level of individual units. 3 Nurturing Talents Duty type and position system of Hyundai Motor Company SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Hyundai has established employee training programs customized for each 3.1 OUR SYSTEM Chief of its job categories and business divisions in order to help its employees General General Chief Technician 3.2 OUR VALUE continuously develop their competencies. We also run the programs with an Manager Manager Mechanic • Customer aim to ensure that all our employees can realize their potential as required • Environment by their organization. Senior Senior • Collaboration Research Deputy Technician Deputy Engineer A/S Senior • People Leadership programs General General Mechanic Manager Manager Recruiting and Supporting Hyundai defines a leader as someone who can align its members’ day-toGlobal Talents day activities with the company’s visions and goals to contribute to the Technician Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights organization’s achievement of its visions and goals. Fostering leaders is a and Communication long-term commitment whereby Hyundai equips its potential leaders with A/S Manager Manager • Community abilities to fulfill their current roles successfully and prepare for their future Mechanic roles preemptively through work, relationship and training. We have set Junior up leadership courses for each title, so that potential leaders can properly Technician 4 APPENDICES prepare themselves for the roles they are required to play. Assistant Assistant A/S Junior Manager Manager Mechanic Professional programs Research Senior Engineer Operator Hyundai runs diverse professional programs to enhance employees’ competencies and promote cross-task collaboration. The programs include Job Academy designed to foster professionals in such job category as A/S Staff Staff Mechanic marketing, finance, planning, and HR, Specialized Technology Technical Operator Support Education for such sector as R&D, production technology, quality, and purchase, and Comprehensive Automobile Technology Education to promote collaboration between different technology sectors. HRD programs for overseas subsidiaries Localization is essential for our continuous growth, and securing and Managerial R&D Production Sales A/S nurturing next generation leaders of our overseas subsidiaries is the key to our success. To this end, Hyundai provides consistent HRD opportunities to all its overseas subsidiaries, so that all Hyundai employees around the world can successfully carry out their duties and fulfill their roles. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 089 Search Career development and job posting systems Global talent training program 1 HIGHLIGHTS Although Hyundai hopes that all our employees perform superbly in their To maximize our future growth engines, Hyundai runs a global talent current areas, we do not want them to fail to reach their full potential for training program to nurture experts equipped with the ability to respond any reason. We therefore run a career development system and an in-house to diverse global business needs. The program consists of two areas – 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE job posting system, so that they can grow into talented people who have Technical Track whereby those with core R&D skills can focus on the insights and experiences in various other fields beyond their specialized research of their specialized field, and Managerial Track whereby those with areas. leadership potential can equip themselves with a wide range of expertise 3 and strong leadership. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Career development system and job posting systems System to foster outstanding talents 3.1 OUR SYSTEM 3.2 OUR VALUE • Customer Senior Research Fellow • Environment • Collaboration • People Career development system Job posting system Research Recruiting and Supporting Fellow Hyundai regularly investigates needs When a specific role is required, Hyundai Global Leader Global Talents for department/job transfers to identify posts it in-house first to take advantage of (GLP) Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights employees’ interests and job satisfaction internal talents and offer our employees and Communication and assign them to appropriate jobs and chances to take up the challenge of motivate them to perform better. Employees different lines of work. Employees check Global R&D • Community Master wishing to develop their career can freely job description and required qualifications apply for desired jobs and departments on on a posting and apply for it. a yearly basis. Global Expert 4 APPENDICES (GPP) Global R&D Expert We select job transfer candidates after considering their personal goals and job experiences. Technical Track Managerial Track This course is designed to ensure that core R&D This course is designed to empower outpersonnel in the R&D Division can immerse standing talents in each sector to develop their themselves in their areas of expertise and grow job competencies and leadership. We provide into top-tier technical experts. Through the training to employees about management Through interviews, we figure out candidates’ aptitude, course, we expect to nurture talents that can environments, organizational management, competencies, and career plans. carry out sophisticated technical projects and and leadership skills so that they can equip contribute to streng-thening our R&D capacity themselves with necessary competencies by securing original technologies. required of top managers that will lead the company in the future. Based on the review of candidates’ characteristics and career plans, among others, we finalize selection process and implement a departmental transfer. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 090 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and Communication 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and Preventing Workplace Accidents Communicating with Them Regarding workplace accidents, it is critical to take appropriate preventive 3 To become a ‘Lifetime partner in automobiles and beyond’, instead of a mere automobile supplier, through outstanding product quality and customer measures and when an accident does happen, to take proper measures, including the installation of necessary facilities promptly and other “safety SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE services, Hyundai must ensure that its workers can reach their potential in a state management”, so that it will not develop into a disaster. Moreover, it is safe and health working environment while guaranteeing them all the labor of great importance for workers to comply with safety regulations, protect 3.1 OUR SYSTEM related rights. In particular, we have established safety-first management themselves from dangerous behaviors, and take measure regarding “safety 3.2 OUR VALUE policies to ensure our production workers’ safety and health, and also have behavior management”. • Customer been striving to supplement and develop them on a yearly basis. Over the • Environment past few years, Hyundai has carried corporate-wide safety management To enhance its safety management for all its global business sites, Hyundai through the Safety & Environment Center while each of its business divisions has continued to expand its safety equipment and facilities. Of late, we • Collaboration has been running its own Safety and Health Team and Medical Care Center. have concentrated efforts on raising employees’ awareness of safety and • People We continue to run programs that achieve outstanding performance in health for fundamental improvements in workplace safety management. In Recruiting and Supporting terms of safety and health. The programs that we ran in 2017 include the 2017, we launched safety campaigns to encourage employees to voluntarily Global Talents restructuring of safety related departments and the launch of Safety Golden comply with safety regulations including new ones, while conducting Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and Communication Bell and Safety Standard Campaign to achieve our goal of the zero fatal education on safety rules and safety awareness. accident. • Community Safety and health efforts customized for business sites Furthermore, we abide by all labor laws and regulations of all countries where 1 2 3 our business sites are located, so that our employees can be assured of their 4 APPENDICES fundamental rights, such as the right to organize and collective bargaining. In addition, we keep in contact with our employees at home and abroad, and spare no effort to identify their grievances and demands and take actions on them preemptively. Enhancement of Standardization Operation of employee education of inspection the Safety & and evaluation criteria Environment Center Strengthen job trainings Standardize and digitalize Provide visiting services for safety officers safety and fire inspections through the Medical Care Center and Strengthen safety related Strengthen safety Safety & Health Team KPIs for field managers management level Safety Standard Campaign 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 091 Search Safety-first management 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai does its best to make its workplaces safer and more comfortable Thanks to our employees’ voluntary efforts to improve on-site safety for its employees. In Korea, starting with Ulsan Plant, Hyundai has carried situations as well as comply with safety regulations, we have achieved the out organizational restructuring to carry out its safety management more zero fatal accident rate for all our business sites at home and abroad in 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE systematically while spreading safety culture through various efforts 2017. Hyundai will continue to focus on the reduction of three fatal accident including those designed to raise its workers’ safety awareness. In particular, causes, such as machinery accidents during manufacturing operations, we have set in place the ‘Nine Safety Golden Rules’ in relation to the motorcycle accidents at workplaces, and accidents occurring during 3 company’s fatal accident causes in order to make our safety culture take root corporate-wide. Notable programs that we carried out in 2017 include holiday work, while steadily raising its employees’ safety awareness. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE the launch of ‘Safety Standard Campaign’ aimed at raising workers’ safety awareness, and ‘Safety Golden Bell Quiz Contest’ designed to draw worker’s 3.1 OUR SYSTEM attention to the importance of safety and health. 3.2 OUR VALUE • Customer • Environment Efforts for and Achievements in Zero Fatal Accident in 2017 • Collaboration • People Cause Identification Reduction Efforts Recruiting and Supporting Global Talents Identify fatal accident causes Implement measures to eliminate accident causes Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and Communication Malfunction of Safety work standardization and full inspection • Community old machinery (inspection of machinery by its aging period) 4 APPENDICES Campaigns for the control of motorcycles, labeling of Traffic accidents safety rules, training of employees using motorcycles, at workplaces and motorcycle registration system Permission required for holiday work, safety education to staff of construction companies and on-site guidance, work Holiday work suspension in the face of danger, and mandatory using of personal protective equipment Nine Safety Golden Rules, Safety Standard Campaign (safety flash mobs, safety slogan contests, visiting safety and health Low safety and health experience center, exhibition of cases involving accidents, safety awareness of workers campaigns, on-site CPR training etc.), and Safety Golden Bell Quiz Contest 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 092 Search Safety enhancement for overseas business sites 1 HIGHLIGHTS Due to our continued efforts in safety, Hyundai achieved our goal of zero At the Headquarters, we have established the Nine Safety Golden Rules fatal accident at our overseas business sites recently with the accident rate about the types of work and situations at high risk of fatal accidents in continuing to drop to the 0.1% range for two consecutive years, recording the automobile industry, provided technical support for early settlement 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 0.10% and 0.11% in 2016 and 2017, respectively. In particular, following the at domestic and overseas business sites, and checked whether they are achievement of no accident by the Russia Plant in 2015 and the Czech Plant implemented on the ground. In addition, we have made institutional in 2016, our Turkey Plant also achieved zero accident goal in 2017, and thus improvements including the revision of the safety section of key 3 we have been able to keep the record of zero accident at all of our overseas plants for three years in a row. This is the result of constant efforts of the performance index (KPI) to support the establishment of an autonomous safety system. We also increased our investments in upgrading safety, SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE management of the overseas business sites to establish a strong safety health and environment related equipment and facilities to improve the leadership and all employees to establish an autonomous safety culture in company’s fundamental competitiveness in workplace safety. Hyundai 3.1 OUR SYSTEM which they take the lead in complying with all safety rules and regulations. will continue to do its best to make its business sites one of the safest 3.2 OUR VALUE workplaces in the world, always putting safety ahead of any other value. • Customer • Environment Safety Management Activities at Overseas Business Sites in 2017 • Collaboration • People HMMA BHMC HMI Recruiting and Supporting • Strengthened the process safety • Introduced the territorial principle and • Online speed monitoring system Global Talents management (PSM) the direct responsibility system Vehicle speed measurement with a portable Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights Activities to strengthen the management for Prevention of fires and industrial accidents RFID module to reduce speed violations in and Communication the compliance with OSHA PSM related through the implementation of the territorial plant premises standards management and the direct responsibility • A firefighting skill contest • Community system • Campaigns to raise awareness about cutting • A safety knowledge contest • Prevention of traffic accidents to achieve zero accidents at painting shops fatal accident goal • Implemented campaigns to prevent slip and • Activities for the Quarter of Safe Production Movement management of vehicles at work, 4 APPENDICES fall accidents Expanded the scope of ‘the Month of Safe prevention of speeding, improvement of Production’ of China in June to ‘the Quarter of drivers’ awareness about safety, etc. • Completed the preparation for Safe Production’ of BHMC from June to August the prevention of fire during winter • Adopted the Hyundai Safe Entrance System Setting a special fire-fighting period, raising • Inspected safety devices to prevent fatal (HYSES) employees’ awareness and obtaining accidents  Introduction of a multi-plug system for robot maximum fire prevention education results workspaces to prevent accidents HMMC HMMR HAOS HMB • Conducted special inspection on in-house • Drills for firefighting and emergency medical • Special safety inspection to prevent fires at • Drills for accident prevention and disposal of forklifts and made improvement to safety services plants and suppliers hazardous materials (chemicals/oil) equipment • Special safety education for forklift operators • R  eceived consulting to prevent fire for • Established a safety culture week and • Conducted special inspection on and made the Turkey Plant and its suppliers launched safety culture promotion campaigns • Firefighting and emergency medical services improvement to in-house stair handrails Detailed inspection of fire prevention systems for all employees contest through consultation by the municipal fire • Analyzed work behaviors of operators and Enhancing employees’ awareness about safety • Won the Safety Prize, awarded by the Brazilian department’s professional diagnosis team conducted a detailed analysis regarding work and abilities for emergency response through Safety Association – Proteção Publicações environment a firefighting and medical services contests • Conducted safety inspections on VPC auto  For the first time among Korean companies transport trucks and set the safety standards operating in Brazil • Developed safety education videos and • Inspected safety devices to prevent fatal conducted a visualization to prevent accidents accidents • Conducted special fire prevention inspections • Conducted disease prevention campaigns  Raising employees’ awareness about safety during winter through continuous exposure to safety related issues 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 093 Search Communicating with Employees 1 HIGHLIGHTS Hyundai assures its employees’ rights to organize labor unions as well as Labor union communication in Korea rights to collective action and collective bargaining. The company also holds Hyundai holds labor-management council meetings as guaranteed by 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE briefing sessions on a regular basis to raise awareness of management relevant laws and regulations. In addition, the company runs the Work-Type environment and create consensus between labor and management.. Change Promotion Committee, the Collective Bargaining Council, and the Fourth Industrial Revolution and the Automobile Industry Development 3 Labor union (employee) communication at overseas business sites BHMC and CHMC in China has public assembly organizations; HMI in Labor-Management Committee that deals with the company’s future challenges. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE India and HMMC in the Czech Republic have labor unions; and HMB in Brazil joined the local federation of trade unions in the early stage of its In addition to protecting the rights and interests of workers, Hyundai’s labor 3.1 OUR SYSTEM existence according to the local labor laws. The subsidiaries with labor and management join forces to draw up future-oriented labor-management 3.2 OUR VALUE unions not only conduct collective bargaining with labor unions according agreements that set the directions of how to address key issues facing the • Customer to local labor laws but also hold regular and irregular meetings with Korean society in general and Korea’s corporates in particular. Recently, • Environment union representatives to make improvements in working conditions and the labor union has been striving to achieve win-win cooperation with • Collaboration employee benefits. Hyundai carries out collective bargaining with labor local communities through its own community service, improve the public • People unions in a way most employees can concur with its conclusions through image about labor relations in the company, and contribute to making Recruiting and Supporting reasonable and constructive proposals and discussions between labor and improvements in the company’s performance in terms of production, sales, Global Talents management. HMMA in the U.S., HMMR in Russia, and HAOS in Turkey and job creation. Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights have no labor unions. and Communication • Community Hyundai’s overseas subsidiaries actively communicate with their employees in various channels regardless of whether they have labor unions or not. The Headquarters conducts surveys and interviews with 4 APPENDICES Hyundai employees around the world on a biennial basis to continue improving employees’ satisfaction with the company. Each overseas subsidiary preemptively resolves employees’ complaints and meet their demands through roundtable meetings with executives, grievance counseling rooms, and top management’s on-site communication. We also offer our field managers various training programs, so that they can enhance their competencies and solve their workers’ grievances at the site since they spend most of their time together with workers. The first meeting of collective bargaining 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 094 Search Social contribution activities jointly by labor and management 1 HIGHLIGHTS Labor and management of Hyundai conduct social contribution activities for local communities and residents near the company’s business sites in Korea. In 2017, we carried out various social contribution activities including 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE the preparations for the establishment of Ulsan Kids Auto Park in addition to regular social contribution activities during our social service week in March, May, September, October, and December, during which employees 3 participate in community service activities. Hyundai labor and management will seek diverse ways, including raising social contribution funds, to fulfill 1 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE our corporate social responsibility, pursue win-win cooperation with local communities, and contribute to regional development. 3.1 OUR SYSTEM 3.2 OUR VALUE • Customer Major Social Contribution Activities by • Environment Labor and Management in 2017 • Collaboration Ulsan Plant – delivered Hope Sharing Funds for underHyundai Labor-Management – donated a shuttle bus to • People privileged children In 2017, our Ulsan Plant carried out the ‘Fulfill Ulsan Gymnasium for the Disabled The Ulsan Plant donated 2 Recruiting and Supporting My Wishes’ and ‘Hope Gift, Hope Postcard’ events for emotional the Ulsan Gymnasium for the Disabled with a New Aero City Global Talents support and welfare improvements of underprivileged children to be used as a shuttle bus through the Social Contribution Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights in Ulsan. Hyundai employees fulfilled the wishes of 25 children Fund. The shuttle bus is equipped with a wheelchair lift, and Communication selected by the Ulsan Charter of the ChildFund Korea through making it more convenient for disabled people with mobility various activities they wished to participate in. They also problems, and it runs four to six times a day for two areas, • Community delivered eco-bags containing Hope Gifts including stationery thereby contributing to improving welfare such as mobility and Hope Postcards to 210 children at 7 elementary schools, convenience. including Dongpyeong and Eonyang, which are designated as 4 APPENDICES priority schools in educational welfare, and Ulsan Orphanage. Jeonju Plant – donated a Happy Dream Car to Kookje Rehabilitation Center In December 2017, our Jeonju Plant donated 3 Ulsan Plant – supported urban regeneration Together a SOLATI as ‘a Happy Dream Car’ to Kookje Rehabilitation with the Ulsan City Volunteer Center and the Ulsan Buk-gu Center located in Wanju-gun, Jeonbuk in cooperation with District Office, the Ulsan Plant carried out urban regeneration Wanjugun County Office and the Jeonbuk Charter of the project in Yeompo-dong and Yangjeong-dong of Buk-gu in its ChildFund Korea through the Social Contribution Fund. The neighborhood. The Ulsan Plant signed an MOU on the ‘Mural Jeonju Plant and Wanjugun Office held a public contest for Alley Creation Project’ with Buk-gu Office and the Ulsan City various social welfare facilities to select an organization that Volunteer Center to support the city’s urban regeneration. could use the vehicle most effectively, and chose Kookje The project is aimed at improving the dilapidated community Rehabilitation Center. The center takes care of around 40 image and residential environment of Yeompo-dong and disabled people through diverse programs, and helps them promote their self-reliance and social adaptation, so that it 4 Yangjeong-dong, and it was carried out by volunteers, residents, and young people majoring in art and design. The was selected as the best facility in terms of using the Happy 1 Bird’s eye view of the Ulsan Kids Auto Park Ulsan Plant oversaw planning, management, manpower, and Dream Car. 2 Delivered Hope Sharing Funds for expenses for the mural alley creation project while the Ulsan underprivileged children City Volunteer Center took charge in prmoting the project and 3 Supported urban regeneration managing manpower. 4 Donated a Happy Dream Car to Kookje Rehabilitation Center 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 095 We will value and work together with more diverse talents. The automobile industry is undergoing unprecedented changes. To cope with such changes Achievements in Attracting and Supporting Global Talents preemptively, Hyundai will make further efforts to secure core talents in various fields, including information technology and green energy technologies, as early as possible. Furthermore, we Conducted an organizational culture assessment will break away from the existing homogenized and formalized HR management, and adopt An integrated organizational culture assessment was carried out for the first time in 2017 which integrated internalization level of key values, employee satisfaction level, and WorkSMART HRD systems which enable us to discover true potential of applicants and our employees, and assessments. In the 2017 assessment, the item of using vacation freely ranked the highest in the help them reach their full potential area of motivating people, which is an outcome that reflects the considerable efforts made and interest given to work & life balance, which has recently been gaining importance. In addition, Hyundai will make every effort to improve its worksite safety management and expand health-related infrastructure while striving to fully establish the autonomous safety management culture, so that its employees can play a bigger role in the promotion of their safety and health. Meanwhile, we will continue to enhance communication with our employees in our efforts to help them concentrate on producing high-quality automobiles in a safer and healthier work environment. We will also do our utmost to play a considerable role in the development of local communities through the joint efforts of labor and management. Achievements in Guaranteeing Workers’ Rights and Communication Namyang R&D Center won top prize in the Contest of Best Practices in Safety & Health of the Service Industry Stakeholder Interview The Namyang R&D Center participated in ‘the Contest of Best Practices in Safety & Health of the Service Industry’ held in July 2017 by the Ministry of Employment and Labor in celebration of the 50th National Occupational Health and Safety Week. It introduced its efforts to develop a R&D safety HMB has been heavily in risk management activities designed to reduce risk character, safety webtoons, and the safety mentoring system, and as a result, won the top prize among factors involved in high-risk operations, such as high working temperatures, six finalists. electrical work, and work at high altitude, since 2012. We presented our safety prevention activities for high-risk jobs at the ‘Premio Protecao Brasil HMB was selected as a ‘Decent Workplace’ 2017’ based on various scenarios in collaboration with external institutions. Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) was selected as a ‘Decent Workplace’ by International Labour Organization In recognition of our excellence in local assessment, equipment, support (ILO) and Sao Paulo State Government in January 2017 for its outstanding labor management services, health management for workers, risk assessment, and risk awareness, competencies and practices, thereby becoming the only Korean company to be recognized by the we won the Safety Prize by Proteçaão Publicações, the country’s largest safety prestigious selection. institution for ensuring and fostering great practices and prevention at EHS. HMB won the ‘Premio Protecao Brazil’ We consider safety management with the support of the company’s top management as a critical factor for our workplaces, and this recognition is In August 2017, HMB made a presentation at ‘Premio Protecao Brazil’ on its safety management very significant in our relationship with government agencies and business status for business sites to the officials of Brazilian Safety Association, journalists and safety partners. We will continue to do our utmost to achieve the goal of zero accident experts, and thus won the Safety Prize. Marcel Eduardo Moreno Jaworski by making suggestions for improvements regarding risk factors. Hyundai Motor Brazil 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 096 COMMUNITY In what direction should corporate social responsibility proceed? Hyundai hopes to steer the world toward a better future. Not only local communities where our business sites are based, but also all global places where Hyundai vehicles run, we hope to have positive impact on. To do this, we pay a closer attention to issues of global communities and work harder to find better ways toward a sustainable future. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 097 We will be a ‘Trustworthy Partner for Today & Tomorrow’. Stakeholders these days require companies to do more than just offer better products and services. They also look at each company’s commitment and dedication to the development of local communities as a whole. Hyundai therefore understands these social demands and strives to meet them by creating shared value (CSV) in a more systematic manner and contributing to the continued development of every local community in which our businesses operate. We spread our social impacts and We will be with local communities around We support and sponsor build sustainable business ecosystem. the world where our businesses operate. art and culture. Hyundai is committed to making a positive social impact Our commitment to make a difference in partnership with Vehicles have become more than just a means of transportation and building a sustainable business ecosystem by creating our neighbors and local communities is not limited to Korea. – they are now a vital part of everyday life, which is why auto shared value. We therefore focus on the three major pillars Our CSV activities and programs are truly global, with the manufacturers are working with partners in other fields, based of ‘innovation’, ‘communication’, and ‘growth’, based on support and participation of all our employees and other on the understanding of state-of-the-art technologies and which we create value in creative and innovative approach. stakeholders across the globe. human beings. Hyundai therefore seeks to collaborate with We will also do our utmost to realize the future where we partners in art, including working on projects that enable us to can grow together with our society by communicating and grow together with our customers in their daily lives. We aspire collaborating with our stakeholders. These activities include to become more than just a sponsor of art – we are pursuing helping local communities to develop, creating social value meaningful and fundamental partnerships based on a genuine leveraging business expertise and innovation, and leveraging understanding and respect for art. our core capabilities to contribute to solving social issues. CSV areas of Hyundai Motor Company Efforts made in 2017 to carry out global CSV activities Efforts made in 2017 to support art and culture P. 99-104 P. 105-107 P. 108 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 098 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Areas of CSV Activities 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Based on Hyundai’s new CSV strategy system that was established for development of sustainable local communities, we are conducting diverse activities, ranging from social contributions to CSV activities, with focus on five major areas – eco-friendly, mobility innovation, traffic safety, future generation, and community. Social contribution activities of each area are related to the Hyundai Motor Group’s ‘6 Moves’ – Safe Move, Easy Move, Green Move, Happy Move, 3 Dream Move, and Next Move. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 3.1 OUR SYSTEM 3.2 OUR VALUE • Customer ities Dev activ elo tion recyc pe • Environment pe ra unities, le re c oo l co mm redu sour o-fri c ca ce e ces, en • Collaboration d f lo ners dl an so part nvi a ron nd o y rt d a nd • People ee GOs m th ts, Pro vid en to • Community bas es g N ta uc ities l od up Eco ed ity iv pr act tion po -fr un on Areas of CSV Activities inc the ien lud n m m er ollu Global CSV Activities in Co dly p Supporting Arts and Culture e tion r th , tee iso so lut s fo lat 4 APPENDICES n ion CSV Areas n itie dre tio ed innov s to rtun hil an regio era a marg Provide oppo –c inalized people Future gen m dc ns r ion M growth of future generat the ob on egar ort ilit ven ding m obility rights y upp ienc nd s e of m and youth – a obility id Traffic safety e ov ns Pr d , an Dev elop gies and new safety technolo an a ctivi ent d ds upp ties to p acci mi ly ort t revent traffic r fa raffic an d t ei h accident victims ※ The Next Move among the Hyundai Motor Group’s 6 Moves refers to the area where we leverage our business expertise, and include overall CSV activities of Hyundai Motor Company CSV strategy system (P. 46) 6 Moves of Hyundai Motor Group 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 099 Search Eco-friendly 1 HIGHLIGHTS Develop eco-friendly products, recycle resources, and other activities to reduce environmental pollution 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE IONIQ Forest Hyundai has worked in partnership with Tree Planet and Sudokwon drying out and severe desertification is affecting the environment. Hyundai 3 (metropolitan) Landfill Site Management Corporation (SL Corp.) to invest the funds raised through the IONIQ Longest Run, and create the Dream is foresting this area, and will do so until 2018, when management of the project will be transferred to the Zhenglan Qi local government to preserve SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Park-IONIQ Forest at a landfill site in the Sudokwon Landfill Site. In December and manage the newly created grassland. 2016, the first Dream Park-IONIQ Forest was created, thanks to the 191,000 3.1 OUR SYSTEM kilometers run by 14,000 IONIQ Longest Runners. 8,450 trees have been 3.2 OUR VALUE planted as of April 2018, and we plan to plant around 30,000 trees by 2021. This • Customer landfill site will be transformed into forest and returned to local citizens. • Environment IONIQ Forest • Collaboration • People Beautiful Hands 1 • Community We have been working with university students since 2014 to run Areas of CSV Activities bi-annual projects which create urban murals and improve public Global CSV Activities parks, as part of efforts to regenerate the old urban environment in Seoul. Supporting Arts and Culture In 2017, we painted a mural on the entrance to a tunnel in south-west 2 Seoul in order to enhance public awareness of environmental protection. 4 APPENDICES Around 150 people from Hyundai and the Seoul Association of Student Ambassadors worked together to paint walls and vitalize the old urban space. The painting of our eco-friendly IONIQ EV demonstrates our commitment to preserving nature. 7th activities of ‘Beautiful Hands’ Hyundai Green Zone China 3 The 2nd Hyundai Green Zone China is an ecological restoration 1 IONIQ Forest project taking place in the Baoshaodainao Nur region of 2 Beautiful Hands Zhenglan Qi in Inner Mongolia, China. This large-scale desertification 3 Hyundai Green Zone China prevention project involves creating 40 million square meters of grassland, and follows a similar project that was launched in 2008 to create 50 million Region and activities of the 2nd Hyundai Green Zone China square meters of grassland in Chakanor, Inner Mongolia. The success of Hyundai Green Zone China has earned widespread recognition, with • Region: Baoshaodainao Nur, Zhenglan Qi Hyundai being ranked third for three consecutive years from 2015 to 2017 in • Area: 40 million square meters (about 12 times of the size of Yeoido) ‘Best 50 Public Benefit Brand’, as assessed by the China Academy of Social • Period: 5 years from 20014 to 2018 Sciences. Similar to Chakanor, where the first phase of this project took • Activities performed: Plant Suaeda (an annual halophyte that grows well even in alkaline soils) and other native flora to create grassland place, the Baoshaodainao Nur is one of the regions in China where lakes are 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 100 Search Mobility innovation 1 HIGHLIGHTS Provide solutions to marginalized people and isolated regions regarding mobility rights and convenience of mobility 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Support for a social enterprise, Easy Move Inc. Founded in 2010, as part of Hyundai’s social contribution 3 activities, Easy Move Inc. is the first social enterprise in Korea in the mobility aid industry. It makes vehicles and mobility assistance SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE equipment specifically designed for people with special needs in order to provide better mobility for the disabled and the elderly. Its products use 3.1 OUR SYSTEM its original technology, and are designed for user convenience and after3.2 OUR VALUE sale services. The company’s electric wheelchairs and other products have • Customer been improving transport convenience for the transportation vulnerable in • Environment a way of providing them genuine support. 1 • Collaboration • People Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground • Community To celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Sonata in 2015, Hyundai Areas of CSV Activities opened the Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground, a car-themed Global CSV Activities amusement park in Seoul Grand Park. Children with visual impairment can visit Supporting Arts and Culture the Mini Sonata Zone to drive vehicles equipped with Hyundai’s autonomous driving technology using their senses of hearing and touch. They can also 2 4 APPENDICES explore other self-driving technologies through audio and tactile signals, including automatic collision avoidance, emergency braking and driving resumption. 3 1 Support for a social enterprise, Easy Move Inc. 2, 3 Cha-Car-Cha-Car Playground 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 101 Search Traffic safety 1 HIGHLIGHTS Develop new safety technologies and activities to prevent traffic accident and support traffic accident victims and their family 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Traffic Safety Campaign with Robocar Poli H-Restore In collaboration with Roi Visual, the Citizens Coalition for Customers can apply their stories about experiencing 3 Safety, and the Korean TV channel EBS, Hyundai has created animated content featuring the popular animation character Robocar difficulties with car repair or replacement onto the Hyundai website. A dream team consisting of 20 professional car mechanics is SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Poli. The video helps children to learn and understand road safety rules in then dispatched to the selected applicant’s home or work site to restore a way that they can relate to and enjoy, and has been shown not only in the interior and exterior of the vehicle. The H-Restore Campaign began in 3.1 OUR SYSTEM Korea but also overseas, including in China, Russia, and India. In 2013, we September 2017, and for this year, a 2000 Porter and a Grandeur XG were 3.2 OUR VALUE launched the Road Safety Program, and have been visiting daycare centers, chosen. The vehicles were then comprehensively repaired on behalf of the • Customer kindergartens and public institutions across Korea, and also hosting safety customers, who were delighted to have their vehicles restored, in December. • Environment fairs for children and families. H-Restore – the Porter H-Restore – the Grandeur • Collaboration • People Robocar Poli Playground Health Care Projects for Taxi Drivers • Community The Robocar Poli Playground, opened in 2017 at our Ilsan branch Korean taxi drivers drive an average of 250 kilometers per day, Areas of CSV Activities office, is an experience-oriented playground for traffic safety. and the lack of time and places to take a break causes many Global CSV Activities It invites children and parents along, and parents can watch their children of them to suffer from illnesses related to the lumbar and nervous systems. Supporting Arts and Culture learn and experience road safety. The children also watch animated content This in turn can cause traffic accidents and have a negative impact on road that telling stories about road safety, including boarding/unloading school safety. Hyundai has therefore put together a project to help improve taxi 4 APPENDICES vehicles, fastening seat belts, and watching out for blind spots, as well as drivers’ health by setting up Energizing Stations. Located in five areas within other safety rules regarding bicycles, construction sites, weather, and tunnels. the Seoul metropolitan region, these stations are each equipped with a Robocar Poli with Hyundai Motor Company website three-stage healthcare system that allows taxi drivers to check their blood pressure, measure body fat, and do the stretching exercises that the system recommends, based on its diagnoses. Hyundai also runs the Energizing Bus, Traffic Accident Zero for Children Campaign offering individual counselling to taxi drivers about exercise. Hyundai has been working with the Citizens Coalition for Safety, • Number of Energizing Stations: 5 locations in Uijeongbu, Goyang, Seongnam, a professional body which promotes traffic safety, since March Bokjeong, and Guri 2016 to prevent traffic accidents and provide commuter vehicles and new • Number of visitors to Energizing Stations: 32,000 safety devices, so that we can achieve zero accidents for children travelling • Number of visitors to Energizing Bus: 2,075 to school. The campaign provides safe travel for around 3,700 children every day, covering 4,200 kilometers. Parents or childcare centers can apply for support, and their application is then verified by on-site visits or professional inspections. Successful applicants then get support to attach the latest safety technologies to their vehicles, or are given safety equipment that enables their vehicles to comply with the Serimi Act, which mandates the presence of a guardian in vehicles used by children under the age of 13 for travel to school. • Accumulated number of children received supports: Around 3,700 • Accumulated distance of safe travel to school: Around 4,200 km Zero School Bus Accident Campaign H-Restore Traffic Accident Zero for Children Campaign 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 102 Search Future generation 1 HIGHLIGHTS Provide opportunities for the growth of future generation – children, teens, and youth – and support them 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers Future Automobile School This program provides teenagers from families that The Future Automobile School is a specialist career 3 have been affected by traffic accidents with mentoring support and opportunities to enable them to explore career options and education program under the free semester system1) for middle school students in Korea. It offers theory, experience, and practical SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE discover their career path. It was launched in 2005 as a donation project for training to increase understanding about the automobile industry in an ‘granting wishes’, and shifted its focus in 2013 towards career mentoring by easier and more interesting way, which in turn enables students to explore 3.1 OUR SYSTEM undergraduates. In total, it has helped around 1,500 teenagers over the past 13 automobile-related jobs. Beginning in 2016, this program has provided 3.2 OUR VALUE years. There were various opportunities to explore career options provided in 310,800 hours of training to about 13,500 students at 320 middle schools • Customer 2017, including lectures by expert mentors, a mentoring camp, family events, in Korea over the last two years. We put priority in students from rural areas • Environment and job experience. We expanded the program in 2017 to encourage active (mountain village and fishing village schools) and those from special schools • Collaboration participation by teenagers who are in the blind spot of the welfare system. for the disabled, as part of our efforts to reduce inequality in educational • People We also widened the scope of the program through field trips and other realopportunities. The number of schools covered by the program increased • Community life experiences that were supported by the participation of Hyundai staff to around 200 in 2017, and thus more students were able to get benefits volunteers. In this way, Hyundai is contributing to the positive development of from it. This program has been designed to improve participants’ overall Areas of CSV Activities teenagers and undergraduates who will shape the society of the future. understanding of the automobile industry by explaining the structure of Global CSV Activities automobiles, and how they work. As a result, in 2017, the Future Automobile Supporting Arts and Culture School won the Minister of Education Award for outstanding free semester H-Social Creator system support for the second consecutive year. 4 APPENDICES Since 2015, Hyundai has been running ‘H-Social Creator’, a 1) social innovation program for college students to resolve social  curriculum that enables middle school students to take part in various activities related to career A paths and hobbies, without taking any tests for an entire semester issues. The third class, held in 2017, was connected to Hyundai’s customer suggestion program ‘H-Ombudsman’ to provide upgraded benefits, such as a visit to an overseas plant for an outstanding team, and vehicle discounts. Brilliant Kids Motor Show There were a range of workshops to generate ideas, including a talk concert Hyundai hosted the ‘2nd Brilliant Kids Motor Show’ at the with alumni, design thinking, and mentoring by Hyundai staff. Young creators Gwacheon National Science Museum from November to took wheelchairs in public transportation as part of identifying potential December in 2017 and at the Gwangju National Science Museum from improvements in access for the disabled. They also produced videos of their January to May in 2018. This is to take children’s drawings of cars, which experience, so that more people can see the difficulties that the disabled are based on their imagination, and turn them into real models, which encounter in everyday life. These warm-hearted ideas might be small at the are then displayed. This year, seven drawings were made into model cars, start, but we hope that they can change the world. among approximately 15,000 entries that were submitted from June to July, and unveiled at the Kids Motor Show. Kiosks and auxiliary facilities for experiments were also equipped to enable visitors to understand how each car works and experience them. We also displayed our eco-friendly IONIQ Electric, and thus attracted parents’ interests in eco-friendly cars while their kids exercise their imagination. Looking for Three-Leafed Clovers Brilliant Kids Motor Show 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 103 Search Community 1 HIGHLIGHTS Provide support and cooperation activities based on the needs of local communities, including NGOs and partners 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Staff Volunteer Corps We look for social contribution activities at which we opportunities for team members to suggest ideas for local village development 3 are good and carry them out by leveraging our business characteristics and considering relationship with local communities where through communication with residents, and actually apply outstanding, practical suggestions. In this way, we will implement volunteer activities led by SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE our business sites are located. 131 Hyundai staff volunteer corps, one for each team members in close connection with the local community. business site organization, undertakes regular volunteer work through ties 3.1 OUR SYSTEM with 168 social welfare facilities across Korea. Approximately 10,000 staff took 3.2 OUR VALUE part in 2017, especially on major holidays and at the end of the year, when Hyundai Dream Center • Customer Group-level volunteer activities took place to support the underprivileged. In partnership with the Plan Korea, Hyundai operates • Environment We will continue these activities, to ensure that there is no blind spot where the ‘Hyundai Dream Center’ vocational skill schools for • Collaboration people are excluded from aids although they need a helping hand. young people in developing nations. Dream Centers have been established • People in Ghana, Indonesia, Cambodia, and Vietnam, fostering experts in automobile • Community maintenance and helping them to find employment and independence. H-Self Sharing Planner We opened our fifth Dream Center in the Philippines in April 2018, and will Areas of CSV Activities Hyundai introduced the ‘H-Self Sharing Planner’ in provide automobile maintenance training to around 90 young people each Global CSV Activities 2016 to enable staff to plan their volunteer activities. year and outstanding students will be helped to find employment through Supporting Arts and Culture This was devised to satisfy demands for volunteer activities that go beyond our local dealer network. In 2019, the sixth Dream Center is planned to be visiting specific partner organizations over a defined period, and enabled established in Peru. 4 APPENDICES staff to engage more in volunteer activities. In 2017, we carried out a range of community support activities, including an automobile maintenance class for high school students and providing a helping hand to rural villages during Sponsor of the Korean Archery Association the busy farming season. A total of 556 volunteer activities planned directly Hyundai has been sponsoring the Korea Archery Association since by Hyundai staff were provided with funds to cover coaching and activities. 1985. Our research institute uses its automobile development These include employment support for female immigrants and mentoring technology capabilities to apply precision analysis to check for irregularities for job-seekers. in parts. Hyundai has also developed a shooting machine that filters out defective arrows, as well as creating customized grips for each archer, which have substantially improved confidence and accuracy. In addition, we Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers sponsor the Archery World Cup and the World Archery Championships, and Hyundai has been operating the largest overseas volunteer thus contribute to popularizing archery. team of college students in Korea for 11 years with an aim to foster ‘warm-hearted global young leaders’. We choose around 1,000 college students every year and send them to areas all across the globe to conduct volunteer activities in diverse fields, such as architecture, the environment, education, and culture. Around a total of 10 thousand volunteers participated from the first through the 20th group. The program was reformed starting with the 21st group in 2018. Accordingly, we plan to choose a specific region in a developing country to carry out local development projects for at least three years and send volunteer teams in a constant manner. We also plan to provide Happy Move Global Youth Volunteers Hyundai Dream Center 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 104 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Global CSV Activities 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Global CSR Activities Aimed at ‘Moving the World Together’ Hyundai is involved in various social contribution activities which contribute to the sustainable development of local communities around the world where we 3 operate our businesses. SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 3.1 OUR SYSTEM 3.2 OUR VALUE Key Activities in Americas Key Activities in Asia, Middle East and Africa • Customer • Environment Hope on Wheels Dream Village Project • Collaboration Hope on Wheels is our leading social contribution program in the U.S. to Hyundai Motor India (HMI) supports the start-up of social enterprises • People sponsor pediatric cancer research and help treatment of pediatric cancer within local communities through the Dream Village Project, and promotes • Community patients. Founded in 1998, the program has been expanded across the activities which improve the local infrastructure, including the maintenance Areas of CSV Activities country, so that Hyundai Motor America (HMA) and all of our local dealers of public buildings and schools. In 2017, we supported the start-up of Global CSV Activities participate in the program. three companies in Thandalam and Irungattukottai villages near Chennai, Supporting Arts and Culture creating jobs for 23 female workers. In addition, in order to address the MAJOR ACTIVITIES BY SUBSIDIARY digital gap in rural areas, we support the Community Service Center run by Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Alabama (HMMA) the Indian government, thus helping more than 16,000 local residents. 4 APPENDICES • United Way, a fund-raising campaign MAJOR ACTIVITIES BY SUBSIDIARY • Sponsor for ‘Toys for Tots’, a toy donation program by the US Marines Corps Hyundai Motor India (HMI) Hyundai Motor Brazil (HMB) • Dream Village project • Dental clinic on wheels and surgery program for residents in Piracicaba • Support for training programs on local road safety and the strengthening of • ‘Hyundai Youth Football Clinic’, a sports training program for underprivileged infrastructure in Anna Nagar children in Piracicaba Hyundai Motor Company Australia (HMCA) • ‘You Drive. We Donate’, a donation program in connection with Auto Link Hope on Wheels Dream Village Project 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 105 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Key Activities in Europe Key Activities in China 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE El Desierto de los Niños (Desert of Children) Hyundai Green Zone China Hyundai Motor España (HMES) sponsored the El Desierto de los Niños Staff at Beijing Hyundai Motor Company (BHMC) and Hyundai Motor Group 3 (Desert of Children) program, with participants driving 4WD vehicles across the Moroccan desert to raise funds for building schools in Fezzou. We China (HMGC), our holding company in China, partnered with young people studying environment-related undergraduate majors, and a total of 257 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE provided 21 SUVs including the Santa Fe, Tucsan and Kona. participants ran a desertification prevention campaign in the Baoshaodainao 3.1 OUR SYSTEM Nur region. This area was previously home to a lake but it has turned into an MAJOR ACTIVITIES BY SUBSIDIARY alkali flat since the lake dried up. 3.2 OUR VALUE • Customer Hyundai Motor India (HMI) MAJOR ACTIVITIES BY SUBSIDIARY • Environment • HMD: ‘Spende ein Licht’, a donation program for children at Christmas • HMUK: ‘Stand up to Cancer’ campaign Beijing Hyundai Motor Company (BHMC) • Collaboration • HMSK: Donation of the ‘Hyundai ix1’, a trolley for newborns • 2nd Hyundai Green Zone China, an anti-desertification project in Inner Mongolia • People • HMF: ‘Sport dans la ville’, helping children pursue sports-related careers • Computer donation to Hanchun Village, Shen hyun of Changzhou City • Community Areas of CSV Activities Hyundai Motor Group China (HMGC) Global CSV Activities • Green Move: 2nd Hyundai Green Zone China, an anti-desertification project in Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Czech (HMMC) Supporting Arts and Culture Inner Mongolia • ‘Good Neighbor Together’, an employee volunteer activity • Safe Move: Traffic safety campaigns for elementary school students in Beijing • ‘Korea Day’, a cultural event • Happy Move: Employee volunteer group which consists of staff at HMGC and 4 APPENDICES Hyundai Motor Manufacturing Russia (HMMR) employees of its suppliers • ‘Hyundai Dream Way’, a CSR program for local community • Dream Move: ‘Dream Classroom’, a program that donates supplies for underdeveloped areas Hyundai Assan Otomotiv Sanayi (HAOS) • Dream Move: ‘Tong Xin Yi’, an activity to protect left-behind children in rural areas • Support for Turkish veterans during Korean War • Activities to support orphanage center in Semiha Sakir, Istanbul • Planting trees to create forest in Izmit (a tree for each employee) Hyundai Motor Commonwealth Independent States (HMCIS) • ‘Robocar Poli’ traffic safety education programs • ‘Great Music for Young Generation’, helping children experience music El Desierto de los Niños (Desert of Children) Hyundai Green Zone China 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 106 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Africa & Middle East Regional Headquarter Asia & Pacific Regional Headquarter 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Africa The Philippines • Morocco: Traffic safety and environmental education program for elementary • Establish a facility which turns rainwater into drinking water and provide 3 school students • Tunisia: Traffic safety education and campaign for children and teenagers hygiene education in connection with the UN World Water Day SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Vietnam • South Africa: Build libraries at local elementary schools located in • Practical Week with HYUNDAI THANH CONG, an industry-academic impoverished areas 3.1 OUR SYSTEM collaboration for programs to support automobile field trainings 3.2 OUR VALUE Middle East (Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, Egypt) Malaysia • Customer • Pan-Arab Road Safety Program: Provide traffic education and experience • ‘Travel safely with Hyundai’ campaign opportunities while helping to improve traffic safety awareness • Environment • Collaboration • People • Community Areas of CSV Activities Global CSV Activities Central & South America Regional Headquarters CIS & Eastern Europe Regional Headquarter Supporting Arts and Culture Chile Kazakhstan • Environmental improvement and child education support program in • Child traffic safety campaign (Central Asia) 4 APPENDICES Valparaiso: A leading program operated in collaboration with Good Neighbors to address environmental pollution issues caused by waste and education Ukraine inequality issues • Traffic culture campaign and support for the disabled – Operate recycling trucks and environmental education centers for children Serbia Ecuador • Traffic safety campaign for children • Environmental protection support program on the Galapagos Islands: Donate eco-friendly cars and electric generators to preserve biodiversity on the Galapagos Islands in cooperation with the Charles Darwin Foundation Chile_Environmental improvement and child education support program Serbia _ Traffic safety campaign for children 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 107 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Supporting Arts and Culture 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Global Partnership for Arts and Culture Hyundai explores the connections between the auto industry and art by Tate Modern 3 pursuing artistic and cultural partnerships in Korea and overseas. These The Hyundai Commission is a long-term partnership with Tate Modern partnerships experiment with various projects provide new values and in London. Every year since 2015, we have selected leading artists to hold SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE experiences that had not traditionally been delivered, and thus help more major exhibitions in the Turbine Hall. In 2017, SUPERFLEX, an artist group people enjoy and experience culture closer to their daily lives. We also from Denmark, was invited to showcase the ‘One Two Three Swing!’ 3.1 OUR SYSTEM share our thoughts on the automotive and art industries, and explore new exhibition. A swing that can accommodate three people was used as a 3.2 OUR VALUE perspectives on the future. medium to feature an artwork that connects the inside and outside of the • Customer exhibition hall, leading to active participation by the audience. National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art • Environment The MMCA Hyundai Motor Series is a midto long-term project that aims to Los Angeles County Museum of Art • Collaboration expand the horizons of Korean art through collaboration with the Museum In 2015, Hyundai signed a ten-year partnership with the LA County Museum • People of Modern and Contemporary Art of Korea. We provide global platforms of Art (LACMA) to sponsor the ‘Hyundai Project at LACMA’, with the aim • Community for contemporary Korean artists by sponsoring large-scale exhibitions as of inspiring people through the combination of art and technology. We Areas of CSV Activities well as relevant seminars and publications. In 2017, the fourth exhibition sponsor the ‘art + technology’ exhibitions and LAB projects to deliver Global CSV Activities was held under the title, MMCA Hyundai Motor Series 2017: IM HEUNG innovative exhibitions by globally renowned artists who integrate art with Supporting Arts and Culture SOON – “Things that do us part”, a large-scale private exhibition of artist Im technology. We also sponsor research into Korean art history and Korean Heung Soon, who won the Silver Lion Awards at the Venice Biennale. The art exhibitions. In 2017, world-renowned film director Alejandro G. Iñárritu exhibition was held in the Seoul Gallery at MMCA, and garnered interest showcased ‘CARNE y ARENA (Virtually present, Physically invisible)’, a video 4 APPENDICES and the sympathy of the audience. work that was completed by adopting cutting-edge virtual reality (VR) technology. MMCA Hyundai Motor Series 2017: IM HEUNG SOON – “Things that do us part” Photography by GIM IKHYUN Provided by National Museum of Modern and Contemporary Art Hyundai Commission: SUPERFLEX – One Two Three Swing!, © Tate Photography 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 108 We will be a trustworthy partner for more stakeholders. Our aim is to provide more value which we can share with our customers and other stakeholders, Achievements in Global Social Contribution Activities not only through our products and services, but also through the entire process related to our manufacturing and servicing activities. Given the highest CSR development index score in China The China Academy of Social Sciences, which rates the social responsibility activities of companies in China, selected Hyundai Motor Group as the leading CSR company in China in Hyundai will therefore continue to strive to ensure that our products and services have a positive terms of CSR development index score. This study was based on an assessment of 300 stateimpact on potential customers and local communities where we are and we have not yet sponsored, privately-run and foreign-invested companies operating in China. Hyundai Motor Group was recognized for its localized CSR activities, including the anti-desertification project reached out. We will step up our efforts to ensure that the value we create is evenly distributed in Inner Mongolia, and for making a positive impact in a long-term perspective. not just to our current stakeholders, but also to future generation. Achievements in Supporting Arts and Culture 2017 Exhibitions based on partnership with museums Based on partnerships with global museums, new exhibitions were unveiled in 2017 – the Stakeholder Interview MMCA Hyundai Motor Series 2017: IM HEUNG SOON – “Things that do us part” at MMCA, ‘Hyundai Commission: SUPERFLEX – One Two Three Swing!’ at Tate Modern, and the video work titled ‘CARNE y ARENA (Virtually present, Physically invisible)’ by director Alejandro G. Iñárritu at LACMA. Director Alejandro G. Iñárritu was awarded a Special Award Oscar by the US I have always wanted to visit the ‘Robocar Poli Playground’ to teach children Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for this artwork. about traffic safety. It’s very important for children to learn first-hand about traffic safety. The kids were excited to meet Poly and Amber, their favorite TV characters. I think the best part about the playground was that it was Sponsoring the Venice Biennale and Sydney Biennale safe. Many traffic safety sites are outdoors, so I have concern about weather Hyundai sponsored the Biennale, which is a leading art festival that is enjoyed by all. conditions or accidents, but the Robocar Poli Playground provides a safe The company sponsored the Korean Pavilion at the Venice Biennale 2017 and the Sydney indoors environment where it is easy for teachers to keep an eye on the Biennale 2018, thus creating opportunities to communicate with the world, regardless of children. The area is divided into clearly-themed zones, and I would definitely region, culture, or generation. want to come again. Launching the ‘art + technology’ program I hope that Hyundai will create more facilities like this in other regions, so that more children can visit and learn about traffic safety in a fun environment. This Hyundai planned and launched the ‘art + technology’ program in May 2018 in partnership with interactive and engaging way of learning is very effective, and can hold an Bloomberg, a global media partner. We provide to viewers all across the globe an opportunity important role in reducing accidents. to experience the new world of art by delivering the philosophies and new technology trends of Seung Ja Park artists who focus on converging art with up-to-date technologies. Director of Namu Art Daycare Center 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 109 4 APPENDICES 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 110 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Facts & Figures 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Corporate Profile (Production and Sales) Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note (2017) 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Assets KRW billion 165,367.9 178,835.9 178,199.5 Consolidated figures basis General Information Sales revenue KRW billion 91,958.7 93,649.0 96,376.1 Consolidated figures basis 4 Production Avante Vehicle Vehicle 4,948,315 811,723 4,865,500 875,275 4,506,996 669,663 Consolidated figures basis APPENDICES Tucson Vehicle 580,831 735,242 644,598 Consolidated figures basis 4.1 Facts & Figures 2017 Best-selling Accent Vehicle 669,509 514,748 411,724 Consolidated figures basis 4.2 GRI Index Models 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement Consolidated figures basis (figures for 4.4 About This Report i10 Vehicle 450,169 354,838 373,032 2015 and 2016 are sales volume of the Sonata) 4.5 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Korea Vehicle 1,858,395 1,679,905 1,651,718 U.S. Vehicle 384,519 379,020 328,400 China Vehicle 1,052,000 1,142,000 800,000 India Vehicle 645,012 665,017 678,017 Czech Republic Vehicle 342,200 358,400 356,700 Turkey Vehicle 226,500 230,010 227,000 Global Production Russia Vehicle 229,500 207,000 233,500 Brazil Vehicle 175,002 161,756 182,773 China (Commercial) Vehicle 30,552 37,881 27,941 Vietnam Vehicle 16,617 Transformed from consignment Consignment Vehicle 4,635 4,511 4,330 (commercial) to venture investment (Commercial) in 2017 Total Vehicle 4,948,315 4,865,500 4,506,996 Korea Vehicle 714,121 658,642 688,939 Global Sales Overseas Vehicle 4,250,710 4,201,407 3,817,336 Total Vehicle 4,964,831 4,860,049 4,506,275 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 111 Search Corporate Profile (Employees and Supply Chain) 1 HIGHLIGHTS Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note As of the last business day; and the past calendar year’s figure changed due to 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Korea Person 66,674 67,821 68,876 an adjustment to the collection criteria for the number of directly employed staff 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Number of Employees Number of regular and non-regular Overseas Person 46,458 51,430 53,341 workers as of year-end 4 Portion of employees working overseas % 41.5 43.5 43.6 APPENDICES Total Person 112,072 118,320 122,217 4.1 Facts & Figures Korea Person 66,674 67,821 68,876 4.2 GRI Index North America Person 7,881 9,886 10,942 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement Europe Person 6,277 6,625 9,955 4.4 About This Report 4.5 Sustainability Management Workforce by Region China Person 17,951 19,447 19,100 Materiality Analysis India Person 9,343 9,284 9,318 Others Person 5,006 5,257 4,026 Total Person 113,132 118,320 122,217 Management Person 440 456 466 Research committee Person 16 19 22 Research Person 9,701 10,203 10,565 Office work Person 12,078 12,425 12,659 Workforce by Duty Technology, production, Person 34,529 35,444 35,669 in Korea maintenance Sales Person 6,166 6,185 6,190 Advisors, specially appointed staff for Others Person 3,744 3,089 3,305 special duties, temporary staff, nonregular staff, etc. Total Person 66,674 67,821 68,876 Around 300 Tier 1 suppliers; around Supply Chain Number of suppliers Company 8,300+ 8,300+ 8,300+ 5,000 Tier 2 and 3 suppliers; and Management around 3,000 raw material suppliers 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 112 Search ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 1 HIGHLIGHTS Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Total assets KRW billion 165,368 178,836 178,199 Statements of 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE financial position Total liabilities KRW billion 98,487 106,491 103,442 (Consolidated) Shareholders’ equity KRW billion 66,881 72,345 74,757 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Total assets KRW billion 66,977 69,851 70,131 Statements of financial position Total liabilities KRW billion 17,281 17,271 15,906 4 (Separate) Shareholders’ equity KRW billion 49,696 52,580 54,224 APPENDICES Sales KRW billion 91,959 93,649 96,376 4.1 Facts & Figures Operating profit KRW billion 6,358 5,194 4,575 4.2 GRI Index Statements Includes minority interest of 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement Net profit KRW billion 6,509 5,720 4,546 consolidated net income of income 4.4 About This Report (Consolidated) Based on Bloomberg (sum of 4.5 Sustainability Management operating profit, depreciation of Materiality Analysis EBITDA KRW billion 9,152 8,552 8,104 tangible assets, depreciation of Financial real estate held for investment, and Highlights depreciation of intangible assets) Sales KRW billion 44,440 41,714 41,605 Operating profit KRW billion 4,267 2,699 2,163 Statements Net profit KRW billion 5,435 4,102 2,551 of income (Separate) Based on Bloomberg (sum of operating profit, depreciation of EBITDA KRW billion 6,047 4,913 4,467 tangible assets, depreciation of real estate held for investment, and depreciation of intangible assets) Operating profit % 6.9 5.5 4.7 Profitability ratio margin (Consolidated) Net profit margin % 7.1 6.1 4.7 Operating profit % 9.6 6.5 5.2 Profitability ratio margin (Separate) Net profit margin % 12.2 9.8 6.1 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 113 Search OUR SYSTEM 1 HIGHLIGHTS Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Number of training sessions in Korea Case 45 83 34 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Compliance Number of participants in Korea Person 57,100 27,470 25,089 Sum of online trainings (2 sessions since its launch in 2015), Management collective trainings, and others Education Number of training sessions overseas Case 2 1 1 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Number of participants overseas Person 1,940 610 800 Legal sanction against the violation Violations related to unfair competition, such as collusion and Case 0 0 0 of fair trade monopoly 4 NonMarketing activities in Korea Case 0 0 0 Incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations and voluntary codes concerning advertising, sales promotion, and sponsorship; APPENDICES Marketing activities overseas Case 0 0 0 based on a business report compliance Incidents of non-compliance with customer information-related laws with Protection of customer information Case 0 1 0 4.1 Facts & Figures and regulations and number of administrative actions in Korea Regulations 4.2 GRI Index and Voluntary Incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations and number of administrative actions regarding information provided to customers 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement Codes Protection of product information Case 0 1 0 to inform them of vehicle performance and function, such as fuel 4.4 About This Report efficiency 4.5 Sustainability Management Penalty and fine for non-compliance Overseas manufacturing plants have been added to the reporting KRW million 0.5 5.9 73.4 Materiality Analysis with environmental regulations scope since 2016 Dividends KRW billion 1,080 1,080 1,080 (Shareholders and investors) Interest expenses Refer to ‘financial income and financial expense’ in the notes to the KRW billion 259 272 333 (Shareholders and investors) consolidated financial statement Refer to ‘classification of expenses by nature’ in the notes to the Salaries (Employees) KRW billion 8,846 8,878 8,921 consolidated financial statement Distribution of Economic Value Refer to ‘classification of expenses by nature (raw material and product Raw materials costs (Suppliers) KRW billion 52,095 52,102 53,039 (Consolidated) usage amount)’ in the notes to the consolidated financial statement Refer to ‘income tax’ in the notes to the consolidated financial Income tax (Government) KRW billion 1,950 1,587 -108 statement Refer to ‘other income/expense’ in the notes to the consolidated Donation (Local communities) KRW billion 66 76 69 financial statement Total KRW billion 64,296 63,995 63,334 Dividends KRW billion 1,080 1,080 1,080 (Shareholders and investors) Interest expenses Refer to ‘financial income and financial expense’ in the notes to the KRW billion 111 129 191 (Shareholders and investors) financial statement Refer to ‘classification of expenses by nature’ in the notes to the Distribution of Salaries (Employees) KRW billion 6,259 6,265 6,266 financial statement Economic Value (Separate) Refer to ‘classification of expenses by nature (raw material and product Raw materials costs (Suppliers) KRW billion 26,740 25,001 25,828 usage amount)’ in the notes to the financial statement Income tax (Government) KRW billion 1,245 841 526 Refer to ‘income tax’ in the notes to the financial statement Donation (Local communities) KRW billion 51 50 48 Refer to ‘other income/expense’ in the notes to the financial statement Total KRW billion 35,486 33,366 33,938 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 114 Search OUR VALUE 1 HIGHLIGHTS Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Quality index Score a vehicle 3 years after its purchase based on Ranking (Based on Product durability index 15th (188) 9th (158) 3rd (124) the durability quality (number of complaints per 100 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE (Point) the survey vehicles) conducted by Score a vehicle 90 days after its purchase based on J.D. Power and Ranking New vehicle quality index 2nd (95) 2nd (92) 2nd (74) the number of complaints (number of complaints 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Associates) (Point) per 100 vehicles) Survey conducted to customers who own a vehicle Maintenance service satisfaction Score 81.8 (1st) 82.7 (2nd) 81.7 (3rd) that was released 3 or more years ago and who have level in Korea (HCSI) (Ranking) 4 Service satisfaction Score used service centers and Bluehands APPENDICES (Number of survey Maintenance service satisfaction countries Conducted 4 weeks after a repair service on 882 (28) 893 (26) 905 (26) level overseas (HGSI) where the customers who used the service 4.1 Facts & Figures survey was 4.2 GRI Index Customer conducted) 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement Hyundai Customer Satisfaction Score 78.3 79.4 77.9 Index– Composite index 4.4 About This Report External evaluation – National 1st place at all 1st place at all 1st place at all Compact, semi-medium, medium, 4.5 Sustainability Management Ranking Customer Satisfaction Index segments segments segments semi-large, large, RV Materiality Analysis External evaluation – Korean 1st place at all 1st place at all 1st place at all Semi-medium, medium, RV, Ranking Customer Standard-Quality Excellence Index segments segments segments after-sales service satisfaction External evaluation – Korean 1st place at all 1st place at all 1st place at all Ranking Passenger car, RV Customer Satisfaction Index segments segments segments External evaluation – Korean Service 1st place at all 1st place at all 1st place at all Ranking Dealers for domestic cars, after-sales service Quality Index segments segments segments External evaluation – Korean Net 1st place at all 1st place at all 1st place at all Ranking Passenger car, RV Promoter Score segments segments segments LNG Mwh 1,569,306 1,606,054 1,210,636 Based on Hyundai’s domestic business sites Electricity Mwh 3,619,249 3,596,858 3,113,988 and overseas manufacturing plants (using Diesel, Kerosene, Gasoline Mwh 82,307 72,244 123,058 energy conversion coefficient provided by the Energy comprehensive national GHG management consumption Liquefied fuel Mwh 105 152 10,415 system) Gaseous fuel Mwh 457 1,280 382,872 Total of ‘Energy consumption’ ÷ Total Mwh 5,271,424 5,276,588 4,840,969 Environment Total of ‘Global production’ Energy consumed in producing Mwh/ The intensity change is insignificant, so the notation Energy intensity 1.065 1.084 1.074 one vehicle Vehicle unit for below decimal point was changed Scope 1 tCO2e 797,391 797,813 805,105 Based on emissions of CO2, CH4, N2O; starting Greenhouse gas Scope 2 tCO2e 1,899,943 1,870,858 1,797,736 in 2017, Scope 3 emissions are measured for emissions Scope 3 tCO2e 7,680,773 6,959,691 7,318,543 the last 3 years Total tCO2e 10,378,107 9,628,362 9,921,384 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 115 Search Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note 1 HIGHLIGHTS Total of ‘Greenhouse gas emissions’ ÷ Total Greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas emissions per tCO2e/ of ‘Global production’; Scope 3 emissions 2.097 1.979 2.201 emission intensity vehicle production Vehicle were added to result in a change in the past 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE calendar year’s intensity Scope 1 tCO2e 37,849 422 7,292 A negative number (-) means a decrease, while a positive number means an increase; 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Year-on-year Scope 2 tCO2e -153,962 -29,085 -73,122 starting in 2017, Scope 3 emissions are change of measured for the last 3 years; scope 3 greenhouse gas Scope 3 tCO2e -721,082 358,852 emissions were added starting in 2017, emissions resulting in a change in the past calendar 4 Total change tCO2e -116,113 -749,745 293,022 year’s GHG reduction APPENDICES Steel (amounts used) Ton 1,234,078 1,249,939 1,148,388 4.1 Facts & Figures Steel (scrap) Ton 499,860 458,982 477,680 Scrap usage rate = 41.6% Raw materials 4.2 GRI Index Aluminum (amounts used) Ton 120,785 109,122 117,252 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement Aluminum (scrap) Ton 34,314 30,593 30,132 Scrap usage rate = 25.7% 4.4 About This Report 4.5 Sustainability Management Water consumed Ton 20,747,991 18,817,437 19,242,964 Materiality Analysis Korea Ton 13,067,942 12,895,791 12,993,238 Environment Overseas Ton 7,680,049 5,921,646 6,249,726 Water recycled Ton 1,853,393 2,300,269 2,259,124 Water Korea Ton 605,627 649,310 603,210 consumption Overseas Ton 1,247,766 1,650,959 1,655,914 Recycling ratio % 8.9 12.2 11.7 Korea % 4.6 5.0 4.6 Overseas % 16.2 27.9 26.5 Total Ton 930 528 1,062 Consumption of refrigerant (HFC, Korea Ton 3 4 3 R135a, etc.) Overseas Ton 779 617 1,059 Total Ton 11,772 9,615 8,398 VOC emissions Korea Ton 8,130 7,241 6,292 Overseas Ton 3,642 2,374 2,106 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 116 Search Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note 1 HIGHLIGHTS Total Ton 1,117 1,172 1,256 CO (by type) Ton 334 275 384 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE SOx (by type) Ton 37 37 28 Air pollutants NOx (by type) Ton 411 460 399 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE PM (by type) Ton 335 400 445 4 Korea (by region) Overseas (by region) Ton Ton 292 825 342 830 392 864 APPENDICES COD kg 183,653 173,092 174,193 4.1 Facts & Figures BOD kg 23,919 21,525 26,063 4.2 GRI Index 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement Water pollutants SS kg 28,722 25,313 27,453 4.4 About This Report n-H kg 507 166 515 4.5 Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis Others kg 374,673 463,254 421,635 Environment Total kg 611,474 683,350 649,890 COD (by type) kg 183,653 173,092 174,193 BOD (by type) kg 23,919 21,525 26,063 SS (by type) kg 28,722 25,313 27,453 Wastewater pollutants n-H (by type) kg 507 166 515 Others (by type) kg 374,673 463,254 421,635 Korea (by region) kg 34,932 33,355 34,725 Overseas (by region) kg 576,542 649,995 615,134 Total Ton 767,512 663,796 871,552 Regular waste (by type) Ton 721,794 617,795 824,989 Weight of waste Specified waste (by type) Ton 45,718 46,001 46,563 Korea (by region) Ton 434,812 359,438 556,512 Overseas (by region) Ton 332,700 304,358 315,040 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 117 Search Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note 1 HIGHLIGHTS Total Ton 664,834 586,303 798,606 Landfill Ton 26,189 27,275 34,465 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Weight of waste by Incineration Ton 34,439 60,978 48,680 disposal method Recycling Ton 597,769 493,102 710,119 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Environment Others Ton 6,436 4,948 5,341 Total Ton 13,479 4,521 3,919 Use of hazardous 4 chemical substances Korea Ton 1,237 900 457 Overseas Ton 12,242 3,621 3,462 APPENDICES Costs and investments for environmental protection KRW billion 115.4 156.4 136.2 4.1 Facts & Figures 15 Tier 1 suppliers, and 92 Tier 2 and 3 Support for Foundation Quality and Technology Volunteer Group Company 97 101 107 of Korea Automotive suppliers 4.2 GRI Index Parts Industry Integrated figure of Hyundai and Kia; 34 Tier 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement Promotion Supplier Support Group Company 42 50 48 1 suppliers and 14 Tier 2 suppliers 4.4 About This Report Energy-Saving 4.5 Sustainability Management Technology Exchange Number of suppliers participated Company 32 38 47 Based on Hyundai Motor Group Meeting Materiality Analysis Collaboration Cumulative number Integrated figure of Hyundai and Kia; around of suppliers in joint Number of suppliers Company 600 700 700+ 300 Tier 1 suppliers and around 400 Tier 3 expansion partnership suppliers Suppliers in joint Around 100 Tier 1 small-sized suppliers and growth and fair trade Number of suppliers in the agreements Company 298 298 200+ around 100 Tier 1 medium-sized suppliers agreements Recruitment of suppliers Number of people hired Person 18,600 13,000 11,300 Total number of security staff (Internal) Person 359 359 379 Security practices Total number of security staff (Outsourced) Person 614 614 604 (Korea) No. of security personnel trained in the Person 926 933 962 organization’s human rights policies Labor union Number of people with labor union membership Person 46,844 48,150 48,261 membership (Korea) Labor union membership percentage % 70.3 71.0 70.1 Includes management, general staff, research staff, technical staff, and People non-regular contract staff (excluding New recruitment Number of people hired Person 5,394 5,301 4,370 management who rejoined the company); (Korea) and the past calendar year’s figure was changed due to a change in the collection criteria Number of employee turnover Person 69 104 100 From among the year’s resigned staff, those Employee turnover whose reason for resigning is ‘changing to a (Korea) Employee turnover rate % 0.10 0.15 0.15 different company’ 3.5 points The satisfaction survey scoring system Employee satisfaction Employee satisfaction survey score % 57 out of 5.0 changed in 2017 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 118 Search Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note 1 HIGHLIGHTS Number of female employees (Korea) Person 3,166 3,436 3,405 Number of female executives (Korea) Person 3 4 3 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Female employment rate (Korea) % 4.7 5.1 4.9 Number of female employees Person 1,291 1,390 1,431 (North America) 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Number of female executives Person 9 6 6 (North America) 4 Female employment rate % 16.4 14.1 13.1 (North America) APPENDICES Number of female employees (Europe) Person 965 1,212 1,363 Number of female executives (Europe) Person 2 2 2 4.1 Facts & Figures Female employment rate (Europe) % 15.4 18.3 13.7 4.2 GRI Index Number of female employees (China) Person 1,777 2,152 2,134 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement Female employees 4.4 About This Report Number of female executives (China) Person 9 10 10 4.5 Sustainability Management Female employment rate (China) % 9.9 11.1 11.2 Materiality Analysis Number of female employees (India) Person 144 160 155 Number of female executives (India) Person 0 0 0 People Female employment rate (India) % 1.5 1.7 1.7 Number of female employees (Others) Person 292 527 521 Number of female executives (Others) Person Female employment rate (Others) % 5.8 10.0 12.9 Total number of female employees Person 7,635 8,877 9,009 Total number of female executives Person 23 22 21 Total female employment rate % 6.8 7.5 7.4 Number of employees with disabilities Person 1,864 1,867 2,501 Employees with disabilities (Korea) Number of employees with disabilities Percentage of employees with disabilities % 2.80 2.75 3.63 ÷ Number of employees in Korea Under 30 years old Person 6,703 6,373 6,404 30-50 years old Person 37,213 35,937 34,633 Number of employees by age Over 50 years old Person 22,758 25,511 27,839 Total Person 66,674 67,821 68,876 Outstanding Korea Person 7 6 5 talent work rotation program participants Overseas Person 10 0 0 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 119 Search Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note 1 HIGHLIGHTS Training expenses per employee KRW 10,000 61 55 43 Employee Training hours per employee Hours 71 56 45 training (Korea) 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Total training expenses KRW billion 40.2 36.9 29.3 Number of employees on parental leave (Male) Person 34 50 22 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Number of employees on parental leave As of 2017 year-end Person 176 212 123 (Female) Parental leave Return rate after parental leave (Male) % 94.1 89.1 88.9 Percentage of total reinstated staff against 4 (Korea) Return rate after parental leave (Female) % 96.6 89.1 87 number of staff in parental leave APPENDICES Retention rate after parental leave (Male) % 96.0 94.2 Percentage of staff retained for at least 12 months against number of staff in parental People Retention rate after parental leave (Female) % 85.6 96.4 leave 4.1 Facts & Figures No. of employees involved in occupational 4.2 GRI Index Person 339 217 210 Based on figures of Ulsan, Asan and accidents (Korea) Jeonju plants in Korea 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement Accident rate (Korea) % 0.52 0.32 0.53 4.4 About This Report No. of employees involved in occupational Person 55 38 41 4.5 Sustainability Management Occupational accidents (Overseas) Based on figures of overseas manufacturing Materiality Analysis plants accidents Accident rate (Overseas) % 0.15 0.10 0.11 No. of employees involved in occupational Person 394 255 251 Based on figures of Ulsan, Asan and Jeonju accidents (Total) plants in Korea, and overseas manufacturing Accident rate (Total) % 0.53 0.34 0.33 plants Social welfare KRW million 26,109 22,252 23,147 Medical and healthcare KRW million 806 380 414 Education KRW million 15,431 10,369 18,969 Culture & Sports KRW million 21,341 27,004 11,210 Social contributions Environmental protection KRW million 921 1,310 7,001 (Korea) Emergency relief KRW million 368 5,508 1,203 Community International exchange KRW million 2,633 1,941 1,380 Others KRW million 2,840 6,738 1,635 Total KRW million 70,449 75,502 64,959 Voluntary Number of volunteer activities Case 2,546 2,348 2,129 performance Number of participants Person 24,499 28,462 17,105 of employees (Korea) Number of hours participated Hour 166,912 144,697 125,093 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 120 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS GRI Index 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Universal Standards STANDARD INDICATORS 2018 Report 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE No. Core Title Page Note 102-01 Core Name of the organization 32 4 102-02 102-03 Core Core Activities, brands, products, and services Location of headquarters 32, 33 129 APPENDICES 102-04 Core Location of operations 34 4.1 Facts & Figures 102-05 Core Ownership and legal form 36 4.2 GRI Index 102-06 Core Markets served 33, 34 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement 102-07 Core Scale of the organization 32 4.4 About This Report No significant changes regarding employee 4.5 Sustainability Management 102-08 Core Information on employees and other workers 112, 119 number occurred Materiality Analysis 102-09 Core Supply chain 78-82, 118 102-10 Core Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 35 102-11 Core Precautionary Principle or approach 46, 129 102-12 Core External initiatives 47, 66, 129 102-13 Core Membership of associations 47, 66, 129 102-14 Core Statement from senior decision-maker 3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 48 102-16 Core Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 44, 45 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 47 102-18 Core Governance structure 36, 37 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, 102-21 36, 37 and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 36, 37 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 36 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 36, 37 102-40 Core List of stakeholder groups 49 102-41 Core Collective bargaining agreements 94 102-42 Core Identifying and selecting stakeholders 49 102-43 Core Approach to stakeholder engagement 49 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 121 Search STANDARD INDICATORS 2018 Report 1 HIGHLIGHTS No. Core Title Page Note 102-44 Core Key topics and concerns raised 49 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 102-45 Core Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 34 102-46 Core Defining report content and topic Boundaries 130-131 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 102-47 Core List of material topics 130-131 Restatements are referred separately on 102-48 Core Restatements of information 111-120 each information that change has occurred 4 102-49 102-50 Core Core Changes in reporting Reporting period No significant changes occurred 129 APPENDICES 102-51 Core Date of most recent report 129 4.1 Facts & Figures 102-52 Core Reporting cycle 129 4.2 GRI Index 102-53 Core Contact point for questions regarding the report 129 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement 102-54 Core Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 129 4.4 About This Report 102-55 Core GRI content index 121-125 4.5 Sustainability Management 102-56 Core External assurance 126-127 Materiality Analysis Topic Specific Standards _ Material Topics STANDARD INDICATORS 2018 Report Issue Name Indicator No. Title Page Note 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 131, 76, 77 Core Option applied 103-02 The management approach and its components 77 Core Option applied Anti-corruption 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 83 Core Option applied Communication and training about anti-corruption policies 205-02 47, 77, 114 Core Option applied and procedures 205-03 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No incidents of corruption occurred Core Option applied 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 131, 64, 65, 69 Core Option applied 103-02 The management approach and its components 65, 69 Core Option applied Materials 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 74 Core Option applied 301-01 Materials used by weight or volume 116 Percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture the 301-02 116 Core Option applied organization’s primary products and services 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 131, 64, 65, 71 Core Option applied 103-02 The management approach and its components 65-68, 71-73 Core Option applied Energy 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 74 Core Option applied 302-01 Energy consumption within the organization 115 302-03 Energy intensity 115 Core Option applied 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 122 Search STANDARD INDICATORS 2018 Report 1 HIGHLIGHTS Issue Name Indicator No. Title Page Note 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 131, 64, 65, 71 Core Option applied 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 103-02 The management approach and its components 65-68, 71-73 Core Option applied 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 74 Core Option applied 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 305-01 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 115 305-02 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 115 Emissions 4 305-03 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 115 305-04 GHG emissions intensity 116 Core Option applied APPENDICES 305-05 Reduction of GHG emissions 116 4.1 Facts & Figures 305-06 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 116 4.2 GRI Index 305-07 Nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, and other significant air emissions 117 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 131, 85, 86 Core Option applied 4.4 About This Report 103-02 The management approach and its components 86-87 Core Option applied 4.5 Sustainability Management 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 86-87, 96 Core Option applied Materiality Analysis Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by Recruitment 401-01 118 age group, gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 401-02 88-89 Core Option applied temporary or part-time employees by significant locations of operation Return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave, 401-03 120 Core Option applied by gender 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 131, 85, 91 Core Option applied 103-02 The management approach and its components 91-93 Core Option applied 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 96 Core Option applied Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Occupational 403-02 120 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by gender and region Health and Safety Hyundai conducts harmful factor assessments and operates prevention Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their programs because production line 403-03 Core Option applied occupation workers are exposed to possible risks of a musculoskeletal disorder and hardness of hearing 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 131, 85, 88 Core Option applied Diversity 103-02 The management approach and its components 88-90 Core Option applied and Equal 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 96 Core Option applied Opportunity Diversity of governance bodies and employees by gender, age group, 405-01 36, 112 Core Option applied minority, and other indicators of diversity 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 123 Search STANDARD INDICATORS 2018 Report 1 HIGHLIGHTS Issue Name Indicator No. Title Page Note 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 131, 85, 94 Core Option applied 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 103-02 The management approach and its components 94-95 Core Option applied Freedom of 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 96 Core Option applied Association 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE and Collective Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association Bargaining and collective bargaining may be at risk and measures taken by the No operations and suppliers at 407-01 Core Option applied organization in the reporting period intended to support rights to significant risk identified 4 exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining APPENDICES 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 131, 98 Core Option applied 103-02 The management approach and its components 99-108 Core Option applied 4.1 Facts & Figures 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 109 Core Option applied 4.2 GRI Index Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement 413-01 104, 105-107 engagement, impact assessments, and/or development programs 4.4 About This Report Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts No operations and suppliers at 4.5 Sustainability Management 413-02 Core Option applied on local communities significant negative impact identified Materiality Analysis 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 131, 51, 52 Core Option applied 103-02 The management approach and its components 52-56 Core Option applied 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 62 Core Option applied Customer Health and Percentage of significant product and service categories for which 416-01 All complete vehicles Safety health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or No incidents of non-compliance 416-02 voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products regarding product (vehicle) Core Option applied and services safety occurred 103-01 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 131, 51, 57 Core Option applied 103-02 The management approach and its components 57-61 Core Option applied 103-03 Evaluation of the management approach 62 Core Option applied Types of information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of 417-01 61 Core Option applied Marketing and significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for Labeling compliance with such procedures Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or No incidents of non-compliance 417-02 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and Core Option applied occurred labeling Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or No incidents of non-compliance 417-03 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including Core Option applied occurred advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 124 Search Topic Specific Standards _ Non Material Topics 1 HIGHLIGHTS STANDARD INDICATORS 2018 Report Indicator No. Title Page 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 201-01 Direct economic value generated and distributed 42, 114 201-02 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 64, 65, 70 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 203-01 Infrastructure investments and services supported 102, 104 203-02 Significant indirect economic impacts 100, 102, 104, 105-108 4 206-01 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 114 303-01 Water withdrawal by source 116 APPENDICES 303-03 Water recycled and reused 116 306-01 Water discharge by quality and destination 117 4.1 Facts & Figures 4.2 GRI Index 306-02 Waste by type and disposal method 117-118 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement No incidents of significant 306-03 Significant spills 4.4 About This Report spills occurred 4.5 Sustainability Management 307-01 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 114 Materiality Analysis 404-01 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and employee category 120 No incidents of 406-01 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken discrimination occurred Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken by the organization intended No operations and suppliers at 408-01 to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor significant risk identified Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and measures taken by the No operations and suppliers at 409-01 organization intended to contribute to the effective abolition of forced or compulsory labor significant risk identified Percentage of security personnel who have received formal training in the organization’s human rights policies or 410-01 118 specific procedures and their application to security No incidents of violations 411-01 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and corrective actions taken occurred No case of political 415-01 Total monetary value of political contributions made by the organization by country and recipient/beneficiary contributions made Number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy and identified losses of No incidents of violations 418-01 customer data occurred Method of GRI Standard application to 2018 Sustainability Report of Hyundai Motor Company The 2018 Sustainability Report of Hyundai Motor Company has applied the Core Option of the GRI Standard, and contains at least one index from among the Core indexes of the Universal Standards (GRI 102) and the Topic Specific Standards by important theme. For more comprehensive communication of Hyundai’s sustainability, the Report referenced GRI Standard indexes to include information in addition to indexes to which the Core Option was applied. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 125 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Independent Assurance Statement To the Stakeholders of Hyundai Motor Company Methodology 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE This assurance was conducted through the following methods: The Korea Productivity Center (the “Assurer”) was asked by Hyundai • Verified if the requirements for Core options of GRI Standard Guidelines 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Motor Company to provide independent assurance of the “Hyundai Motor were fulfilled. Company 2018 Sustainability Report” (the “Report”) and hereby provides • Verified the compliance with the principles of the Report contents and the following assurance statement. quality based on GRI Standard Guidelines. 4 Responsibility and Independence • Verified the selection of material issues covered and the appropriateness of APPENDICES Hyundai Motor Company is entirely responsible for all information and the technical content through media research and benchmarking analysis. opinions presented in this Report. The Assurer is solely responsible for • Verified the suitability of the contents and any errors in expression through 4.1 Facts & Figures the assurance statement on the content of the Report. As an independent comparison analysis with other sources. 4.2 GRI Index assurance agency, the Assurer was neither involved in the process of • Verified the basis of Comprehensive data and information and the internal 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement preparing this Report nor in any conflicts of interest that may undermine process and system through on-site inspection at the headquarters in Seoul. 4.4 About This Report our independence. 4.5 Sustainability Management Findings and Conclusion Materiality Analysis Assurance Standards It is the verifier’s opinion that the Report reflects Hyundai Motor Company’s The Assurer performed assurance in accordance with Type 2 defined sustainability management activity & performance faithfully and fairly. In in AA1000AS (2008) including ISAE 3000 of International Auditing and addition, through this verification process, this verifier judges that Hyundai Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). In addition, we confirmed compliance Motor Company’ report meets the GRI Standards requirements for Core with the principles of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness, and Options. additionally confirmed the appropriateness from the possible influence from organization’s activity and performance based on AA1000APS (2008) Universal Standard Disclosures were prepared in full compliance with the verification principles. It indicates that the Report was comprehensively requirements for Core options while Topic-specific Standard Disclosures reviewed in terms of the effectiveness and reliability of reporting were reviewed in line disclosures of the material topics identified through standards in the assurance. The assurance standards are based on the the process of determining report content as follows: risk reduction with limitations defined in ISAE 3000 and correspond to the moderate level of assurance defined in AA1000AS (2008). Material Topic Disclosures Customer Health and Safety 416-2 Limitations Air Emissions 305-4, 7 The Assurer identified the reliability of performance in the Report based on Marketing and Labeling 417-1, 2, 3 the above-mentioned assurance scope and standards as follows. The on-site Energy Use 302-3 verification was carried out at the headquarters in Seoul. The financial data Local Communities Contribution 413-2 in the Report was verified through the financial statements and disclosure Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 information which was audited by an auditor, while the aggregated data at Materials Use 301-2 the corporate level are used for the verification of Environmental and Social performance. The Assurer states that if an additional assurance process is Employment recruitment and retention 401-2, 3 performed in the future, the results may be different. The Assurer expressly Occupational Health and Safety 403-3 disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Anti-corruption 205-2, 3 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 126 Search • Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement 1 HIGHLIGHTS This verifier confirmed that Hyundai Motor Company is promoting communiit’s important for the company to disclose management of the issues cation activity through the communication channel by interested party for by promoting what policy & activity. This verification team proposes conformance to the principles of inclusivity. Hyundai Motor Company is that Hyundai Motor Company should clearly examine the range of the 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE establishing a systematic participation system by doing major interested influence over core issues for the time to come. parties management in the light of their industrial & regional characteristics such as customers/dealers, employees, the government, shareholders/ • The sustainability management issues may vary according to social, cultural 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE investors, suppliers, and local community, etc. In addition, Hyundai Motor and environmental characteristics in each country. Therefore, it is essential Company is gathering the interested parties’ opinion by constructing the to identify the material issues in each of the countries that Hyundai Motor communication channel by taking account of each group’s characteristics. Company has advanced into and actively suggest the corresponding 4 • Materiality: Identification and Reporting of Material Issues actions in the report. In this regard, it is advisable to manage activities on the global aspects as well as regional activities and performances by expanding APPENDICES This verifier confirmed that Hyundai Motor Company is selecting core issues the scope of data management in each country. 4.1 Facts & Figures through the materiality evaluation process. It was confirmed that Hyundai Motor Company selected the core issue areas through the analysis process 4.2 GRI Index of the interested parties’ influence over decision making as to various 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement sustainability issues, and significance of the influence of management 4.4 About This Report activity, and give-and-take. This verification team confirmed that major 4.5 Sustainability Management issues selected through the materiality evaluation process are reflected in Materiality Analysis June 2018 their report. • Responsiveness: Organization's Response to Issues CEO Kyoo Sung NOH This verifier also confirmed that Hyundai Motor Company is grasping core issues affecting the interested parties’ performance, mounting sustainability management activity to respond to the core issues, and giving a proper Dong-soo Kim, Yang-ho Lee, Ji-sung Lim, description of the details thereof in the report. In addition, the verifier Director Team Manager Researcher confirmed that Hyundai Motor Company is faithfully disclosing response activity and performance with focus on sustainability management core issues through the report. Also, the efforts to communicate with various stakeholders on diverse activities of Hyundai Motor Company related with CSV were outstanding. Recommendation The Assurer recognizes the diverse efforts and performance made by The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is a fully qualified independent Hyundai Motor Company and suggests the following for the Company's assurance agency. It is officially certified by AccountAbility that established AA1000, the international standard for stakeholder engagement and assurance. It has the Assurance Committee with of experienced experts who publication of the Report in the future and the improvement of its are qualified for the consultation and assurance of sustainability practice. sustainability standards: * AA1000AS(2008): AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) is the global assurance standard established by Accountability to provide a comprehensive way of verifying an organization's management, compliance • This verifier thinks that there is a need to make it clear where Hyundai with the principles and reliability of performance data for reporting its sustainability issues. Motor Company’s core issues happen among the value chain. Particularly, * AA1000APS(2008): AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008) is the global assurance principles as regards the issues happening outside of Hyundai Motor Company, established Accountability to provide the basis for the AA1000 Assurance Standard. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 127 Search LRQA’s Opinion 1 HIGHLIGHTS Based on LRQA’s approach, except for the effect of the matter as below, we believe that the report is prepared in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea and the GHG 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE emissions data in the Table 1 is materially correct: This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Hyundai Motor Company. • The GHG emissions from LNG and electricity consumed by the companies which are subject to GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea and are 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Terms of Engagement occupying HMC’s own buildings have not been excluded from HMC’s Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Hyundai organizational boundary, but we are confident that they are below the Motor Company (HMC) to provide independent assurance on its Greenhouse Gas quantitative materiality level. 4 (GHG) Inventory Report for the calendar year 2017 (the report) against GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea APPENDICES using Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions. The report relates to direct GHG emissions and energy indirect GHG emissions. Dated: 24th March 2018 4.1 Facts & Figures 4.2 GRI Index Management Responsibility 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement LRQA’s responsibility is only to HMC. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. The management of HMC is responsible SANG-KEUN YOO 4.4 About This Report for preparing the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over all the On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. 4.5 Sustainability Management data and information within the report. Ultimately, the report has been approved 17th Floor, Singsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 07327, Korea Materiality Analysis by, and remains the responsibility of HMC. LRQA Reference: SEO 6012382 LRQA’s Approach LRQA’s assurance engagement has been carried out in accordance with our Table1. GHG emissions reported in the Report verification procedure using GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea: Scope (as defined within GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea) Year 2017 Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions to reasonable level of assurance. Direct GHG Emissions 500,306 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions 1,024,190 The following tasks were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for Total GHG Emissions 1,524,496 this assurance engagement: Data is presented in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. • Visiting sites and auditing management system to control the data and records regarding GHG emissions and energy uses This document is subject to the provision below: • Interviewing the relevant persons responsible for managing and This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. maintaining data and associated records Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the 'Lloyd’s Register Group'. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes • Reviewing the historical data and information back to source for the no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information calendar year 2017 or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. Because of the inherent limitations in any internal control it is possible that fraud, error, or non-compliance with laws and Level of Assurance & Materiality regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, the verification was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate to the requirements set out above as the verification has not been performed continuously The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the throughout the period and the verification carried out on the relevant internal controls were on a test basis. Any projection of basis of a reasonable level of assurance, and at the materiality of the professional the evaluation of control to future periods is subject to the risk that the processes may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with them may deteriorate. judgement of the verifier and at the materiality level of 2.5%. The Korean version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2018. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 128 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS About This Report 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE 2018 Sustainability Report of Hyundai Motor Company Efforts to Contribute to Sustainable Development 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Hyundai Motor Company has been publishing a sustainability report every The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) consist of agenda year since 2003 with an aim to communicate with stakeholders regarding items that aim to mitigate wide-ranging risk factors that pose threats to the company’s sustainability management. The 2018 Sustainability Report sustainable development – economic and social polarization, aggravating social of Hyundai Motor Company describes our efforts to create economic, inequalities in their diverse forms, and environmental destruction – during the 4 environmental, and social values, and it also details our commitment to contributing to the development of local communities as a global corporate period between 2016 and 2030. The SDGs present 17 goals and 169 targets that all nations in the world are required to reach through joint endeavors. APPENDICES citizen. As a global corporate citizen, Hyundai participates in the efforts to achieve 4.1 Facts & Figures Hyundai Motor Company sustainable development. This report presents how our activities to Publisher 4.2 GRI Index Headquarters: 12, Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 06797, Korea create value are linked to UN SDGs, and we aim to communicate with our Publication stakeholders regarding the matter. 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement July 10, 2018 Date 4.4 About This Report Production CSV Strategy Team, Hyundai Motor Company OUR VALUE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 4.5 Sustainability Management (Contact Tel: +82-2-3464-8618 Materiality Analysis Information) E-mail: hmcsr@hyundai.com Customer Reporting GRI Standard (Core option) Principle Reporting Hyundai Motor Company; also includes some data and information for Boundary Hyundai Motor Group Environment Reporting Economic (based on Korean International Financial Reporting Standards), Scope social and environmental performance Reporting January 1st, 2017 December 31st, 2017; also includes some data and Collaboration Period information from the first half of 2018 Reporting Annual (last report was published in June 2017) Cycle People Assurance Korea Productivity Center Design Talantone Creative Group Reports of Community Recent Three Years 2015 2016 2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report Sustainability Report UN SDGs 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 129 Search 1 HIGHLIGHTS Sustainability Management Materiality Analysis 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Materiality Analysis 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE We prioritize sustainability management issues, and respond to stakeholder interest and requirements in this area based on the GRI1) Standard, a global guideline on sustainability reports. 4 1) GRI: Global Reporting Initiative, an international organization which establishes standards for sustainability management reports APPENDICES Process to Select Sustainability Issues 4.1 Facts & Figures 4.2 GRI Index STEP 1 Forming a pool of topics STEP 3 Interviewing relevant staff for each theme 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement The GRI Standard has a total of 39 sustainability topics. Hyundai excluded six When a sustainability theme was assessed as high priority, we conducted in4.4 About This Report topics related to general corporate operations, such as company overview, depth interviews with relevant staff to ascertain the importance of each theme, 4.5 Sustainability Management strategy, and governance, and selected 33 of those as a potential reporting topic the scope of influence, major activities to manage the impact of that theme, Materiality Analysis pool for this report. The topics included in the pool comprise six related to the and the outcome of those activities. The results of these interviews were used in economy, eight related to the environment, and 19 related to society. the final selection of material sustainability topics and to determine the content reported in relation to the material topics that were chosen. STEP 2 Prioritizing the importance of each theme STEP 4 Finalizing the selection of material sustainability topics We determined the importance of each of the 33 sustainability topics based on communications through major stakeholder communications channels Final selection of the material topics for the 2018 Sustainability Report of Hyundai during the period covered by the report, and through external media coverage Motor Company was based on the materiality of each issue assessed at Step 2, of the company in 2017. Based on these assessed levels of importance, we and the resulting priorities that were subsequently established. then prioritized issues according to their influence on decision-making of Materiality Analysis Results stakeholders and the significance of two-way influence regarding the company’s business activities. ① Anti-corruption (GRI 205) Analysis of influence on decision-making of stakeholders (Social interest) ② Use of raw materials (GRI 301) 10 Press releases of Analysis by external ③ Energy consumption (GRI 302) 11 Social interest Official publications Official online channels 4 external media experts ④ Air emissions (GRI 305) 3 9 Analyze the content of Analyze the posting on Analyze news articles Analyze analyst reports ⑤ Recruitment and retention of talents (GRI 401) 8 2 newsletter, company blogs, Facebook, and covered by major and expert column ⑥ G  uaranteeing occupational health and safety 5 magazine, and reports Youtube media in Korea 6 (GRI 403) 7 ⑦ G  uaranteeing diversity and equal opportunity Analysis of significance of two-way influence regarding the company’s business (GRI 405) activities (Business impact) 1 ⑧ G  uaranteeing freedom of association and Benchmarking of Global Automobile collective bargaining (GRI 407) Relevance to Sustainability leading companies in Manufacturers business activities evaluation the same industry Association ⑨ C  ontributions to local communities (GRI 413) Analyze relevant Analyze sustainability Analyze recent Analyze issues ⑩ Customer health and safety (GRI 416) business activities and evaluation criteria at reporting issues of of interest of the stakeholders for each home and abroad global companies in Global Automobile  arketing and labeling of products and ⑪ M Business impact theme the same industry Manufacturers services (GRI 417) Association and others 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 130 Search Relevant Activities and Stakeholders by Sustainability Topics 1 HIGHLIGHTS We put together material issues, in which each stakeholder group is interested, that have been derived through stakeholder engagement processes; relevant activities of each material sustainability topic, that have been identified through the selection of material sustainability topics; and opinions of internal and external stakeholders. 2 ANNUAL PERFORMANCE Based on that, we have defined Hyundai’s material sustainability management activities and relevant stakeholders as follows. Relevant Activities and Stakeholders by Sustainability Theme 3 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Materiality Analysis Results Relevant Activities Relevant Stakeholders • R&D • Shareholders and investors 4 This topic is related to how much effort the company makes so that customers • Production and quality • Suppliers Customer health and safety do not get hurt or their health is not harmed when they use the company’s • Marketing and customer support • Customers products. • Information technology and APPENDICES security This topic is related to how much effort business sites make to prevent discharge of • Environment, safety and health • Employees 4.1 Facts & Figures Air emissions air pollutants, including greenhouse gases, ozone depletion materials, dust or sulfur • Local communities 4.2 GRI Index oxides, and nitrogen oxides. • Government 4.3 Independent Assurance Statement This topic is related to how transparently information that customers • Logistics and sales • Customers and dealers 4.4 About This Report Marketing and labeling of • Marketing and customer support need to know is delivered, without any missing information, when customers are products and services 4.5 Sustainability Management informed of products or services. Materiality Analysis This topic is related to how much effort is made to reduce energy • Environment, safety and health • Employees that is consumed for various reasons, such as for staff transportation and product • Local communities Energy consumption • Government shipment, as well as direct combustion by business sites and purchase of energy produced by outside parties. Contributions to local This topic is related to how much effort is made by the company for sustainable • Win-win relationship with • Local communities communities development and growth of local communities. local communities This topic is related to how much guarantee is provided to a worker in terms of • HR and labor • Employees Guaranteeing freedom of • Local communities freedom of association and collective bargaining, including joining a group or association and collective • Government engaging in relevant activities, when a worker seeks to communicate with the bargaining company. This topic is related to how much effort a company makes to minimize use of raw • Environment, safety and health • Employees Use of raw materials • Government materials in the process of manufacturing products. This topic is related to how much effort a company makes to hire required talent • HR and labor • Employees Recruitment and retention • Local communities and to maintain them as the company’s human resources by preventing hired of talents • Government workers from leaving the company. This topic is related to how much effort a company makes to prevent workers from • Environment, safety and health • Employees Guaranteeing occupational • Government getting hurt or harming their health while conducting activities at the company’s health and safety worksites. This topic is related to how much effort a company makes so that there are no • HR and labor • Employees Guaranteeing diversity and • Local communities workers who are alienated by evenly considering the characteristics and cultures of equal opportunity various staff members within the organization. • Purchase • Suppliers This topic is related to how much effort a company makes to fairly and transparently • Compliance • Shareholders and investors Anti-corruption operate its business. • Finance • Government 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 131 Thanks to Ahn Kang Kim Hae Ho An Ji Hyoung Lee Min Bum Kwon Soon Jeong Jeong Ba Mi Kim Haeng Jin Ko Jie Li Min Ho Lee Soon Sang Hong (In alphabetical order) Bo Ra Kang Heon Song Jin Hee Lee Myung Chae Lee Sung Hee Bang Bok Ju Jo Hong Sun Kim Jin Kyung Kim Nam Su Han Sung Ik Hur Bum Soo Kim Hye Ran Hong Jin Suk Ryu Ok Ju Kim Sung Mok Kim Chang Gu Han Hye Won Kim Jong Seong Park Phil Jun Lee Sung Soo Shin Chang Ho Yoo Hyo Il Park Jong Taek Jung Sang Bum Kim Won Bae Kim Chang Soon Choi Hyun Jae Kim Jong Wook Hwang Sang Hui Lee Won Jun Choi Chang Woo Kim Hyun Uk Hong Joo Yong Lee Sang Hyeon An Won Taek Oh Da Young Lee Il Pyung Kim Ju Yeong Hong Sang Jik Lee Yang Ro Kim Dae Min Choi In Ho Roh Jun Ho Kim Seng Wan Jung Yeong Joo Jung Deck Su Ho Jae Hyung Kim Jun Suk Jang Seon Ye Kim Yong Hwan Song Dong Hyeok Son Jae Kyung Shin Jung Ho Park Seong Jae Choi You Hwan Kim Dong Woon Jung Jang Ho Kuk Ki Beom Noh Seong Woong Suh Youn Seob Ko Dong Young Lee Jang Woo Choi Ki Beum Song Seong Yeong Oh Youn Sil Park Duk Hwan Kang Je Woo Lee Kwang Soo Kim Seung Ho Jeong Young Chang Jang Eun Jin Seok Jeong Hwan Kim Mal Hee Kim Seung Ja Park Young Chul Oh Gi Hong Park Jeong Won Kim Marcel Eduardo Moreno Jaworski Seung Tae Kim Young Suk Yoon Guk Yeon Hwang Jeong Yeon Kim Mi Hyang Lee Shin Jae Kim Gun Hyuk Park Ji Hoon Gwak Mi Jin Na Song Ih Han
