Sustainability Sustainability issues are an important and integrated component of the business activities. NOTE works actively on issues affecting the environment, social conditions and its human resources, human rights and anti corruption. This work is conducted with the aid of applicable legislation, standards and other regulations. NOTE’s connection to UN Global Sustainable Development Goals, page references in the Annual Report Social conditions and human Social conditions and human resources, page 16. resources, page 16. UN Global Compact, Principle 1, UN Global Compact, page 17. Principle 6, page 18. Human resources, page 20—21. Social conditions and human UN Global Compact, resources, page 16. Principle 6, page 18. UN Global Compact, Principles 1—6 and 10, Human resources, page 20—21. page 17—19. Share data and owners, page 24—25. Environmental policy and working UN Global Compact, methods, page 15. Principles 1—10, page 17—19. UN Global Compact, Principles 7—9, Human resources, page 20—21. page 18—19. Customer satisfaction survey, page 12. Timeline of NOTE’s sustainability work 1997 2002 2004 2006 2010 2011 The plant in Norrtälje, The plant in Torsby, The plant in Lund, Code of conduct The plants in UK and NOTE joins UN Global Sweden, ISO 14001 Sweden, ISO 14001 Sweden, ISO 14001 produced. China ISO 14001 Compact. certification. certification. certification. certification. 1 Global Sustainable Development Goals Global heads of state and governments adopted 17 Global Sustainable Development Goals at the UN summit on 25 September 2015. The links between these goals and NOTE’s activities, targets and strategies are reported on the pages stated in the contents to the left. Holistic view enhances business benefit Working on an integrated footing on various sustainability issues is critical to effectiveness of overall results, and sustainability work involves all group operates, by developing sustainable and are audited by internal and external companies. These questions include initiatives in our business. The group’s resources. NOTE was one of the earliest everything from appropriate conduct shared values and policies are intended companies in the sector to receive its first towards the company’s stakeholders and to lead, influence and direct the group’s ISO 14000 environmental certification, helping customers choose components activities. NOTE complies with internaback in 1997. with good environmental and quality tional standards and directives in the Despite variations in the environmenperformance, to locating manufacture sustainability segment. tal legislation of individual countries, close to final markets, and limiting the NOTE has the constant ambition of all environmental impact of transportation Environmental policy its plants following a consistent line of as far as possible. and working methods environmental work. Plants exchange Effective 2017, sustainability issues NOTE endeavours to achieve long-term, best practice, best-in-class actions and have been included in the annual survey sustainable development by producing proposals for improvement. sent to customers to identify the segments with the minimum possible environmental Manufacturing units sort the waste they regard as important to focus on. In impact. NOTE strives to comply with, or from consumables at source, and monitor tandem with improving its impact on the exceed, applicable environmental legislaenergy consumption continuously. NOTE environment and wider society, NOTE tion, and pursues continuous improvement also applies environmental consideration endeavours to achieve responsible conin the environmental segment. to other parts of its business, through duct on those markets where it operates. NOTE’s environmental work complies channels including discussions with its with international ISO guidelines, under customers regarding sourcing materials NOTE’s sustainability objective the ISO 14000 family of standards. All and production setups. The objective is to contribute to, and the group’s manufacturing units hold Electronic scrap, glass and paper are improve, the societies where NOTE ISO 14001 environmental certification recycled. NOTE conducts improvement 2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 The plant in Finland The plant in Estonia For the fifth consecutive The plant in Finland Equality policy produced. ISO 14001 certification. ISO 14001 certification. year, the plant in Estonia OHSAS 18001 The plant in Norrtälje, The plant in Estonia This means all NOTE’s plants is awarded the Silver certification. Sweden, nominated for receives sustainability are ISO 14001 certified. Sustainable Business Samhall’s Visa vägen award from the Estonian OHSAS 18001 Index Award by the (‘Show the Way’) award. Chamber of Commerce implemented at the plants Responsible Business & Industry. in Estonia and China. Forum. Human rights and Anti corruption policies produced. 2 projects to reduce waste, energy consumpSocial conditions and By seeing possibilities and competences tion and CO2 emissions. Corrugated board human resources instead of difficulties and barriers, they and combustible waste are compacted to NOTE endeavours to be an employer are showing the way towards a labour minimise the amount of waste transport, where everyone has an equal opportunity market where more people find a place which affects the environment. In its to work and develop. The group’s collecand fewer people are left out.” transport, NOTE also coordinates its tive competence is based on diversity, freight agreements group wide to optiwhich helps bring a dynamic and different Respect for human rights mise transportation, and thus limit energy perspectives to work. and anti corruption consumption and CO2 emissions. NOTE is opposed to all forms of discriNOTE respects human rights and NOTE conducts regular environmental mination. One tool for working on this and conducts itself to avoid breaches of audits of strategic suppliers. other issues is its whistleblower function. them. In addition to the responsibility for All NOTE employees are entitled to its own operations, this also implies a collective bargaining agreements, and responsibility for respecting human rights Gender division group to form and join trade unions. Collective in business relations with the company’s bargaining agreements are in place at stakeholders. NOTE’s Human rights policy % most of NOTE’s plants. Three plants also has principles and standpoints that apply 100 use OHSAS 18001 to guide their work. in labour law and equal opportunities. This far-reaching, global and verifiable NOTE’s Code of Conduct formalises 75 standard in occupational health and how the company expects its suppliers safety involves auditing and certification to conduct themselves within human 50 conducted by an external party. rights, labour law, child labour, corruption NOTE updated and improved its and the environment. This is conveyed 25 policy work in 2017. This included the through the supply chain, and monitored production and implementation of an in supplier audits. 0 Equality policy. NOTE in Torsby, Sweden, NOTE’s Anti corruption policy includes 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 in partnership with the local employment principles stating the group’s standpoint Women Men service, arranged a soldering training in on corruption. The policy also reviews the year, with job applicants getting a segregation of duties, how internal good opportunity to work after completcontrols are conducted, and stipulates a ing a skills test. whistleblower procedure. Division between blue collar The plant in Norrtälje, Sweden, was Consistent with previous years, and and white collar workers nominated for Samhall’s Visa vägen within the auspices of its internal control (‘Show the Way’) award. The winner is the work, NOTE has a documented process 258 white collar 654 blue collar employer and enthusiast that has done for evaluating risk and compliance with workers workers most to show the way towards a more policies. In 2018, the aim is to continue sustainable labour market, with more to reinforce policy work and encourage people with disabilities having a job. positive social progress in the locations The jury citation read: “You are where NOTE has a presence. breaking down outsidership, seeing the Full versions of NOTE’s Code of Conduct, individual, and working for everyone to be Human rights, Equality and Anti corruption Gender division managers treated equally.” policies are available at www.note.eu. The Award has been made since 2008. For more information on NOTE’s Jan Scherman, Chairman of the Visa business model and risk management, see 42% women 58% men vägen Jury commented on the nominees the operational review on pages 8 and 13. for 2017: “This year’s nominees have really demonstrated that individuals and employers can make a difference. 3 UN Global Compact In 2011, NOTE became one of the first companies in its sector to join the Global Compact, which was started on a UN initiative. The UN Global Compact’s GOALS 2018 RESULTS 2017 Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compliTen Principles and encourage customers and suppliers to join the ance with its Code of Conduct. In the year, NOTE encouThe Global Compact has formulated ten UN Global Compact, or support its ten principles. raged existing and new customers and suppliers to join, Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct or support, the UN Global Compact by communicating the principles affecting human rights, labour and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in significance of these issues. law, the environment and anti corruption. supplier audits. NOTE signed agreements with another four strategic Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and or contracted suppliers (nine in 2016), who accepted Member companies have undertaken to contracted suppliers by three percentage points. NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent code. comply with these principles. Work to help children and uphold their rights, by NOTE conducted follow-up audits on 39 suppliers (12 supporting development organisations. in 2016) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of Each year, NOTE reports its COP Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. (Communication on Progress) to the UN. PRINCIPLE 2: BUSINESSES SHOULD ENSURE The results of audits indicate that suppliers are complying with relevant laws and regulations. This is a framework that defines how THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN The share of sourcing from strategic and contracted RIGHTS ABUSES sustainability work is conducted within the suppliers increased from approximately 49 to approximately 55 percent (47 to 49 percent in 2016). group, and towards external stakeholders. APPROACH In the year, NOTE continued its work on reducing the NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports The links to the UN’s global sustainable the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. usage of conflict minerals. development goals are one of the new NOTE’s Human rights policy has been implemented in GOALS 2018 all plants’ business systems. features for the year. Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct, and encourage customers and suppliers to join the NOTE’s Code of Conduct is based on RESULTS 2017 UN Global Compact, or support its ten principles. NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure complithe Global Compact’s ten principles and ance with its Code of Conduct internally. Internal audits Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the full version is available on its website. were conducted to ensure compliance with relevant supplier audits. policies, laws and ordinances. Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and In the year, NOTE continued to work actively to reduce contracted suppliers by three percentage points. HUMAN RIGHTS the usage of conflict minerals by helping customers select materials, to avoid this type of material. PRINCIPLE 4: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD GOALS 2018 THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED Continue to promote human rights internally and towards AND COMPULSORY LABOUR the company’s stakeholders. PRINCIPLE 1: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND APPROACH RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR LAW the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. As part of its business principles, NOTE and its custoAPPROACH mers’ and suppliers’ employees should enter employment NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports and contracts of their own free will. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. Three plants also use OHSAS 18001 as guidance for NOTE endeavours to develop business with companies that their work. This is a far-reaching, global and verifiable PRINCIPLE 3: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE have the corresponding ethical rules on accountability. standard in occupational health and safety, with auditing FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGand certification conducted by an external party. NITION OF THE RIGHTS TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING RESULTS 2017 NOTE’s Human rights policy stipulates that employment NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compliwith the company should always be voluntary. Additionally, APPROACH work should always be conducted without compulsion or ance with its Code of Conduct. In the year, NOTE encouraged existing and new customers NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports harassment, either physical or psychological. and suppliers to join, or support, the UN Global Compact the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. by communicating the significance of these issues. NOTE All NOTE employees are entitled to collective barRESULTS 2017 AND GOALS 2018 signed agreements with another four strategic and contracgaining, and to form, and join, trade unions. Collective See principle 3. ted suppliers (nine in 2016), who accepted NOTE’s Code of bargaining agreements are in place at the majority of Conduct or have their own, equivalent code. NOTE’s plants. NOTE conducted follow-up audits on 39 suppliers (12 NOTE’s Human rights policy states the group’s internal in 2016) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of standpoints on this principle. Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Three plants also use OHSAS 18001 as guidance for The form used for supplier audits has been enhanced by their work. This is a far-reaching, global and verifiable adding more questions regarding human rights. standard in occupational health and safety, with auditing The share of sourcing from strategic and contracted and certification conducted by an external party. suppliers increased from approximately 49 to approximately 55 percent (47 to 49 percent in 2016). NOTE supported Doctors without Borders (MSF) in its work on giving people healthcare. This organisation treats vulnerable people affected by war, conflict or natural disaster. They currently conduct projects in over 70 countries. 4 PRINCIPLE 5: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE GOALS 2018 NOTE encouraged existing and new customers and EFFECTIVE PROHIBITION OF CHILD LABOUR Conduct a group-wide employee satisfaction survey and suppliers to join, or support, the UN Global Compact by use its results in business processes. communicating the significance of these issues. Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct NOTE signed agreements with another four strategic APPROACH and encourage customers and suppliers to join the UN and contracted suppliers (nine in 2016), who accepted NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports Global Compact, or support its ten principles. NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent code. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct Follow-up audits were conducted on 39 suppliers NOTE complies with relevant laws and ordnances on and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in (12 in 2016) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of child labour. NOTE does not employ children and does not supplier audits. Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. collaborate with companies that use children as part of Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and The results of these audits demonstrate their suppliers their workforce. contracted suppliers by three percentage points. are complying with relevant laws and ordinances. Three plants also use OHSAS 18001 as guidance for The share of purchasing from strategic and contracted their work. This is a far-reaching, global and verifiable suppliers increased from approximately 49 to approximastandard in occupational health and safety, with auditing ENVIRONMENT tely 55 percent (47 to 49 percent in 2016). and certification conducted by an external party. The group’s standpoints on this principle are stated in GOALS 2018 NOTE’s Human rights policy. Continued progress towards still more environmentally friendly production and environmental transportation. RESULTS 2017 AND GOALS 2018 Continue to reduce waste volumes. See principle 3. PRINCIPLE 7: BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO and encourage customers and suppliers to join the UN ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PRINCIPLE 6: BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD Global Compact, or support its ten principles. THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and APPROACH OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in supplier NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports audits. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. APPROACH Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and All NOTE’s manufacturing units hold ISO 14001 certifiNOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports contracted suppliers by three percentage points. cation and undergo internal and external audits. the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. NOTE’s plants run improvement projects in the environNOTE believes in a workplace where all employees have mental segment, and measure a series of environmental PRINCIPLE 8: UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE equal opportunities to work and progress. NOTE sees and factors such as electronic scrap, energy consumption and GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY benefits from all employees’ specific competence and transport. All plants have environmental targets, which are developmental opportunities, regardless of sex, ethnicity, monitored regularly. APPROACH sexual orientation, disability, age and social background. NOTE is endeavouring to increase the share of sourcing NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports NOTE’s Equality policy states the company’s principles from strategic and contracted suppliers. NOTE has a good the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. governing equal opportunities and diversity, which are understanding of these suppliers’ environmental work, and All NOTE’s plants hold ISO 14001 certification and encouraged in all parts of its business. The company can help them to evolve and improve in this segment. undergo internal and external audits. endeavours to achieve equal opportunities in terms of employment and working conditions, as well as developThe group works actively on developing guidelines and RESULTS 2017 methodologies designed to minimise the group’s negative mental opportunities. The company pursues diversity on NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure complienvironmental impact. Employees are encouraged to recruitment. Its working sentiment should feature respect ance with its Code of Conduct. participate in this process. and tolerance. If any instances of harassment or bullying NOTE’s plants work on the basis of individual targets NOTE is endeavouring to increase the share of sourcing are reported, the group will take action immediately. and circumstances in the environmental segment. A from strategic and contracted suppliers. NOTE has a good Three plants also use OHSAS 18001 as guidance for variety of initiatives are ongoing, including work lights that understanding of these suppliers’ environmental work and their work. This is a far-reaching, global and verifiable have been wholly or partly replaced with LED equivalents can help them to evolve and improve in this segment. standard in occupational health and safety, with auditing in the manufacturing units in Finland, the UK and Estonia, and certification conducted by an external party. to save energy. Timers have been installed at certain RESULTS 2017 AND GOALS 2018 plants to ensure lighting is not used unnecessarily. See principle 7. RESULTS 2017 Like many other plants in the group, the UK manufacNOTE conducted a group-wide employee satisfaction turing unit has invested in a selective soldering machine. survey in the year. Based on responses, NOTE has This has reduced tin slag, enabling a more environmenformulated plans with clear activities and a schedule for tally friendly process than previously. execution. The results are also utilised in NOTE’s future Additional fume cupboards have been sourced for the planning and development work. plants in Estonia and Torsby, Sweden, helping create a NOTE produced and implemented an Equality policy better, safer working environment. in the year. The plant in Estonia has reviewed its ventilation and NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compair humidity, sourcing new equipment. An investment liance with its Code of Conduct. has also been made in a separate storage facility for In the year, NOTE encouraged existing and new chemicals, to make processing safer. customers and suppliers to join, or support, the UN The plant in Estonia also joined FOKA, whose primary Global Compact by communicating the significance of purpose is to reduce emissions of prevalent greenhouse these issues. gases and ozone-depleting compounds. NOTE signed agreements with another four strategic Internal programs in waste sorting were conducted in or contracted suppliers (nine in 2016), who accepted the year, with improvements to waste sorting executed. NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent code. Coordination of return freight has been organised, Follow-up audits were conducted on 39 suppliers enabling some freighting to reduce from once per week to (12 in 2016) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of once per month. Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. A REACH-EU regulation policy was prepared in the The results of audits indicate that suppliers are complying year, stipulating how NOTE works to comply with this EU with relevant laws and regulations. regulation for handling chemicals. The complete policy is The share of sourcing from strategic and contracted available at the website. suppliers increased from approximately 49 to 55 percent (47 to 49 percent in 2016). 5 RESULTS 2017 SHARE OF SOURCING FROM STRATEGIC SUPPLIERS PRINCIPLE 9: ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT NOTE works actively and continuously to ensure compliAND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY ance with its Code of Conduct. % FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGY NOTE continued to enhance its internal control proces60 ses in the year. NOTE conducted internal follow-ups and APPROACH audits of its Anti corruption policy, and verified that its NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports authorisation processes are functioning. No observations 50 the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. were made in these audits. All NOTE’s plants hold ISO 14001 certification. No instances of suspected corruption were reported 40 NOTE takes a positive view of developing environmenthrough the whistleblower procedure. tal technology and actively supports new manufacturing methods and components that are more environmentally In the year, NOTE encouraged existing and new 30 customers and suppliers to join, or support, the UN friendly. NOTE conducts environmental audits when Global Compact by communicating the significance of 20 introducing new equipment, technology and logistics these issues. solutions. Experience is shared between the group’s plants. NOTE signed agreements with another four strategic An environmental perspective is considered jointly and contracted suppliers (nine in 2016), who accepted 10 with customers when tailoring product manufacture. NOTE NOTE’s Code of Conduct or have their own, equivalent code. has implemented a database for identifying RoHS, Reach and conflict minerals in components. Follow-up audits were conducted on 39 suppliers (12 0 in 2016) that had previously accepted NOTE’s Code of 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 NOTE is endeavouring to increase the share of sourcing Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. from strategic and contracted suppliers. NOTE has a good The results of these audits demonstrate their suppliers understanding of these suppliers’ environmental work, are complying with relevant anti corruption laws and and can help them to evolve and improve in this segment. ordinances. The share of purchasing from strategic and contracted RESULTS 2017 AND GOALS 2018 suppliers increased from approximately 49 to approximaSee principle 7. tely 55 percent (47 to 49 percent in 2016). ANTI CORRUPTION GOALS 2018 Influence suppliers to accept NOTE’s Code of Conduct and encourage customers and suppliers to join the UN Global Compact, or support its ten principles. Continuously follow up on NOTE’s Code of Conduct and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in PRINCIPLE 10: BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK supplier audits. AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, Increase the share of sourcing from strategic and INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY contracted suppliers by three percentage points. APPROACH NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct, which supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, since 2006. NOTE has an anti corruption policy, including a whistleblower procedure, which has been implemented in all plants’ business systems. NOTE encourages employees to resolutely counter all We reinforced our work on sustainability issues in 2017, and forms of corruption, extortion and bribery. Simultaneously, NOTE expects the corresponding attitudes from its are noticing how interest in these issues, primarily in the customers and suppliers. NOTE does not accept any gifts, whether to customers or from suppliers, other than items environment, is increasing among our customers. We’re proud of lesser value. NOTE’s Purchasing policy includes the prohibition of of our work on the UN Global Compact and are attempting to bribery and corruption, with sourcing managed according influence our business environment positively. to ethical rules. NOTE has group-wide and local authorisation procedures expedient for its business. Per Ovrén, CEO & President 6 Human resources NOTE’s business is built on solving customers’ complex problems every day. Apart from robust, industrial processes, it’s the employees—with their ingenuity, commitment and drive to help customers—who create the strength of the organisation. NOTE possesses a global organisation from everyone involved. To recognise the share real examples of how the employees with operations in Sweden, Finland, the people that have contributed something conduct themselves when they perform UK, Estonia and China. One of its key really special, NOTE has an Employee of at their best, towards customers or missions is to develop the interaction the Month award. This might be someone colleagues, for example. between plants. This work is done through who has ‘gone the extra mile,’ or been a A winner is selected each year, and channels including a number of functional great ambassador for NOTE. in 2017, the Employee of the Year was forums, in segments including quality, One further ambition of this award is Tia Mellberg from Finland. Meet Tia, sourcing, accounting and sales. NOTE to make an extra contribution to a greater and some of the other monthly works continuously on harmonising its feeling of solidarity within the group and winners, below. working methods and monitoring tools, as well as clarifying guidelines. Its improvement and development processes involve many employees group wide. NOTE continuously monitors business-related key performance indicators such as ongoing central and local improvement projects. The workforce was upsized and downsized in the year to cope with demand fluctuations and to implement rationalisation. Overall, the workforce decreased by 64 employees. Staff turnover was 16 percent in the group overall, of which 9 percent was in the European plants. Katarina Gunnarsson As the HR Manager of NOTE in Norrtälje, Sweden, Katarina’s duties are very varied. Training She runs payroll for several group companies, To assure quality and competence in the Andreas Antonsson and has also had a lot of input in the health electronics assembly process, several NOTE is investing in new technology, which and safety work at the plant. She views diaNOTE plants maintain long-term collabomakes Andreas’s work easier and enables logue with her colleagues as one of the most rations with external partners in soldering him to develop. Andreas is a machine enjoyable parts of her work, because it brings operator, focusing on thru-hole mounting, new knowledge every day and is an important and electronics assembly training. and has been working at NOTE in Torsby, source of her personal development. Usually, these packages involve practical Sweden, since 2007. “My colleagues are a big contributor to my work and the certification of qualified “I’ve really developed in my time here. job satisfaction, but also help make my work electronic assemblers. Before starting at NOTE, I didn’t know much so varied. No two days are ever alike,” she Several NOTE plants offer opportuniabout the electronics sector or machine explains. processing before, but I do now,” Andreas She thinks that sharing so much with her ties for University and college students explains. colleagues has its ups and downs, and on octo write their masters’ dissertations. His duties involve everything involving seleccasion, can be a little scary. But overall, she tive soldering processes such as maintenance, thinks it’s positive. In her 22 years with the Employee of the Month programming and operating the machine. company, Katarina has tried a lot of different Achieving the goal of being the best “The problem-solving that can occur duties, and enjoys her current position best. in a machine process is what I like most Katarina adds: “I also like the fact that collaboration partner in the sector, with about my job, primarily because I can use there’s no self-importance here. That’s leading delivery precision and quality for creativity to find solutions and run specific helped create strong solidarity, which I think a competitive overall cost, demands a lot products,” he concludes. is a big success factor.” 7 Employee satisfaction survey activities, with a schedule for execution, Average number of employees The employee satisfaction survey of the based on responses. The outcome is by country year was redesigned to give a clearer view being analysed and utilised in NOTE’s 350 of leadership, and an insight into how future planning and development work. 300 operations are working day to day. It’s For more information on human important that every employee feels that resources, refer to page 40 of the formal 250 they can deliver value-added to customannual accounts. 200 ers, understanding how to achieve this, 150 and why. NOTE created a plan of clear 100 50 0 Sweden Finland UK Estonia China Average number of employees 912 Tia Mellberg Everything started with a summer job at NOTE in Hyvinkää, Finland, which Tia really enjoyed. Now, eight years later, she’s still there. “NOTE listens to its people and there’s Forrest Qin flexibility between employer and employee. Current and new business customers are still We’ve got a great working environment and interested in working with NOTE, and Forrest the people who work here are fantastic,” Qin is one of the reasons for this success. she says. Forrest has been a Project Manager at NOTE’s Tia’s job has changed over the years. plant in China for three years, focusing on Where previously, she worked mostly on current business customers’ growth. incoming freight, she now works as an “We try to satisfy customer needs, and operator in surface mounting, mounting adapt our solutions optimally,” explains components. She has sharpened her skills Forrest. It’s a difficult balance to strike, but on the surface mounting machine, which Forrest is flexible and takes on new chalis one of the things she values most highly lenges positively. at work. Her varied base of experience has Forrest has really developed during his also helped Tia understand each product’s time at NOTE, which is very much due to journey before it comes to the customer, his colleagues. The collaboration between because she knows the stages, and has plants, and his own input, has helped him started to understand the process. grow into his professional role. “I’m always learning new things and am “NOTE is always striving to get better. improving my work. I also like the high tempo I get room to develop, and I’ve also got a and variation in duties, such as working on lot of friends here. They’re like my family,” different types of machines,” she explains. concludes Forrest. 8
