Communication on Progress Report 2017 Manila Doctors Hospital Deepening our Commitment in Reducing Carbon Footprint Deepening our Commitment in Reducing Carbon Footprint CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 2017 proved to be a challenging year for Manila Doctors Hospital as its new tower became fully operational with new services to better cater to its generational clientele. Along with the expansion in business is the challenge to ensure that it never wavers on its commitment to be a responsible consumer of resources and that as a hospital we stay true to the oath of “DO NO HARM.” This oath in modern times does not only pertain to Doctor-Patient relationship but rather it also involves the environment and the immediate community where it operates. Tertiary hospitals are one of the biggest consumers of energy. In delivering services, hospitals like Manila Doctors must ensure that it integrates environmentally responsible practices which can include: (1) Energy efficient facility (2) Embrace renewable energy (3) Responsible use of transportation (4) Responsible sourcing and consumption of food where sustainable supply chain plays a big role (5) Employ alternative waste management like recycling (6) Responsible water consumption. Deepening our Commitment in Reducing Carbon Footprint The heath sector can play a key role in helping communities adapt to the effects of climate change and the risk it poses to human health. It can also be contributor in introducing climate mitigation actions that are sustainable and scalable. As an active member of UNGC and as one of the founding members of Global Compact Network Philippines (GCNP), Manila Doctors is willing to work with organizations who would like to learn from our twelve (12) year experience in integrating climate mitigation actions in our operation. Sincerely, HIAN HO N. KUA, M.D., MBAH First Vice-President and Hospital Director MANILA DOCTORS HOSPITAL SOCIAL VISION We are a health institution providing holistic care that exceeds industry standards and that anticipates and responds to the needs of the patients, their families and relevant communities. Driven by our determination to make healthcare accessible to the marginalized and the underserved, we consider it our ardent commitment to provide service that is guided by ethical standards and improve the healthcare delivery system with pronounced social impact. These establish Manila Doctors Hospital as a vital partner of the Department of Health, local government units and other like-minded institutions in empowering the communities and the public we serve to sustain health and wellness. We are engaged in heightening the consciousness and the participation of the public in targeted health and environment issues in the global community. Total wellness cannot be achieved without recognizing the importance of responsible environmental stewardship. Tertiary hospitals are an energy-intensive sector. Therefore, it must set an example on how to manage its energy consumption and waste in a way that can significantly decrease the carbon footprint. For the past eleven years, the Manila Doctors Hospital has followed a model that not only reduces waste thereby supporting the hospital management’s infection prevention program and cost-saving initiatives but, at the same time, can earn from its recyclables program. The Corporate Social Responsibility Office utilizes proceeds from the recyclables program for communities affected by climate change and in the provision of healthcare services in underserved areas. BACKGROUND hospital’s climate mitigation actions and policies. The management of Manila Doctors in 2006 For REDUCTION, the objective is to decrease the established the Environment and Waste carbon footprint of the hospital operations Management Committee (ENVICOM). The through energy conservation, reduction of waste, ENVICOM and the Corporate Social Responsibility sustainable recycling and introduction of Office (CSRO) as a contributor to the hospital’s renewable energy. For SOURCE, the establishment good governance created a comprehensive of an environmentally responsible supply chain. environmental program in response to the RESPONSE pertains to the utilization of the growing challenges of climate change. This is also savings from the REDUCTION efforts including the in fulfillment of its Social Vision and adherence to proceeds from the recyclables for various projects the three environmentally focused principles of that respond to emerging health and sociothe United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) that economic needs brought about by climate Manila Doctors as an active member is expected change. One key element is the inclusion of to integrate into its policies and daily operations different organizations (Manila Doctors Corporate as an active member. The three UNGC Principles Social Responsibility Circle of Partners or CSR on Environment states that: Principle 7: Businesses Circle of Partners) in the implementation. These should support a precautionary approach to include non-government organizations, people’s environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake organizations, local government units and even initiatives to promote greater environmental private companies/corporations. ENGAGEMENT responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the comprises of the institutionalization of policies development and diffusion of environmentally and procedures that support the precautionary friendly technologies. approach to environmental challenges initiated by the top management. This is regularly audited by METHODOLOGY and RESULTS There are four components: (1) Engagement (2) the Quality and Risk Management Office (QRMO), Reduction (3) Source and (4) Response. For sustained participation of the whole internal ENGAGEMENT, the objective is to involve both the community both the medical and non-medical internal and external stakeholders in personnel, and replication by our external implementing, sustaining and replicating the stakeholders of the hospital initiatives that Deepening our Commitment in Reducing Carbon Footprint promote greater environmental responsibility. For a. By institutionalizing and strictly REDUCTION, the output can be measured through implementing waste management guidelines the savings in terms of energy (in kilowatt per coupled with regular hospital-wide internal hour), in terms of peso value (monetary), and in audits, the hospital has successfully terms of reduced carbon emission. Moreover, the prevented cases of infections and injuries to income from the recyclables project generated patients and hospital personnel due to from the hospital wastes is also measured and improper waste handling. added in the measurement of results. For SOURCE, identified outputs include partnering b. Every unit in the hospital is engaged in the with suppliers that also promotes environmentally hospital’s energy conservation and recycling responsible technologies and has no record of efforts. Proper waste segregation is part of violating any of the environmental laws of the the standards of hospital risk management. country and sourcing from local farms that do not Conservation of resources and energy like use petrochemicals and composting food waste “Share-A-Ride” by the Facilities Management and for RESPONSE, the measurement is based on Department (FMD) monitors and the number of individuals and families served synchronizes the trips of those who request funded by the proceeds from the recyclables the use of the various hospital vehicles, so project. instead of one person using one vehicle, FMD is able to arrange one vehicle for at ENGAGEMENT. According to WHO, 85% of the least three personnel going to three total amount of waste generated by healthcare different external meetings. The result is activities is general, non-hazardous waste. The savings on fuel, time, personnel (driver) for remaining 15% is considered hazardous material the hospital. For the public lessening the that may be infectious, toxic or radioactive. Every number of vehicles competing for road year an estimated 16 billion injections are space. Members of the internal community administered worldwide, but not all of the needles and patients including their relatives are also and syringes are properly disposed of afterward. expected to use stairs when going up or Healthcare waste contains potentially harmful down the third level of the hospital except microorganisms, which can infect hospital for the PWDs, Senior Citizens with ailments patients, healthcare workers, and the general and patients whose health might be public. Health-care waste in some circumstances is compromised. incinerated, and dioxins, furans, and other toxic air pollutants may be produced as emissions. Deepening our Commitment in Reducing Carbon Footprint c. Both our adopted community and school are d. LED lights have replaced all conventional implementing ECOSAVERS: Recycling for bulbs, and solar-powered lamps were extra earnings. also installed to light the hospital premises. d. The Hospital is also working with its external partners in creating clean and green spaces e. The hospital has its own compost bins to in the City of Manila. produce organic fertilizers being used for the plants around the hospital. For the REDUCTION programs, since 2007, Manila Doctors Hospital has continually sought f. In 2008, the hospital joined in the World ways to make its hospital more environmentally Wildlife Fund Philippines (WWF) Earth friendly. There are several needs and priority Hour initiative. Manila Doctors turningareas identified by ENVICOM and CSR, and off non-essential lights twice a month. corresponding solutions were undertaken to address these including: g. In 2015, the Pediatrics department a. Awareness campaign in the proper started using recycled IV plastic bottles handling of hazardous wastes according as a substitute for the transparent to the Philippines’ Department of dressing that proved to be effective in Environment and Natural Resources avoiding IV burns and cost efficient for standards. both the patients and hospital. b. For non-hazardous wastes, Manila By minimizing wastes, the hospital does not Doctors implements the 3R principle: burden the patients with unnecessary charges. Reduce, Reuse and Recycle. Recycling For REDUCTION projects, from 2008 – 2016, the became one of the hospital’s main hospital saved a total of 21, 577.59 Kilowatt-hours, projects, and the recyclables are sold to 9.72 in terms of carbon emissions and PhP244, an accredited supplier/provider. 60% of 458.28 or $5,432.00 in terms of peso value. The the proceeds go to the department for recyclables program was able to generate a total their team building and other activities, of PhP5,057,212.84 ($112,382.50) from 2006 to while 40% goes to the CSR programs. 2016. The hospital-wide waste management c. The hospital eradicated the use of program spearheaded by the Infection Prevention Styrofoam. and Control Office resulted into zero infection of patients due to improper waste handling which in Deepening our Commitment in Reducing Carbon Footprint turn helped the hospital in avoiding medico-legal a. The conduct of medical and surgical cases, which can affect the hospital financially. missions in provinces where there is no hospital and scarcity of healthcare Promotion of green practices coupled with professionals. responsible segregation and disposal of wastes b. Support the needs of financially are vital in ensuring the safety of patients and challenged patients from island provinces employees. According to the World Health and from far-flung areas in need of Organization, “Health-care waste contains critical Ophthalmology, Otorhinolaryngology and Gynecological potentially harmful microorganisms which can surgeries. infect hospital patients, healthcare workers and, c. Provision of alternative livelihood for the general public. Other potential infectious risks fisher folk families affected by climate may include the spread of drug-resistant change. microorganisms from health facilities into the d. Provision of basic farming tools for environment.” Through the different ENVICOM farmers devastated by typhoons. programs, the hospital ensures that the risk for these infections does not affect not only the e. Provision of food packages, hygiene kits and solar lamps for areas affected by patients but also the general public. natural and human-made disasters. SOURCING. By conducting business with suppliers Two units in the hospital, ENVICOM, and CSRO, practicing similar environment protection are the primary program implementers but all the principles, the hospital is creating a green and other units participate extensively in all of these sustainable supply chain. It also forces companies efforts especially in infection control, proper waste seeking accreditation as a hospital supplier to management and recycling. As a result, the look at their own environmental policies. Our FMD recycling efforts have yielded substantial amounts conducts on-site visits to validate the instrumental in funding some of the hospital’s environmental practice of our suppliers. In vital CSR programs. expanding our facilities, the management also insisted on having an energy efficient building. The hospital’s external community is also part of these projects in terms of implementation. Manila RESPONSE. With the 40% of the proceeds Doctors works with the United Recyclers generated by the recyclables program allotted for Organization of the Philippines (UROP) as the CSR, Manila Doctors identifies priority projects that significantly benefit individuals and primary partner for the collection of recyclables. communities gravely affected by climate change The CSRO Circle of Partners primarily coordinates and those who are marginalized in accessing with the beneficiaries of the projects funded by quality healthcare. These projects include: the recyclables project and is instrumental in Deepening our Commitment in Reducing Carbon Footprint helping the hospital expand its reach in terms of The project is replicable, scalable and sustainable its climate change mitigation initiatives and the especially for hospitals in developing countries. provision of healthcare in underserved areas. Investing in more environmentally friendly business practices enables the hospital to CONCLUSION contribute to environmental sustainability and The program benefits both the hospital’s internal and external stakeholders. First, the reduction climate change mitigation actions. In the process, projects can ensure that the hospital complies not the hospital was also able to engage various just with the statutory waste management partners like our adopted community by training practices, but also with globally accepted climate them in producing products from recyclable change mitigation practices. This guarantees the materials that are sold commercially, helping them safety of the hospital’s patients, their families, augment their family income. The hospital’s doctors, and employees. Next, through the adopted school and community were trained on proceeds coming from the reduction programs, recycling, and Manila Doctors connected them Manila Doctors can reach out to more families in with its partner UROP who buys the materials and the countryside where the impact of climate recycles them for different purposes. These change has affected both the livelihood and partnerships widen the circle of awareness and health of communities. simultaneous actions leading to sustainable results. REFERENCES 1. World Health Organization and Health Care Without Harm. 2009. Healthy Hospitals, Healthy Planet, Healthy People: Addressing climate change in healthcare settings. Discussion draft. Available from http://www.who.int/globalchange/publications/ climatefootprint_report.pdf?ua=1 2. United Nations Global Compact. 2000. Ten Global Compact Principles for Businesses. Available from https://www. unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles 3. Manila Doctors Hospital. 2001. Infection and Prevention Control Office Guidelines in handling hazardous and toxic waste. 4. Manila Doctors Hospital. 2005. Environment and Waste Management Committee (ENVICOM) Guidelines on Handling nonhazardous waste. 5. Manila Doctors Hospital. 2010. Guidelines on Releasing and Utilization of Recyclables Income. RECOGNITIONS 1. Anvil Award for Excellence given by the Public Relations Society of the Philippines: 2011 and 2013 2. Candidate Master Award in different instances for Zero Waste Olympics for Businesses by the Philippine Business for Social Progress in 2015 and 2016 3. International Hospital Federation, CSR Excellence Award 2016, Durban, South Arica 4. International Hospital Federation finalist for the Dr. Kwang Tae Kim Grand Award 2017, Taipei, Taiwan Deepening our Commitment in Reducing Carbon Footprint
