UN Global Compact Report 2017 Communication on Progress Contents 01 Statement of continued support 02 Key targets for 2017 03 Activities cutting across the principles 04 Human rights 05 Labour 06 Environment 07 Anti-corruption 01 Statement of continued support ExCeL London is ExCeL London is one of the UK’s leading international committed to tackling exhibition and conference centres. We host a diverse the challenges of range of events with all types of organisers and visitors sustainable development from across the globe. We are committed to being and operating as a thought leaders in our market, providing world-class responsible corporate facilities and services that are in accordance with our own health and safety policies, our sustainability policy, and business. ExCeL London’s mission statement and core values. ExCeL London is committed to tackling the challenges of sustainable development and operating as a responsible corporate business. We will implement practices that promote economic security, social and environmental responsibility, and we will continuously seek to improve performance in these areas. We are committed to working with our suppliers and customers to improve sustainability performance throughout all of our activities and are committed to maintain and operate our sustainability management systems in compliance with both ISO20121 and ISO14001 requirements. Jeremy Rees CEO, ExCeL London This United Nations Global Compact communication on progress is supported by both our Executive Team and owners ADNEC, and will ensure that our set objectives in the areas of sustainability are monitored and measured regularly against our maturity matrix to enable us to continue to improve against our set targets. All ExCeL London staff are responsible for implementing this policy to ensure that all requirements are being met and for the co-ordination and evaluation of ongoing performance against our sustainability principles, inclusivity, transparency, integrity and stewardship. To deliver this, ExCeL London aims to: • Ensure the full implementation of this policy throughout all departments, business operations and services, and wherever possible throughout the supply chain. • Ensure the policy and related sustainability issues are discussed with all employees and ensure all staff are aware of this policy and our 100% commitment to continue measuring and improving our performance. • Be an industry leader in sustainable development in areas relevant to its business in the events industry; and where appropriate, exceed the basic legislation levels required. • Work with our clients to pursue, promote and develop sustainable events throughout the entire lifecycle. • Continue to limit the use of office consumables and waste whilst increasing recycling and the use of more sustainable materials wherever possible. • Continue a proactive management approach towards the use of energy throughout our venue, management office and other business operations. Statement of continued support | 3/20 02 Key targets for 2017 At ExCeL London, we take every event to heart. We genuinely care about what our clients do and are committed to helping them achieve great things. We work closely to find the right opportunities for growth and encourage our clients to push themselves in new and different ways. This is the standard we set and constantly strive towards, so that every experience we create together is truly impactful. In August 2007, ExCeL chose to join the UN Global The top three priority areas in 2017 were to: reduce Compact. The ten principles serve as a foundation waste, increase energy efficiency, and ensure ExCeL’s for the company’s sustainability policy and are organisers participate in the company’s sustainability intertwined with a number of wider policies and objectives. principles. We work with stakeholders to improve sustainability performance throughout our activities. ExCeL undertakes annual audits – both internally and independently – and we are certified to both ExCeL sets a number of targets throughout the year the ISO14001 environmental standard as well as the and in 2017, a formal marketing plan was developed ISO20121, which sets sustainability management to demonstrate ExCeL’s commitment to constant standards in the events industry. improvement and self-awareness. Below outlines our main CSR targets and achievements for 2017: Page 2017 targets Status 6 Support 2x charities as part of ExCeL’s CSR programme Achieved 6 Provide event space free of charge to local and community groups Achieved 6 Increase awareness of CSR initiatives through ExCeL’s digital channels Achieved 10 Maintain target of 8 incidents or under per 100,000 visitors at ExCeL Achieved 14 To achieve 60% recycling of waste and 40% to recovery Achieved 14 Achieve 100% staff completion of sustainability training Achieved 15 Electricity target: to maintain the same level or below of consumption as 2016 Achieved 15 Continued reduction in use of unsustainable suppliers Achieved 15 To achieve 70% awareness amongst organisers of our sustainable activities Achieved 15 Work with in-venue retailers and caterers to reduce food waste Achieved 15, 17 Reduce printing and implement digital alternatives where appropriate Achieved Key targets for 2017 | 4/20 03 Activities cutting across the principles In 2013, ExCeL redefined a set of core values designed to support our promise to take every event to heart. They are core to what we fundamentally believe are crucial to our long-term sustainable business success. Our core values are outlined below. Collaboration Providing world class facilities We will share our experience, knowledge, We will continue to invest in our venue and and expertise to tailor and bespoke our infrastructure to ensure it remains a worldsolutions to give every event the best class facility. possible outcome. Innovation Providing the best people We will be open-minded and flexible We will provide the best people with the to enable our teams to find the best experience and knowledge to add value and possible solutions to achieve success. help our clients deliver successful events. Activities cutting across the principles | 5/20 03 We aim to win and retain customers by developing many would not be in a financial position to and providing products and exceptional service provide valuable service to their communities. delivery. To enable us to do this we will: • Social food outlets: To facilitate and promote healthy eating in areas classified as ‘food • Ensure that all products and services associated deserts’, CFE have developed a mobile food with our business are of a strict quality that is store. in accordance with, and aims to enhance our • Food waste: CFE uses its infrastructure (vehicles, market position, and business. warehouse space and distribution network) to • Develop and maximise the best customer support the work of the Gleaning Network UK services practices, which set a benchmark for by collecting, storing and redistributing produce the industry. harvested by them from farms throughout • Strive to constantly innovate and enhance our England. product offering for the benefit of our guests. • Ensure that our services meet the requirements In addition to our annual financial contribution, stipulated by the appropriate regulatory bodies in 2017 we met with our nominated charities to as well as legal requirements. better understand the work they do and explore • Compete fairly and ethically and within the new ways to support them. This resulted in the framework of applicable competition laws. introduction of a new office fruit scheme for ExCeL employees, in partnership with CFE. Fresh fruit is ExCeL is committed to operating as a responsible purchased directly from the charity, reducing waste corporate entity and having a positive impact on the and boosting their income, and provided to ExCeL area that surrounds us. This means building longemployees free of charge as a healthy perk. term relationships with local partners in order to deliver long-lasting benefits for our communities. CFE in May 2017 In 2017, we continued to support our two long-term charities: NASSA (Newham All Star Sports Academy) and CFE (Community Food Enterprise). NASSA works with children every week to provide sports coaching, training and after-school activities to help keep them off the streets. The mentoring talks delivered by NASSA under their ‘Carry a basketball not a blade’ initiative have educated thousands of young people about the dangers of knife crime and gang culture. With the funding that We continued to support local charities and schools ExCeL provides, NASSA is able to provide primary in the form of complimentary event space. In the and secondary school basketball taster sessions summer we supported ‘ExCeL In The Arts’, a summer across the borough of Newham. These sessions camp that hosts around 100 children from Newham include mentoring talks from the NASSA coaches aged 11-18, as well as providing venue space for about the dangers of knife crime and gang culture. Ascension Eagles, a local cheerleading group on three separate occasions throughout the year. CFE’s mission is to work in partnership with the diverse communities of East London to safeguard ExCeL makes every effort to ensure our sustainability and sustain their rights to the right food as a programme is transparent and accessible to all fundamental condition for individual and community stakeholders. In 2017, we began to build a database health and well-being. The core foundations of the – through a subscription form on the ExCeL website project include: – of residential and commercial contacts. We issued our first community e-newsletter to over 1,500 • Nurseries and schools: CFE supports healthy contacts, achieving an open rate of 30% and a click eating in primary schools throughout East rate of 15%. We also placed several advertisements London by providing them with a weekly with a local newspaper promoting our key shows and delivery service of fresh fruit for their tuck shops. encouraging engagement with our business, which They also supply grocery provisions for breakfast resulted in substantial growth of our database. clubs in infant, primary and secondary schools as well as vegetables for lunches for toddlers in We host a dedicated Sustainability page on our nurseries. website. In 2017, this was viewed 2,321 times (an • Community support service: CFE supports increase of 14% compared to 2016) by 1,834 unique community food projects throughout East users (an increase of 12.24%). We communicated London by providing them with a range of information about our plan through social media, services which includes buying, delivering and with approximately 35 posts throughout the year to sharing resources. Without this valuable service, our combined audience of over 70,000. Activities cutting across the principles | 6/20 04 Human rights Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect Businesses should make sure that the protection of internationally they are not complicit in human proclaimed human rights. rights abuses. Human rights | 7/20 04 ExCeL agrees that businesses have a employees in balancing their work and domestic responsibility to respect human rights responsibilities. and act in accordance with internationally Key members of the ExCeL Management and Audit applicable standards, such as the UN team have responsibilities devolved to them to Declaration of Human Rights. monitor policies, assess risk, conduct investigations and due diligence in an environment which is We ensure that all staff, clients and visitors are not transparent and openly addresses any breaches or deprived of their human rights in any way through lack of compliance in an appropriate manner. our business processes. In 2017, ExCeL was an active participant in the In 2016, ExCeL produced a Modern Slavery #EventWell campaign, an industry wide initiative Statement which has been made available publicly to raise awareness of mental health and wellness through our website. The statement confirms that in the workplace. The campaign highlighted major we welcome and support the introduction of the issues in the events industry around stress and UK Modern Slavery Act and the duty it places on job satisfaction, encouraging professionals to business to disclose publicly what steps they are come together and take a proactive approach taking to tackle the inhuman abuse of forced labour to workplace wellbeing. To show support, ExCeL and human trafficking. We will continue to revise and employees took part in a boat race in Royal Victoria update this statement in like with guidance. dock, highlighting the importance of exercise in staying healthy – both physically and mentally. We hold ourselves, our service partners, and our supply chain accountable and are confident that Though owned by an international venue as a responsible corporate business we are fully development and business management company complaint with the provisions of the Act. ADNEC, ExCeL is a UK-based venue and we employ a team of around 200. Almost all hiring We actively collaborate with reputable service opportunities are managed by our HR department or partners and suppliers who embrace robust, fair, and outsourced to three agencies that assist with indirect ethical trading principles with the aim of minimising hire – chiefly in our Cleaning, Traffic and Security risk of any activities that may be linked to slavery departments. Each member of staff is subject to and human trafficking. We are committed to work checks and we operate PAYE as part of our ensuring that our workers are not exploited and our payroll, to ensure all of our employees are legally work environment is as safe as possible, abiding by hired and paid. all employment, health and safety, and human rights laws. ExCeL upholds a code of conduct, core values, and a dignity at work policy as part of our overall ExCeL’s corporate values, outlined on page five of employee handbook – this document outlines the this document, promote a positive ethos amongst steps which all employees must follow to ensure this our people. We seek to create an environment principle is upheld. which attracts and retains employees of high calibre, and in which employees will feel valued for their We benchmark in the top 10% of employers in contribution to the company’s performance. Each the UK for our benefits package, which includes team must: life assurance at four times the employee’s salary, permanent health insurance, biennial health • Implement and observe codes of conduct assessments, childcare voucher schemes, and other which are designed to protect employees from perks designed to improve employee wellbeing, both harassment or discrimination in any form, and to at work and in their personal lives. provide equality of opportunity. • Ensure all employees are fully aware of such codes and that they comply with them. • Operate a remuneration policy that is competitive and rewards good performance. • Ensure all employees know what is expected of them and provide a framework which fairly measures performance and assists employees in developing their capabilities. • Provide a safe work environment for all employees and ensure they fully understand their responsibilities in regards to health and safety matters. #EventWell 2017 • Aim to develop policies that will support Human rights | 8/20 05 Labour Principle 3 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom Businesses should uphold the of association and the effective effective abolition of child labour. recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and elimination of discrimination compulsory labour. in respect of employment and occupation. Labour | 9/20 05 People are our most important asset and We do not condone any forms of child labour. we recognise that their health, safety and ExCeL is ISO20121 compliant; part of this process welfare, and that of others affected by our includes ensuring our suppliers are also sustainable, upholding ExCeL’s values in relation to social activities, is paramount. commitment. Additionally, employees of ExCeL are able to enjoy freedom of association without fear We are committed to providing safe and healthy of detrimental implications on their employment. working conditions. We respect internationally These values are upheld in our equal opportunities recognised labour rights standards as set forward policy. ExCeL is committed to eliminating direct by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and and indirect forms of discrimination in relation to we follow national requirements for labour practices. employment and occupation. Our health and safety policy aims to promote a culture where every employee takes responsibility ExCeL upholds an equal opportunities policy to ensure safe and healthy working conditions via which applies to all aspects of employment preventative measures and carrying out systematic including: recruitment and selection, employment risk assessments. opportunities, and promotion decisions. This policy highlights the expectation that all job applicants As a result, health and safety for both our employees and employees are to be treated in the same way and our visitors forms a crucial part of our regardless of sex, sexual preference, race, ethnic sustainable approach. In 2017, we pledged to reduce origin, colour, religion, disability, marital status or accidents in the venue to 8 incidents or under per union membership status. 100,000 visitors and we achieved this. During our last reporting period, we confirmed that our accident To facilitate this, all interviews and performance ratio per 100,000 visitors for the whole of 2017 was assessments are completed using an integrated 6.8. competency based framework. This process ensures an objective perspective is taken in relation to all We hold annual emergency procedure briefings recruitment decisions and places emphasis on the which are compulsory for all staff to attend. These individual’s level of skill, qualification, experience and briefings are designed to enable staff to act knowledge. efficiently and confidently in the unlikely event of an emergency at the venue, and ensures we commit to Due to the nature of our business, job vacancies tend our promise of taking every event, and indeed visitor, to be ad hoc. As such, there are no formal diversity to heart. quotes in place hiring new employees at ExCeL. We do however have a robust recruitment process for We do not support any form of forced or compulsory job vacancies as and when they appear. labour, as demonstrated in our Modern Slavery Statement (available through the ExCeL website). ExCeL continues to maintain an approximately 60/40 split of male and female employees and All employees have individual contracts detailing hires broadly across multiple generations. We’re their terms and conditions of employment – these proud to employ almost 40% of our workforce from are issued prior to commencement of employment. East London where ExCeL is based, supporting Employees are also issued with job descriptions approximately 37,600 jobs in London as of 2012. outlining details of the work they are being employed to conduct. The average length of service as of December 2017 was 5.6 years, compared to our 2016 figure of 8.45 The company upholds a grievance procedure years. Long service is acknowledged with annual which can be initiated by the employee with their company meetings that celebrate these milestones. line manager or human resources. Employees are free to leave the organisation and our leavers’ policy outlines clear steps required to resign from employment. Labour | 10/20 05 Demographics related to our current workforce are detailed below. Location Count of London area Percentage Battersea (London) 3 1.53% East London 73 37.24% Home Counties 20 10.20% North London 7 3.57% North West London 7 3.57% Paddington (London) 2 1.02% South East London 27 13.78% South London 8 4.08% South West London 4 2.04% Outside of London 45 22.97% Grand total 196 100.00% Gender Count of gender Percentage Female 78 39.80% Male 118 60.20% Grand total 196 100.00% Ethnicity Count of ethnic origin Percentage Asian Bangladeshi 5 2.55% Asian Indian 4 2.04% Asian Other 1 0.51% Asian Pakistani 2 1.02% Black African 20 10.20% Black Caribbean 5 2.55% Black Other 1 0.51% Chinese 2 1.02% Mixed ethinicity 3 1.53% White British 108 55.10% White European 22 11.22% White Other 3 1.53% Not specified 20 10.20% Grand total 196 100.00% Labour | 11/20 05 ExCeL upholds a dignity at work policy which aims to foster an atmosphere of mutual respect in which staff can feel accepted, able to work with dignity and to their full potential, and embracing the benefits which diversity can bring. All of these policies are clearly communicated in our employee handbook, which is distributed to all staff both physically and electronically. The handbook clearly outlines employees’ ability to raise breaches of our policies, either informally or formally, with their line manager or human resources. A formal process is followed if discrimination is suspected or identified. Any breach of the policy will result in disciplinary action and may include dismissal. Whilst we do our best to ensure our managers are well trained and our employees are happy at work, we recognise that from time to time, grievances relating to employment may arise. Our policy is to encourage free communication between employees and their managers to ensure that questions and problems arising can be aired and resolved quickly, to the satisfaction of all concerned. We have a comprehensive three-stage process for grievances: informal complaints, formal written complaint, and formal grievance hearing. We also allow an appeals process for individuals that may be dissatisfied with the outcome. Labour | 12/20 06 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment | 13/20 06 ExCeL London is 100% committed to in reducing printed collateral and creating digital tackling the challenges of sustainable content where possible, which will be addressed in development and operating as a this document. responsible corporate entity. It is our policy to continuously evolve and implement Reducing waste practices that deliver economic security, social, and In 2017, we continued with our commitment to environmental benefits. reduce waste. To achieve and measure this, ExCeL’s operations team complete monthly reviews of waste As one of the UK’s leading exhibition and conference metrics, and we set annual targets as a business in centres, we work with our suppliers and clients to an effort to continuously reduce waste. improve sustainability performance throughout all of our activities. Over the last few years, we have Between January and December 2017, we recycled taken significant steps to deliver and executive 2,615.14 tonnes of waste (59.14%) and created a sustainable business strategy for our direct 1,806.58 tonnes of refuse-derived fuels (40.86%) operations, working alongside our clients to from waste. This was within 1% of our target for the pursue, promote, and develop sustainable events. year. ExCeL undertakes audits – both internally and independently – and we are certified to the ISO14001 In order to continue reducing our waste, we focused environmental standard and the ISO20121, which sets our efforts on continuous training of our staff, sustainability management standards in the event particularly our cleaning staff, on waste sorting and industry. correct disposal. Recycling and general waste bins are located throughout the venue and the ExCeL ExCeL’s internal Sustainability Committee, which management office. All cardboard, plastics and meets quarterly to discuss and monitor CSR paper are segregated on-site, with any residual objectives, is made up of thirteen employees from mixed recyclables segregated off-site. across the company and chaired by an Executive Director. The purpose of this committee is to gain At ExCeL, we provide disposal for our suppliers and feedback on the status of conformance of the retailers on-site by providing the following bins: Sustainability Management System and to plan arrangements, including the requirements of the • Mixed recyclables aforementioned standards. • General waste • Cardboard and plastic cages – these are sent to The checks are designed to ensure that ExCeL’s a recycling area where they are baled Sustainability System Procedures are being • Food bins – for use in the wormery understood, implemented, and maintained; and that • IBC containers – to dispose of vegetable oils and the company continues to comply with applicable fats legislations. The Committee champions and has delivered a number of projects that have significantly We continue to recycle our waste through our onreduced the environmental impact of the ExCeL site materials recycling facility and the wormery. management office. This has included removing The ExCeL wormery is the UK’s largest commercial all personal bins and replacing them with separate wormery, containing over 300,000 worms. recycling bins, as well as seeking to reduce printing output. The key benefits of our food waste policy include: ExCeL’s marketing team play a role in the overall • Reduction of carbon emitted by transporting CSR strategy. They are responsible for developing waste from ExCeL new ways of providing resources for client and • Reduction in the number of lorries travelling on stakeholders wherever possible, in an effort to already congested London roads reduce printing leaflets, brochures, and other • Reduction in landfill – volumes have been collateral which supports the sales effort. reduced by approximately 90% • Production of valuable soil additive which is then After being successfully recertified for the ISO14001 used for landscaping across the ExCeL campus and the ISO20121 at the end of 2016, we have • Minimal power usage continued our efforts to improve performance. In • Worms can eat almost anything – certain 2017, efforts focused on three key areas: reducing amounts of green waste and paper can also be waste, increasing energy efficiency, and ensuring incorporated organisers participate in ExCeL’s sustainability objectives. In addition to the food recycling policy, all used vegetable oil is collected from site and turned into Additionally, significant progress has been made Environment | 14/20 06 bio fuel. • By setting lighting in our spaces to 50% during the build and break of events. In 2017, our retail and catering team took further • Lights are not switched to 100% until 30 steps to ensure our in-venue suppliers participate in minutes before the show opens and organisers our waste management goals. All retailers receive by are empowered to reduce lighting levels in the email the Waste Management information document halls depending on their show lighting levels. and it is regularly discussed in a monthly meeting • Continuing to upgrade venue’s energy to monitor compliance, an ongoing dialogue is efficiency with more sensor lights and timers. encouraged for improvement. • Every member of ExCeL staff undergoes training when they join the company to ensure A unique way in which we continued to reduce they are as energy efficient as possible. wastage in the venue in 2017 was to donate old or • Reminders are placed throughout the ExCeL disused furniture which was no longer needed to management office encouraging employees a worthy cause. Our operations team donated a to switch off lights and shut down their number of chairs, tables, and other items to Ghana, computers at the end of each day. through a working partnership with Bertrand & Co • Operations teams are trained and empowered Consultancy and the Members of Parliament of to make decisions on energy usages. Ghana. This donation will help a number of deprived schools and libraries across a number of areas. In previous years we have reported on the electricity coming into the energy centre which has Increasing energy efficiency then been distributed to the venue. In 2014, we took steps to improve energy efficiency When we were the sole customer of the energy at ExCeL which included a lighting upgrade centre this was not an issue. However, as the throughout our venue and car parks. We swapped energy centre now also supplies others we can only our 14-year-old lighting which was consuming report on the electricity used by the venue after it significant amounts of energy for LED eco-friendly leaves the energy centre. lighting provided by Philips. We estimate that the energy consumption saving per fitting is 70% and we There is a history for this going back to the start are continuously monitoring effectiveness. of 2016 so we can provide figures for comparison reporting. In 2017, we took further steps to increase energy efficiency through the following actions: Below are the electricity consumption figures for the year to date 2017 with the value worked out at • No longer using heating and cooling units during 9.5p per unit. This rate is based on the last bill from the build and break of events. Engie. Consumption KWhrs Forecast KWhrs Variance KWhrs Variance £ Electricity 15,837,980 16,113,189 -275,209 -26,145 Environment | 15/20 06 Hot water & chilled water The KWh rate is based on the figures provided by finance. Below are the consumption figures for hot and chilled water for the year to date 2017 with the value worked out at 0.041p per unit for hot water and 0.062p per unit for chilled water. Consumption KWhrs Forecast KWhrs Variance KWhrs Variance £ Hot water 11,139,000 11,512,600 -373,600 -15,318 Chilled water 1,825,000 1,617,000 208,000 +12,896 Hot water usage summation year-to-date (KWh) Chilled water usage summation year-to-date (KWh) At the end of 2017 we were below our target on both electricity and heating usage and we were just above on the chilled water usage. As we respond to the needs of the shows and this is also dependent on the climate and temperature it is a difficult balancing act. Environment | 16/20 06 Ensuring organisers and suppliers Reduce amount of printed collateral and participate in ExCeL’s sustainability seek to host digitally where possible objectives Over the last few years, a number of initiatives The key ingredient to ensuring ExCeL’s partners were implemented to reduce printing in the ExCeL and suppliers are aligned with our sustainability management office. There are notices encouraging objectives is through our procurement policy, which staff to print double-sided in black and white outlines specific criteria to staff when purchasing only where necessary. As a precaution, all ExCeL good or services. Each departmental director employee computers and laptops are set to is responsible for monitoring compliance with automatically print in black and white to prevent the policy and ensuring competitive purchasing accidental colour printing. processes are in place. As previously mentioned, the ExCeL marketing Sustainable procurement is a process whereby team play a crucial role in reducing printed collateral ExCeL meets its requirements for goods, services, and developing new digital resources to support works and utilities in a way that achieves value for the sales efforts. Wherever possible, brochures are money on a whole life basis in terms of generating created in PDF format and made available digitally benefits not only to the organisation, but to society – distributed via email or hosted on the ExCeL and the economy whilst minimising damage to the website. environment. In 2016, ExCeL’s marketing team continued to Cost savings, reduced carbon emissions, less waste, champion reducing printed collateral by launching lower energy and fuel consumption, improved a newly revamped organiser toolkit, hosted on the health outcomes, more skills and training, plus more ExCeL website. This password protected area of the contract opportunities for smalland medium-sized website is available for contracted Exhibitions and enterprises are some of the practical benefits to Conference & Events clients and is split into two consider and include within procurement. clear sections for operations teams and marketing teams. To be truly sustainable, we also believe our clients should work with us to run sustainable events. It The toolkit contains a variety of ready-to-use is therefore one of our main priorities to ensure tools to assist in the event planning process such organisers are aware of ExCeL’s sustainability as: downloadable PDFs in both desktop and objectives and that they uphold our energy savings mobile format providing useful information such and waste management policies. as travel maps, venue information, key messages and recommended partners. It also digitally hosts ExCeL’s event management team champion this information such as organiser handbooks and rate objective as they are the more frequent point of cards for services. contact for organisers during the planning and delivery process. Sustainability is discussed in This online resource has proved a popular alternative the planning process and charges are applied for to print. In 2017, the toolkit was accessed nearly excessive waste as an incentive to keep events as 10,000 times, an increase of 53% since 2016, with sustainable as possible. clients spending an average of 1 minute and 9 seconds viewing each section. We have noted a reduction in waste left on-site and sent to landfills thanks to the role ExCeL employees In 2017, the marketing team were responsible play in educating organisers on their CDM for three major projects that have contributed responsibilities. We work in collaboration to ensure significantly to reducing our environmental impact. all waste is disposed of correctly before, during and after an event, and we provide handbooks to the The first being the launch of a virtual venue tour, organisers with guidance. In addition, we remind available via the ExCeL website, allowing current and organisers of our work and their responsibility prospective clients to undertake a comprehensive on-site by providing ExCeL CSR factsheets in the virtual tour from the comfort of their own seat. This organiser offices. has significantly reduced ExCeL’s carbon footprint, allowing clients In the UK and abroad to embark on We measure the success of this objective through a digital site tour, in place of driving or flying to the our organiser feedback surveys, which are venue. conducted over the phone by an external agency. In 2017, 75% of organisers stated they were aware After launching in autumn 2016, the virtual venue of ExCeL’s sustainability objectives – exceeding our tour was viewed over 20,000 times in 2017, an target for the year. increase of 256.51% over the course of the year, Environment | 17/20 06 with viewers spending an average of 1 minute and 9 Historically, ExCeL produced a number of ‘What’s seconds on each video. The ExCeL sales team have On’ leaflets on a quarterly basis, provided in a print reported increase usage of the virtual tour when format on our in-venue service desks. In recent years, bidding for new business. it was noted that more and more leaflets were being thrown away. The second major project undertaken in 2017 was a review of ExCeL’s media estate, which involved In response, printing of the ‘What’s On’ leaflets upgrading poster sites to fully digital screens. As stopped in 2017 and were replaced with a well as improving the physical appearance of the modern, interactive e-newsletter. As well as being venue with consistent branding and messaging, the environmentally friendly, digitising this information installation of multiple digital screens at the end of enables ExCeL to offer our customers discounts 2016 has vastly reduced wastage of paper signage and offers for their next visit. This e-newsletter is and other disposable media sites. distributed to over 80,000 contacts on a monthly basis and since launch has an average open rate of The third project was a significant change in how we 15%. communicate our upcoming events to our visitors. Environment | 18/20 07 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-corruption | 19/20 07 ExCeL London upholds its commitment to in May 2015. Our whistleblowing hotline is managed preventing corruption of any kind within its by external company Expolink, who will forward code of conduct. concerns – anonymously if desired by the individual – to an internal audit manager. Regular internal and external auditing of financial accounts ensures that the company’s expectations in This whistleblowing hotline is global, enabling relation to corporate governance are maintained. our visitors, suppliers, and partners to raise their concerns from a number of locations around the This auditing also enables ExCeL to achieve our world. To date, we have received one call to our objective of maximising shareholder value, as we whistleblowing hotline from a member of the public must be able to guarantee the highest possible about a concern of potential fraudulent activity by a standards of financial management, assessment of third party, which was duly investigated. risk, and control. We understand that this must be taken at every level within the business. It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner. We take a zero-tolerance The company has established an audit committee approach to bribery and corruption. Our antiwhich monitors compliance, full details of their corruption and bribery policy, detailed in full in our responsibilities can be found in the company’s audit employee handbook, applies to individuals working committee charter. The remuneration committee at all grades and levels. makes decisions on executive pay and bonus. External benchmarking of employee salaries removes Our policy does not prohibit normal and appropriate potential bias and favouritism in annual salary hospitality (given or received) to or from third reviews. parties. We appreciate that the practice of giving business gifts varies between countries and regions; ExCeL has not been involved in any legal cases, our employee handbook outlines what is considered rulings, or other events related to corruption and/ acceptable and what is not. or bribery. ExCeL seeks to conduct its business honestly and in good faith, free from fraud or Another way in which we strive to prevent corruption deception. and bribery of all forms is through our annual employee appraisals. In these appraisals, employees In order to achieve this, all ExCeL employees must: are asked to declare any gifts made to clients so this can be logged and monitored for any discrepancies. • Comply with all applicable UK and EU laws and regulations, including any regulations, codes, All employees are asked to declare and keep a and guidelines which apply specifically to the written record of all hospitality or gifts accepted business. or offered. There is a 100% completion rate of • Not give or receive bribes, or any other appraisal forms at ExCeL, and HR follow-up inducements to obtain or retain business, nor personally with any incomplete responses regarding conduct themselves in such a way as to give rise anti-corruption and bribery. to any conflict of interest. • Seek mutually beneficial commercial Employees are also asked to ensure all expenses relationships with third parties with whom they claims relating to hospitality, gifts, or expenses do business. incurred to third parties are submitted in accordance • Ensure that they do not enter into contractual with our expenses policy and specifically record the arrangements that they are unable to fulfil. reason for this expenditure. Training on this policy • Use company assets only for the purpose of forms part of the induction process for all new ExCeL’s business and not to abuse their position employees. in the company for personal gain. • Ensure that adequate systems are in place to Our zero-tolerance approach to bribery and protect the business’ assets. corruption is communicated to all suppliers, contractors, and business partners at the outset We strive to ensure that our people act with of our business relationship with them – and as honesty, integrity, and professionalism. To support appropriate thereafter. these underlying ethical values we encourage our employees to raise genuine issues of malpractice or impropriety at work. By identifying and dealing with concerns at an early stage we can prevent malpractice and take steps to safeguard our people and protect our organisation. To this end, ExCeL has a comprehensive Whistleblowing policy in place, as well as a whistleblowing hotline which we launched Anti-corruption | 20/20
