Communication on Progress | COP 2016/17 Period covered by the COP November 2016 – November 2017 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 We are Amazon The Amazon rainforest is our home 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Communication on Progress Founded in 2009, in Belém do Pará (Brazilian It works simultaneously with traditional The choice to work only with renewable products is Amazon), 100% Amazonia has been established communities, partners in the supply of raw part of the 100% Amazonia mission, which works since the beginning to meet the needs of different materials, and with clients from the international intended for the conservation of the Amazon from segments that work with the Amazon's renewable market through the export of products from the the commercialization of non-timber forest resources. From a perspective of conservation of forest, promoting the sustainable development of products. the Amazon forest, we connect the demands and the Amazon region. desires of different actors, especially the traditional Given the purpose, values and its performance in extractive communities, local cooperatives and the 100% Amazonia commercialize products with the Amazon, the company became a signatory of consumer market of biodiversity products. organic certification for the European (US), North the Global Compact, seeking to reinforce its American (USDA) and Korean (MIFAFF) markets, support and continuous commitment to Combining the long working trajectory of the açaí achieving ISO9001 certification for quality fundamental values in the areas of human rights, chain in Amazonia and its expertise in international management in 2015, as well as to obtained labor relations, the environment and the fight trade, the founders Fernanda Carvalho Stefani and certification for processes and efficiency in services. against corruption. The path of 100% Amazonia Joziane Alves started the project on their own. meets this commitment and is today more than ever Eight years later, 100% Amazonia has 20 employees Its actions are the result of sharing values, which guided and committed to the 10 principles divided between sales, logistics, financial, as well as means connecting the life histories of the Amazon, advocated by the Global Compact. For all this, it is sectors focused on relationship and sustainability values and knowledge, with projects around the with great pleasure that we hold our first from the Amazon forest. world that rely on the conservation of the forest communication of progress as signatories of the made from an economy based on environmental Global Compact. 100% Amazonia is specialized in renewable and services. non-timber products and guides the development 100% Amazonia embraced the daily challenge of of forest raw materials in unique ingredients for 100% Amazon believes that the forest can and working in a responsible and ethical way with the food, beverage and cosmetic industries production. should generate income for traditional populations forest and this is the commitment we reinforce here, In eight years it has already exported to more than and that this can be done from ethical chains for present in our business model, our daily practices as 50 countries, becoming a reference in international renewable-based products. Between pulps, an enterprise and in the relationship with each of business in the region and social entrepreneurship powders, oils and butters, our portfolio includes our employees, suppliers and customers around the in Brazil. over 40 products, each one in compliance with world. forest maintenance. 100% Amazonia team 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 100% Amazonia A social enterprise with its roots in the Forest 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 100% AMAZONIA A social enterprise with its roots in the Forest Creating a social enterprise is assuming the where all parties involved gain and feel confident Productive chains are drawn together and driven by commitment to create and maintain a business with the benefits achieved. We are glad to actively win-win relationships among the parties, from the model geared to the engendering of shared value participate in building the new economy, where local producer to the final costumers in different and, therefore, that needs to be continually organizations and people around the world are parts of the world. In this model is possible to reinvented. We believe that the social entrepreneur breaking with the old way of undertaking, which is promote the preservation of the enterprise and, at is the synthesis of the new times economy centered only on profits and individuals the same time, preserving the biodiversity of the professional, where, what is good for the business, achievement, shifting to focus on real forest and sire well-being among people. Being a can and should be good for individuals, society and transformation and shared benefits. social entrepreneur is to accept the challenge of also for the planet. As a social enterprise, the always seeking for a balance between the health of operation of 100% Amazonia involves every day In 100% Amazonia we believe in business based on the enterprise, its actors and the world around us. more a product chain based on a business model the sustainability of resources, processes and relationships. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Our drives Mission, Vision and Values 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Mission Vision Values Connect the Amazon to the We are Amazon ambassadors ü Ethics in action world, working for the forests and through renewable forest conservation through the goods and services, we can ü Customer satisfaction marketing of renewable forest provide the well-being to the goods and services, based on a people. ü Efficiency in services provided long-term relationship and the fair trade practices with local ü Durability of the relationships traditional communities. ü Valuation of the Amazon ü Forest Conservation ü Promotion of well-living 8 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Quality Management System ISO 9001:2015 + 50 products Multidisciplinary team 53 countries Family farm & Forest management years of +25 forest enhancement operation Amazon species participatory activities 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 We are the forest Message to employees, partners and customers 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 We are the Forest Message to employees, partners and customers The last year was a period of great growth As a Forest we welcome By the end of 2016 we carry out social and for 100% Amazonia. We have conquered Serving our customers in a generous and environmental diagnoses with 5 50 countries, set our strategic plan, started plentiful way, always with the care in communities and draw up a consolidated our internationalization plan, and our team providing the resources which they need action plan with these partners in 2017. is the largest and most diverse since to carry out their projects aligned with an company’s foundation in 2009 (and we emphatic and sustainable way. Their As a Forest we honor. keep growing!). We became more than success will be our success too. Valuing our origins, sources and suppliers, ever the image of the forest. like essentials elements for growth. As a Forest we seed We are forest because our inspiration Working on our Strategic Plan and looking As a Forest we cooperate. comes from the Amazon. It moves us and to the future, to reap in the next years the Expanding our network and finding new provides the wealth, which we honorably fruits that we plant today with work and walking partners in all of those who work return to her. With the wisdom of the dedication. for the conservation of the forest. We forest we carry out our mission of being a became signatories of the United Nations living enterprise that grows towards the As a Forest we grown Global Compact and in several sky to conserve its roots, values and Looking for balance and continuing opportunities throughout 2017 we had our biodiversity. development. In December, we conquered achievement recognized as actors of the ISO 9001:2008 Certification and we conservation and development in the As a Forest we Work are getting ready to certify according to Amazon. Make different. It’s worth! Together, we match strengths and the 2015 standard version by the end of knowledge of each other to become a 2017. As forest we are grateful. For all this, we group that finds its strength in the appreciate each other's collaboration in diversity. Our team has 20 collaborators in As a Forest we multiply. these achievements and we hope that seven different sectors, all of them vital for We share wealth, reinvesting what we gain everyone who vibrates on the same the development of our operations and i n s o c i o b i o d i v e r s i t y, s o c i a l a n d mission and dream the same dreams could the continuing improvement of our environmental development with the remain part of our ecosystem, bringing customer service. supplying communities. their energy to the realization of challenging projects. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Commitment to the Forest Board statement 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Commitment to the Forest and Sustainable development Board statement Since its inception, 100% Amazonia has as its As founders, we have been betting from the This report refers to our progress within the 12mission to provide solutions to the needs of beginning on a new way of doing business, guided month period initiated after our accession to the different segments that work with the Amazon by the balance between business growth, social Global Compact. Here, we communicate the renewable resources. From a perspective of welfare generation and ecosystem conservation. We practices adopted and planned by 100% conservation of the Amazon rainforest, we connect are pleased to reinforce our support for the ten Amazonia, including our policies, procedures the demands and desires of different actors, principles of the Global Compact, considering the and activities in line with the principles of the especially the traditional extractive communities, fields of human rights, labor rights, the environment Global Compact, aim to continuously expand local cooperatives and the consumer market of and the fight against corruption. We reiterate our sociobiodiversity products. In 2009, we planted the intention to continuously implement these our support and contribution in each of the four seed of this venture, combining our work principles by making them part of our company's thematic areas. trajectories in supply chains in the Amazon and strategy and operations. In our first Communication international trade. Eight years later, 100% o n P ro g re s s w e re p o r t e d o u r e ff o r t s i n Greetings from the Forest, Amazonia has a team of 20 employees, divided into implementing the ten principles, as well as our sales, logistics, financial management, document actions related to UN Sustainable Development Fernanda Carvalho Stefani and Joziane Cristina and technical quality control, as well as sectors Goals. Alves focused on relationship and sustainability from the Amazon. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Principles The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The principles of the United Nations Global Compact are anchored in universal rights and values Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Our achievements Description of our actions by subject area 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Our achievements Description of our actions by subject area We believe that sustainability begins with fully committed to values and principles of equity, justice and social development. The Global Compact advocates ten Universal Principles derived from documents such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. These documents are fundamental drivers for our company and we reaffirm daily our commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact, through values and actions aligned with the advancement of the United Nations Sustainable Development agenda. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Humans right Principles 1 and 2 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Human rights Principles 1 and 2 In 2017, 100% Amazonia has started its internal institutional restructuring relationship processes, contracts and sales, to be aligned with changes in biodiversity legislation and international agreements on respect for fundamental freedoms and to combat the violation of human rights in the use of sociobiodiversity products. The work philosophy basis developed is the Aryiamuru project (in Tupi-Guarani, power of the mother’s mother), which brings in its core, methodologies aimed at respecting the way of life and culture of traditional forest peoples and communities, when trade relations, in accordance with 169 Internation Labour Organization Convention. In the Aryiamuru project, the construction of consultation procedures and participatory processes during the trade negotiations on forest products is in the final stages of completion. The company's intention is to establish the full communities Prior Informed Consent at all decision-making processes, as well as information exchanges on the abolition of child labor and the abolition of discrimination against women. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Labour Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Labour Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 In 2017, we started the setups for achieve the social responsibility SA 8000 (Social Accountability), a voluntary standard for auditable verification by third party, establishing requirements related to the improvement of workers' rights, conditions in the workplace and an efficient management system of their productive chains. SA 8000 is based on International Labor Organization Conventions, international human rights standards and national laws. Among other topics, the standard establishes requirements for the themes of Child Labor, Forced or Compulsory Labor, Health and Safety, Freedom of Association & Right to Collective Bargaining. In this way we are able to prepare ourselves to improve our current practices of respect and valorization of the body of employees, ensuring attendance and continuous improvement of our Social Responsibility. In May 2017, we held SA 8000 standards awareness event, presenting to all employees the requirements related to the rights of collective association, work environment, in addition to promoting the debate on fundamental human rights issues. 100% Amazonia is bound to FETRACOM, Federation of Trade Workers of the State of Pará and Federal Territory of Amapá, respecting and guaranteeing to its employees their rights of representation and Collective Membership. We have instituted since June 2017 the Education Incentive Pay, which benefits employees with partial funding scholarships for training courses. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Environment Principles 7, 8 and 9 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Environment Principles 7, 8 e 9 Sociobiodiversity 100% Amazonia works in partnership with family groups, community associations and agroextractivist cooperatives in the Amazon region to develop forest management methods that value forest products and combat deforestation. In the actions of the Aryiamuru project, the good practices of forest usage are discussed with the families involved, exchanging information with entities and professionals who are acting in the conservation of Amazonian natural resources. The forest management operations adopted by the company intend to dialogue with the different forms of socio-environmental certification and official governmental instruments such as the National Seed and Seed Registry, Rural Environmental Registry and Community and Family Forest Management Plans. The company also participates and contributes to events that debate forest management in the Amazon, based on joint experiences with the communities in the collection of forest seeds, oils, fruits and fibers for handicrafts. Our purpose is to inform and sensitize forest management actors about the importance of the dynamic forest science development, generating development and fair income among forest product chain participants, which will certainly bring positive impacts to the quality of life in the Amazonian community. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Environment Principles 7, 8 e 9 Recycling Due to environmental damage that the improper disposal of vegetable oils and butters can cause when in contact with water and soil, 100% Amazonia carries out the responsible disposal of its inputs. For this, we settled partnership with TCR Ambiental, through the Cata Óleo program, which main objective is to recycle the oil used. In October 2017, 82 kg of oils and butters that were in inappropriate conditions for marketing were collected. These wastes were packed in appropriate containers until the time of collection and then forwarded in a controlled manner by the company. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Based on the Social Standard A 8000, we started implementing our social responsibility system seeking a third party audit for the guarantee of our commitment to guaranteeing rights and promoting decent work conditions throughout our production chain. From this process, we structured a plan of action for the construction and publication of our code of ethics to be disclosed to all interested parties. In addition to these initiatives, our internal and external processes are structured in order to comply with national legislation, honesty and transparency, in the continuous effort to demonstrate the provenance of the forest products traded and the relationships existing between community, suppliers and company. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Our achievements Results evaluation 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Our achievements Results evaluation Social diagnostics The RADAR methodology provides the basis for conducting social diagnostics as a fundamental tool for the parties to be aware of their strengths and weaknesses in a balanced institutional relationship. In the activities of 100% Amazonia RADAR is developed in conjunction with the communities, posing questions that mobilize the debate and the definition of priority actions for the groups’ development. The results of the diagnoses are built by the actors themselves, based on collective answers to issues such as education, equity, use of environmental resources, sanitation and social organization. The resulting graphs are immediately available to the groups that use them to define and monitoring their plans and actions. Radar elaborated by Cataiandeua Community, Abaetetuba (PA) with 100% Amazonia team in 2016. It helps to identify the strength and challenges on six fields for each community and supports decision making process for new projects and supply chains. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Our achievements Results evaluation Institutional Relationship Indicators Throughout 2017 we have developed and established indicators which concerns to the relationship of 100% Amazonia and its suppliers, especially those located in the Amazon biome, considering the cooperatives and communities that supply raw materials from the forest. We have structuring methodologies to measure the relationships Goods & Forest between forest goods and services / community development. New Services concepts were developed to approach socio-biodiversity products, (Bens e serviços florestais, in considering forest products in an extended and interconnected way, portuguese) understood from now as Forest Goods and Services. We have adopted the guidelines of Convention 169, of the International Changemaking & Labor Organization, to serve the rights of traditional peoples and citizenship communities, establishing an institutional relationship protocol. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Our achievements Results evaluation Establishing partnerships with communities Partnerships were established with community and cooperative organizations, such as the Cooperativa de Fruticultores de Abaetetuba COFRUTA, Abaetetuba-Pa; Associação dos Pequenos e Mini Produtores Extrativistas de Repartimento dos Pilões – ASMIPPS, Almeirim-Pa; Associação dos Trabalhadores Agroextrativistas do Alto Pacajá – ATAAP, Portel-Pa; Community Santana, Ponta de Pedras-Pa; Community APA Fazendinha, Macapá-Ap. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Our achievements Results evaluation Enlargement of the native regions products Besides the regions of Pará previously worked, the partnership with groups in the Baixo Tocantins and Marajó regions was expanded. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Our achievements Results evaluation Variety of the products commercialized Respecting the diversity of the forest and its different cycles, we combine the harvests of the commercialized products and aimed for develop social, environmental and cultural products of the Amazon. In this way, besides the fruits and their derivatives, we work to expand the traceability of the forest seeds (and their derivatives), and promoting the access to traditional handicrafts and Bio-jewelry markets produced by local groups, pursuing the development of new value chains based in the Amazon. 100% Amazonia | Communication on Progress 2016/17 Content Team and references Text Communications & Sustainability @ 100% Amazonia Translation Adeline Felix Design Mariana Faro References Unglobal Compact website (https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Brazilian Network website (http://www.pactoglobal.org.br/) Cover photo 100% Amazonia Photos 100% Amazonia Sandra Alves (Vagaluzes) Communication on Progress 2016/17 ⓒ 100% Amazonia 100% Amazonia Exp. e Rep. LTDA. Travessa Campos Sales 493, 66017-180. Belém PA, Brazil Phone: +55 91 3224-2609 contact@100amazonia.com
