SALCON BERHAD pg 36 (593796-T) S Report Overview ustainability s tatem en t This is our 11th yearly reporting since 2007 on the disclosure of our sustainability best practices. In line with the Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Guide as well as other additional guidelines mentioned below, this report has been renamed as a Sustainability Statement to better reflect a more comprehensive and holistic reporting of the company’s sustainability efforts. This report is prepared with the support of our cross-functional Sustainability Working Group (SWG) which consists of the head of various related departments involved in the management and implementation of the company’s sustainability work. The SWG is guided by the Sustainability Committee which in turn reports to the Board of Directors. This year, we also reached out to our internal and external stakeholders to perform a materiality analysis and identify key material aspects which are important to the Group following the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards Guidelines. We also took into account the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and have identified thirteen of the SDGs as most aligned to our business and operations. S c o pe o f R epo r t R e f e r e n c e s & G u id el in es Reporting Period: 1st January 2017 to 31st December 2017 This report has been prepared in accordance with the following guidelines with the objective to deliver a transparent and Coverage: comprehensive disclosure to our stakeholders. This report covers Salcon Berhad, a public listed company in Principal guidelines: Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange, Malaysia, and the companies Guide. below which spearhead its diversified business operations: Additional guidelines: 1. Salcon Engineering Berhad 2. Envitech Sdn Bhd (wastewater treatment services) 1. FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index Rating Guide 3. Eco-Coach & Tours Sdn Bhd (transportation services) 2. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting 4. Azitin Venture Sdn Bhd (property development) Guidelines (please refer to the GRI Content Index at 5. Volksbahn Technology Sdn Bhd (technology services) page 224) 6. Salcon Power (HK) Limited (solar power investment) 7. Salcon Petroleum Services Sdn Bhd (oil & gas software marketing) Feedback This report can be downloaded at our corporate website at http://salcon.listedcompany.com/ar.html We welcome feedback, enquiry, suggestion or comment on this report and any aspect of our sustainability performance. Please address your feedback or enquiry to the Sustainability Committee at corporate@salcon.com.my SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 37 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT S us ta i na bi li t y at Sa lcon As a company that delivers inherently sustainable products and environment and carbon footprint throughout our value chain, core services in water and wastewater, technology services and we are committed to being a good corporate citizen and property development, our approach to sustainability through our investment in the communities in which we operate. stems from our goal to manage and nurture a safe and profitable business in an open and transparent manner, Awards & Recognitions respects the communities in which we operate in and sustains the environment. During Financial Year ( FY 2017 ) we made great strides in our sustainability journey and received recognition from The Group’s core values of Teamwork, Commitment, sustainability organizations both locally and internationally. Professionalism, Respect and positive Results underpin Awards not only acknowledge success, but also the everything we do. By integrating economic, social and commitment, ability, efforts and above all, excellence put in by environmental social risks and considerations into our an organisation. corporate strategies, we are committed to delivering sustainable outcomes on every project, everywhere we Salcon is honoured to be awarded noteworthy recognitions by operate. We will continue to minimize our impact on the established and well-known organisations in the region. FTSE Russell Best Sustainability Sewerage Services CSR Malaysia Asia Sustainability Reporting Award Department & Publication Reporting Awards Yayasan Hijau Malaysia Inclusion in Best Sustainability Excellent Achievement CSR Malaysia Asia's Best CSR FTSE4Good Bursa Reporting Award under Ministry of Awards 2017 Communication Malaysia Index for the Energy, Green within Annual Report third Technology & Water Awards consecutive year KPI 2016 (Pencapaian Cemerlang KPI YBM Tenaga, Teknologi Hijau & Air 2016) Tan Sri Dato’ Tee Tiam Lee, Executive Deputy Chairman of Salcon Berhad (left) receiving the Excellent Achievement Award from YB Datuk Seri Panglima Dr. Maximus Johnity Ongkili, Minister of Energy, Green Technology and Water (KeTTHA) SALCON BERHAD pg 38 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT S us ta i na bi li t y G o v e r n a n ce At Salcon, the Board of Directors via the Sustainability Committee oversees the Group’s sustainability strategies and performance. The Sustainability Committee reports to the Board on the Group’s sustainability performance. The Committee consists of 2 Board members, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the General Manager of Corporate Affairs Division, who is the key personnel in the Group’s sustainability efforts. The Sustainability Committee meets at least once a year to review, discuss, evaluate and recommend strategies for improvement in the Group's sustainability performance and reports to the Board. The Sustainability Committee is supported by the Sustainability Working Group, a cross-functional team who is responsible for the implementation of sustainability strategies and to provide Economic, Environmental & Social (EES) performance data for sustainability reporting. Board of Directors Sustainability Committee Sustainability Safety, Health Working Group & Environment Committee Corporate Human Safety, Finance & Project Internal Contracts Procurement Quality Affairs Resources Health Accounts Audit & Risk Assurance & & EnvironManagement Quality ment Control SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 39 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Mater i a li ty We have undertaken an extensive materiality assessment in performance, it is increasingly clear that stakeholders are FYE 2017 to help us to identify where we should invest our placing greater emphasis on social and environmental issues. resources meaningfully and take more effective strategies to improve the performance of issues which are most material and close to the hearts of our stakeholders. M e t h od ol ogy This materiality analysis has provided us an effective platform The assessment was conducted in accordance with the Bursa for us to analyze our stakeholders’ priorities and concerns and Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Guide, FTSE4Good Rating serve as a useful guide for us to identify the areas important to Index and GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. our stakeholders and the business. Besides financial • Defined objective of materiality assessment & the meaning of materiality to the Group. Definition • Reviewed and identified related materiality in all EES aspects from internal & external sources which are closely related with Salcon’s business functions • Internal sources: internal data Identification of potential • External sources: media reporting, analyst reports, external peer review, clients material issues survey, industry news, rating & index guideline (FTSE4Good, GRI guidelines, Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Guide) Consolidation of material • 38 materiality issues were identified in all EES aspects issues into relevant aspects • The issues were consolidated under 3 categories: Economic, Environmental and Social which is sub-divided into employees and community • Identified stakeholders for materiality survey • Conducted stakeholder proritization to select active and highly related stakeholders to ensure more integrated survey results • Categories of stakeholders: Stakeholders • Internal stakeholders: all levels of employees identification • External stakeholders: clients, consultants, business partners, suppliers, subcontractors, government/regulators, community, non-government organization (NGO), bankers and business associates Stakeholder engagement on • Conducted physical and online survey with all the identified stakeholders to obtain materiality assessment their feedback on materiality issues. Mapping • Mapping of materiality matrix through stakeholder feedback by stakeholders' rating Analysis • Analysis of the materiality matrix and review the Company's sustainability commitment Sustainability • Present the feedback outcome to the BOD & Sustainability Committee Committee meeting • Set threshold for material issues • Setting of sustainability direction according to materiality results SALCON BERHAD pg 40 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT Mater i a li ty Mat r ix The findings of the materiality assessment on the 38 EES issues has been mapped into the materiality matrix below based on our stakeholders’ feedback. Occupational safety and health Wastewater management & effluent disposal/reuse Ethics and Integrity Waste management Water use & management Financial management Environmental Compliance Priorities of External Stakeholders Employee well-being Community investment & development Client satisfaction Environmental initiative Work-life balance Equal opportunities & diversity Corporate governance Training & development Project Delivery Pollution Talent attraction & retention Anti-corruption Human rights Branding & reputation Employee engagement Material use Energy management Technology & Innovation Local employment Risk management Carbon emission Community engagement Crisis Management Supply chain management Economic performance Investor and shareholder relationship Portfolio management & new income stream Biodiversity Grievance mechanisms Noise Climate change Priorities of Internal Stakeholders Legend Community issues High Workplace issues Medium Marketplace issues Low Environment issues SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 41 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Mater i a li ty An a lysis We have further categorized the above 38 issues into 3 categories which are: economic, environmental, and social which is subdivided into employee and community. From the matrix, we have identified 9 of the issues as key material issues for both internal and external stakeholders. This has enabled us to prioritise the key material issues in our sustainability commitment. Key Mater i a l I ss ue s V e ry M at e r ia l Page reference No. Material issues Description for more details 1. Occupational safety & health Creating a safe and healthy workplace, at both offices and 68 project sites, with zero or minimal occupational illness/ injury 2. Ethics & integrity Embedding integrity and ethical business practices in all 46 aspects of our business 3. Financial management Good management on the Group's financials and investment 48 as well as maintaining healthy economic growth 4. Work-life balance Social & recreational activities/ initiatives for employees 66 5. Clients satisfaction Meeting clients' requirement in terms of costing, timing, 50 technical expertise etc 6. Employee well-being Employees benefits and compliance with all wage laws for 66 all categories of employees 7. Equal opportunities & diversity Fair treatment to all employees, employee diversity in 61 respectful workplace 8. Training & development Training opportunities and career development to 67 employees for self-improvement and development 9. Project delivery Successful completion and delivery of projects on time and 50 within budget. Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is the foundation of Salcon’s EES strategies and Going forward, we plan to commitment. It is our priority to nurture positive relationships with varied stakeholders enhance our materiality and listen to their concerns and interest, so that we understand their priorities and enable us to make better decisions in our efforts to create sustainable values for all assessment system by the stakeholders. improving and strengthening stakeholder Throughout the years, we engage with various group of stakeholders who has significant impact on our businesses via different engagement channels. We engagement in materiality appreciate the mutual respect and trust with our stakeholders. assessment whilst at the same time obtaining feedback from different major stakeholders. SALCON BERHAD pg 42 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT Stakeholder Engagement Frequency Values Concern Group Approach Annually created Employees • Safe & healthy • Safety & Health As needed • Safe and healthy working workplace Campaign environment with better productivity • Career • Training opportunities As needed • Enhanced skills for improved development work efficiency • Work-life balance • Salcon Recreational As needed • Sports and family-based Club activities to foster good worklife balance • Talent retention • Employee performance As needed • Recognizing our employees’ review & rewards contributions • Employee entitlements & benefits • Employee • Festive celebrations As needed • Fostering positive engagement • Company Facebook relationships amongst page colleagues • Internal newsletter As needed • Up-to-date information on the company’s direction/ news • Voluntary opportunities As needed • Opportunities for employees to give back to the society together Shareholders/ • Transparent • Analysts/ bankers/ fund As needed • Analyst presentations with Investors information managers meeting positive feedback on disclosure information shared • Financial • Return on investment performance • Annual General Meeting Annually • Platform to share the company’s economic performance, business direction and strategies with our shareholders • Rewarding our shareholders through dividend payment. Clients/ • Deliverable • Client satisfaction As needed • Project delivery within timeline Customers • Timely solution survey and budget • Regular project As needed meetings • Customers services (at Daily • Fast and prompt attention to ‘ billing services center in (working day) customer needs at billing Sandakan office) services center Regulators/ • Compliance with • Full compliance with As needed • Create reputable branding as Government policies Bursa Malaysia, well as keeping track with the Authorities • Support Security Commissions current market regulations government and Quality initiatives Management (ISO 9001) policies and guidelines • Environmental As needed • Biodiversity conservation at compliance at project project sites and create sites minimal carbon footprint • Effective resources management • Better awareness on environmental issues and compliance knowledge among employees SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 43 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Stakeholder Engagement Frequency Values Concern Group Approach Annually created Business • Long term • Strategic business As needed • Improve business and Partners/ partnership planning meetings economic performance Associate • Forge long term bond partners Local Community • Community • Charitable giving As needed • Build positive relationships development with the community and • Job opportunities attend to their needs • Internship opportunities As needed • Real corporate world exposure for students • Environmental Bi-monthly • Outdoor education learning education Conducted opportunities for students 5 Salcon Smart Water Programme and 1 Train The Trainers Programme • Local employment As needed • Creation of job opportunities for local communities at project sites Suppliers/ • Transparency • Suppliers & subAnnually • Performance monitoring and Sub-contractors • Long term contractors evaluation Improve efficiency throughout partnership supply chain • Fair procurement • Tender & bidding/ As needed • Share the same ethical policy quotation requests procurement values • Procurement policies & As needed system Media • Up-to-date and • Media releases As needed • Reach out to public on transparent company’s strategic direction, information • One on One interviews As needed future aspirations to promote disclosure company branding and reputation. Non• Community • Partnership and support As needed • Mutual understanding on Governmental development in community, and sustainable environmental Organisations • Environmental environmental and social growth as well as conservation sustainability biodiversity conservation • Support NGOs • River & water conservation and education for community Industry • Long term • Industry exhibitions and As needed • Keeping track with industry Associations relationship & conferences updates membership • Membership with As needed • Foster good relationships with Malaysia Water industry peers Association (MWA), Global Water Intelligence (GWI) and International Water Association (IWA) SALCON BERHAD pg 44 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT Uni ted Nati o n s G loba l Com pa ct Su sta in a bl e D e v e l op m en t G oa l s Our sustainability journey marked another milestone In September 2015, the United Nations adopted 17 sustainable when Salcon became a signatory of the United Nations development goals. These goals build on the preceding Millennium Global Compact (UNGC) in 2017, with the Development Goals and seek to tackle the world’s economic, social commitment to uphold the Compact’s 10 principles in and environmental issues by 2030. Achieving the sustainable 4 areas principally, human rights, labour standards, development goals (SDGs) will require action by governments, nonenvironment and anti-corruption. governmental organisations and the private sector. Companies can contribute to the achievement of the SDGs by reducing the negative impact of their operations and seeking to contribute positively to the environments and communities in which they work. S a lc o n a nd the S DG s In this report, the goals highlighted below are most closely related to the topics that were identified as most relevant to Salcon and where our sustainability efforts and operations are closely aligned to the SDGs. Ec o no mi c Page 45 env i r o nmen ta l Page 52 social Page 60 & 72 SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 45 Economic Delivering healthy economic performance is our foremost sustainability commitment. It is vital to ensure a sound organization and performance with strong and solid economic performance as the cornerstone, which include highest standards of corporate governance and transparency, sustainable business solutions and supply chain. Our Alignment to SDG Goals Water & Wastewater Treatment We treat water and wastewater to provide communities with clean, safe and quality water. Solar Power We install solar photovoltaic systems in the United Kingdom to provide clean and affordable energy to households. Healthy Economic Growth We create employment and support local businesses. We contribute to economic growth by paying taxes to the government. Water & Wastewater Treatment Technology Services Our core services, water & wastewater treatment We provide smart city solutions through our joint provides one of the most basic yet essential venture, Volksbahn Technologies Sdn. Bhd. by infrastructure for healthy and sustainable living. enabling efficient and fast networks through our fiber optic backbone in the Klang Valley. Improvement to Living Quality Our diversified businesses (water and wastewater, property development, transportation & technology services) create sustainable cities and quality living environment. Transparency and Integrity Our core values of teamwork, commitment, professionalism and respect underpin how we work. We are committed to adhere to the highest standards of corporate governance and transparency with zero tolerance on corruption. SALCON BERHAD pg 46 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT C o r po r ate Gov e r n a n ce We are committed to demonstrate transparency, accountability and embrace responsible business behavior across our operation to gain stakeholders trust and confidence and forge strong relationship with them. We are a member of the Malaysia Institute of Corporate Governance (MICG) which supports corporate governance advocacy in Malaysia. During this reporting period, we did not register any non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areas. Ministry of Energy, Green Technology & Water team paid a visit to the Langat 2 Water Treatment Plant which is currently under construction We are committed to demonstrate E t h ic s & In t e g r i t y transparency, accountability and embrace As one of the key material issues identified during our responsible business behavior across our Materiality Assessment, our ethical business practice is operation to gain stakeholders trust and underpinned by relevant policies, guidelines and systems, confidence and forge strong which serve as the guidance for all level of employees in the Group, including the Board Members. relationships with them. The principles set out in our Code of Ethics and Conduct (COEC) and Statement of Policy and Business Ethics (SPBE) outline these responsibilities to our shareholders, customers, employees, business partners and society. They include commitments to business integrity and compliance with applicable laws and regulations to minimize the potential business risk or illegal conduct. SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 47 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT A n t ic or r u p t ion Salcon’s Integrated Risk Management Corruption and bribery is a risk to the Group’s image. As such, the Board does not tolerate any fraud, corruption or bribery Policy, which is in compliance with practice in the Group, either directly or indirectly. Complete ISO 31000, will enhance honesty and fairness is required in conducting all the business controls/safeguards against operations. Appropriate actions will be taken against employees who are involved in bribery and corruption. ever-increasing and fast-morphing risks in today’s challenging global All employees, sub-contractors, suppliers and those working in business environment. joint ventures that we operate, are expected to understand and work in line with the Statement of Policies and Business Ethics. We encourage suppliers and our partners in joint ventures that we operate, to apply equivalent principle. C o d e o f Ethi c s & Con duct • No reported incidents of corruption in FYE 2017 • No fines/ penalties in FYE 2017 in relation with corruption/ All employees are guided by the Code of Ethics & Conducts bribery (COEC), which is overseen by the Board and reviewed from • No staff disciplined or dismissed due to non-compliance time to time to ensure its compliance and effectiveness. The with anti-corruption guidelines COEC was reviewed during FYE 2017 where relevant sections were updated and improved in order to be aligned with global best practices on transparency and business conduct. The Risk Management amendments were then disseminated and communicated to all employees. In order to achieve our business objectives with minimal uncertainties and loss, Salcon takes proactive steps to identify, Every new recruit is briefed and introduced on the COEC evaluate, mitigate and report on risks in all of our business during the staff induction process to convey the Group’s stance operations, inclusive for new projects. The risk factors we on bribery, corruption, bullying, discrimination etc. identified include operational risks, environmental risks, corruption and bribery. Salcon’s enterprise-wide risk Employees are encouraged to promptly report any activities management practice is led by the Risk Management which may constitute a violation of any law relating to fraud or Committee. The Committee meets at least once a year to deceptive practices. We have a whistle-blowing mechanism discuss any risk issues in the Group, review the adequacy and and grievance mechanism for employees and other effectiveness of the risk management process and report to the stakeholders to raise their concern about misconduct in any Board accordingly. matters related to the Group. Salcon’s Integrated Risk Management Policy, which is in compliance with ISO 31000, will enhance controls/safeguards Fa i r C o mpeti ti on against ever-increasing and fast-morphing risks in today’s challenging global business environment. We strictly abide by legal regulations on fair competition and do not support anti-competitive, anti-trust and monopolistic For more details on the composition of the RMC, please refer practices as such practices affect our clients’ choices and to Corporate Information section of our Annual Report/ Website. pricing. In FYE 2017, the company was not involved in any legal cases related to anti-competitive or monopoly practices. For more information on Salcon’s risk management activities, please refer to Corporate Governance Statement and Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control in our Annual Report. SALCON BERHAD pg 48 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT E c o no mi c Per for m a n ce During FYE 2017, the Group recorded RM216.2 million gross economic value, a 91.8% increase compared to the preceding year. This is mainly due to profit recognition of our completed rés280 project. The Group’s financial position remains healthy with total cash and cash equivalents of RM133.8 million. Our gearing ratio stands at 0.15 with total borrowing of RM66.6 million. We are confident that the Group will deliver improved performance in the coming year with more contracts coming in. Description 2015 2016 2017 (RM ‘000) (RM ‘000) (RM ‘000) Revenue 123,079 98,974 206,492 Other income and interest income 37,114 13,823 9,744 Gross value generated 160,193 112,797 216,236 Our suppliers: Operation costs (135,234) (57,954) (221,470) Our employees: Salaries and benefits (21,935) (35,438) (38,742) Our lenders: Payment to lenders (financial cost) (5,576) (4,820) (4,034) The Government: Payment to Government (9,369) (4,896) 2,707 The Rakyat: Community Investment (192) (161) (360) Net-value added (12,113) 9,528 (45,663) Our shareholders: Payment to shareholders (20,325) (13,294) (21,898) Our Future: Economic Value Retained (32,438) (3,766) (67,561) Revenue by Country: Description 2015 2016 2017 (RM ‘000) (RM ‘000) (RM ‘000) Malaysia 81,387 89,471 198,406 Vietnam 13,927 207 Sri Lanka 11,877 8,483 Thailand 1,485 205 Others 14,403 608 8,086 Total 123,079 98,974 206,492 S us ta i na ble Bus in e ss Solut ion s Over the past 40 years, Salcon has developed an excellent portfolio of supplying clean and quality water as well as developing sustainable water resources within the Asian region. It has brought us to be the leader in the region as a one-stop total solutions provider for water and wastewater services. In recent years, we have diversified into several industries to ensure sustainable returns to our shareholders and create more sustainable values to our stakeholders. S us ta i na ble Sup p ly Ch a in An effective and sustainable supply chain helps to conserve resources, enhance processes and increase productivity and values. Our suppliers consist of manufacturers, distributors and vendors and we engage them locally, where possible for economic and social reasons. We expect our suppliers and sub-contractors to conduct business ethically and we are committed to maintaining the highest standard of integrity throughout our supply chain. SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 49 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT We apply a stringent procurement process to select suppliers Besides this, we are also guided by our Green Policy to commit and sub-contractors to work with. Suppliers and subtowards an Environmental Purchasing Program that covers the contractors must abide by the Group's ISO policies ISO 9001 procurement of environmentally sound products by considering Project Quality manual, ISO14001 Environmental Manual, the environmental impact of products and services throughout OHSAS 18001 Manual and other applicable codes of ethics the procurement process as well as make efficient use of and conduct. Our firm stand on integrity and ethical business products by re-using and recycling the products throughout conduct is clearly communicated via several channels, such their life-cycle. as Letter of Awards and Statement of Policies & Business Ethics to ensure that transparency, accountability and efficiency is In order to maintain and ensure the performance of our well-instilled throughout the supply chain. suppliers and sub-contractors, we conduct yearly assessments on them via a performance evaluation. They are reviewed and rated according to criteria such as deliverables, pricing workmanship, cooperation and emergency response. S uppli er Per fo r m a n ce E va luat ion s (% ) 17% 8% 10% 71% 2016 Excellent 2017 Acceptable Minor improvement needed 12% 82% S ub-c o ntr a c to r E va luat ion Scor e (% ) 68% 2016 2017 67% SALCON BERHAD pg 50 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT C o mmi tment t o O ur Clie n t s We strive to meet our clients’ requirements and deliver the best All of our clients’ data are protected under the Personal Data quality services to ensure utmost clients’ satisfaction. We review Protection Act 2010. We respect our clients’ privacy and do not our performance annually through a clients’ satisfaction survey disclose or use the clients’ information for any purposes other to gather feedback and insights as well as identify our area of than those agreed upon. There were no incidents or complaints improvement. pertaining to breaches of clients’ privacy in FYE 2017. Five of our project clients assessed our performance delivered Project Delivery in FYE 2017. They are Langat 2 Water Treatment Plant project, We are committed to deliver all projects entrusted to us by our Langat Centralized Sewage Treatment Plant project, Kuala clients on time and within budget. By keeping pace with our Terengganu Utara Water Treatment Plant project, NRW Kuala client demands and preventing project overruns, we have Terengganu and NRW Marang project. We were given an managed to gain our clients’ confidence and build a portfolio average rating of 71.4% satisfaction by our clients, a 4.4% of successful projects which are well executed and meet our increase compared with the preceding year. clients’ satisfaction. Under our NRW section, our Customer Service Centre in Sandakan, Sabah Malaysia aims to provide excellent customer experience. There are 4 customer officers at the centre to We review our performance annually attend to customers enquiries or water issues, providing through a clients’ satisfaction survey solutions on billing and collection matters. An average time of 1.52 minutes is taken to handle each call. to gather feedback and insights as well as identify our area of improvement We are committed to meet our clients' requirements and deliver the best quality services SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 51 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT B r a nd i ng & R ep utat ion By deepening our engagement with our stakeholders at the 3) Membership Participation marketplace, we aim to maximize effective communications We participated in various related industry associations as and create a positive image to the public. Our approach to a member to support and keep track of the latest industry branding and reputation is through meaningful engagement trends and maintain our presence through participation in with our stakeholders via various platform, such as participation their activities. We are a member of: in industrial exhibitions and conference, get-together activity, 1. Global Water Intelligence membership participation as well as online channels. 2. Malaysia Water Association (MWA) a. Participation in the Water Industry Guide & 1) Industrial Exhibitions and Conferences Table Calendar In FYE 2017, we participated in the MyanWater Exhibition 3. International Water Association (IWA) in Yangon, Myanmar, one of the biggest water exhibition 4. Malaysia Investor Relations Association (MIRA) in the country as one of our approach to brand exposure. a. Attended seminars/ workshop organized by MIRA We met industry players as well as relevant authorities to 5. Malaysia South-South Association (MASSA) seek for potential opportunities. It is also a platform for us 6. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) (signatory) to keep updated with the latest industry news and a. Participation in the Global Compact Malaysia updates. Networking Session 7. Malaysia Institute of Corporate Governance (MICG) 2) Get-together Activity 8. Malaysia Employment Federation (MEF) We conducted informal networking sessions with our clients and business partners, ie. through the Salcon 4) Online Channels Durian Party in FYE 2017 to maintain positive and Our corporate website (www.salcon.com.my) and meaningful relationships. The networking activity serves Facebook page (www.facebook.com/SalconBerhad) are as an important channel to show our appreciation to our the two main online tools of our branding management in clients and business partners. We take this opportunity to this fast-moving environment. We share relevant listen to their feedback or comment. information and corporate updates with our stakeholders on a timely basis in these online channels and attend to any feedback or enquiry promptly. Get-together Activity to show our appreciation to clients and Active participation in significant regional water exhibitions business partners SALCON BERHAD pg 52 (593796-T) Environmental We are committed to reduce and minimize any potential adverse environmental impacts at all stages of our value chain by adhering to applicable environmental policies, rules and regulations. We monitor our environmental performance and are involved in conservation initiatives to reduce pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. In recognizing the effect of climate change as an impactful risk to the business and environment, we are committed to minimize our carbon footprint through resource optimization, prudent use of materials and proper management in waste disposal. Our Alignment to SDG Goals The Company's commitment towards sustainability and environmental management is encapsulated in the Salcon Green Policy which aims to reduce our carbon footprint and pollution in the key areas of energy & water consumption, waste management, procurement, biodiversity and education. Our Approach Our approach in environmental conservation is to minimize The Board oversees the Group’s environmental performance negative environmental impacts throughout our business and progress and the environmental topic is part of the agenda operations by cultivating an environmentally conscious discussed during Board Meetings. The Chief Operating Officer behavior across all levels of employees in daily operation. The (COO) of the Group is responsible for the Group’s Safety, Health and Environment (S.H.E.) Department, S.H.E. environmental progress and report to the Board. He is assisted committee at both headquarters (HQ) and project sites level is by the S.H.E. Department and committees to ensure the responsible for monitoring the environmental performance and Group’s environmental approach is well-instilled throughout the ensuring that all the practices are well implemented. operation. There were no fines and penalties on issues related to the environment during the period of reporting due to any non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Policies, guidelines & system We are guided by our Environmental Policy, ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) and Green Policy throughout our business operations. The ISO 14001 certification is reviewed yearly by the Bureau Veritas Certification. All of our project sites which are monitored by the S.H.E. Department are certified under ISO 14001. SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 53 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Environmental conservation effort All offices and project sites under the Group are responsible to take long term action to conserve the environment, reduce carbon footprint and GHG emissions in the area of: • Energy • Water • Emission • Dust • Biodiversity • Recycling At Group level, we collaborate with organizations which advocate environmental conservation through environmental-themed based project implementation. Environmental data/performance monitoring We are guided by our Environmental Policy, ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) and Green Policy throughout our business operations. The ISO 14001 certification is reviewed yearly by the Bureau Veritas Certification. All of our project sites which are monitored by the S.H.E. Department are certified under ISO 14001. C li mate C ha ng e & P ollut ion Although climate change and pollution was not identified as We are committed to reduce our carbon footprint and GHG one of the key material issues under our materiality assessment emissions through: by our stakeholders, it remains one of the biggest risks and issues facing the world right now. As such, the Board takes a • Efficient energy consumption and management serious view of these issues as a responsible corporate citizen. • Providing quality water to the community in our business The Group COO oversees environmental issues and concerns areas and water conservation and reports to the Board accordingly. • Effective waste management to prevent pollution • Procurement of environmentally sound products In FYE 2016, we launched the Salcon Green Policy as part of • Reducing actions which will adversely impact the ecoour commitment to reduce climate change and pollution. system and biodiversity • Education to employees and intermediaries Country Initiatives to reduce our carbon footprint Environmental impact • Zero burning at project site • Biodiversity conservation • Video conferencing to replace traveling • Carbon footprint reduction • Yearly oil spillage drill to avoid soil • Land preservation MALAYSIA contamination • External drainage cleaning • Drainage management VIETNAM • Solar panel installation • Green energy investment UNITED KINGDOM SALCON BERHAD pg 54 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT E nv i r o nmenta l P e r for m a n ce The Group has set a 10-year long term environmental target to minimize our footprint in energy, water and waste management. In order to ensure that we are on track to achieve our environmental targets, we monitor and measure our environmental progress on a yearly basis. Meanwhile, we continuously conserve the environment in other key management areas such as emission and dust management as well as biodiversity conservation. Environmental Company/ focus area Actions Operation country • Temperature control for air conditioning Group level • Turn off lights in rooms not used Group level • Replacing damaged lights to LED lights which is more HQ environmentally friendly • Educating employees on energy saving through posters & Project sites, Malaysia emails Energy management • Clear perspex roofing to reduce electricity usage at EcoPenang Coach & Tours in Penang • Energy conservation policy at Binh An Water Corporation Vietnam (BAWC) and energy audit was conducted to monitor the consumption • Non-Revenue Water (NRW) reduction projects in several Malaysia towns in Malaysia, such as Kuala Terengganu, Marang and Sandakan • Our NRW reduction achievement: 1. Kuala Terengganu project: 10 million litres per day (MLD) reduction 2. Sandakan: successfully reduced the NRW rate from 61% to 47% Water management • Partnership with Non-Government Organization Water HQ Watch Penang for a holistic educational approach on water conservation • Recycle water for site washing at project sites as well as car Malaysia and depot washing • Regular checking and immediate action taken for any leakage Vietnam • Scheduled/ hazardous waste to be stored in designated Malaysia container for onward disposal by Department of Environment (DOE) licensed contractor to licensed location Waste • Introduction of e-Waste bin at office for employees to HQ Management dispose household or office e-waste properly SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 55 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Environmental Company/ focus area Actions Operation country Emission Management • Usage of diesel instead of oil for our transportation services Penang Dust • Regular watering of access roads at project sites to reduce Malaysia Management dust pollution around the neighbourhood • Conducted Environmental Aspect Identification (EAI), Risk Malaysia & Opportunities for Environment and Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk Control (HIRARC) before commencing a project Biodiversity Conservation • Strictly zero burning and zero hunting at project site Malaysia • We are a signatory with World Wild Life (WWF) to support Malaysia No-Shark Fin for all our corporate functions • Recycle practice at all offices Group level • Recycling campaign/ competition HQ Recycling • Recycling awareness & competition at SK Dusun Nanding HQ to educate students on importance of recycling Landscaping • Mural painting on 10 walls for SK Dusun Nanding to beautify HQ the school while delivering eco-living message (no significant spill recorded in FYE 2017) Introduction of e-waste bin at our HQ to promote proper Mural painting at SK Dusun Nanding contributed by Salcon disposal of e-waste SALCON BERHAD pg 56 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT C o lla bo r ati o n for E n v ir on m e n ta l Su sta in a bil it y The Group focuses on educating the younger generation in our environmental conservation initiatives as we believe that environmental conservation behavior can be more effectively instilled and shaped through proper understanding and education. In FYE 2017, we partnered with organisations which advocate environmental protection for 2 different projects, focusing on water conservation and waste recycling respectively. In waste recycling, we partnered with Community Recycle for Charity (CRC), a non-profit organisation to conduct a recycling competition and upcycle workshop to 270 students in SK Dusun Nanding, Hulu Langat in conjunction with Salcon Environmental Week in November 2017. Recycling result by SK Dusun Nanding: Aluminium glass plastic paper 70 kg 40 kg 153 kg 835 kg We are also in long-term partnership with Water Watch Penang, a Non-Government Organization (NGO) which advocates environmental education to conduct hands-on river water monitoring programme for primary and secondary school students. For more information, please refer to our Social Community section of this report. Education is our approach in advocating environmental conservation SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 57 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Environmental Data: From the indicated environmental data, we are able to monitor our energy consumption and waste generated, hence measure our progress compared with the target set. Following a review of the targets set for energy and water consumption in FYE 2016, the scope in terms of geographical coverage for our energy and water consumption target has been revised to apply only to administrative offices and to exclude project sites. This is due to the fact that the duration of a typical project ranges from between 1 to 3 years. As such, both of our 10-year target to reduce energy and water consumption will only apply to administrative offices where data can be compared and analysed meaningfully year on year. 3 -Y ea r E n e r gy Con sum p t ion D ata ( k Wh ) : To reduce energy consumption by 10% on a per unit basis by The energy consumption data below was extracted from 2026 from 2016 for administrative the electricity bills generated by the electricity utility offices authority in the respective operating areas. FYE 2015 F YE 2016 F YE 2017 Administration Electricity No. of Electricity No. of Electricity No. of office consumption employees consumption employees consumption employees (kWh) (kWh) (kWh) HQ 146,622 113 147,368 124 140,225 122 Envitech 77,136 55 79,240 53 71,942 44 VBT 34,025 10 47,096 16 39,960 16 SPS N/A N/A N/A N/A 9,930 14 Eco-Coach 2,100 15 2,239 18 3,900 20 Total 259,883 193 275,943 211 265,957 216 Energy consumption 1,346 1,307 1,231 per person (kWh) Progress as at FYE 2017: 5.8% reduction of energy consumption per person compared with FYE 2016. Energy Consumption at Project Sites: Project site FYE 2015 (kWh) FYE 2016 (kWh) FYE 2017 (kWh) Langat 2 100,174 417,089 271,749 Langat CSTP N/A 240,000 74,876 Vietnam 10,510,412 10,434,400 10,430,400 SALCON BERHAD pg 58 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT 3 -Y e a r Wat e r Con sum p t ion D ata ( m 3 ) : To reduce water consumption by 10% on a per unit basis by 2026 The water consumption data below was extracted from the from 2016 for administrative water bill generated by the water supply authority in the offices respective operating areas. Water Consumption at Administrative Offices: FYE 2015 F YE 2016 F YE 2017 Administration Water No. of Water No. of Water No. of office consumption employees consumption employees consumption employees (m3) (m3) (m3) Envitech 444 55 549 53 365 14 SPS N/A N/A N/A N/A 12 44 Eco-Coach 14.4 15 16.8 18 19.2 20 Total 458.4 70 565.8 71 396.2 78 Water 6.5 8.0 5.1 consumption per person (m3) HQ and VBT’s water data is not available as its water usage is taken as part of the office rental. Progress as at FYE 2017: 36.3% reduction of water consumption per person compared with FYE 2016. Water Consumption at Project Sites: Project Sites FYE 2015 (m3) FYE 2016 (m3) FYE 2017 (m3) Langat 2 35,840 148,861 1,928 Langat CSTP N/A 480 841.75 Vietnam 20,000 20,000 20,000 To reduce scheduled waste generation by 10% per project basis by 2026 3 -Y e a r Sch e dule d Wa st e Data ( m e t r ic t on n e s) : from 2016 Project Site FYE 2015 FYE 2016 FYE 2017 Result (Comparison of % reduction FYE 2017 with FYE 2016) Langat CSTP N/A 1.60 1.27 20.6% Langat 2 8.60 4.30 2.18 49.3% Vietnam 0.12 0.12 0.12 Maintained 2 out of 3 of our project sites (66.7%) successfully reduced scheduled waste generation by more than 10%. SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 59 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT 3 -Y e a r R aw M at e r ia l Use d D ata ( t on n e s) : Vietnam FYE 2015 FYE 2016 FYE 2017 project Chlorine 45 48 46 Lime 199 240 248 Alum 512 572 550 Fluoride 55 55 60 CSTP FYE 2016 FYE 2017 project Metal 9,300 13,443 Concrete 36 98,830 Data in 2015 is not available as the project only commenced in 2016. 3 -Y e a r Die se l Con sum p t ion D ata ( l it e r s) : Office/Site FYE 2015 FYE 2016 FYE 2017 Eco-Coach & Tours 836,309 940,801 1,080,521 The above diesel consumption is the diesel usage by our vans and coaches of our subsidiary, Eco-Coach & Tours which provides transportation services. 3 -Y e a r R e cycle d Data (kg ) : Year Paper Plastic Metal Glass Reusable Electronic items item FYE 2015 1,281 1 0 0 0 0 FYE 2016 4,262 288.6 157.1 106.4 469.3 252.1 FYE 2017 2874.6 50 4 11 92.2 41.4 External drainage cleaning to reduce pollution at our Vietnam operation site SALCON BERHAD pg 60 (593796-T) socialEMPLOYEES Employees are the backbone for every success of a Company. We treat our employees as the Group’s greatest and most valuable assets and we are committed to continuously invest in our people to provide a safe, healthy, diverse and respectful workplace, so that they are able to deliver values to our other stakeholders. We see this is as win-win situation where both parties share the same values for sustainable growth. Our Alignment to SDG Goals We are committed to create a safe and healthy workplace to all employees at office and project sites, at the same time promote work-life balance for better work productivity We provide trainings to employees to enhance their skills at the workplace, zero tolerance on child and forced labour and job opportunities are offered according to capability We create a culture of inclusivity, diversity and zero discrimination at the workplace regardless of gender, race, religion or ethnicity. Huma n R i ghts We fully abide with the national and local Employment Act in system and grievance mechanism at Group level to ensure Malaysia and other countries in which we operate. We respect source protection. In FYE 2017, there were no reports on employee rights and have zero tolerance on human rights grievance or non-compliance on human rights issue. abuse at the workplace. We have in place a whistleblower SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 61 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Our principals in human rights at workplace: Principal Description No child labour We do not recruit child labour or forced labour in any of our operating countries and comply with all the local laws and regulations throughout our business operations. No forced labour Freedom in political view It is the employees’ freedom to have their own political views. Nevertheless, we do not allow an employee to affect other workforce or work performance due to political views. Fair workforce welfare We comply with applicable wage laws to ensure fair and ethical human resources management practices, including working hours, overtime, minimum wage. Safe & healthy workplace We take prudent and precautious measures in handling safety and health issues at our workplace and project sites. D i v er s i ty & Eq ua l Op p or t un it ie s As one of the 9 key material issues identified by both our We support an inclusive workplace by valuing differing abilities. internal and external stakeholders, a diverse workforce which At Envitech, we have employed a Senior Draughtswoman with is accorded equal opportunities, fosters creativity and hearing disabilities who receives fair treatment and benefits. innovation and helps an employee to reach his or her fullest There is no incident of discrimination reported in FYE 2017. potential. In Malaysia where our main operations are based in, we Our commitment in diversity & equal opportunities, irrespective appreciate living and operating in this multi-racial country which of sexual orientation, gender, age group, racial, ethnicity, provides us the unique opportunity of working with people from nationality, cultural background, marital status, disabilities, different races, religions and background. We embrace religion, political inclination, union membership are as below: diversity, promote inclusion and reduce discrimination at workplace through festive celebrations, sports events and 1. Offer equal opportunities in recruitment. recreational activities. In Malaysia, our workforce is averagely 2. Career advancement, promotions or remuneration are balance in terms of ethnicity. solely based on performance and merit. Equal opportunities & diversity has been identified as key material issues in workplace sustainability SALCON BERHAD pg 62 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT Employ ee D i v e r sit y: Total number of Employees 2 2 2 8 5 4 15 12 12 2 2 1 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL 296 318 322 269 297 303 Malaysia Thailand Sri Lanka Vietnam India Category 112 106 98 2015 2016 2017 184 212 224 Executive Non-Executive Status (Ratio between permanent to contract employees) New Recruitment 3.67 2.70 3.18 35 20 Permanent 1.00 1.00 1.00 Contract 2015 2016 2017 2017 SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 63 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Ethnicity (Malaysia only) 15 16 19 130 144 151 28 31 32 2015 2016 2017 96 106 101 Malay Chinese Indian Others Age Group 52 64 63 67 70 71 2015 2016 2017 177 169 188 Below 30 30 – 50 Above 50 SALCON BERHAD pg 64 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT Wo men Empo we r m e n t & G e n de r E qua l it y At Salcon, both of our male and female employees enjoy equitable opportunities and benefits in all aspects of employment. 41% of our employees are female and we understand the need to achieve a more balanced gender workforce. The percentage of our female leaders, who hold the position of manager and above has slightly increased from 25% to 28% compared with the preceding year. We fully respect employees who are working mothers and appreciate their contribution at both the workplace and family. At Salcon, we do not prohibit our employees from expressing breast milk during working hours on the condition that they practice proper time management and do not affect work deliverables. We support and recognize the value of having women directors on the Board. Currently, we have 6 male directors on Board and have aimed to identify a suitable female director by year 2019. Male Female Gender 186 195 189 110 133 123 2015 2016 2017 Gender of employees with Ratio of remuneration (men position manager & above versus women 60 68 1.8 1.00 1.00 1.00 27 20 2016 2017 2016 2017 SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 65 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Ta lent R eten t io n & A t t r a ct ion Talent attraction and retention is increasingly challenging in order to attract potential talent and retain our employees who are innovative, motivated, committed and share the same values as the Company. In FYE 2017, our full-time employee turnover rate increased slightly to 9.3%. Full time employee turnover rate 6.3% 9.3% 2017 2016 2015 7.2% No. Approach 1 Competitive Performance-based Rewards We appreciate our employees’ contribution by rewarding them through salary increment, bonus, promotion or upgrading opportunity and long services awards 2 Career growth & development We invest in our people through training and development to improve their knowledge and skills, so that they can achieve higher milestone in their career path 3 Effective communication A transparent communication between employer and employee is crucial for an effective working relationship. The Company adopts an open-door policy where communication is encouraged for a better understanding on work performance. Besides this, annual appraisals for all employees and regular meetings are held to identify any shortfall and area of improvement. We invest in our people through training and development to improve their knowledge and skills SALCON BERHAD pg 66 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT E mploy ee Wel lb e in g & W or k life Ba l a n c e A balanced lifestyle between workplace and personal lives can create meaningful results to both employer and employees. Employees who achieve a good work-life balance are able to deliver better results. Providing employees with a good work like balance can also instill a sense of appreciation and loyalty to the Company. Our approaches in fulfilling employees’ well-being: 1. Good Work-life balance 2. Family-friendly benefits Work-life Balance: We promote work-life balance through our Salcon Recreational Club (SRC) to encourage sports and familybased activities for our employees. We aim to foster a healthy work-life balance culture and build camaraderie among employees through the activities organized. The SRC which consists of 16 committee members from different divisions and subsidiaries, is responsible for organizing activities in the 3 categories below: Category Activity • Weekly badminton games • Badminton tournament Sports • Fortnightly bowling games • Bowling tournament • Annual Trip to Xi’an, China Outings • Family Day at District 21, Putrajaya Staff get-together • Annual Dinner, a networking session for all colleagues Annual Family Day at District 21, Putrajaya Annual trip to Xi'an, China SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 67 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Under the S.H.E. Committee, we also organize a yearly Safety & Health Campaign Month at HQ to raise awareness on living a safe and healthy lifestyle. Activities conducted under the campaign include The Salcon Biggest Loser Contest, a weightloss competition as well as blood donation drive and various health talks and free medical check-ups. Family-friendly benefits: We offer family-based benefits to all of our eligible employees including marriage leave, paternity leave, maternity leave, compassionate leave, cash coupons for newlyweds and new-born baby and medical coverage for employees and their children. Besides this, we comply to the Malaysia Employment Act and support the long-term economic well-being of our Malaysian employees by contributing to the Employee Pension Fund (EPF) throughout their employment period. In FYE 2017, total employees related expenses account for 48% of the total expenses. Bowling tournament is one of the annual sports activity organized by SRC S elf-I mpr o v em e n t & De v e lop m e n t Our objective in employee self-improvement & development is Training Opportunities not only limited to building functional and technical skills for career success, but also expands to more meaningful personal Training Needs Analysis is conducted on a yearly basis to development where we offer community contribution or identify learning opportunities and provide employees with volunteering opportunities to our employees. relevant training sessions for skills improvement. Total training programme for employees 101 107 We support our people in fulfilling their career aspirations and maximize personal potential by improving their management and technical skills and knowledge in this fast-changing business environment through internal and external trainings. 92 2017 2016 2015 SALCON BERHAD pg 68 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT Categories of Training Number of training hours 6 19 3 1612 hours Training investment 2017 49 RM 136,396 Average hour per employee 30 5.25 hours Effectiveness of training Personal & leadership development Positive mindset 92% of participants Functional/knowledge met their training objectives Supplementary Knowledge Average day per employee Safety & Health 0.65 day O c c upati o na l Sa f e t y & H e a lt h A safe and healthy workplace for our employee is the pillar to support the Group’s performance. This is also reflected in our recent materiality assessment where occupational safety & health was rated to be the most material issue for both our internal and external stakeholders. We are committed to create a hazard-free and healthy working environment for our employees, contractors, community and customers. The Board oversees the occupational safety and health to ensure business continuity and zero fatalities. The Board is assisted by the Safety, Health & Environmental (S.H.E.) Department and Committee, which implements safety and health initiatives throughout the Group’s operation. Guided by our Safety and Health Policy, we strive to achieve a safe and healthy workplace by taking preventive measures and creating employee awareness. S.H.E. Committee The S.H.E. Committee consists of different representatives from the management and employees. It is chaired by our COO and is responsible for carrying out duties to cultivate a safe & healthy workplace at both offices and project sites. SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 69 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Measures taken by the S.H.E. Committee: No. Initiatives Frequency 1 Inspections and audits to identify any hazardous safety and health practice Quarterly 2 Audit at HQ & project sites Yearly for HQ Quarterly for project sites 3 Meetings to discuss workplace safety & health issues Quarterly 4 Organize activities to raise safety and health awareness As needed Workplac e S afet y & Healt h Init iat iv e s Each project site and office has its own S.H.E. team to monitor the Group’s safety and health performance. Our HQ office and Kuala Terengganu Utara (KTU) Water Treatment Plant project are monitored by the S.H.E. Department and these are 100% certified with OHSAS 18001. Under OHSAS 18001 requirements, we follow the practices and procedures and go through audit by the Bureau Veritas. No. Action Project site/ office 1 Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk Control (HIRARC) to identify the Applicable water and wastewater potential risks and opportunities before commencement of project project 2 Basic occupational first aid, CPR & AED training Envitech 3 Safety & Health Campaign Month HQ 4 OHSAS Campaign Labour Safety and Hygiene Week Vietnam 5 Fire drill HQ, Envitech, Package D49 (wastewater project), SPS 6 SHE induction training for new workers 7 Toolbox briefing Applicable water and wastewater 8 Machinery inspection project sites 9 S.H.E. audit & inspection 10 Fogging at project site Package D49, res 280 (property project) 11 Spine & joint talk & check up HQ 12 Blood donation HQ 13 Breast cancer awareness campaign HQ 14 Dengue campaign Langat CSTP SALCON BERHAD pg 70 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT Accident Management: We adopt a comprehensive management system in handling workplace accidents or incidents leading to injuries or fatalities. Investigations are conducted to look for the cause factor and findings are reviewed to reduce risks in the future. Our process of accident management: In October 2017, an incident occurred at our KTU project site Our man hours with zero loss time injury (LTI) target has been where the finger of the employee of our sub-contractor was hurt reset in November 2017 due to the incident at the KTU project by a bar-bending machine. Immediate action was taken to site. As such, our target has also been reset to 1 million man bring the victim for proper medical treatment and an hours without LTI. investigation was carried out for review. Achieved man hours without LTI (hours) SAFETY FIRST 0 Zero work-related employee or sub-contractor 189,185 fatalities case for the past 3 years 2015 2016 2017 9,398,054 10,182,880 Annual fire drill for all employees at HQ and project sites to highlilght the importance of fire safety SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 71 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT S a fety & Hea lt h T r a in in g Safety and health training are important for our S.H.E Committee and employees to keep abreast of the proper techniques to apply when handling safety and health matters. Knowledgeable employees equipped with relevant and practical knowledge will also mitigate safety and health risk and reduce unnecessary loss to the Company. 71% 93% 92% 54 62 12 2015 300 2016 528 2017 516 Total safety & Total safety & Percentage of S.H.E. Committee health training health training members who have attended hours for hours for safety & health training employees sub-contractors 44 EMPLOYEES 44 employees who are not S.H.E. Committee attended safety-related training in FYE 2017 Safety & health training is important to raise awareness on workplace safety & health SALCON BERHAD pg 72 (593796-T) socialcommunity As a responsible corporate citizen, we are committed to building a sustainable, strong and resilient community through our engagement and social development. We understand that gaining the trust of our community is crucial for long term relationships and success of our business operations. Through our measures in community investment, NGO collaborations, local employment as well as philanthropic giving, we aim to drive positive change to the community where we operate in. Our Alignment to SDG Goals We collaborate with various NGOs who share the same values as us in developing the community by uplifting their living quality C o mmuni ty R i g h t s L oc a l E m p l oym en t In some of our projects, our job scope involves working within Priority is given to the local communities, where possible, in the local neighbourhood. In such cases, it is our standard terms of job opportunities for all new projects. Our commitment operating procedure to conduct townhall meetings with the to local employment is also stated in the Group's Recruitment local communities before the commencement of the project. Policy. Local employment serves as a cost-saving measure for These briefings serve to inform the communities on what to us as we do not need to import talent from outside which may expect throughout the project period and helps to minimize any lead to higher human resource expenditure. Local communities potential disruptions. will enjoy greater variety of job opportunities at the same time. The Project Manager of each project acts as the point of contact for any resident to address their concerns or report any breaches of human rights. Todate, there have been no such reported incidences. SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 73 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Yo ung Gener at i on s Our community sustainability initiatives focus very much on the development of our younger generation as future leaders of the nation. In FYE 2017, we continued to engage with school students and university students via the following programmes: Upcycle Workshop Salcon Smart Water Salcon Train the Internship and Recycling Programme Trainers Programme opportunities Competition S a lc o n S ma r t Wat e r P r og r a m m e We have been in long term collaboration with Water Watch Penang (WWP) since 2010 to conduct the Salcon Smart Water Programme for primary school students in Klang Valley. The Salcon Smart Water Programme is a hands-on bi-monthly programme where school students have opportunity to conduct physical, chemical and biological river water testing at Lembah Kiara, Taman Tun Dr. Ismail. Students are educated on water conservation and biodiversity in the river. This regional award-winning programme was extended to secondary school students in 2016 after we revised the syllabus to suit the students. We are glad to see that the participants’ knowledge gained from our pre and post event survey. Highlights of the Salcon Smart Water Programme: Number of students Participants Media value Knowledge Reached out benefited recommendation rate generated improvement 64 schools 2,280 students 100% & 4 orphanage RM 89,600 16% homes SALCON BERHAD pg 74 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT The Salcon Smart Water Programme is a hands-on bi-monthly programme where school students have opportunity to conduct physical, chemical and biological river water testing at Lembah Kiara, Taman Tun Dr. Ismail. Students are educated on water conservation and biodiversity in the river. School students gain knowledge through hands-on physical, chemical and biological river water testing via the Salcon Smart Water Programme S a lc o n Tr a i n t h e T r a in e r s ( T OT ) P r og r a m m e In order to reach out more students, we expanded the Teachers are equipped with the necessary know-how and skill programme in 2014 by conducting trainings for teachers to be to become ‘Certified Trainers’ of the Salcon Smart Water the facilitators themselves. With the transfer of knowledge, Programme by undergoing a half-day on-site training session. teachers are empowered and have the flexibility to conduct the Besides being provided with water testing kits and teaching programme to fit their school schedules. Through this ripple materials, we also subsidise the transportation costs of ferrying effect, we can expand our reach to positively impact students’ the students and teachers from their respective schools to the attitudes and actions. river site. Number of schools Number of Number of which conducted own programme conducted teachers trained programme by schools 136 teachers 11 schools 26 programmes SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 75 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Upcycle Workshop and Recycling C o mpeti ti o n In conjunction with the Salcon Environment Week, we collaborated with Community Recycle for Charity (CRC) to organize an Upcycle Workshop and Recycling Competition for SK Dusun Nanding in Hulu Langat. The objective of the workshop and competition is to raise upcycle and recycling awareness among the primary school students. 270students reached We expanded the Salcon Smart Water Program by training teachers to be facilitators for their own schools 1,098kg Total recyclable items collected by students: 1,098kg (including aluminium, glass, plastic & paper) I nter ns hi p o p po r t un it ie s We offer practical job experience to university students for real corporate world exposure. We recruited 5 university students as interns in FYE 2017 and are one of the partners in the Tunku Abdul Rahman University College’s i-Star Internship Programme. C a r e fo r the N e e dy As a part of the larger community, we aim to foster a strong sense of compassion and giving amongst our employees to those who are less fortunate and in need. We strongly encourage our employees to give back to the society whether in the form of time, money or in-kind contribution. Our community outreach targets to touch as many layers of the of the community as much as possible, via: 1. Philanthrophic giving 2. Knowledge sharing 3. Donating for a good cause (organ donation pledge & blood donation) SALCON BERHAD pg 76 (593796-T) S U S TA INA BILITY STATEM ENT Phi la nthr o phi c G iv in g Sa l c on Ba c k t o S c h ool Prog ra mme In line with our Sponsorship & Donation Policy, we support Our employees also showed their support to charity homes orphanage homes, old folks homes, and disabled people under the Salcon Back to School Programme to Pertubuhan homes through philanthrophic giving. In FYE 2017, we have Yesuvin Mahligai, an orphanage home in Selangor. We donated RM 114,795 to 20 charity homes in FYE 2017 which purchased school uniforms and shoes for the orphans through include USD 3,200 of Vietnam office’s yearly initiatives in donations by the employees and Company and paid the home participating in the Terry Fox Run Fundraising Programme and a visit before Christmas to deliver school supplies and spread in-kind support to poor families at Binh Thang Ward. All cheer to the children at the home. donations under our Malaysia operations are entitled for tax relief from the Government. Terry Fox Run fund raising event in Vietnam Our annual Back to School Programme aims to ease the expenses of the orphanage D on at e f or G ood C a u s e In conjunction with the Salcon Safety & Health Campaign Month, we collaborated with the National Kidney Foundation (NKF) to conduct an organ donation talk to employees to explain organ donation myths and misconceptions. On the closing day of the campaign, we reached out to employees and the public at our office tower through an organ donation pledge by NKF and annual blood donation drive by National Blood Bank. A total of 16 signed up for the organ donation pledge whilst 62 pints of blood were collected, translating into 186 lives saved. Our annual blood donation drive received good response from the Salcon employees and public SALCON BERHAD (593796-T) pg 77 S US TA INA BILIT Y S TATEMENT Kno wled ge S h a r in g In FYE 2017, we collaborated with HOPE Worldwide Malaysia, a non-profit, non-religious organisation to conduct a voluntary talk to our employees. Subsequently, 14 of our employees and family members visited HOPE Worldwide Malaysia Centre in Sentul to teach underprivileged children English reading and creative art work to improve their knowledge, skills and confidence. 56 HOURS Our employees volunteer to spend their time with under-priviledge children via knowledge sharing Our employees volunteer to spend their time with underOur employees and children in HOPE Worldwide Malaysia priviledge children via knowledge sharing C o nc lus i o n Moving forward, the Group will continue to strive to enhance our sustainability initiatives to achieve ever higher milestones in all our EES aspects by taking impactful actions to create and sustain healthy economic performance, sustainable supply chain, long term environmental conservation, productive workplace and high living quality for the community
