PANINI CORNER LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018/2019 Contents 2 ❖The year in Review ❖Message from the C.E.O OUR BUSINESS ❖Who we are ❖What we do COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT; ❖Description of Action ❖Sustainability Develop Goals BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y THE YEAR IN REVIEW We have a stronger management team, Since October 2017 comprised with team we have hired more leads from various youths in our departments. These company. Currently team leads are 50% of our workforce involved in the The company has comprises of youths decision making and undertaken a with the age bracket policy implementation thorough financial and between 18-29 years. in the company. They operational auditing We are giving the also bring to the for 2017/2018 to youth an attention of senior streamline on policies opportunities to management the and to ensure their learn, share their suggestions, ideas, implementation and ideas and make their concerns raised by sustainability. dreams in the employees. industry a reality. 3 BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y THE YEAR IN REVIEW Late last year our C.E.O. made a commitment to empower women and equip In may 2017 we partnered them with culinary with St. Thomas Barnados knowledge and skill to Children’s Home Nairobi for In September 2018 enable them to find jobs our C.S.R Project. Being a we partnered with and even start their own children’s home we did not businesses. She accepts want do just donate food and Toyota Kenya and women from all walks of clothing like other received training on life who are interested in companies do. We decided to Kaizen practices and the catering and restaurant go to the venue with all the their benefits. business into hers. Spends staff members. Spend some January 2018 we hours training them on the time with the children while started incorporating ways of the business. preparing their meals as they these practices in our Allowing them to learn also got a hands on from the best in the experience on how to make daily operations. We restaurant. She gives them good food. Cooked for them have seen a great the opportunity to practice meals like we do in the improvement and improve their skills for restaurant. Shared healthy & especially in the area Free. When the trainees affordable recipes with their of customer relations have acquired skills to kitchen staff. Spent the entire and in our overall their satisfaction they are day with them then donated free to start their own food and clothing . We also operations business, join the company gave advice on best cooking4 or other companies. practices and food storage. BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y 4 Last year we had In October 2018, We We are working with incorporated training as created a supplier code our corporate clients, part of the long term of conduct code of analyzing their operations and best goals in our HR Policy. conduct that governs practices. We want to Various types of training our relationship with learn from them and are on going in order to them. We have seen an ensure that our improve the quality of tremendous services are in sync our products and improvement in conduct with their operations. services and also to from our suppliers. This is to ensure we develop our employees. There is more offer them the We are engaging certified transparency and customized services professionals in the professionalism that are specific to their needs. industry for this exercise. exhibited from them. Electricity usage Late 2017 we increased by moved our 60%. Opting for headquarters to We produced 50% cleaner energy, Sameer Africa more waste than Complex. This last year, this is half our branches are move was due to the prompted by the using electricity expansion of our Increase in as opposed to business and more production. Water LPG. This production required usage has transition has increased by 40%. by customers. been quite costly. 6 BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y MESSAGE FROM THE CEO To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Panini Corner Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. As we plan to venture into coffee manufacturing in the near future, we are aligning our operations to support the national Big Four Agenda while maintaining our commitment to the principles of the U.N Global compact . We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders, using our primary channels of communication. Yours Sincerely, [Mrs. Grace NK Mwangi] 7 [ CEO/FOUNDER BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y OUR BUSINESS 8 BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y WHO WE ARE Panini Restaurant and Catering Services Limited is a private enterprise that operates in Sameer Africa Complex as the Head quarters and main restaurant at, Car and General Motors Complex along Lusaka Road. 8 BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y WHAT WE DO Panini started with sandwiches as signature for brand; over time, the brand has evolved to offer corporate catering, industrial catering for Staff Meals, and Café Model for Bistros (Facility management) . Panini brand offering is wholesome, Healthy, Nutritional meals with an experience of quality and freshness The Panini experience comprises fresh quality meals, a family feeling, lasting friendships, professionalism, valuing people, an open kitchen concept which was is a part of indulging in the experience, by creating customized meals; however, this is not much leveraged because of space and design of current facilities but as the brand expands the dream will soon become a reality. 9 BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y VISION: To be the leader in the restaurant and catering in Kenya MISSION: Aims to create a Healthier people around my world by providing healthy, nutritious, wholesome meals TAGLINE : We feed your body and your soul Our Values The 4Ps My Panini, my brand, my Pride. We the People build the vision. Our labor of love gives us the Passion to serve you! We got the Power to create and share ideas in culinary Our Food promise… Years ago Panini Restaurant began a never-ending journey to serve delicious, healthier, wholesome, nutritious food that is better for you, for our associates, and for the world we live in. We consider people as central to our business: we nurture friendly, ethical and professional approaches in all our business interactions and undertakings Our Passion to provide seamless Customer experience and ethical labour practices calls us to give personal attention to every detail of our clients' requirements (Customer focus) . . COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS HUMAN RIGHTS Commitments We are committed to comply with the Universal Declaration of Human rights and International Labor Organization (ILO) and the Constitution of Kenya, 2010. The Employee Code of Conduct and Attendant Regulations Manual that was created last year has been fundamental in ensuring that human rights are not infringed and preventing abuse at our workplace. The human resource team is constantly improving our policies in order to protect workers from workplace harassment and other related vices. In the coming year, the company will undertake audits of our operations and ensure our staff are educated on their rights and what to do when their rights are infringed. Implementation Human resource policies and procedures that were created last year, have been implemented as from early this year. They have spelt out mechanisms for dealing with any work place grievances and harassment. Worker safety and health is ensured by provision of clean, safe, hygienic working environment and sanitation facilities. They are currently undergoing rigorous training on health and safety. Measures of outcomes Implementation of the Human Rights policy has been effective . Two Cases of Human rights violations were reported to senior management for review, they were investigated, disciplinary action was taken against the offenders and the records of the same were maintained in their respective files. LABOUR Commitment to Rights To adhere to all applicable labor laws of Kenya , International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions and other requirements. To identify and eliminate all forms of labour malpractice. To remain an equal opportunity employer devoid of any kind of discrimination based on gender, religion, HIV status and other likely circumstances . To employ qualified persons relevant to our work, ensure that our staff remain ethical and professional in the work place. Activities implemented in the last year The policies that were written the previous year have been implemented. Workers have been provided with Personal Protective Equipment appropriate to work they do, and are facilitated for the mandatory medical examination and care as required by Public Health Authorities. Staff payments and other compensation are in accordance with minimum wage recommendations laid in applicable National Employment laws. Within the year, we developed a human resource department that conducts recruitment and selection of candidates. The team also acts as a bridge between management and the employees. In the coming year we are going to train our workforce in better ways of exercising their rights. Implementation Grievance resolution procedures have been communicated to the employees by the Human resource team. Reported grievances and violations are documented and handed over to management team for determination as per stipulated procedures. We comply with applicable regulations governing work place and labor safety as well as public health. Measurement of Outcome Employee relations have been greatly improved. We have experience more professionalism and lower employee turnover. ENVIRONMENT We are committed to operate and take initiatives that minimize our environmental footprint. Activities implemented in the last year 50% of our branches are now using electricity as a source of energy as opposed to LPG. We are devoted in reduce our carbon footprint and this year we are exploring other more affordable options to be implemented in the future. Implementation We have color coordinated our dustbins so that we ensure waste is reduced, we reuse some materials such as carrying bag and recycle those that can be. We also avoid wastage during production by portioning meals during preparations. This way, there is no excess to be thrown out. Wastage of material is no longer possible as the raw materials are allocated as per order by the client. In the coming year we are going to receive better training on how to reuse, reduce and recycle waste. Measurements of outcome financial savings results by senior management, reduce in waste the amount of waste produced ANTI-CORRUPTION We are Committed to: Zero tolerance on corruption Ensuring full compliance to existing laws and regulations to eliminate potential platforms for bribery seekers Applying ethical practices in our business sourcing Embracing fair competition and negate inappropriate favors of any other kind to our business partners Implementation We have continually undertaken risk assessments of our operations to determine those most prone to corruption and bribery and develop mitigation measures. We have introduced system of approval, in our purchasing, supply chain and finance, to ensure before transparency in operations. We are currently reviewing our supply chain and vetting all our suppliers as we create a code of ethics for them. We have clearly labelled our offices as corruption free-zones to remind all those who come to our establishment of the transparency required. We have an anti corruption clause in all our employment and supplier engagement contracts. In the coming year we will have a code of ethics for all our suppliers. Measurements of outcome No cases of extortion or bribery reported by staff to senior management and reports made to Ethics and AntiCorruption Commission of Kenya. BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y In 2016, the United Nations published 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030. The goals provide an opportunity to examine sustainable business in the long term. In 2017, we started a process for determining which SDGs are important for Panini Corner Limited. The purpose of this work is to identify future sustainable business opportunities and improve the dialogue with stakeholders by offering a common language. How we intend to make this COP available to our stakeholders By uploading the COP to our business website, our social media platforms and through email communications . By incorporating it as an agenda in our business engagements particularly our stakeholders’ commitment to UN Global Compact principles Our own process is just beginning, but we have so far selected Four SDGs which our company is committed to: We are devoted to ensure that we provide our customers with well balance diet that is good for their health and well being. For our corporate clients we offer menus that have vegetable and fruit in them. The menus are customized according to the client’s preference. In the next year we will continue to revamp our menu and meals to ensure that we provide more nutritious meals. In the past 70% of our workforce comprised of men and 30% were women. In the past year we have employed more women in various positions this is to balance the gender scale in our company. Currently 55% are men and 45 % are women. We have ensured that men and women of the same positions receive equal pay and opportunities. In the next year we are looking forward to balancing the gender scale even further. BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y In the past year our company gained 40% profit higher than the previous year. This year we experienced some losses being a post election year . The elections impacted many business negatively especially during the first quarter of 2018. However our business has begun to gather momentum. We are not only providing our services to corporate clients but also to other customers. In the past year in our HR manual we stipulated that we are dedicated to reward our employees by providing good salaries and other benefits. This year we increased the salaries of our employees based on merit. We now have reward management programs such as employee of the month. This reward program has boosted the moral of our employees by 30% since its initiation early this year. In the next year we are planning to provide our employees avenues to develop and grow their skills, which will also enable them to enjoy their jobs and to earn more. Earning more will help them and their families. 19 BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y In the previous year our HR manual stipulated our dedication to minimize all forms of inequalities. We have worked very hard to analyze the areas in our operations that are prone to inequalities and we are currently working on eradicating them completely. We have hired more women to eradicate gender inequality, offered the same to both men and women. We have also hired personnel from different tribes , to eradicate tribalism. We hire people of all cultures, background's even those with disabilities. We are an equal opportunity employer. In the future we are looking forward to employing people from different countries. So that our organization can be a global village with no inequalities. 20 BEST FOR You O R G A N I C S C O M P A N Y
