United Nations Global Compact: CEO Statement of Continued Support November 2018 1 Essential Connections 2017 Environmental, Social and Governance Report Douglas L. Peterson President and Chief Executive Officer 55 Water Street New York, NY 10041 Tel: 212-438-3600 Fax: 212-438-5533 douglas.peterson@spglobal.com To our stakeholders: I am pleased to reaffirm S&P Global’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr. Douglas Peterson President & Chief Executive Officer Corporate Responsibility 2 From our CEO Powering the Markets of the Future Advancements in the past decade have fueled dynamic growth with new, exciting Table of contents opportunities to build a more sustainable world. As S&P Global looks to power the markets of the future, supporting sustainable finance is at the heart of our strategy. Our Approach: Essential Connections Companies and institutional investors increasingly see environmental, social and 05 Connecting Business and CR Strategies governance (ESG) factors and long-term value creation as fundamental to managing financial part in Community Impact Month, making 05 CR Impact: 2017 Highlights risk and performance. And we are responding a difference to tens of thousands of people with groundbreaking ESG data, analytics and around the world (see page 26). In February Environmental, Social and Governance Performance tools that support transformative change 2018, S&P Global was thrilled to announce across industries and markets. This report a $20 million contribution to the S&P Global showcases many such firsts, among them Foundation which will take our CR programs 11 Introduction mainstream indices that incorporate carbon and impact to the next level. metrics, and an innovative tool for companies 11 About S&P Global to evaluate their performance against the We also look to strengthen the essential Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). connections within our organization at 13 Environmental Performance every opportunity. This report provides As we work across our enterprise to drive many examples, including our deepening 20 Social Performance market transparency on ESG risks and commitment to diversity and inclusion and to opportunities, our business goals and immersive training in technology that equips all 29 Governance Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy our people to succeed. increasingly intersect. We define CR as Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index connecting our unique capabilities to the Through this decade and beyond, we will needs of society, and we apply this approach continue to strengthen our connections to 33 GRI Standards Content Index in three critical areas for achieving inclusive, all our stakeholders in ways that support a sustainable economies: more sustainable world of opportunity for all. As always, we welcome your feedback as we • Promoting Sustainability in our operations continue along this essential path. and through our ESG products; • Elevating People through workforce readiness skills including STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education; and • Supporting Women Entrepreneurs. Douglas L. Peterson President and Chief Executive Officer S&P Global’s 20,000 employees are our most essential partners in this endeavor. Passionate and committed, they provide the skills, talent and time to drive our ESG market performance and global mentoring and volunteering efforts. In 2017, close to a third of our workforce took 4 5 Our Approach: Connecting Business Many of the policies, programs and case studies and CR Strategies highlighted throughout the report demonstrate this interconnectedness between our CR efforts and impact and our approach to business. Essential Connections Increasingly, our enterprise goals and our CR and ESG strategies align. Embracing continual innovation and technological change is essential not only to business Our CR Impact: 2017 Highlights success but also to a successful transition to an inclusive, low-carbon economy. Serving the sustainable investing market scales both our business and the global economy. We work with expert partners and join strategic, gameMaking social investments in diversity, inclusion and changing initiatives across the world to further our CR employee development gives us a vital competitive edge priorities. The ESG Performance section lists our key as we seek to attract top talent. And supporting programs partners and describes our progress in detail. Below, that scale STEM skills and empower women serves we provide a snapshot of 2017 highlights followed by Advancing our Corporate Responsibility Mission our business interests by helping to build tomorrow’s case studies showcasing how our partnerships advance Advancing our Corporate Responsibility Mission 94,300 + workforce and grow GDP. sustainability and change lives. New Strategy Advancing our Corporate Responsibility Mission New Strategy New Strategy In 2016 we introduced a repositioned CR strategy to 94,300 + digital interactions with employees, including via website, digital video with interactions 94,300 + social media and employees, Our essential Our essential economies Corporate Our essential intelligence intelligence and thriving intelligence powers Responsibility economies and thriving global communities. powers inclusive inclusive global communities. powers inclusiveMission sustainable sustainable sustainable align with the newIn 2016 S&PweGlobal introduced brand.a repositioned We launched strategy to CRthe economies and thriving global communities. including via website, video digital and social interactions media with employees, alignawith the new S&PIn‘1002016 we Global introduced brand. a repositioned We launched the CR strategy to new strategy with Company-wide Daystheof CR’ including via website, video and social media Our essential intelligence powers inclusive sustainable 275 align with new S&P Global brand. We launched the new strategy with a Company-wide ‘100 Days of CR’ 275 275 employee engagement campaign, which generated new strategy with a anCompany-wide ‘100 Days of CR’ economies and thriving global communities. employee engagementemployeecampaign, which generated an overwhelmingly enthusiastic response (see right). engagement campaign, which generated an overwhelmingly enthusiastic response overwhelmingly (see right).response (see right). enthusiastic employees signed up for mentoring programs employees signed up for mentoring employees programs signed up for mentoring programs Our employees’Our commitment employees’ to making commitment a difference to making Our employees’ a is also to making difference commitment is also a difference is also 1,300 exemplified byexemplified our fast-growing network of CR champions 1,3001,300 by our fast-growing exemplified network of CR champions by our fast-growing network of CR champions (CoRe Teams) and (CoReGreen Teams)Teams and Green map). (see(CoRe Teams Typical (seeand Teams) CoRe Green map). (see map). Typical CoRe TeamsCoRe Typical events in 2016 events included in 2016 includedevents an Employee in 2016 included Community an Employee Partner Community PartnerCommunity Partner an Employee ELEVATE SUPPORT Our WOMEN Goals PROMOTE Fair held by the London team to showcase employees voted on voted the CR strategy, onemployees voted on new nonprofit partners new nonprofit partners ELEVATE ELEVATE SUPPORT SUPPORT WOMEN WOMEN PROMOTE PROMOTE Fair held by theFair held by London the London team team tothe to showcase showcase CR the CR strategy, employees strategy, new nonprofit partners PEOPLE PEOPLE ENTREPRENEURS ENTREPRENEURS SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY and a sustainability-focused employee social event PEOPLE Elevate People ENTREPRENEURS Support Women Entrepreneurs SUSTAINABILITY Promote Sustainability $1.4 M and a sustainability-focused and a sustainability-focused employee employee social event social event $1.4 M in Charlottesville. $1.4 M in in Charlottesville. Charlottesville. Throughout 2017, we will further embed our CR strategy Build a stronger workforce by Make economies thrive Provide tools for sustainable raised through employee donations combined Throughout 2017, we will internally embed further and our CRitstrategy introduce externally to key partners with corporate raised through employee matching donations combined helping people develop vital science, by empowering Our Goals women investments while minimizing Throughout 2017, we will further embed our CR strategy raised through employee donations combined internally and introduce externally to key partners anditstakeholders. with corporate matching technology, engineering and Our Goals entrepreneurs our own footprint MakeOur Goals internally and andintroduce it externally to key partners stakeholders. with corporate matching mathBuild(STEM) skills workforce a stronger economies Provide tools for and stakeholders. by helping Build a stronger people develop workforce Makethrive by empowering economies sustainable Provide toolsinvestments for Build a vital stronger science, workforce by helping people develop technology, Make women entrepreneurs economies thrive by empowering while minimizing Provide tools for sustainable investments CoRe Team and Green Team Growth, 2016 2017 Highlights Corporate Responsibility (CR) makes the essential across the globe. Our CR program incorporates both engineering and math our own footprint by vital helping people science, develop technology, thriveentrepreneurs women by empowering minimizing investments whilesustainable CoRe Team and Green Team connections between our capabilities and the needs of Growth, 2016 our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Empowered (STEM) skills more than 15,000 Supported 1,799 aspiring female Earned CarbonNeutral® engineering and vital science, technology,math women entrepreneurs our own while minimizing Business footprint CoRe Team society. and At S&P Green Global, and deliver2016 developGrowth, we Team essential responsibilities, policies, programs and initiatives and students (STEM) through skills job readiness entrepreneurs in 61 developing Travel Certification by investing in engineering and math our own footprint intelligence. Data and analytics meet strategic insight, these three priority focus areas. Many of our activities support and STEM skills training. countries with Kiva, through microrenewable energy globally. (STEM) skills in-depth research and trusted benchmarks, to enable support the United Nations Sustainable Development loans provided 2016 by 500 employees. Highlights companies, governments and individuals to make decisions Goals (SDGs) in areas of shared value (see page 12). with conviction. Mentored 250 women Providedin1,939 STEM career hours Recruited 2016 more Awarded than Highlights $150,000300 employees, Became the Decreased firstuse energy index provider to Corporate Responsibility is integral to how we live our starter skills ofthrough employee Girls in Tech mentoring through 2017,the through to Aspen teach business introduce by 27% sincecarbon metrics alongside our 2013 The same drive for relevance shapes our approach to values of Integrity, Excellence and Relevance. It is how Global Provided toClassroom. high schoolers 1,939 hours skills Awarded2016 toNetwork women Highlights ofentrepreneurs Development with $150,000 baseline year. corporate Decreased energy use financial data. CR. We take an active role, making sure the work we do we use our skills and capabilities to make meaningful through the FIRST youth Entrepreneurs MicroMentor. to of employee mentoring through the Aspen by 27% since our 2013 makes a genuine impact on the communities in which change. And it is how we set the bar in creating economic robotics program. nonprofits connecting Hosted investor Launched new Green Teams Provided 1,939 hours to high schoolers Awarded Networkwomen $150,000 of Development in emerging Decreased baseline roadshows globallyenergy year. to use in we live. We focus our efforts where our skills can make opportunities and thriving communities. Sponsored of through employee the the first FIRSTannual mentoringyouthEnergy Funded first-of-a-kind Entrepreneurs to nationwide Ahmedebad, India, and Manila, the Hosted half-day consulting through markets thetoAspen finance. by 27% promote since our 2013 transparency a real difference: Promoting Sustainability; Elevating Dayrobotics Colorado, attracting students, research into nonprofits how micro-loans benefit Philippines, Hosted investor bringing the total to 14. program. to high schoolers ‘hack-a-thons’ on data Network connecting of Development and disclosure baseline year.in People through science, technology, engineering and math teachers and energy professionals. women U.S. insmall emerging Recruited businesses. 275 employees finance. to sustainableglobally roadshows through thevisualization, FIRST youth with Common Entrepreneurs to (STEM) education; and Supporting Women Entrepreneurs Impact, for Hosted half-day consultingnonprofit marketsto mentor to women finance. promote transparency robotics program. partners nonprofits entrepreneursconnecting with our Hosted investor ‘hack-a-thons’ onin three U.S. cities. data and disclosure in women in emerging partner MicroMentor. roadshows globally to visualization, with Common Recruited 275 employees sustainable finance. 6 Existing CoRe Team New CoRe Team Existing Green Team New Green Team Hosted half-day Impact, consulting for nonprofit tomarkets mentor women to finance. promote transparency 7 Centennial Ahmedabad Madrid Buenos Aires Mexico City Bogotá ‘hack-a-thons’ partners in three on data U.S. cities. entrepreneurs with our and disclosure in Charlottesville Chicago Makati City Centennial New York Boston Denver Gurgaon Mexico City Houston São Paulo Islamabad visualization, with Common Recruited 275 employees sustainable finance. Advancing our Corporate Responsibility Mission New Strategy 94,300 + digital interactions with employees, Our essential intelligence powers inclusive sustainable economies and thriving global communities. In 2016 we introduced a repositioned CR strategy to including via website, video and social media align with the new S&P Global brand. We launched the A World of Opportunity new strategy with a Company-wide ‘100 Days of CR’ Helping people gain employee engagement campaign, which generated an overwhelmingly enthusiastic response (see right). Q&A with Courtney Geduldig, 275 employees signed up for mentoring programs workforce-ready skills Executive Vice OurPresident, employees’ commitment to making a difference is also Case Study 1,300 exemplified by our fast-growing network of CR champions Public Affairs, S&P (CoRe Global Teams) and Green Teams (see map). Typical CoRe events in 2016 included an Employee Community Partner employees voted on new nonprofit partners ELEVATE SUPPORT WOMEN PROMOTE Fair held by the London team to showcase the CR strategy, PEOPLE ENTREPRENEURS SUSTAINABILITY and a sustainability-focused employee social event in Charlottesville. Q: How does CR strategy support the Company’s broad mission to power inclusive, sustainable economies and Throughout 2017, we will further embed ourchallenges CR strategy women face $1.4 M Outside our own walls, our CR programs tackle the many in launching and developing raised through employee donations combined Edie Fraser and her team at STEMconnector® are on a mission. Together, they aim to create a tech-ready Scaling STEM workforce preparedness, Fraser cautions, requires overcoming systemic barriers including a thriving global communities? businesses—from gender bias to matching lack of capital and workforce from elementary school up. ‘belief gap’ among students. “Many girls and minorities internally and introduce it externally to key partners with corporate Our Goals and stakeholders. support services. Working with inspiring organizations in particular believe they don’t belong in STEM fields, like Kiva and MicroMentor, we connect aspiring “We call Build it a cradle a stronger to career approach,” workforce Makeexplains economies Fraser, and this is often Provide reinforced tools for by unconscious bias among A: Given the global nature of the economy, the businesswomen to micro-loans and mentors that can help by helpingand chairman founder people of the Washington develop D.C.-based thrive by empowering teachers.” But she sustainable believes the tide is turning. “When investments expectations of our clients and communities, and the vital“From firm. science, agriculture, technology, where tractors women now literally areentrepreneurs STEMconnector® while minimizingbegan in 2011, most CEOs thought we pace of innovation and technological CoRe Team and change, CRTeam Green strategy 2016 succeed. Growth, them engineering driven and math to providing remote healthcare, to by computers, our ownabout were talking footprint stem cells! Today, companies like S&P is now part and parcel of our business. For example, our (STEM) skills processing insurance claims using artificial intelligence, Global recognize we are in a STEM revolution and they Enterprise Goals for 2018 emphasized our commitment Q: What personal insights can you share on why female technology is embedded across the economy. As a need these skills to stay competitive.” to a diverse workforce, reflecting our understanding that leaders are good for business and society? society, we need to recognize that every student, every job our employee base must mirror the many communities we seeker—if they are to succeed—must 2016 be equipped with Highlights serve which ultimately brings a competitive advantage. At A: I learned through my mother, a college basketball the knowledge, skills and mindsets we call STEM.” the same time, we are investing heavily in our employees’ coach, that to be a successful “intrapreneur” in a large technology skills (see page 23) in order to build tomorrow’s Provided 1,939 hours Awarded $150,000 Decreased energy use organization it is vital to cultivate patience and build Given the STEM of employee skills gap, and the pace mentoring through Aspen of promise andthe by 27% since our 2013 workforce. These are the same values that our CR coalitions. Based on my own experience, to achieve a innovation, her messageNetwork to high schoolers technology of Development resonates. Hence baseline year. programs and partnerships bring to life to power inclusive, positive outcome in the corporate world you have to bring through the success the FIRST youth of STEMconnector®, platform thatto aEntrepreneurs sustainable economies and thriving global communities. all the players together. Women excel at these so-called robotics program. nonprofits connecting Hosted By investor the Numbers connects more than 175 major companies, universities soft skills, as research is now showing. The University of women in emerging roadshows globally to and nonprofits Hosted half-daywith a vested interest consulting in a STEM-ready markets to finance. promote transparency Q: How does S&P Global empower women within Maryland and Columbia Business School, for example, The global skills gap workforce. ‘hack-a-thons’ on data and disclosure in and beyond the Company? How does this advance found that gender diversity among managers led to a $42 visualization, with Common Recruited 275 employees sustainable finance. opportunity for all? million increase in the value of S&P 500 firms. The organization works with corporate Impact, for nonprofit HR and to mentor diversity women 430+ million 1 in 7 partners in three U.S. cities. entrepreneurs leads, CIOs and CTOs to generate resources and solutions with our U.S. women with STEM A: Women are integral to S&P Global’s success. We partner MicroMentor. to improve talent pipelines. Its Million Women Mentors STEM jobs will need filling degrees work in a STEMExisting CoRe Team support them in both their professional and personalNew CoRe Team lives Existing Green Team New Green Team (MWM) initiative connects more than a million girls and worldwide by 2030. related job. Centennial Ahmedabad Madrid Buenos Aires Mexico City Bogotá through development and mentoring, flexible work options Charlottesville Chicago Makati City Centennial New York Boston female professionals to mentors in STEM fields. Innovation and parental and elder care leave. We are fortunate toGurgaon Denver Mexico City Houston São Paulo Islamabad Labs develop solutions designed to attract graduates to STEMconnector’s impact Houston Hyderabad Paris London Milan have a strong core of entrepreneurial and singular women particular fields and increase STEM investments within 200 2.4 million London Islamabad São Paolo Stockholm in leadership roles—each with her own story of success. Washington, DC education systems. As the quotes on page 27 show, S&P Global is a place members represent: where talented women thrive. S&P Global, a corporate member, is part of the Talent 25+ million students, mentoring pledges made 8 Acquisition and Development Lab focused on immediate 3.5+ million educators, 9 in 43 U.S. states under STEM recruitment needs. In 2017, Platts also hosted a 2.6 million STEM jobs. Million Women Mentors. New York City networking event with STEMconnector® for women in the energy sector. 8 9 bility Mission Advancing our Corporate Responsibility Mission inclusive sustainable al communities. New Strategy 94,300 + digital interactions with employees, Our essential intelligence powers inclusive sustainable economies and thriving global communities. Breaking new ground in In 2016 we introduced a repositioned CR strategy to align with the new S&P Global brand. We launched the including via website, video and social media Tapping employee skills to carbon data transparency new strategy with a Company-wide ‘100 Days of CR’ support aspiring businesswomen employee engagement campaign, which generated an overwhelmingly enthusiastic response (see right). 275 employees signed up for mentoring programs CaseOur Study employees’ commitment to making a difference is also Case Study 1,300 exemplified by our fast-growing network of CR champions (CoRe Teams) and Green Teams (see map). Typical CoRe N PROMOTE events in 2016 included an Employee Community Partner S SUSTAINABILITY employees voted on new nonprofit partners ELEVATE SUPPORT WOMEN PROMOTE Fair held by the London team to showcase the CR strategy, PEOPLE ENTREPRENEURS SUSTAINABILITY and a sustainability-focused employee social event in Charlottesville. Throughout 2017, we will further embed our CR strategy $1.4 M raised through employee donations combined Nearly 20 years ago, S&PinternallyDow Jones Indices and introduce published it externally to key partners Investors,with she emphasizes, corporate matching increasingly want to Atul AiranOur Lena Otiankouya live half a world apart but andGoals boasts impressive results. In Latin America, startups its first sustainability Provide tools for index. Back then, and stakeholders. it was an outlier. understand their carbon exposure from different made an essential connection. A senior software designer mentored in 2017 survived longer than non-mentored Today, as companies sustainable investmentsand investors everywhere seek to perspectives. “Our expanding metrics, encompassingBuild a stronger workforce by helping people develop Make economies for S&P Global in India, Atul wanted thrive by empowering Provide tools for to support women in sustainable investments businesses and increased their revenue. In the United s while minimizing understand ESG risks and opportunities, S&P Global carbon footprints, fossil fuel reserve emissions, coal vital science, technology, business. Lena had just launched anminimizing organic cosmetics States, 81 percent of mentored small business startups women entrepreneurs while our own footprint CoRe Team and Green Team Growth, 2016 engineering and math our own footprint remains on the frontline. In 2017, we became the first index exposure, the energy transition and carbon pricing risk company in Kansas, and needed expert advice to reach survived, compared with the 69 percent national average. (STEM) skills provider to publish carbon metrics against mainstream help them do that in a comprehensive way. Our annual customers online. Brought together by our nonprofit indices, including the S&P 500 and S&P Global 1200. Carbon Scorecard report publishes all these metrics partner, MicroMentor, Atul advised Lena on social media The ripple effect of advancing individual opportunity s across global financial benchmarks, providing a barometer branding 2016and advertising and her website launch. Highlights for women has a global impact that benefits everyone. It’s a development that Libby Bernick, Managing Director, of the carbon intensity of financial markets. Investors can “Women, when empowered, can be role models and gameDecreased energy use Head of Corporate Business at Trucost, celebrates. “After by 27% since our 2013 now benchmark their portfolio against our metrics and Provided 1,939 hours small startups wasDecreased Awarded $150,000 “Supporting energy use the perfect way to share changers in their communities,” says Ramachandran. “The of employee mentoring through the Aspen by 27% since our 2013 ent 25 years working baseline year. on these issues, it’s exciting to witness indices, tilt holdings towards those that are more carbon to high schoolers my expertise,” says Atul, S&P Global’s Network of Development most active mentor baseline year. more we empower women, especially disenfranchised the surge in ESG interest from investors,” she says. efficient and take a forward-looking view of the economy. through the FIRST youth in 2017. “Giving advice Entrepreneurs to that makes a difference to women women, the more the global economy will benefit.” g Hosted investor robotics program. nonprofits connecting Hosted investor “Across roadshows Global, S&P globally to we are making sustainability part of No-one else is giving them this glimpse of the low-carbon womenhas like Lena been very fulfilling. in emerging I also learned roadshows globally tofrom mainstream business and investor decision-making as promote transparency future in such a quantitative and actionable way.” Hosted half-day consulting the opportunity to understand the markets to finance. mindset promote of emerging transparency and disclosure in ‘hack-a-thons’ on data and disclosure in yees we position our sustainable products for the markets of the future—a finance. visualization, with Common entrepreneurs.” Recruited 275 employees sustainable finance. low-carbon economy.” As our 2018 scorecard shows (see graphic), many of our Impact, for nonprofit to mentor women ur major regional indices are well positioned to deliver on partners in three U.S. cities. entrepreneurs with our Mentoring is a powerful means of supporting new By the Numbers . partner MicroMentor. Acquired in 2016, Trucost helps deliver Existing CoRe Teamour commitment New CoRe Team lower carbon Existing Green energy. Team “We provide New Green the Team robust data that businesses and a key approach S&P Global uses to deliver How women boost the economy to increase market transparency and Centennial Charlottesville make sustainability Ahmedabad Chicago Madrid Makati City enables companies Buenos Aires Centennial Mexico City New York and investors Bogotá Boston to understand the our CR priority of Supporting Women Entrepreneurs. Since actionable for our customers. underpins the carbon metrics Its market-leading Denver Houston S&P Dow Jones Indices London data Mexico Cityfinancial Gurgaon Hyderabad Islamabad Paris Houston London implications São Paolo what S&P Global does best.” Stockholm São Pauloof ESGIslamabad issues,” says Bernick. “It’s Milan 2016, more than 300 employees have signed up to virtually share skills ranging from legal to sales and finance 15% $12 trillion Washington, DC debuted last year, as well as a ground-breaking carbon The Carbon Carbon Scorecard 2018: exposure indicators in Scorecard 2018 through MicroMentor. In Mexico City, employees also gender diverse companies could be added to global pricing tool, also launched in 2017. Together, explains speed mentored small businesses affected by the 2017 are 15% more likely to growth by advancing Bernick, these analytics8can help companies and investors global S&Peconomies, Dow Jones Indices benchmarks S&P Dow Jones Indices and Trucost dig deeper into the climate risks and opportunities in major applying five unique metrics across equity and bond market benchmarks. earthquake face to face. 9 deliver better financial women’s equality, including 9 plot low-carbon pathways and portfolios that prepare Index Carbon Reserve Coal Energy Carbon Price Risk Exposure returns. economic participation. Footprint Emissions Exposure Transition them for tomorrow’s economy. The carbon pricing tool, she S&P/TOPIX 150 (2030) “Mentoring can be the key that unlocks an entrepreneur’s MicroMentor’s impact says, brings the added benefit of translating a company’s S&P United Kingdom potential and a business’s make or break situation,” 4,500+ 57% S&P 500 carbon footprint into a quantifiable financial risk to profit S&P Europe 350 says Anita Ramachandran, Director, MicroMentor. “With S&P Global 1200 or earnings as governments increasingly impose a price on S&P Eurozone IG Corporate Bond Index financial and volunteer assistance from versatile and S&P/ASX All Australian 50 carbon emissions. “It puts the information in commercial S&P 500 Bond impactful partners like S&P Global, we aid a growing women mentees in of mentees made S&P Latin America 40 terms that investors and corporate finance teams can S&P/IFCI global pool of talented women entrepreneurs.” 50 U.S. states and positive business understand, and act on.” S&P Asia 50 S&P/TSX 60 92 countries. changes, 31% accessed Lowest Highest Using an online system where volunteers self-match with a new market. Risk Risk Source: S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and Trucost. Data as of Dec. 31, 2017. Table is provided for illustrative purposes. entrepreneurs in need of their specific skills, MicroMentor 10 11 At S&P Global, environmental, social and governance (ESG) operations and supply chain, ESG performance drives performance fuels innovation and opportunity, adding efficiency, reduces risk and enhances our reputation. significant long term value to the Company. Supported by In our workplace, it underpins our efforts to build a our CR strategy, our ESG activity is increasingly important diverse, collaborative, continually learning workforce that 2017 to our impact on the world, affecting every aspect of our attracts and inspires talented, passionate people. In our business. communities, it enables our employees to give back and guides our partnerships to close the global skills gap and In the marketplace, rising investor interest offers a key support women entrepreneurs—issues that materially Environmental, market opportunity. We see an essential role for S&P impact our business. Global in advancing a sustainable economy through our ESG products and thought leadership activity. In our Social and About S&P Global Governance Headquartered in New York City, S&P Global is a leading provider of transparent and independent ratings, benchmarks, analytics and data to the capital and commodity markets worldwide. Our purpose is to provide the 20,000 employees intelligence that is essential for companies, governments and individuals to Performance make decisions with conviction. We seek to deliver on this purpose within the framework of our core values of Integrity, Excellence and Relevance. Our Divisions 32 countries with S&P Global presence $6.06 billion in revenue, 2017 Awards and Rankings Scored 100% on the Human Rights Campaign’s Equality Listed in the Civic 50 of most community-minded U.S. Index for second consecutive year companies by Points of Light Scored in the 94th percentile on RobecoSam’s Ranked 13th among CR Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Corporate Sustainability Assessment for the Dow Jones Citizens, our ninth consecutive year on the list Sustainability World and North America Indexes Included in the FTSE4Good Index Recognized by the 30% Club for surpassing 30% female membership on our Board of Directors 12 13 Risk ESG Products Compliance Environmental Performance & Crisis Management Business Board Ethics Governance Information Our Material Board Security Diversity ESG Factors Talent Environmental Attraction Management & Retention Diversity & Training & Inclusion Development Materiality About This Report Our approach to ESG strategy and corporate responsibility The information in this section covers S&P Global’s ESG begins with understanding, and acting on, the performance for calendar year 2017. Program highlights environmental, social and governance issues that most and data cover our global operations, unless otherwise impact our business performance. As our Company has noted. Additional information on our material ESG evolved, so have our material ESG issues. In 2017, we issues and performance is provided in the attached GRI updated our materiality assessment, based on input from Standards Content Index. across the Company and alignment with leading external reporting frameworks. The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) inform both our CR programs and ESG products. Many In assessing key material topics for our business and community investments and partnerships highlighted sector, we referenced the Global Reporting Initiative’s in this report align with the 2030 goals on decent work (GRI) standards, the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force and economic growth, climate action and gender on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the equality (see key below). New products from across Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). Our CR our business divisions, including Trucost’s SDGs team also worked with stakeholders across the Company, Evaluation Tool, guide companies seeking to support including Human Resources, Global Real Estate Services, the SDGs while pursuing their business goals. Legal, Corporate Governance and Risk & Audit, to identify At S&P Global, we see essential connections between our environmental impact, launching a program in 2017 to key priorities based on likelihood and impact at S&P Global. business goals and expertise and global efforts to build offset emissions from all global business travel. tomorrow’s economy. Through technology, innovation and The material ESG topics we identified, shown above, will thought leadership, we enable our stakeholders to scale Throughout this section, we report on our 2017 strengthen our strategic decision making. Moving forward, sustainable finance—a critical step to achieving the UN performance across these areas. Our CR strategy we will further sharpen our focus on strong governance, risk Sustainable Development Goals. Our unique, marketinfluences all these efforts, steering how we pursue and environmental management, a diverse, talented and leading ESG products and services provide independent partnerships and apply our capabilities to Promote well-trained workforce and market-leading ESG products. page 27 page 26 page 19 data, analytics and benchmarks to help clients invest Sustainability worldwide. with impact. We also work to continually reduce our own 14 15 Operations S&P Global’s operational footprint encompasses 104 The evaluation assessed the accuracy of our environmental offices across 32 countries. We reduce the impact of this data processes and systems and was verified against the real estate through global management systems and ISAE 3000 assurance standard. employee engagement programs designed to increase efficiencies, cut costs and curb our climate impact and use of natural resources. Environmental Performance Goals Since 2013, we have reduced paper use by 48% and increased waste diversion from landfill by 78%, surpassing 2018 Goal two of our 2018 goals early (see table). We have not yet met Facilities Management Energy and Climate Impact our 2018 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions goal due to a Scope 1 and 2 GHG -15% recent restatement of our baseline emissions for 2013 (see emissions Site managers and suppliers follow comprehensive and Our facilities’ energy needs, and the resulting GHGs Energy and Climate Impact). We are exploring new sciencestringent environmental standards at our global facilities, released, account for our most significant environmental based targets for 2019, and will reset an appropriate Paper use -15% detailed in the links below. impacts (see Environmental Data table). baseline at the same time. In 2017, we reset our Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) In 2018, S&P Global’s 2017 Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions Waste Diversion/recycling 50% -Health, Safety and Environmental Policy emissions for our 2013 baseline year, from 64,200 tCO2e to received third-party assurance from Corporate Citizenship. 46,903 tCO2e, on the advice of our climate data assurers. -ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Our 2013 emissions fell due to retroactive removal from our GHG totals of six divested facilities, and of natural -ISO 18001 Occupational Health & Safety Management gas estimates from 11 facilities, as well as removal of Environmental Data System emissions from data centers retroactively classified as not under S&P Global’s operational control. In addition, 2013 -ISO 50001 Energy Management System better data capture has led to more accurate emissions 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Baseline) reporting since we have been able to use actual rather Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions -Vendor Code of Conduct than estimated energy consumption data. As a result, 46,903 37,992 36,266 36,136 44,265 (tons of CO2e)* there was an uptick in emissions between 2016 and 2017 Scope 3 GHG emissions (tons of We use site-based environmental management systems (see Environmental Data table). While our operations are 11,362 10,219 23,501 26,166 36,109 to identify environmental impacts, establish targets and already very eco-efficient in terms of energy management, CO2e)** collect, monitor and report environmental data (see table). we will explore areas for improvement as part of our Total GHG emissions, Scopes 58,265 48,211 59,767 62,302 78,901 Eighteen major S&P Global facilities are energy-efficient target-setting process for 2019 and beyond. 1-3 (tons of CO2e) certified, including 10 LEED® Certified™ buildings. Our Scope 1 and 2 energy use (MWh) 101,381 84,034 76,464 73,565 83,484 Canary Wharf facilities in London meet ISO 14001 and ISO Our reported Scope 3 (indirect) emissions, 50001 standards, and in early 2018 began a phase out of which result from global business travel, Scope 1 and 2 energy costs plastic use for onsite food services. Switching to reusable, have also risen over the past two years. 10,981,504 9,350,963 8,542,004 8,980,052 9,183,200 (USD, millions) recyclable and biodegradable cutlery and food containers This is due to more accurate collection and will prevent landfill disposal of 140,000 plastic utensils reporting of data globally, as well as the addition of Waste diversion/recycling 46 43 50 76 78 a year, among other savings . In New York City, our global rental car vendors and rail travel. In 2017, we launched (percentage) headquarters achieved ISO 14001 certification in 2017. a program to offset all our Scope 3 emissions, (see Paper use (tons) 148 121 103 77 63 Neutralizing our Travel Footprint). The offsets were assured by Natural Capital Partners, in line with the global standard CarbonNeutral Protocol, earning the Water use (gallons) 47,778,170 49,855,480 75,974,720 70,091,786 55,473,199 Company a CarbonNeutral® Business Travel Certification. *Reset baseline for Scope 1 & 2 from 64,200 tCO2e to 46,903 tCO2e; see also Energy and Climate Impact. **Increase due to better data, including global data collection and the addition of rail, hotel and rental car vendors in 2017. 16 17 bility MissionResponsibility Mission Corporate s inclusive sustainable Our essential intelligence powers inclusive sustainable Global Green and CoRe Team Network bal communities. economies and thriving global communities. Green Teams Neutralizing Our Travel Footprint, Delivering Ahmedabad London Clean Energy in India and Kenya Bogota Manila Boston Mexico City Buenos Aires New York Case Study Centennial Sao Paulo Houston Stockholm Islamabad Washington, D.C EN ELEVATE PROMOTESUPPORT WOMEN PROMOTE RS PEOPLE SUSTAINABILITY ENTREPRENEURS SUSTAINABILITY CoRe Teams Ahmedabad London Centennial Madrid Our Goals Charlottesville Makati City Chicago Mexico City tronger workforce Provide tools Makefor economies Provide tools for Denver Milan ng people develop sustainablethrive g by empowering investments sustainable investments Gurgaon Paris ence, technology, while minimizing rs women entrepreneurs while minimizing Houston Sao Paulo ring and math our own footprint our own footprint kills Hyderabad Stockholm Islamabad Washington, D.C. 2016 Highlights ts Employee Engagement 1,939 hours Awarded $150,000 Decreased energy use Decreased energy use yee mentoring through the Aspen by 27% since our 2013 choolers ment the FIRST youth by 27% since our 2013 Network of Development baseline year. Entrepreneurs to baseline year. Meeting our environmental goals and standards would not The ESG Design Team will program. ng nonprofits connecting Hosted investor women in emerging Hosted investor roadshows globally to be possible without the daily support of our workforce. deepen our understanding of half-day consulting roadshows globally to markets to finance. promote transparency promote transparency Our growing network (see map) of CoRe Teams and Green market trends and customer thons’ on data and disclosure in Teams, exemplify employee commitment to responsible tion, with Commonand disclosure oyees for nonprofit in Recruited sustainabletofinance. 275 employees mentor women sustainable finance. green behavior that benefits both our operations and needs, enabling us to identify in three U.S. cities. our entrepreneurs with our partner MicroMentor. communities. and prioritize solutions that r. cut across S&P Global’s Fourteen employee-led Green Teams in eight countries support our environmental targets and help lead on site capabilities and deliver Copyright 2015 Rodney Rascona for The Paradigm Project and community initiatives. These include two new teams complete client solutions. launched in 2017, in Ahmedebad, India, and Manila, the Philippines. Our network of CoRe teams added Martina Cheung, Channeling renewable energy into India’s vast national 9 tonnes of GHG emissions annually. Keeping the 252 three new locations in 2017, in Stockholm, Milan and Head of Risk Services, S&P Global Market Intelligence & ESG Design Team Lead grid. Replacing traditional9cook stoves to improve living turbines running also supports around 120 operational Washington, DC. We now have 18 teams around the world conditions in Kenya. Through a new program to offset our and field security jobs. acting as CR champions in their local communities. GHG emissions, S&P Global is supporting these efforts toward a low-carbon economy in emerging countries Kenya Improved Cookstoves This project serves the most where we do significant business. vulnerable communities across Kenya, tackling health Products and Thought Leadership: issues related to traditional cookstoves and reducing Powering the Markets of the Future To power these markets of the future, our business Launched in 2017, the initiative reduces our operational dependence on non-renewable biomass sources, while divisions increasingly collaborate to harness leading climate footprint while funding projects that align with promoting financial security and female empowerment. edge technology and innovation and support ESG market Our Strategy our CR priorities to Promote Sustainability and to Support This project has created more than 200 jobs so far in local demand. For example, the data capabilities of Trucost Women Entrepreneurs. For every metric ton of CO2 from manufacturing and sales, leading to more than 251,000 support S&P Global Ratings’ new Green Evaluations tool our business travel we will buy an equal amount of carbon cookstoves being sold and distributed across all eight For over a decade, S&P Global has provided a diverse (see also 2017 Highlights). offsets. The funds will help finance the following projects, provinces in Kenya. range of products and services that serve the growing via Natural Capital Partners. sustainability marketplace and policy makers. Our In early 2018, we took this to the next level by launching a These projects, verified to the highest certification offerings measure environmental and social impacts, cross-divisional ESG Design Team. Its purpose is to identify West India Wind Power This project supplies 375,000 standards, would not be viable without the sale of carbon climate resilience and corporate governance to help further strategic ESG opportunities, coordinate market MWh of renewable energy a year across three Indian credits. Combined, they reduced our travel emissions investors, corporations, governments and other market and product development across our divisions and solidify districts. By displacing electricity primarily from fossil to zero in 2017, and we look forward to continuing this participants as they assess long-term value and financial S&P Global’s position as a trusted provider. The team will fuel power stations, the project saves around 350,000 impactful partnership. performance in line with sustainability goals. also advise on partnerships and potential acquisitions. 18 19 2017 Highlights Why ESG Products Are Good for Business S&P Global Ratings the world’s largest credit rating agency, identifies how ESG Company reporting is soaring. Corporate disclosure of ESG information grew from less than 20 in the early 1990s performance can affect companies’ and countries’ creditworthiness, and highlights to nearly 9,000 in 2016. financial risks from trends such as climate change. 2017 saw enthusiastic demand for our new Green Evaluations service from investors seeking a full picture of the environmental Investor interest is soaring. In 2017, the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) had about 1,700 impact and climate risk attributes of their portfolio. signatories with about $68 trillion assets under management committed to incorporating ESG issues into their investment analysis and practices. As part of our commitment to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) ESG in Credit Ratings Initiative we published several research reports shedding light on how we Regulation requires new tools. Investment managers, banks and insurers are investing in new capabilities to capture ESG in our credit ratings methodology. comply with ESG requirements. In April 2018, the division launched a Sustainable Finance Team to further strengthen ESG analytics, research and innovation, as well as enhance transparency and training in how our analysts incorporate ESG factors. Thought Leadership S&P Global Market Intelligence converts data on global financial markets, companies and S&P Global is at the forefront of sustainability thought Sustainability Partners leadership for the financial sector. We work with industries into actionable intelligence. It supports sustainable markets with analysis of national and international forums, institutions and investing trends and of relevant sectors including power and renewable energy. Association for Financial Markets in Europe initiatives (see Sustainability Partners) to advance Sustainable Finance Working Group environmental performance disclosure and promote a sustainable, climate-resilient economy. 2° Investing Initiative Trucost’s analytics are integral to our company-wide ESG product innovation and In 2017, we held ESG events for investors in London, commitment to deliver essential ESG investment-related information to the global Cities Climate Finance Leadership Alliance Switzerland and at COP 23 in Germany, in partnership with marketplace. the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, Climate Bonds Initiative the UN PRI, CDP and the International Chamber of Commerce. Panel discussions centered on how to enable European Commission’s High-Level Expert Group on institutional capital for sustainable investment and S&P Dow Jones Indices is a leading provider of innovative ESG based indices and research. sustainable finance climate-resilient infrastructure development. In 2017, it became the first index provider to publicly display carbon metrics alongside financial data on its indices, on a monthly basis . The division debuted carbon metrics on Global Adaptation & Resilience Investment Working S&P Global also co-chaired the Governance Working Group the majority of its influential equity indices, including the S&P Global 1200, S&P 500® and Group of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on ClimateDow Jones Industrial Average®. Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which published final IIF Global Finance and Markets Association recommendations in June 2017. Our CEO and CFO endorsed The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) benchmarks the ESG performance of the adoption of the TCFD guidelines for corporate climate largest global companies, by sector, as assessed by RobecoSAM analysts. In 2017, a record Oxford University’s Sustainable Finance programme disclosure, designed to help investors, lenders and insurers 942 companies participated in the assessment, an 8.7% increase over 2016 participation. better understand material risks. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures We also lent expertise to sustainability policy work, United Nations Global Compact including the European Commission’s High-Level Expert S&P Global Platts provides benchmark prices, news, data, analytics and outlooks for the Group (HLEG) on sustainable finance. Trucost CEO Dr. energy, petrochemicals, metals, agriculture and environmental commodity markets. It also United Nations Principles for Responsible Investing Richard Mattison was a member of HLEG, which in January offers innovative, specialized products covering GHG emissions, conventional pollutants, 2018 published a roadmap to build a European financial biofuels and renewables. Since 2005, the division has provided daily prices, news and data World Business Council for Sustainable Development system that better supports sustainable investments. analysis on the EU Emissions Trading System, providing critical insight into the impact of carbon markets in the European power and emissions-intensive sectors. UK Green Finance Initiative Working Group on Risk, Our ESG product leadership supports Data & Disclosure In 2017, we also strengthened Platts Analytics’ climate-related offerings through the UN Sustainable Development capabilities such as analytics around environmental policy, emissions-related energy Goal to 'take urgent action to combat outlooks and scenario analysis. climate change and its impacts.' 20 21 Our Employees Social Performance S&P Global’s most essential connection is the relationship with and among our employees. In today's quickly evolving and competitive markets, we require top talent to generate the world-class data, actionable insights and innovative, forwardlooking products our clients rely on. That’s why we invest continually in our people, through training and development and by providing a diverse, collaborative and welcoming workplace. In 2017, our global employee population across 32 countries remained stable at around 20,000 people. The map below shows the distribution of permanent employees as of 12/31/2017. Our Global Workforce 12/31/17 5,180 1,980 12,220 606 Total: 19,986 Ethnicity* Region (U.S. only) White 64% In an increasingly complex and fast-changing world, we business needs by addressing the global STEM skills gap Asia Pacific 61% invest in our employees and our communities to advance and bringing more women into business. Together, these Asian 23% individual opportunity and the workforce of tomorrow. programs help us change lives and create thriving global North America 26% Black 5% communities. Europe, Middle East Nurturing a diverse, inclusive and collaborative workplace, Hispanic 5% and Africa 10% while equipping employees with the skills they need to Throughout this section, we report on our workplace Other 3% Latin America 3% keep pace in our sector, enables us to attract a world-class performance, and our employee-driven philanthropy, workforce. Our strategic CR priorities to Elevate People partnerships and volunteering programs. and Support Women Entrepreneurs also support our *Chart excludes 1,692 employees who have not self-identified 22 23 Why Social Investments Are Good for Business Gender diversity boosts corporate value. Gender diversity among managers leads to a $42 million increase in the value of S&P 500 firms, according to the University of Maryland and Columbia Business School. STEM skills are paramount. More than 430 million STEM jobs will need filling worldwide by 2030, according to STEMconnector. Women in business grow GDP. More female participation in the U.S. workforce could add $5.8 trillion to the global stock market in 10 years, according to S&P Global analysis. Diversity and Inclusion The diverse characteristics, perspectives, ideas and We are committed to the progression of women backgrounds that employees bring to S&P Global give us a across our enterprise, including by: vital competitive edge. S&P Global Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) leads our efforts to increase diversity, instill an -Pursuing diverse slates for open positions inclusive culture company-wide and strengthen programs and improving recruiter training programs that enable all employees to meet their potential. to reduce potential for bias Our longstanding commitment to diversity starts -Partnering on talent acquisition, including with Toward Tomorrow’s Workforce developers, data scientists and information security at the top. In 2017, we signed on to the CEO Action the Society of Women Engineers, Financial specialists in 2017. We also launched EssentialTech, a for Diversity & Inclusion™, the largest CEO-driven Women’s Association, European Women in training program to enhance the technology acumen of business commitment to advance D&I in the Technology and US-Pakistan Women’s Council S&P Global thrives thanks to our diverse global team and every employee and provide tools to help them compete workplace. In 2018, CEO Douglas Peterson introduced a work environment focused on leadership development, and succeed. In addition, our Learning Center offers a D&I metric into his performance evaluation. -Evaluating issues and challenges facing female career advancement and open feedback. Amid evolving broad online courses and instructor-led classes that employees through a Women’s Leadership Council customer needs, we introduced new enterprise-wide goals develop our people’s knowledge, skills and leadership Connecting employees made up of 20 of our most senior women for 2018 that seek to deliver innovation, flexibility and capabilities. Popular mentoring programs also connect agility. colleagues around the world, with 95% of participants Our nine Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) bring to life our -Introducing Pay Equity Training for managers in 2018. rating the program ‘excellent’. Our growing investment commitment to diversity. Connecting people with shared To position the Company for growth as technology moves in employee development, shown below, reflect its interests, experiences and perspectives, they include center stage, we hired more software engineers and importance to both our business and CR strategies. groups centered on minorities, veterans, women, parents, the LGBT community and people impacted by disabilities. Global and employee-led, these networks help us to retain Global Training diverse talent, promote professional development, support local communities, spark innovation and expand business 2015 2016 2017 opportunities. Their rapid growth—from 28 chapters in At S&P Global, we believe that 2015 to 56 chapters in 2017—illustrates their value to our advancing diversity, embracing Learning and development $8.1 million $7.1 million $8.8 million spend people and the Company. inclusion, and investing heavily in Number of employees Advancing women all our employees gives us a vital receiving tuition 116 151 180 reimbursement competitive edge as we seek to Thirty six percent of our employees are women and Tuition refunds provided to we support them through professional development power the markets of the future. employees $426,889 $515,348 $595,478 opportunities, flexible working options and the Number of employees who Dimitra Manis, 5,000-member WINS Employee Resource Group. In 2017, participated in leadership and More than 12,900 More than 18,300 More than 17,800 Chief People Officer, S&P Global management courses S&P Global was included on Working Mother magazine’s 100 Best Companies list. Training provided for financial 25 hours minimum 25 hours minimum 25 hours minimum services analysts 24 25 Prioritizing Health and Safety Our Communities Our Community Partners Our health and safety record is a source of pride. In 2017, During 2017, we launched a wellness portal that offers S&P Global’s communities encompass both the places for the second consecutive year, robust measures and eligible employees access to programs, tools, resources where we operate and our broader strategic efforts to • Accion procedures resulted in zero work-related injuries and and incentives for making informed health decisions Elevate People and Support Women Entrepreneurs. We • Aspen Network of Development illnesses (see table). We introduced a strengthened Health, and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Understanding that focus our investments where we can make the most Entrepreneurs Safety and Environmental (HSE) Policy for all facilities work-life balance is also important to wellbeing, we impact, engaging employees and working with expert • Association of Women’s Business Centers in December 2016, based on rigorous international offer employees parental and elder care leave, adoption partners (see right) to support our local and global • Career Ready requirements (ISO 14001, ISO 50001, and OHSAS 18001). assistance, back-up care support and access to college CR priorities. By expanding access to STEM and work • Community Investment Collaborative coaching and scholarship programs for their children. readiness skills, business support and financial services, • East London Business Alliance For more details on our HSE requirements, our programs advance the Sustainable Development Goals • Financial Women’s Association see Corporate Responsibility policies. on decent work, economic growth and gender equality. • FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) Health and Safety in the U.S.* Investing with Impact • Global Banking Alliance for Women • Global Women’s Innovation Network 2015 2016 2017 When our employees volunteer in their local communities • Human Rights Campaign both benefit from the connection. In 2017, the • Kiva Fatalities 0 0.000 0 0.000 0 0.000 number of employee volunteers and their matching • Mercy Corps/MicroMentor gift donations continued to grow, with nonprofit • STEMconnector® beneficiaries almost doubling to 1,633. Our fourth • The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Major injuries and work-related Community Center 0 0.000 0 0.000 0 0.000 annual Community Impact initiative, held in 43 cities, illnesses inspired our employees while making a difference to • Women’s World Banking All other injuries and work-related tens of thousands of our neighbors around the world. 11 0.001 0 0.000 0 0.000 illnesses Our Global Impact Rater per Number employee S&P Global experts helped us 2015 2016 2017 think about how we operate. * Occupational health and safety at S&P Global sites is monitored through internal and external audits. Total philanthropic $3.7 $3.7 $3.7 We now have a better sense of contributions, including in-kind giving million million million what we can improve on and a Monitoring Morale Total donated through better focus on how to measure employee matching gift program $473,240 $707,681 $921,036 outcomes that make sense for Our people are our most essential asset and their VIBE employee engagement survey, which achieved an Number of nonprofit Girls Inc. Houston. engagement drives the Company’s success. In 2017, large 83% response rate, up from 77% in 2016. Each division beneficiaries from employee 758 876 1633 majorities reported satisfaction with their managers, will address key findings strategically, while managers will matching gift program Arlene Catalan, Girls Inc. of Greater Houston teams and working practices in our second company-wide respond to their team results with targeted improvements. Number of employee 5,843 7,000 10,000 volunteers Number of volunteer hours 40,392 58,000 40,000 Every line of data the S&P Global team looked at In February 2018, CEO Douglas Peterson announced a $20 million contribution to the S&P Global Foundation. represented a person we serve. Understanding the data will 80% 79% 84% 87% “This influx of resources demonstrates our leadership’s commitment to CR and will enable us to expand our impact actually help us give the kids for good in the communities where our employees live I can be I am empowered to People on my I am well informed and work—and beyond,” said Annette O’Hanlon, Vice better service. myself at work make decisions that will team share ideas about S&P Global's President and Head of Corporate Responsibility. “Through Jacki Bryant, improve the quality and best practices commitment to Corporate the S&P Global Foundation, we will build on the strategic ReadyKids, Charlottesville of my work with one another Responsibility (up from investments, and deepen the partnerships, that we already 79% in 2016) pursue in our priority CR areas.” 26 27 Nearly 6,000 VOLUNTEERS PARTICIPATED 243 PROJECTS COMPLETED 43 CITIES ~$ 1,000,000 IN TOTAL VALUE OF HOURS VOLUNTEERED Our programs and partners support the UN Sustainable -In the United States, we sponsored a first-of-its-kind nationwide impact assessment of the microfinance Community Impact, 2017 Development Goal to 'achieve sector. More than 500 entrepreneurs who accessed gender equality and empower small loans took part in the survey by Accion. In all women and girls.' 2017, initial findings revealed that around six in ten borrowers had sustained or expanded their business, 613 WOMEN REACHED 1,332 HOURS OF SERVICE SKILLS DEVELOPED BY WOMEN ENTREPRENEURS Empowering Women and increased their profits, while almost half had hired more staff. Support Women Employees leveraged their Business Communications data, tech and insights to strategy Marketing Entrepreneurs promote the flow of resources Budgeting Advancing women’s equality, including economic -In Latin America, we support a study by Oxfam’s participation, could add $12 trillion to global growth by Women in Small Enterprise (WISE) program into STEM SERVICES PROVIDED Data visualization & analysis 2025, according to the McKinsey Global Institute. S&P barriers for women business owners to access capital, 15,044 2,771 $276,000 KPI development Computer literacy Global tackles the challenges women face in launching including unconscious bias. Outcomes measurement Elevate STUDENTS STUDENTS EXPOSED VALUE OF HOURS OF SKILLSInformation architecture and developing businesses—from gender bias to lack People EMPOWERED TO STEM SKILLS BASED SERVICES PROVIDED User data management of capital and support services—and partners with organizations seeking strategic solutions to finance and Connecting women to mentors empower female entrepreneurs. EFFORTS TO REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Support services and networks can be almost as important 9,700+ 7% Solar panel and water tank installations Promote 11.4K HOURS OF SERVICE 12% Waste removal 12% Park, beach and farm revitalization TREES & GARDENS Connecting women to capital as capital to small business success. In partnership with Spent creating greener 14% Recycling and water conservation education MicroMentor, S&P Global volunteers develop one-oncommunities 55% Tree and garden planting PLANTED Sustainability Since 2013, we have partnered with Kiva, the world's one relationships with women entrepreneurs, offering largest micro-lending site. Our employees have helped their expertise on topics ranging from accounting and alleviate poverty and change lives through micro loans finance to marketing and business management. (See also to women entrepreneurs seeking a foothold in farming, MicroMentor case study, page 9). food, retail, education and other sectors. In 2017, 500 employees provided micro-loans to 1,799 women in 61 During 2017, S&P Global Platts also hosted ‘Women developing countries. EmPower’, a networking event in New York City attended by 150 female professionals in the energy sector. Opportunity Through Technology 2017 Highlights We also sponsor actionable research into the barriers, and benefits, of access to capital for small business owners. Unemployment blights opportunity for tens of millions -Donated 1,100 hours to mentor diverse students in of young people worldwide. Yet in the U.S. alone, up to New York and New Jersey through FIRST. More than 75 2.4 million jobs in science, technology, engineering and employees imparted hard skills related to STEM and mathematics (STEM) remain unfilled. To help bridge soft skills related to self-confidence, communication this gap, we work with nonprofit partners to connect and leadership. underserved people, including women, minorities, Women Leaders & Opportunities are not always just out there, waiting immigrants and low-income youth, with the essential skills -Partnered with social purpose organization Common Entrepreneurial Spirit to be discovered. I have learned that you have to be today’s economy demands. In addition to the STEM-related Impact to stage half-day, skills-based volunteering willing to take charge, to be proactive and even a bit activities showcased below, our employees help young events helping local nonprofit partners Girls Inc., fearless. people prepare for job searches. During 2017, volunteers ReadyKids and OpenWorld Learning address data Dreams and goals. A strong support network. Facing supported 12,273 students by reviewing resumes, staging visualization challenges. failure. Taking the long view. Female leaders across Priscilla Luk, Managing Director, mock interviews and offering career S&P Global share what fuels their success. S&P Dow Jones Indices. guidance. -Sponsored the first annual Energy Day Colorado, where S&P Global volunteers engaged Denver STEM students, teachers and energy professionals with exhibits I've been fortunate to have mentors and a network I am continually inspired by women who encourage Our initiatives support the UN designed to generate interest in energy and broader that supported me. I've also learned from both others to step out of their comfort zone and to trust STEM careers. my failures and successes that each situation their innate ability to learn quickly. I’ve learned that Sustainable Development Goal to is temporary and a stepping stone for learning the lack of a specific skillset is not a barrier; it’s 'promote sustained, inclusive and -Mentored 250 girls and women around the world in something new. actually an opportunity and often an advantage. sustainable economic growth, full starter skills for a career in computer programming, and productive employment and through the Girls in Tech Global Classroom. Twenty-two Alka Banerjee, Managing Director, Sue Avinir, Chief Operating Officer, decent work for all.' employees leveraged their expertise to support the S&P Dow Jones Indices. S&P Global Platts. free, global e-learning platform. 28 29 Governance Supply Chain Supply Chain Diversity Our commitment to promote diversity and inclusion, S&P Global proactively hires businesses with diverse support human rights and conduct business responsibly owners. extends to our supply chain. For more than 20 years, we have been a corporate Our Vendor Code of Conduct requires our material member of the U.S. National Minority Supplier suppliers to comply with provisions on ethical business Development Council. Our Supplier Diversity program conduct, data security and confidentiality, health and works to recruit diverse firms to our supplier pool at a safety and environmental standards. The Code also faster rate. An online form solicits applications from addresses human rights issues and adheres to the firms that fit the following classifications: Disabled, International Labour Standards (ILO). Penalties for Hub Zone, Veteran, Woman-Owned, Minority or LGBT. non-compliance may include sanctions (such as being temporarily barred from applying for new business) or losing an S&P Global account. Our Human Rights Policy and UK Statement on Modern Slavery also cover suppliers as well as our operations. Where appropriate, we engage vendors on ways to Good governance is at the heart of sustainable business. commitment to integrity and transparency, we continue improve their environmental and social performance. We As we expand our CR activity and elevate our ESG to refine governance policies and procedures, taking also help our customers assess their own supply chain performance, strong, ethical leadership and policies into account evolving best practices. Across our global sustainability by providing transparency on S&P Global’s provide the essential connection between what we do and workplaces, we strive to instill our core values of Integrity, actions. Specifically, we use leading frameworks and how we do it. Excellence and Relevance in every employee. reporting tools such as the CDP Supply Chain assessment and EcoVadis supplier platform to collaborate with clients. In recent years, our Board of Directors has taken active For detailed information on policies governing corporate steps, summarized in the chart, to enhance the Company’s performance, see our Governance Documents, Related corporate governance environment. Reflecting our ongoing Reports and Policies and GRI Index. 30 31 Law and our Restated and Amended Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws. We currently have 12 Directors who are all being nominated at this Annual Meeting for one-year terms, which will expire at the Annual MeetingGovernance in 2019. (See Highlights Item 1 on page 92.) CR Leadership tolerance for bribery and corruption. We encourage both employees and external stakeholders to report ethical Accountability Governance Highlights Board Independence and Refreshment Compensation and Risk Management concerns anonymously using our global online reporting As the Company seeks to meet evolving stakeholder needs, tool, EthicsPoint. (See also the GRI Index.) Board Independence and Compensation and Risk our Board views ESG issues as increasingly essential to Accountability Equity ownership requirements for our business strategy. Our CR leadership structure Our ethical workplace culture is also sustained by Annual elections for Directors Independent Refreshment Chairman of the Board Management Directors and executive officers reflects this imperative. An executive-level Corporate respect for human rights. Employees receive clear Equity Ownership Requirements Responsibility Council, co-chaired by the Executive Vice guidance and support through COBE on topics including Majority voting in foruncontested Director All DirectorsChairman Independent of the except our CEO are Double trigger vesting for directors of equity-based and executive President of Public Affairs, directs our CR programs health and safety, non-discrimination and respectful Annual elections directors. elections Board. independent awards upon a change in control and ESG reporting and regularly updates the Board on workplace behavior. With local roots around the world, officers. CR strategy and activities. Other senior leaders provide we are also committed to treating people who work Pay recovery policy or clawback Special meeting rights for shareholders Executive sessions of independent “Doubletotrigger” applicable executives vesting of and employees input through the Diversity and Inclusion Council, for our suppliers, and live in our communities, with Majority holding voting 25% or more in uncontested of the voting stock All nominees except Directors at every Board CEO are ourmeeting under Company policy S&P Global andupon Environmental Action Committee and Environmental dignity and respect. Our approach aligns with the equity-based awards a director elections. independent. Ratings policy Health & Safety Committee. Our global CR team United Nations Global Compact and is guided by our change in control. implements day-to-day programs with support from Human Rights Policy and Vendor Code of Conduct. Proxy access right for a shareholder or a group of up to 20 shareholders holding at Our nominees have an average tenure of senior managers and relevant corporate functions. least 3% of our outstanding shares for at 6.5 years; half have been members of the Pay recovery Anti-hedging andpolicy or policy anti-pledging Special meeting least three yearsrights for up to two to nominate Board for five years or less Executive sessions of independent for Directors and “clawback” executiveto applicable officers Information Security and Data Privacy shareholdersDirectors or 20% of holding 25%the Board or more executives and employees under Managing Risk directors every Board meeting. Company policy and S&P Global of the voting stock. Annual performance evaluations of the Retirement age prevents directors from Risk oversight, including succession Cybersecurity is a growing concern and priority. Our Board and each committee standing for re-election after age 72 Ratings policy. planning, by the Board and committees Amid fast-changing geopolitical, regulatory, technological Information Security Program’s mission is to protect Proxy access Source: SPGI right 2018 Proxy Statement, for a and public policy developments, as well as evolving customer information and the company’s reputation customer expectations, risk management is more and brand through well established, uniform security shareholder or a group of up to 20 Our nominees have an average important than ever to business success. Recognizing this, practices while complying with legal requirements shareholders Our Leadership holding at least 3% of Anti-hedging and anti-pledging S&P Global employs more than 170 risk and compliance and industry best practices. This is accomplished tenure of 6.5 years and half of our our outstanding shares for at least policy for directors and executive professionals across 15 countries. Our risk management through a centralized accountability function, which nominees have been members of three years to nominate up to two officers. structure is overseen by the Board Audit Committee. works to enhance the Company’s ability to: the Board for five years or less. directors S&P Global’s or 20% leading the Board, of market position reflects the Americans. As a result, we earned inclusion in the 30% Our Chief Risk & Audit Executive provides the strategic confidence is whichever of greater. stakeholders in the Company’s integrity. Club, whose goal is to achieve 30% female directors on all direction for the Corporate Risk Management function, Our Board of Directors acts as the steward of this trust, S&P 100 boards by 2020. At present, a quarter of S&P 100 which grew to 15 people over the last year. The Head -Predict security events and their relative impact guiding enterprise strategy and overseeingRetirement the executive companies age prevents directors Riskmilestone. have met this oversight, including of Corporate Risk Management manages day-to-day Annual leadership. performance evaluations of from standing for re-election after operations supported by subject matter experts for: succession planning, by the Board the Board and each committee. reaching age 72. For information on Board compensation, please Enterprise Risk Management, Vendor Risk Management, -Prevent attacks by improving enterprise-wide security and committees. Our Directors are elected annually and all except our CEO see our Director Compensation webpage and 2017 Business Continuity Management and Technology are independent. The nomination policy considers diversity Annual Report. The snapshot below shows the age, Risk Management. factors such as gender, race and nationality, and in 2017 gender and tenure breakdown of our Directors. -Detect attacks that have evaded preventative our 12 Directors included four women and two African See the GRI Index for more on risk management. measures Snapshot: Board of Directors Snapshot: Board of Directors An Ethical Workplace -Respond to security events in ways that ensure Gender Age Tenure (6.5 Year Average) timely remediation Sustaining the trust of our customers, communities and < 55 3 Directors other stakeholders underpins our business and drives our -Improve and update the Company’s security 33.3% 10+ years Women CR strategy. As our frontline representatives, it is critical capabilities and resiliency. 56 65 6 Directors that our employees uphold the highest ethical standards. 66.7% ≤ 5 years Men 66+ 3 Directors To this end, we require our employees—in all countries Maintaining data privacy is essential to customer trust 6 10 years where the law permits—to certify that they have read, and requires constant vigilance. We frequently update the 0 1 2 3 4 5 and will abide by, our Code of Business Ethics (COBE). Corporate Privacy Policy governing how we collect, store Failure to do so may result in disciplinary action, including and use personal information. Source: SPGI Proxy Statement, 2018 termination of employment. S&P Global also practices zero 2018 Proxy Statement 7 32 33 2017 GRI Standards Content Index General Disclosures GRI Standard Location in Report (Except where noted otherwise) All employees receive mandatory annual training on Political Engagement Organizational Profile cybersecurity and dataprivacy. Our Privacy & Information 102-1 Organization name About S&P Global, p. 11 Security Committee oversees policy implementation and conducts an annual review of global privacy practices and Through the S&P Global Inc. Political Action Committee 102-2 Activities, brands, products, About S&P Global, p. 11 compliance. (S&P PAC), we also make limited contributions to the and services 2017 Form 10-K, pp. 5-6 campaigns of candidates for U.S. federal office who share 102-3 Location of headquarters About S&P Global, p. 11 During 2017, we prepared for the EU General Data our Company’s concerns, priorities and values. S&P PAC Protection Regulation (GDPR), which tightens rules on collects voluntary contributions from certain eligible 102-4 Location of operations About S&P Global, p. 11 corporate use of personal data across the 28-country employees and files a monthly public report of its receipts European Union and came into force in May 2018. For and disbursements with the Federal Election Commission. 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2017 Form 10-K, pp. 1-2, 5-7 additional information, please see our GRI Index. In 2017, S&P PAC contributed $238,000 to candidate 102-6 Markets served 2017 Form 10-K, pp. 5-6 campaign committees. In line with the Federal Lobbying Disclosure Act, the Company also reported $4.21 million in 102-7 Scale of the organization About S&P Global, p. 11 Public Policy expenses related to federal lobbying during the year. 2017 Annual Report, p. 1, pp. 5-6 102-8 Information on employees and ESG Performance, p. 21 For more information, see our Political Contributions and other workers S&P Global engages with policymakers, regulators and Payments Policy. 102-9 Supply chain S&P Global’s supply chain is composed of professional and technical service stakeholders on issues that impact our global business providers, IT software, network and communications and hardware providers strategy. Priority areas include infrastructure investment, or licensors. Our suppliers include marketing, human resources, financial energy market regulation, capital market regulation, and other consultants, brokers, maintenance, repair and operations, information policy, privacy, global tax issues and trade. facilities management and landlords, information technology and business We advocate for a regulatory environment that promotes process outsourcing providers. Suppliers specific to our industry include financial stability and economic growth and enhances market data and research providers. Our supply chain also includes travel access to capital. providers such as travel agencies, commercial airlines and hotel chains. For more information, see ESG Performance, p. 28 and our Vendor Code of For more information, please see our GRI Index. Conduct. 34 35 102-10 Significant changes to the From our CEO, p. 3 102-19 Delegating authority ESG Performance, p. 29-32 organization and its supply chain 2017 Annual Report, pp. 4-7, Form 10-K pp. 5-6 2018 Proxy Statement, pp. 7-32 102-11 Precautionary Principle or While S&P Global does not formally follow the precautionary principle, we S&P Global Corporate Governance Approach have risk assessment and management processes intended to provide 102-20 Executive-level responsibility In 2016, we established the S&P Global Enterprise Risk Management long-term benefits to our customers and the communities we serve. We for economic, environmental, and Committee, chaired by the Chief Risk & Audit Executive. Its members are exploring the use of science-based targets for our greenhouse gas social topics include S&P Global’s President and CEO, CFO, General Counsel, CIO, CISO, (GHG) emissions and energy use once our current, 2018 environmental Chief Compliance Officer, Head of Risk Management, Chief Risk Officer performance targets expire. See also our 2017 Proxy Statement pp. 8-10 (Ratings) and Chief Compliance Officer (Ratings). The Committee assists 102-12 External initiatives ESG Performance, p. 18 & 19 [18-19 in 2016] the Board Audit Committee by providing management oversight of the S&P Global Policies identification, measurement, monitoring, mitigation and reporting of risks across the Company and by promoting a strong, company-wide culture of 102-13 Membership of associations ESG Performance, p. 19, p. 25 risk management, compliance and control. In addition, the Board receives updates from our Corporate Responsibility Council on CR activities and from our EVP and Global Head of Real Estate Services on operational efficiency. See also ESG Performance, p. 29-32. 102-22 Composition of the highest S&P Global's Board of Directors has 12 members, of whom 11 are governance body and its committees independent, four are women and two are African American. In 2016 and 2017, following a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee review of Strategy Board skills and qualifications, we appointed four new independent directors with valuable and varied experience in critical areas including technology, 102-14 Statement from senior From our CEO p. 3; Q and A with EVP, Public Affairs p. 6 international operations and commodity markets. Their appointments also decision-maker of the organization underscore the Company’s commitment to inviting diverse backgrounds, perspectives, skills and experience into the Boardroom to guide growth and 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and Introduction, p. 4 performance. In 2017, we joined the 30% Club by surpassing 30% female opportunities Our Approach, p. 11 membership of our Board. For more information, see ESG Performance, p. 30 2017 Annual Report, pp. 4-11; Form 10-K pp. 7-16; Audit Committee Charter and 2018 Proxy Statement p. 8. 102-23 Chair of the highest S&P Global Corporate Governance governance body 102-24 Nominating and selecting the 2018 Proxy Statement, pp. 14-15 Ethics and Integrity highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest 2018 Proxy Statement, p. 8-10 102-16 Values, principles, standards, From our CEO, p. 3 2017 Form 10-K, pp. 105-106 and norms of behavior ESG Performance, p. 32-35 102-26 Role of highest governance ESG Performance, p. 30-31 S&P Global Policies body in setting purpose, values, 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and Employees are encouraged to raise concerns about corruption or other and strategy concerns about ethics workplace issues directly with their managers, the Compliance Department 102-28 Evaluating the highest 2018 Proxy Statement, pp. 7-9 for their division or our corporate Human Resources, Financial and Legal governance body's performance Departments. All reported concerns are appropriately investigated through 102-31 Review of economic, Our executive-level Corporate Responsibility Council, co-chaired a process managed by our Internal Audit Department. We prohibit retaliation environmental, and social topics by the Executive Vice President of Public Affairs, periodically reviews our CR against employees for filing a complaint in good faith or assisting our strategy and priorities, and monitors relevant trends, stakeholder issues and investigation of a complaint. Anyone retaliating in these circumstances will legislative developments. The Council evaluates CR performance to ensure face disciplinary action. See S&P Global Code of Business Ethics, p. 31. that our CR impact and environmental, social and governance reporting advance the Company’s reputation and talent, and minimize risk. For more information, see ESG Performance, p. 31. 102-35 Remuneration policies 2018 Proxy Statement, pp. 35-49 Governance 102-18 Governance structure ESG Performance, p. 30 2018 Proxy Statement, pp. 7-32 S&P Global Corporate Governance 36 37 Stakeholder Engagement Material Topics 102-40 List of stakeholder groups ESG Performance, p. 19 & 25 Economic 102-41 Collective bargaining The Freedom of Association principle applies to all employees but due to agreements the nature and makeup of S&P Global's business, the presence of labor and 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundaries within S&P Global are Corporate Governance, Human trade unions is slight. topic and its Boundaries Resources, Legal Department, Compliance Department and Corporate 102-42 Identifying and selecting S&P Global’s CR team identifies external stakeholders based on their Responsibility. The topic boundary outside of S&P Global is government. stakeholders expertise in relevant issues like STEM skills education and training and 103-2 The management approach and Our materiality assessment identified business ethics as a material issue. women-owned businesses. Internally, the team works with senior human its components Our commitment to operate with integrity includes zero tolerance for bribery resource leads to engage employee representatives on CR issues and and corruption, issues we manage as a signatory of the UN Global Compact programs. All S&P Global employees are engaged through our annual VIBE and through our Code of Business Ethics. (Voice. Insights. Belonging. Expectations) survey. For more information, see ESG Performance, p. 24. 201-2 Financial implications and Our Approach p. 11 & 12, ESG Performance, p. 14 & 15 other risks and opportunities due to 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Ongoing engagement and information sharing with stakeholders such as climate change engagement policy makers, NGOs, academics and other opinion leaders improves our understanding of how important current and emerging issues relate to our 205-2 Communication and training Everyone who works for us must follow our Code of Business Ethics (COBE). business. For example, in 2017, Trucost's CEO was a member of the European about anti-corruption policies and The Code sets clear guidelines on issues including workplace rights, conflicts Commission's High-Level Expert Group on Sustainable Finance. Our public procedures of interest, improper payments, handling of confidential information and affairs team also shares information about S&P Global activities with objective reporting and evaluation. In all countries where permitted by law, relevant external stakeholders, and our non-profit NGO partners help deliver S&P Global employees must certify that they have read and will abide by our CR objectives. For internal stakeholders, S&P Global conducts annual COBE as a condition of employment. Every year they receive online refresher employee focus groups and global surveys. For more information, see ESG training. Failure to comply with the COBE may result in disciplinary action, up Performance, p. 32, 24-27 & 19. to and including termination of employment. See also ESG Performance, p. 31. 102-44 Key topics and concerns Our Approach, p. 11 & 12 raised Please also refer to GRI Standards content 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-47 above and below. 102-45 Entities included in the 2017 Form 10-K, pp. 5-6 Energy consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and ESG Performance introduction, p. 11 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundaries within S&P Global are Facilities Management and topic Boundaries topic and its Boundaries Corporate Responsibility. 102-47 List of material topics The material topics identified by our materiality assessment, conducted 103-2 The management approach and Our materiality assessment identified environmental management as in 2017, are: Environmental Management, Diversity & Inclusion, Training its components a material issue. Energy use in our facilities is the Company's largest & Development, Talent Attraction & Retention, Board Diversity, Board contribution to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We manage energy Governance, Risk, Compliance & Crisis Management, Business Ethics, consumption through global corporate policies that set environmental Information Security and ESG Products. For more information, see ESG standards and site-based environmental management systems. See also Performance p. 12. ESG Performance, p. 15 and S&P Global Policies. 102-48 Restatements of information 2016 Form 10-K, pp. 5-7 302-1 Energy consumption within the ESG Performance, p. 14 organization 102-49 Changes in reporting There are no significant changes to report. 302-4 Reduction of energy ESG Performance, p. 14 102-50 Reporting period ESG Performance introduction, p. 12 consumption 102-51 Date of most recent report S&P Global Reports 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual, calendar year 102-53 Reporting contact cr@spglobal.com Emissions 102-55 GRI content index This report contains disclosures from the GRI Standards. We prepared this content index using the 2016 GRI Standards as a reference. 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundaries within S&P Global are Facilities Management and topic and its Boundaries Corporate Responsibility. 102-56 Policy regarding external ESG Performance, p. 14 assurance 38 39 103-2 The management approach and Our materiality assessment identified environmental management as a its components material issue. The energy used in our facilities is the largest contribution to Training and Education GHG emissions. We manage GHGs by adopting emissions reduction targets, implementing global corporate policies that set environmental standards, 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundary within S&P Global is Human Resources. The topic site-based environmental management systems and through building energy topic and its Boundaries boundary outside of S&P Global is community. efficiency certifications such as LEED. In 2017, we introduced a low carbon 103-2 The management approach and Our materiality assessment identified training and development as a material initiative that offset all our global business travel emissions. See also ESG its components issue. Training and development reinforces our commitment to operating Performance, p. 15 & 16 and S&P Global Policies. with integrity, rewards our employees for helping us succeed and develops 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions ESG Performance, p. 14 new leadership. Our approach includes compensation packages, a tuition refund program, our online Learning Academy and leadership development 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG ESG Performance, p. 14 courses. All employees receive mandatory annual training on cybersecurity emissions and customer data privacy, and we also prioritize techology training for all 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG ESG Performance, p. 14 employees. See also Customer Privacy p. 31 and ESG Performance p. 23. emissions 404-1 Average hours of training per ESG Performance, p. 23 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions ESG Performance, p. 14 year per employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading In 2017, we launched TechEssentials to upgrade employees' technology skills. employee skills and transition See ESG Performance, p. 23 assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees In 2017, 100% of eligible S&P Global employees received a performance Water receiving regular performance and review. career development reviews 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundaries within S&P Global are Facilities Management and topic and its Boundaries Corporate Responsibility. 103-2 The management approach and Our materiality assessment identified environmental management as a its components material issue. Our facilities and offices impact the environment through water use. We manage our water use through global corporate policies that Diversity and Equal Opportunity set environmental standards and site-based environmental management systems. See also S&P Global Policies. 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundaries within S&P Global are Human Resources and Corporate 303-1 Water withdrawal by source ESG Performance, p. 14 topic and its Boundaries Responsibility. 103-2 The management approach and Our materiality assessment identified diversity and inclusion as a material its components issue. Cultivating a diverse and inclusive workforce enables us to better understand our customers' needs in a global market. We manage senior leader and employee diversity foremost through our Human Rights Policy, Code of Business Ethics and Diversity and Inclusion Committee. A D&I Occupational Health and Safety scorecard tracks progress and maintains best practices across our business and our CEO added a D&I metric to his performance evaluation in 2018. S&P 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundary within S&P Global is Human Resources. Global's Employee Resource Groups connect people across our business, topic and its Boundaries help attract and retain talent and promote professional development. For 103-2 The management approach and Our materiality assessment identified talent attraction and retention as a more information, see ESG Performance, p. 22, S&P Global Policies, S&P its components material issue. Offering programs that promote good health and well-being Global Diversity and Inclusion. helps attract talent and enables our people to perform at their best. We 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies ESG Performance, p. 21-22 manage employee well-being through programs that support wellness, workand employees life balance and a culture of safety. Our Code of Business Ethics is the global corporate policy covering wellbeing and health and safety guidance. See also ESG Performance, p. 22-24. 403-2 Types and rates of injury, In 2016 and 2017, S&P Global incurred zero workplace injuries. For more, see occupational diseases, lost days, ESG Performance, p. 24. Non-discrimination absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundaries within S&P Global are Corporate Governance and topic and its Boundaries Human Resources. 40 41 103-2 The management approach and Our materiality assessment identified business ethics as a material issue. 103-2 The management approach and Our materiality assessment identified business ethics, and risk, compliance its components We recognize our responsibility as a business to respect human rights its components and crisis management, as material issues. We engage policy makers and everywhere we operate and whether people work for us, our suppliers, or live regulators on issues that impact our business, and support development in the communities where we operate. We manage human rights by being a of a consistent regulatory environment that promotes financial stability signatory to the UN Global Compact, through our Human Rights Policy, Code and enhances access to capital. We also encourage transparency on how of Business Ethics and Vendor Code of Conduct. For more information, see financial systems and related laws and policies work. Public policy issues ESG Performance, p. 28 and S&P Global Policies including our Vendor Code of relevant to our business include: advertising, copyright, digital, financial Conduct. services, government information policy, human resources, Internet and 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and We provide clear guidance on human rights issues such as health and safety, e-commerce, information security, postal, privacy, tax and trade. Our Global corrective actions taken nondiscrimination and respect for employees in our Code of Business Ethics. Governance and Public Policy Department leads engagement activity. We appropriately and promptly investigate all complaints of discrimination. We work with industry trade associations such as the U.S. Chamber of Employees who engage in any form of harassment, unlawful discrimination Commerce, to help meet our business, legislative and regulatory objectives. or retaliation against a person bringing a claim are subject to disciplinary 415-1 Political contributions ESG Performance, p. 32 action, up to and including termination. Customer Privacy Supplier Social Assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundaries within S&P Global are Information Security and 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundary outside of S&P Global is supply chain. topic and its Boundaries Corporate Governance. topic and its Boundaries 103-2 The management approach and Our materiality assessment identified information security as a material 103-2 The management approach and Please refer to Non-discrimination 103-2 above. its components issue. Maintaining data privacy is essential to customer trust and requires its components constant vigilance. We frequently update our Corporate Privacy Policy 414-1 New suppliers screened using Our Vendor Code of Conduct sets expectations for suppliers. We require our governing how we collect, store, and use personal information and manage social criteria business partners to adopt high standards of ethical conduct and to respect security breaches. All employees receive mandatory annual training human rights. The Code covers areas including the right to a minimum wage on cybersecurity and data privacy. Our Privacy & Information Security and a discrimination-free workplace and the prohibition of forced and child Committee oversees policy implementation and conducts an annual review labor. For more information, see ESG Performance, p. 28. of global privacy practices and compliance. We update the policy as needed in line with new technologies, business practices and changing customer needs. We also adapt privacy policy and processes to keep pace with emerging regulations such as the EU Data Protection Regulation. Each S&P Global business unit has a dedicated privacy official and trains employees Human Rights on our privacy and security standards. Customers can email questions and feedback to privacy@spglobal.com. See also ESG Performance, p. 31 & 32. 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundaries within S&P Global are Corporate Governance and 418-1 Substantiated complaints Corporate Privacy Policy. topic and its Boundaries Human Resources. The topic boundary outside of S&P Global is supply chain. concerning breaches of customer 103-2 The management approach and Please refer to Non-discrimination 103-2 above. privacy and losses of customer data its components 412-2 Employee training on human Human rights components are included in our Code of Business Ethics Nonmaterial Topics rights policies or procedures training. See also S&P Global Policies, Corporate Human Rights Policy, UK Modern Slavery Act 2017 Statement, and our Vendor Code of Conduct. Economic Performance Public Policy 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations 2017 Annual Report, pp. 70 & 71 103-1 Explanation of the material The topic boundary inside S&P Global is governance. The topic boundaries and other retirement plans 2017 Form 10-K, pp. 78 & 79 topic and its Boundaries outside of S&P Global are investors and government. 42 43 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local S&P Global’s proportion of spending on local suppliers was $21 million or suppliers 1.6% of total annual spend in 2016. We will report spend again in 2018. For more information, see ESG Performance p. 28 and our Supplier Diversity Program Policy. Effluents and Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal ESG Performance, p. 14 method Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were ESG Performance, p. 28 screened using environmental criteria Local Communities Operations with local community Introduction, p. 5 engagement, impact assessments, ESG Performance, p. 25-27 and development programs 44
