JOINT EFFORTS – MUTUAL BENEFITS — CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 — DAMPSKIBSSELSK ABET NORDEN A /S CONTENTS INTRODUCTION JOINT EFFORTS OPERATIONAL DATA 3 Letter to Stakeholders – MUTUAL BENEFITS FOUNDATION 37 Limited Assurance Report 4 NORDEN’s Business Model 12 CSR Direction 19 Vessel Safety and Security 38 CSR Performance 2017 9 Governance and Progress 2016-2018 22 Climate Action 39 CSR Accounting Policies 13 Reliability 26 Environmental Impact 14 Assistance 28 Responsible Supply 16 Anti-corruption Chain Management 30 Human Rights 32 People 35 Other Contributions About this report: This report is the 9th annual CSR report about NORDEN’s CSR performance. The CSR report boundary includes assets and employees in the parent company and in subsidiaries, as well as assets in joint ventures. The report covers the calendar year 2017 and constitutes NORDEN’s Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact as well as NORDEN’s reporting on CSR in compliance with the Danish Financial Statements Act section 99a and 99b. Your feedback is valued. Please send any comments or feedback to csr@ds-norden.com I N T R O D U CT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS Welcome to NORDEN’s CSR report 2017 2017 was another busy year for NORDEN. 3 key areas and cultures and handling of challenges. We reorganised the business by splitting As the new business set-up involves a rise One of these is corruption. NORDEN is a the Dry Cargo Department into 2 distinct in the number of vessels chartered in, enfounding member of the Maritime Anti-­ business units – Dry Operator and Dry suring fuel efficiency becomes increasingly Corruption Network, MACN, which works Owner – and continued our work on the important. In 2017, NORDEN has been worktowards an industry free of corruption, and CSR agenda. With our CSR Direction 2016ing actively to improve the procedures for progress has been made. Besides taking 2018 “Joint Efforts – Mutual Benefits” as assessing vessel fuel efficiency before charpart in the ongoing work to highlight the foundation for our work within Corporate tering in and the work continues in 2018. burden of corruption, NORDEN also joined Social Responsibility, we initiated new prothe campaign “Say no” in Suez in 2017 to jects and strengthened our efforts to idenBesides this our work with CSR is centred stop pilots’ demand for cigarettes when tify where the linkages between social and around 3 main areas: Reliability, Assistance vessels transit through the canal. NORDEN economic progress in global trade hold poand Anti-corruption. By optimising reliabilalso went through a rigorous certification tential to increase the value for NORDEN’s ity of operations, we enable smarter global process from the international TRACE customers, for society and for NORDEN’s trade which is at the core of our Corporate organisation to obtain certification of prulong-term competitiveness. Soul Purpose. An increase in reliability is not dent policies and procedures to counter just a matter of operating modern vessels, corruption. We continuously work at integrating CSR but very much also about attracting and into NORDEN’s daily business, and the CSR retaining the right kind of employees and Looking ahead Direction is an integrated part of NORhaving a mindset that promotes continuous 2017 marked the second year of the CSR DEN’s business strategy and NORDEN’s search for improvements throughout the Direction 2016-2018. During 2018, besides Corporate Soul Purpose that states: “As entire supply chain of NORDEN’s many cusstrengthening our efforts with safety and custodians of smarter global trade, we are tomers. Our ambition is to be a trusted partsecurity, we will adapt the strategy to conscious, soulful people uniting a world, ner delivering value to customers by exceedthe new business set-up with increased where every person and action matters”. ing expectations and by offering knowledge activity in our operator arm of the Dry The Corporate Soul Purpose is directly and assistance to optimise the logistic chalCargo business. This increase in activity linked to our efforts within CSR, as NORlenges that are part of global shipping. will entail closer contact to even more cusDEN’s work with enabling smarter global tomers, which presents both opportunities trade contributes positively to society. Being global with offices on 5 continents and challenges. With a clear purpose and and operations all over the world also indedicated employees on shore and at sea, Jan Rindbo volves interaction with a variety of people NORDEN is ready for both. CEO 3 I N T R O D U CT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS NORDEN’s Business Model Based on a global network THE NORDEN BUSINESS of offices and good access to customers, DRY OPERATOR DRY OWNER PRODUCT TANKERS NORDEN generates Global transport solutions to dry bulk customers. Cyclical market exposure to the dry bulk market. Transport services and cyclical market exposure in the earnings by combining Generates a margin by: Generates superior long-term returns by: product tanker market transporting gasoline, diesel, naphtha etc. cargoes with vessels. • Logistical and operational optimisation, matching cargoes and vessels • Timing and negotiating transactions of owned ­vessels and long-term charter ­contracts Generate superior long-term returns by: • Utilising scale, market knowledge and access to • Utilising access to off-market deals through long• Maximizing earnings through positioning and customers and tonnage providers term relationships with shipyards and shipowners ­voyage optimisation • Taking short-term market positions • Enabling portfolio of long-term cargo ­contracts • Safe, reliable and cost efficient technical ­management of the owned fleet • Utilising access to off-market deals through longterm relationships with shipyards and ­shipowners • Timing and negotiating of transactions of owned vessels and long-term charter contracts VALUES CONNECTING THE WORLD NORDEN’s CHARACTERISTICS • Established in 1871 CARGOES RECIPIENTS Flexibility • Active in both Dry Cargo and Tankers • Owned core fleet supplemented by extensive Mines chartered fleet Reliability (Coal, iron ore, etc.) Power plants • Combination of long-term, stable cargo contracts and significant operator activities in the market Empathy Agriculture Food industry • Global network of offices and port captains in (Grain, corn, etc.) direct contact with customers Ambition • One of the world’s largest operators of product tankers through part owner­ship (50%) of Norient Forestry Construction Product Pool (Wood pellets) industry • Listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen • Transparency in financial reporting, Corporate Governance and CSR Plants Industry (Cement, steel, etc.) Refineries Transport sector (Gasoline, diesel, etc.) 4 I N T R O D U CT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS NORDEN’s Corporate Soul Purpose “As custodians of smarter global trade, we are conscious, soulful people uniting a world where every person and action matters” VALUE CREATION RESOURCES MATCHING CARGO AND VESSELS • Enabling smarter global trade • 305 employees on shore • Focus and simplicity strategy •  9,400 port calls annually • 690 employees at sea • Global reach • Revenue generation • ~300 owned and chartered vessels • Skilled employees • Tax contribution • >500 customers • Strong market insights • Jobs created • Optimised systems • Customer focus • Education and training • Certified safety record • Long-term partnerships • Strong values • Financial position 5 I N T R O D U CT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Corporate Social Sphere of influence Responsibility and responsibility NORDEN’s approach to Commercial Operator CSR is strategic, longLimited Influence term and business-driven. • Contracting voyages and cargoes for destinations. CSR is a responsibility • Arranging support activities for voyand a precondition ages. to running a resilient • Optimisation of the voyage in colbusiness that creates laboration with the shipowner and long-term value for the customer. stakeholders and society. In addition to the above, shipowners Trip charter also hold the below responsibilities. Short-term time charter Shipowner Controlling Influence Long-term • Legislative responsibility towards time charter flag state and international regulation and conventions. Owned vessels • Employment and training of crew. • Dry-docking, stores, repair and Shipowner Commercial Operator maintenance. • Vetting and Port State Control inspections. 6 I N T R O D U CT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS NORDEN’s value chain Chartering – Redelivery of Secondhand owned vessels Loading/port Unloading/port secondhand Newbuildings tonnage and time chater operations Shipping operations tonnage and sale New vessels are Vessels are acquired Vessels are chartered Cargo is delivered by Owned vessels Cargo is claimed by Vessels are sold ordered from used from third party by customers to ship customer. are manned with the customer. off to third party shipyards. shipowners. cargo. Port operations own crew and shipowners. Port operations Existing fleet is Owned and are supported by crew recruited via Time chartered are supported by maintained. chartered vessels port captains and employment and vessels are port captains and may be time facilitated by port recruiting agency. redelivered if facilitated by port chartered. agents, stevedores, Chartered vessels agents, stevedores, relevant. linesmen, pilots, are manned by the linesmen, pilots, surveyors etc. owners. surveyors etc. 7 I N T R O D U CT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Key CSR risks in NORDEN’s value chain Guiding NORDEN’s Guiding NORDEN’s Value chain Key CSR risks ­approach Value chain Key CSR risks ­approach Common CSR risks refer to the safety and Risk assessment and Some of NORDEN’s owned vessels are managed Anti-Corruption Newbuildings employment conditions of workers at shipyards inspections of yards. Shipping in-house and some by external ship management Compliance Programme and potential negative impacts on the companies as per NORDEN’s requirements. The including Anti-Corruption environment from yard activities. fact that some vessels are externally managed Policy. means that NORDEN has reduced control There is a risk that the vessels which NORDEN Pre-assessment of and oversight with the risk that externally Human Rights Policy. Secondhand buys from other shipowners fail to live up to quality of the vessels for managed vessels do not perform to NORDEN’s ­tonnage NORDEN’s quality standards. acquisition. expectations. Protective security measures in accordance Redelivery of time Vessels are redelivered or sold to other shipowners Ship Recycling Policy, Vessels chartered in from other shipowners are with the BMP4* standard. charter tonnage for further trade before recycling becomes outlining NORDEN’s managed either directly by these owners or their and sale of vessels relevant. However, there is a risk that these support for the UN’s Hong external managers. Provision on how to shipowners choose to dispose of the vessel in an Kong Convention as a deploy and train security unsustainable way shortly after sale. minimum standard in For vessels on bareboat charter to other shipping guards on board vessels. addition to social issues. companies, the external charterer is in charge of managing and staffing the vessel during the time Safety & Environmental Chartering There is a risk that compliance with NORDEN’s Anti-Corruption of charter, before returning the vessel to NORDEN. Protection Policy. – owned vessels integrity standards is not safeguarded in Compliance Programme There is a risk that the external charterer does not and time charter commercial contracts and activities. including Anti-Corruption adhere to the same standards as NORDEN when Policy. operating NORDEN’s vessels, and this poses a There is a risk that NORDEN engages with reputational risk to the Company. business partners, who fail to live up to NORDEN’s standards when assuming NORDEN’s business Seaborne transport involves safety and around the world. potentially also security risks. A risk assessment Ship agents typically arrange for all support Anti-Corruption determines whether to bring on board extra Loading/port security personnel who are contracted to protect activities while calling and loading vessels in Compliance Programme ­operations the crew, cargo and vessels prior to passage ports, including coordination with local authorities including Anti-Corruption on NORDEN’s behalf. This makes the Company Policy. in high-risk areas. However, there is a risk that vulnerable to sub-standard performance of security threats are not entirely mitigated by the agents when they represent NORDEN. Supplier Code of security guards. Conduct. During port calls, NORDEN receives provisions, There is a risk that discharges from vessels, such spare parts and bunker fuel from suppliers, if as waste, ballast water and emissions are not needed. In doing this, there is risk that NORDEN managed in line with local and global standards, engages with suppliers who fail to live up to potentially impacting ecosystems negatively and NORDEN’s standards. posing a risk to human health. * Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy v4 8 I N T R O D U CT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Governance and Progress NORDEN’s CSR Executive “In 2017, NORDEN In 2016, NORDEN undertook an initial review of the 17 SDGs and the 169 underlying Material SDGs in NORDEN Body chaired by the CEO is ultimately responsible decided that the targets. The review identified goals where NORDEN can advance its positive social or SDGs should environmental impact, and where NORDEN for CSR in the Company must take responsibility in order to prevent harm. The identified goals are highlighted The CSR Executive Body has cross-functional representation from key functions form the basis with icons in the relevant sections of this report and the graphic below. and is responsible for mandating NORDEN’s CSR Direction, ambition level and for an update of In 2017, NORDEN decided that the SDGs policies as suggested by the CSR Department. NORDEN’s CSR governance structure the NORDEN CSR should form the basis for an update of the NORDEN CSR strategy covering the years was defined together with the CSR strategy 2013-2015 and the establishment of the strategy covering after 2018. On this ground, it was decided to postpone an in-depth assessment of CSR Executive Body. NORDEN will revisit the CSR strategy work in 2018. the years after how the SDGs can influence and set the direction for the CSR work in NORDEN from 2018.” 2017 to 2018. Global outlook and commitments NORDEN’s commitment to the United NaAssessment of CSR issues tions Global Compact contributes to frame NORDEN’s key stakeholder groups comthe CSR Direction and reporting priorities prise of customers, suppliers, employees, of the Company. Within CSR, the UN is shareholders, financiers, industry associan important global signpost, guiding Sustainable Development Goals ations and regulators. The organisation companies in where the world is heading The Sustainable Development Goals seeks to engage in dialogue with these and what is expected of the private sector. (SDGs) were adopted by the UN in 2015 whenever relevant. NORDEN’s commitment to and support of and define global sustainable developthe UN Global Compact, the Sustainable ment priorities and aspirations for 2030. When defining the most important CSR isDevelopment Goals, the UN Guiding PrinciThe SDGs mobilise global efforts around a sues to communicate and work with, NORples on Business & Human Rights and more, common set of goals and targets and call DEN carries out an internal assessment of all contribute to position NORDEN’s CSR for action among government, business each CSR issue on a regular basis – a CSR activities in a global context. and civil society alike. materiality assessment. 9 I N T R O D U CT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS CSR materiality matrix 2017 Extremely Responsible Accidents and oil spills The assessment was carried out again in important Tax Practices 2017 taking into account how the issues potentially impact NORDEN’s stakeholders Reduction of CO₂ or the business either positively or negaLabor rights Labour rights Energy T/C crew NORDEN crew efficiency tively. As part of the assessment, NORDEN Significance to stakeholders also takes into account the Danish statutory sustainability reporting requirements Anti-Corruption under the Danish Financial Statements Act Health & Safety that NORDEN is subject to. Very important Supplier Conduct The previous assessment was carried out in 2016 and a new assessment will be part of the work forming a new CSR strategy coverShip recycling Diversity ing the years after 2018. In 2018, the SDGs Trading in SO Employee x engagement will be included in this assessment as an exconflict areas Uneven & job satisfaction Education & Playingfield pression of global stakeholder expectations. Community engagement development oppertunities CSR materiality matrix 2017 Important Through the CSR materiality process, the list of material CSR issues has been calibrated and prioritised into a matrix. In 2017, previous CSR issues were evaluated and further adjusted resulting in some Important Very important Extremely important issues being split in two to be more specific while others were added. New issues The extent to which topics can impact NORDEN positively or negatively include Education & Development and Employee Engagement. The results of the assessment are presented in the matrix. All issues included in the matrix are conNORDEN is part of the following global partnerships and initiatives: sidered either important, very important or extremely important and are addressed in this report. 10 J O I N T E F F O RTS – M U T UA L B E N E F I TS CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS J O I N T E F F O RTS – M U T UA L B E N E F I TS 11 J O I N T E F F O RTS – M U T UA L B E N E F I TS CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS CSR Direction Joint Efforts – Mutual Benefits The CSR Direction 2016-2018 is called Joint Efforts – Mutual Benefits and explores 3 interconnected areas of shared value*: 2016-2018 The shipping industry NORDEN’s Corporate Soul Purpose Reliability handles about 90% of the “As custodians Reinforcing crew and vessel quality world’s transported goods. The quality of the crew and the vessel determines the safety of the cargo, reliability of operations and In this way, shipping links production, of smarter the flexibility to deal with unexpected situations. By reinforcing focus on crew and vessel quality further, NORDEN seeks to lower trade costs for business and society. people and companies in global trade and contributes to development and growth all global trade, we over the world. Developing efficient, reliable and smart solutions for transporting are conscious, goods from producers to buyers is increasingly a key component in ensuring sustainsoulful people Assistance uniting a world, able development through trade. Recognising that smarter global trade is Optimising supply chains closely tied to sustainability, NORDEN’s CSR Direction is based on the premise that where every Every day lost due to barriers in the supply chain drives up costs. By coupling customer understanding and local insight, inefficiencies and barriers to trade can be removed. NORDEN seeks to optimise local working with the linkages between social and economic progress holds potential to person and supply chain solutions and contribute to enable trade for business and society. increase value for customers, for communities and long-term competitiveness for action matters” NORDEN. Anti-Corruption Fighting corruption and enabling trade The cost of corruption on economic, political and social development is high. Corruption adds unnecessary cost and delays to most trades across the spectrum. NORDEN seeks to eliminate the corruption * Shared value is defined as policies and operating practices that enhance the competitiveness of a company while simultaneously burden on local society and on companies. advancing the economic and social conditions in the communities in which it operates. The CSR Direction is developed based on a socio-economic impact study. 12 J O I N T E F F O RTS – M U T UA L B E N E F I TS CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Reliability Reinforcing crew NORDEN changed hiring process for seaRetention rate of NORDEN’s ambitions Highly skilled leaders and employees farers in 2017 focusing on an even better and vessel quality match between skills and the requirements workforce at sea Keeping a well-maintained fleet of NORDEN and NORDEN’s customers. Senior officers Performance 2017 Hiring process update Materiality and scope Quality is key to on-time performance 93% Leadership development programme Well-maintained vessels are key to ensurThe quality of crew and vessel is important ing on-time delivery and a smooth voyage Looking ahead in relation to safety on board, operational and ultimately the prerequisite to keeping Focus on crew and vessel quality reliability and flexibility when dealing with crew and cargo safe as well as preventing Junior officer unexpected situations. By focusing on crew expensive delays, idle costs and repairs. Relevant policies 95% and vessel quality further, NORDEN seeks Leadership development programme to increase reliability and lower trade costs In 2017, NORDEN initiated a leadership Cadet programme for business and society. development programme at sea to ensure Sustainable Development Goals: best possible management of our vessels. Overall at sea Performance 2017 On-board training, early action on mainteSkills are instrumental to reliability Ensuring reliable service requires that shipnance and high-quality workmanship are prioritised to deliver a consistent and safe service to customers. Also in 2017, reliabili94% owners bring the right competencies and ty and customer understanding have been The high retention indicates that leadership skills into play on each trip. Recstrong contributory factors in NORDEN NORDEN has an experienced pool ognising that the workforce at sea is instrulanding a series of long-term contracts. of seafarers. Many have been with mental in this ambition, NORDEN wants to First and foremost, NORDEN sees itself as NORDEN for 10-20 years. attract and retain the best people and be a service provider. the preferred employer in the market. “To align with future industry changes and to harvest the potential of the next generation of colleagues – adjusting leadership behaviour is key.” Torben Lykkegaard Pedersen, Head of Marine HR 13 J O I N T E F F O RTS – M U T UA L B E N E F I TS CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Assistance Optimising Supply Chains ways to remove these barriers holds potential to creating shared value. Materiality and scope NORDEN has a broad approach to customer service which goes beyond transEvery day lost due to barriers in the supply porting cargos from A to B. NORDEN is chain drives up trade costs. By coupling also involved in optimising local logistics customer understanding, local presence and infrastructure and, in doing so, part of and expertise, inefficiencies and local barreducing transport costs for the customers riers to trade can be removed. NORDEN and the local society. All this is in line with seeks to optimise supply chain solutions NORDEN’s Corporate Soul Purpose on beand contributes to enabling trade for busiing custodians of smarter global trade. ness and communities. With their local knowledge of and relation to NORDEN’s customers and other business Performance 2017 partners, local authorities, port agents and port workers, 10 port captains at Removing barriers holds potential NORDEN’s overseas offices play a key role. to create shared value They coordinate port calls from beginning Shipping only constitutes a small part of to end in cooperation with operators on the total export costs for businesses. Yet shore and the captain at sea. And they barriers in other parts of the supply chain do this regardless of the task or problem can quickly escalate the indirect cost of at hand, be it cargo hold cleaning, doctrade. Barriers can stem from congestion or uments, defective loading and discharge inefficiency in port handling, unpredictability in inland transportation or difficulties in transitions from inland transportation to ocean-going vessels. Finding collaborative 14 J O I N T E F F O RTS – M U T UA L B E N E F I TS CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS equipment, wrong port bookings, cultural is especially important during rough sea NORDEN’s ambitions Efficient supply chains differences and barriers or something else conditions and inclement weather,” says completely or unexpectedly. Materials Handling Manager Almer C. DoPerformance 2017 mingo, GNPower. Port captains optimise port calls Power plant in the Philippines Safety training completed NORDEN has entered into its largest cargo Reducing port time by use of data Improved port time contract so far, which means that NORStarting in January 2017, NORDEN parDEN will transport a total of 20-24 tonnes ticipated in a pilot project with a business Looking ahead of coal from Indonesian mines to a new partner where more than 8,000 Statements Further work with digitalisation and modern power plant in the Philippines of Facts from port calls around the world during the next 10 years. This power plant were digitised, allowing NORDEN to make Relevant policies is owned and operated by the Philippine detailed analysis on each port manoeuvre. Part of Corporate Soul Purpose “The customers power company GNPower Mariveles Coal Plant Ltd. Co. (called GNPower). The The collected data have been utilised to prepare the vessels prior to port arrival Sustainable Development Goal: use us as local coal is delivered by different vessels, but regardless of the vessel it is always NORand to optimise the time usage. As a result, NORDEN has reduced vessels’ idle time in experts making DEN’s port captain Jim Jara who will meet the vessel and coordinate discharge. ports by more than 3,200 hours. their everyday “NORDEN’s port captain provides GNPowFurther, this project has also reduced the number of tugs assisting NORDEN’s fleet easier.” er with excellent services. With his vast during manoeuvring in and out of ports. experience, he contributes to the value This is not just reducing costs, but also recreation at GNPower. His knowledge and ducing the CO₂ footprint. Port Captain Søren Retz Johansson, Singapore. skills ensure us that the vessels conduct docking and undocking of coal vessels in our jetty in a safe and efficient manner. He also gives much needed advice, which 15 J O I N T E F F O RTS – M U T UA L B E N E F I TS CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Anti-corruption Fighting corruption Performance 2017 Say no in Suez IN FOCUS: and enabling trade Employee training NORDEN is a founding member of the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN), a TRACE certified Annual anti-corruption training is manglobal business network working towards datory for all NORDEN employees and the vision of a maritime industry free of Materiality and scope comprise e-learning and tests. For exposed corruption that enables fair trade to the employee groups, NORDEN also conducts benefit of society at large. Established in NORDEN seeks to enable smarter globface-to-face training. In 2017, new e-learn2011, MACN has grown to include around al trade. Corruption impedes access to ing was rolled out to all onshore employ90 members globally in 2017, and has beDuring 2017, NORDEN completed a global markets and constitutes barriers for ees with updated training material with come one of the pre-eminent examples of comprehensive due diligence proeconomic and social development around relevant examples and dilemmas within collective action to tackle corruption. cess administered by TRACE and the world. For businesses in the maritime anti-corruption. All new employees likewise became TRACE certified. TRACE is sector, corruption also escalates costs, receive face-to-face training followed by In 2017, NORDEN joined the campaign an internationally recognised anendangers the safety and well-being of the e-learning and test. “Say No” in Suez. Demands for facilitation ti-bribery organisation and provider the crew and poses legal and reputational payment during Suez Canal transits are of third party risk management risks. In 2017, NORDEN had around 9,400 Anti-corruption training of officers was common, and rejecting demands for cigasolutions. The certification means calls* across 130 countries, some of them conducted at the annual officers’ seminars rettes and other small payments in kind has that NORDEN has completed interin regions where concepts of integrity and held in Denmark, the Philippines and India. resulted in pilots’ not cooperating, delays, nationally accepted due diligence good business conduct vary. In this conFor employees at sea, it was previously and other forms of extortion. With commuprocedures and has been forthtext, making the right choices becomes challenging to document completion of nication material and support for the capcoming and cooperative during more complex and more important. training. To address this issue, a new ontain onboard, the “Say No” campaign fothe review process. The successful board IT application has been developed cuses on ultimately eliminating facilitation completion of TRACE certification Anti-corruption compliance and tested during 2017. The application payment demands during canal transits. demonstrates NORDEN’s commitprogramme also tracks completion of training for emThe experience from the first NORDEN tranment to commercial transparency, NORDEN has a zero tolerance policy toployees onboard NORDEN vessels in extersits in 2017 has been positive and the camallowing NORDEN to serve as a wards bribery and continuously works to nal management. The application has been paign will continue in 2018 and onwards. valued business partner to multinaprevent and reduce facilitation payments. installed on 3 ships, however, the number tional companies. To promote a culture of integrity, NORDEN of employees who have taken the test in In 2017, NORDEN also participated in an inhas in place an anti-corruption compliance 2017 is 0. This may be due to challenges itiative called the Blue Print Working Group programme including an anti-corruption with implementation. NORDEN expects formed by Maersk Line and joined by other policy applicable to all employees and every eligible person to complete the trainDanish shipping companies. In this initiamanagement. Due diligence, monitoring, ing during 2018. tive, Danish embassies provide on-site astraining and controls are key tools in imsistance in specific incidents to avoid simiplementing the anti-corruption policy. lar episodes for other Danish shipowners. * Includes transits and stops to dock, loading, discharge, bunker and repair. 16 J O I N T E F F O RTS – M U T UA L B E N E F I TS CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Whistleblower system NORDEN’s ambitions Continued integration of anti-corruption comEmployees in NORDEN have access to raise pliance into operations, decision-making and workplace and operational concerns directbusiness relationships ly with their manager or with the HR function. If the matter cannot be managed efPerformance 2017 fectively through these channels, employ1 whistleblower report received ees may contact NORDEN’s whistleblower Say No in Suez campaign system SafeLine at safeline@horten.dk. Employee training: 84% of land based employees trained in anti-corIn 2017, the external Ombudsman in charge ruption by year end. Actions taken has since of SafeLine received 1 report. The report brought the completion rate up to 94% was handled in accordance with the rules Developed IT application to document training applicable to the scheme and closed after Anti-corruption training at officer seminar a thorough investigation. Looking ahead Further work with Blue Print Group “NORDEN has Anti-corruption learning and testing for employees on shore and at sea completion rate >94% a zero tolerance Relevant policies Anti-Corruption Policy policy towards Employee Code of Conduct bribery” Sustainable Development Goal: 17 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N 18 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Vessel Safety and Security Materiality and scope 1 fatality IN FOCUS: Operating at sea involves safety and seDuring 2017, a fatal accident occurred on the bulk carrier NORD QUEBEC during Safety is everyone’s curity risks that must always be managed mooring operation at arrival to the port carefully to safeguard the crew, the vessel, in Canada. The second officer was hit by the cargo and the environment. A safe a mooring rope during mooring operaworking environment for employees comes before anything else. All employees must tions. Although immediately evacuated to the local hospital, he was later declared business return home from work safely. dead. A representative from the Technical Department was sent to Canada to assist From rating to master on board and This means that NORDEN’s ambition is zero accidents and that the Company operates in the best possible way and to ensure a proper investigation of the accident in col“An old nautical to superintendent and vessel group manager ashore, a safe working enby the principle that no injury or environmental incident is acceptable. To support laboration with the local authorities. The report from the authorities was in course of saying goes: One vironment is essential, and in 2018, NORDEN seeks to further strengtha robust safety culture, NORDEN has in place a safety management system and a preparation per February 2018. “The tragic accident is a serious reminder why safehand for yourself en focus on safety. Partly through existing initiatives such as the safety policy compliant with the International Safety Management Code. ty is always essential to us. We want our seafarers to come home safely from their and one for the Company’s Roving Safety Officers, but also with further efforts to jobs,” says Head of the Technical Departmake safety everybody’s business. ment, Jens Christensen. ship. This still NORDEN wants all employees to Performance 2017 help each other remember to take Reinforcing safety culture No piracy attacks In 2017, the industry saw an increase in the applies – safety appropriate precautions and watch out for themselves while they work. Every year, NORDEN carries out a review of the Company’s safety management piracy activity off the coast of Somalia, in the Gulf of Aden and in the Indian Ocean. should be part “One hand for yourself and one for the ship,” as an old saying goes, system and performance. In 2017, NORDEN has taken several steps to support solid NORDEN experienced no piracy attacks on the Company’s owned vessels during the of our every is a fundamental precondition for working on board a vessel and still safety procedures as well as cultural initiatives to promote strong safety behaviour: year. decision and highly relevant. • Focus on change management and critical equipment procedures However, in 2017, NORDEN experienced 1 case of theft in Indonesia, 1 attempted action we take.” • Safety campaign 2017: “Safe by choice theft in India, 1 attempted theft in Nigeria Head of the Technical Department, – not by chance” and 1 case of a stowaway passenger in Jens Christensen • Safety culture workshops at officers’ seminars 19 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Nigeria. The southern part of the Red Sea, Customer inspections NORDEN’s ambitions Zero accidents the coast of West Africa, and Southeast NORDEN's tanker vessels are chartered Zero incidents of piracy Asia also remain a major security concern. by oil companies who conduct vettings and assess NORDEN’s ability to ensure Performance 2017 Identifying and managing security risks safe working conditions and protection of 1 fatality occurred as part of operations to people, vessels and cargo continues to the marine environment. NORDEN’s Ship Development in LTIF* rate increased to 1.6 be essential to NORDEN. To ensure adeInspection Report Programme (SIRE) perDevelopment in rest hour non-conformities dequate safeguards, NORDEN has in place a formance improved in 2017 from 3.5 obcreased to 0.34 company security function that assesses servations per inspection in 2016 to 2.4 in Observations per SIRE inspection 2.4 security risks on an on-going basis in con2017. The improved performance was due Rate of deficiencies per Port State Control inspection 1.7 junction with risk intelligence providers and to a continued high focus on inspection military organisations. preparation. Looking ahead Further efforts towards achieving zero accidents Vessels are put to the test Port State Controls by strengthening safety focus and efforts to NORDEN’s fleet of product tankers are regA Port State Control is a vessel inspection integrate safety awareness into everyday work practice for all NORDEN employees. ularly tested by inspectors. Oil majors and by the authorities in port, verifying that authorities regularly check that NORDEN the condition of the vessel and safety Relevant policies meets the safety requirements to vessel equipment comply with international regSafety and Environment Protection Policy condition, training, operation of the vessel ulations and that the vessel is manned and and the officers’ experience and years of operated in compliance with these rules. Sustainable Development Goal: service for the Company. The rate of deficiencies registered per Port State Control inspection went up from 0.9 in 2016 to 1.7 in 2017. * LTIF (lost time injury frequency) measures the frequency of work-related accidents, which has caused a seafarer to be unable to work for more than 24 hours. 20 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Areas at risk Injuries 35% Head, neck and eyes 2017 vs. 2016 Fatalities* Off signed** Days off duty*** 9% Torso and other 1↑ Increased from 0 7↑ Increased from 3 49 ↑ Increased from 16 NORDEN takes safety very seriously and to break this development will 17% continue to promote and focus on a strong safety culture. Arms, hands and fingers Injury trend**** – 24 month moving average Injury trend 3,5 3,0 39% 2,5 2,0 1,5 Legs, feet and toes 1,0 0,5 0,0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2015 2016 2017 LTIF TRCF * Work related accidents with fatal consequences for an employee at sea. ** People signed off due to a work related injury. *** Days off duty while on board, due to work related injuries. **** TRCF (Total Recordable Case Frequency) measures the frequency of any work related injuries beyond first aid. 21 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Climate Action Materiality and scope Performance 2017 Development of relative NORDEN’s ambitions 25% reduction of relative CO₂ emissions from CO₂ emissions 2007 to 2020 from owned dry cargo and tanker Climate change derived from CO₂ emisDue diligence processes Compared to 2007, NORDEN has in 2017 vessels respectively sions is a risk to the environment and to CO₂ emissions from shipping primarily reduced the relative CO₂ emissions by 1.5% livelihoods, and can pose operational and stem from consumption of bunker fuel that for owned dry cargo vessels and 25% for Performance 2017 commercial challenges to NORDEN’s busiin 2017 accounted for about 50% of total owned tanker vessels* respectively. On the 1.5% reduction in CO₂ emissions per tonne cargo transported 1 mile for owned dry cargo vessels ness. NORDEN has worked with limiting voyage costs. NORDEN focuses on reductanker side, this marks a decline of 14% compared to 2007 operational air emissions for several years, ing fuel consumption throughout the value compared to 2016. On the dry cargo side 25% reduction in CO₂ emissions per tonne cargo and our commitment to reduce CO₂ emischain, including when buying, chartering this marks an increase of 9.6% compared transported 1 mile for owned tanker vessels comsions is demonstrated in the Company’s and operating vessels. NORDEN’s due dilito 2016. pared to 2007 work to improve fuel efficiency and ingence activities include: crease efficiency across the value chain. The Cargo Energy Efficiency Operational Looking ahead Development of advanced data driven decision • Developing tools for evaluating fuel effiIndicator (EEOI) measures CO₂ efficiency support systems on fuel efficiency This commitment is expressed in the Cliciency, when deciding which vessels to by expressing the level of CO₂ relative to mate Policy developed by Danish Shipping charter in the cargo transported. It excludes ballast Relevant policies in the autumn of 2016, and endorsed by • Monitoring data from vessels to ensure sailing and port stays. The improved dry Climate Policy for Danish Shipowners NORDEN at the same time. The Climate optimal performance and energy efficargo market conditions have, on the dry Policy specifies the international shipping ciency cargo side, resulted in speed increases Sustainable Development Goal: industry’s responsibility to reduce CO₂ • Adding new and more efficient technolleading to a higher EEOI compared to emissions in line with the rest of the world ogy to existing vessel systems 2016. Opposite, on the tanker side, chaleconomy and the Paris Agreement. lenging tanker markets have resulted in speed decrease leading to a lower EEOI Reduction in relative CO₂ emissions compared to 2016. Ballast sailing and port Cargo EEOI Total EEOI stays are reflected in the total EEOI results. CO₂ CO₂ CO₂ CO₂ reduction g/mt/nm reduction g/mt/nm The 2017 results on the dry cargo side are since 2007 in 2017 since 2007 in 2017 driven by significantly improved market [%] [%] levels and consequently general increased Dry Cargo Owned 1.49% 5.67 -11.39% 8.49 speeds and thus increased fuel consumpTotal operated vessels 6.81% 5.36 -5.85% 8.05 tion. On the tanker side, the 2017 results are driven by deteriorating market levels Tankers Owned 25.01% 7.39 13.79% 15.44 and consequently decreased speeds and Total operated vessels 15.04% 7.70 10.07% 16.01 thus decreased fuel consumption. Negative number indicates an increase in CO₂ emissions * As measured by the Cargo Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI) 22 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS IN FOCUS: What affects efficiency and EEOI results? The Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI) is a measurement of efficiency and is defined as the amount of CO₂ emitted per tonne of cargo transported 1 mile. EEOI is influenced by commercial effects including cargo availability, waiting time and port stays where the vessel is not active. Speed Raising vessel speed will lead to an increase in fuel consumption and hence an increase in EEOI. Fuel price Optimal vessel speed is based on a combination of the prevailing cargo rates and the fuel prices. Low fuel prices will often enhance the commercial incentive to speed up, consequently increasing EEOI. Vessel size Vessel size determines the amount of cargo that can be transported. Even though smaller vessels might be the right mode of transport, they are less energy efficient compared to bigger vessels and a shift will lead to an increase in EEOI. Fuel type The amount of CO₂ produced when a fuel is burned is a function of the carbon content of the fuel. Fuel types with low carbon content limit CO₂ emissions and EEOI. 23 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS NORDEN’s fleet has increased its fuel efficiency significantly On 1 January 2013, NORDEN set up a specific a cost reduction which is directly reflected in the level of CO₂ emissions. sessed in comparison to the expected fuel price, so that we know they make Traffic lights sense financially,” says Peter Sinding. department with the task Owned vessels most efficient Peter Sinding, who heads up the fuel efNORDEN’s fleet has aged of increasing the fleet’s ficiency team, explains that the largest He points out that the increased fuel A setup consisting of 3 elements facilifuel efficiency and this savings have been achieved on NORDEN’s efficiency has even been achieved durtates measuring, sharing and reacting owned vessels. In early 2017, they were 10% ing a period of years when NORDEN’s to data in the Fuel Efficiency Departhas had a large effect. more efficient compared to 3 years earlier. fleet on average has aged. Generally, ment: In terms of the long-term chartered vesthere is a tendency that fuel consumpThe first year was spent on establishing the sels, efficiency improved by 5.4%, while the tion increases slightly as the vessel • A so-called propulsion module, monitoring of all vessels and the results are short-term chartered vessels decreased ages, and it requires greater efforts to which makes it possible to continuremarkable. During the years 2014, 2015, efficiency by 1.3%. do something about it. ously measure the efficiency of ves2016 and 2017, the owned and chartered sels dry cargo vessels and product tankers in ”The large difference in fuel efficiency is This is how savings are achieved NORDEN’s fleet have altogether reduced due to the fact that the more control we • Selection and application of im• A set of traffic lights with green, yeltheir fuel costs by USD 40 million – and have of a vessel – and if we own it, we proved anti-fouling systems on veslow and red lights, which distributes they have done this entirely by utilising the have the full right of disposal – the more sel hulls data and identifies where actions fuel more efficiently. influence we have on how efficiently it is • Systematic propeller polishing are required run. This is especially the case when we • Cleaning of hull If the current efficiency level continues untalk about technical measures such as • More focus on reducing bunker • Regular meetings between Fuel Efchanged, total annual savings on the fuel vessel paint, propeller polishing and hull cheating ficiency, the chartering and operaaccount this year will be USD 17.2 million – cleaning. Planned measures are always astions departments in NORDEN, and the Technical Department Equivalent to the amount of Equivalent to savings of Effiency 1.2 million tonnes USD 17 million bunkers 24 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Future IN FOCUS: measures Before So far, fuel efficiency improvements have primarily been achieved through increased hull and propeller effectiveness. Going forward, chartering NORDEN expects large savings on especially 2 areas achieved through future projects: a vessel • Better tools for the selection of vessels for short-term charter • A reduction of the use of the auxiliary engines at sea and in port NORDEN’s Dry Cargo business has decided to increase its operator NORDEN assesses various components such as activities, whereby cargoes are combined with available vessels in the design, time since docking, time since cleanmarket for a single or just a few trips. It is therefore important to select ing, owner, technical manager and trading fuel efficient vessels also for short-term chartering. history. In addition, on-hire in-water surveys of the ships are increasingly carried out detecting possible fouling and if necessary the vessels are cleaned. From day one after the chartering in of ships performance monitoring is instigated taking into account whether it is economically viable to clean hull or propellers. 25 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Environmental Impact Materiality and scope carried out both on board and ashore in IN FOCUS: Shipping carries risks to the environment accordance with NORDEN’s safety management system. Ballast Water Management Convention in force through spills, discharges and emissions to air, land and water. Managing these outLess sulphur from 2020 puts is critical to environmental protection, Sulphur emissions (SO ) are harmful to the industry, to NORDEN and to our customers. Monitoring and management tools x human health and the environment, and NORDEN works to reduce emissions from in September 2019 are key in minimising the environmental vessels’ exhaust in line with the IMO’s MARimpact of NORDEN’s activities in this area POL regulation. From 2020, the sulphur and ensuring compliance with internationcontent in marine fuel must be reduced While ballast water is essential to ensure safe and stable vessels at sea, it can al and local regulations. from 3.5% to 0.5% or alternatively the pose a risk to ecosystems due to the invasive species that can be transported emission requirement can be met by apand discharged from ballast water tanks into local waters. NORDEN’s policy on Safety & Environmenplying scrubbers to clean the emissions tal Protection spells out our commitment prior to release into the atmosphere. In 2016, IMO’s Ballast Water Management Convention (BWMC) was ratified, to environmental due diligence and how but later postponed. The convention will now enter info force September 2019. to actively manage spills and operational A sulphur cap of 0.1% for sensitive coastal In the meantime, the USA has implemented its own regulations. As of December emissions of sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxareas, the so-called emission control areas 2017, the US Coast Guard (USCG) has granted type approval to 6 treatment ides, waste and other discharges. (ECAs), has been in force since 2015. These systems. areas comprise the Baltic Sea, Iceland, the North Sea, the English Channel, most of NORDEN has ordered one of the approved systems for retrofit of the fleet. The Performance 2017 the US and Canadian coast and parts of first vessel will be retrofitted during the first half of 2018 while the last vessel is the Caribbean. Adding to this, a number scheduled for completion in 2023. This is all governed by IMO and USCG reguPrepared for emergencies of countries have implemented local regulations. NORDEN has clear procedures in place lation. that aim to prevent operational spills. However, spills may occur due to operational NORDEN acknowledges the importance of failure or accidents. Therefore, as part of this step in reducing the environmental imNORDEN’s emergency preparedness, oil pact from shipping. pollution prevention drills are regularly 26 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS However, the added cost of the new cap NORDEN’s ambitions Zero oil spills into water will be significant and without compliance across the industry, the new regulation will Performance 2017 distort competition. Oil spills > 1 barrel: 0 52,700 tonnes of SO emitted Therefore, NORDEN joined the Trident x 118,200 tonnes of NO emitted x Alliance that advocates stronger global enforcement of SO regulation with the aim Looking ahead x to minimise non-compliance and unfair Implement new ballast water regulation on all practices in the industry. owned vessels. Relevant policies New NO zones in the North x Safety & Environmental Protection Policy. Sea and Baltic Sea The International Maritime Organisation Sustainable Development Goals: has passed a proposal limiting the nitrogen oxides emissions (NO ) from vessels in the x Baltic Sea and the North Sea by 75% from vessels built in 2021 and onwards. NO is x known to contribute to smog, and the new regulation focuses on reducing NO emisx sions from marine diesel engines installed on ships. Managing waste on board NORDEN continues to focus on discharge from vessels, and all waste is disposed of in accordance with the rules set forth by the IMO’s MARPOL regulation*. To minimise the amount of generated waste, NORDEN encourages suppliers to reduce or take back packaging, resulting in less garbage accumulated on board. * International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 27 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Responsible Supply Chain IN FOCUS: Management Improving supply chain management in the Materiality and scope shipping industry The supplier landscape of many shipping companies, including NORDEN, is complex and comprises several thousand providIMPA ACT is a responsible supply chain management system run by the Internaers worldwide. Shipping suppliers count tional Marine Purchasing Association and developed by NORDEN, the Danish shipproviders of bunker fuel, provisions, spare owner J.Lauritzen and IMPA in 2012. It is the first standard for the shipping industry parts and consumables, but also service agencies who play a key role in supporting “We have on this area. port operations and facilitating NORDEN’s activities around the world. experienced that When signing up to IMPA ACT, buyers like NORDEN agree to implement the stipulations of the Code of Conduct, just as the suppliers in the programme commit to be part of the work and implement the processes necessary to ensure that they operate in alignResponsible Supply Chain our suppliers are ment with the Code of Conduct. Management programme NORDEN’s Responsible Supply Chain Management (RSCM) programme and Supgetting a better By supporting the IMPA ACT programme, the aim is to ensure a uniform approach across the industry and to build a joint database of buyers and suppliers of benefit plier Code of Conduct cover direct spend (excluding bunkers). They aim to drive understanding to all members. responsible procurement practices and to build the capacity of first tier suppliers to and acknowledcomply with the Supplier Code of Conduct that sets forth the UN Global Compact’s gement of a 10 principles on core labour rights, environment and anti-corruption, and the UN robust RSCM Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The goal is to engage 5 new firstpolicy.” tier suppliers per year. Ole Lykke, Head of Strategic Purchasing 28 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS IN FOCUS: Recycling of ships Performance 2017 NORDEN’s ambitions Vessels are hazardous waste that must be recycled under safe conditions with reExpand NORDEN’s RSCM programme with 5 addispect for human health, safety and environment. In 2016, the Danish government tional first-tier suppliers each year Engaging suppliers took the first step to ratify the Hong Kong Convention, adopted in 2009 by the Under the RSCM programme, NORDEN Performance 2017 UN’s International Maritime Organisation. engages with first-tier suppliers. The sup5 additional first-tier suppliers enrolled in RSCM pliers are selected based on an assessment programme in 2017 The Hong Kong Convention aims to ensure that ships, when recycled after reachof 3 criteria; total spend, dependency and 20 key first-tier suppliers have been part of ing the end of their operational lives do not pose a risk to safety of workers or to RSCM programme since 2013 frequency of interaction. Some suppliers the environment. However, the Convention is still far from entering into force, as are still undergoing the RSCM process, as only very few countries have ratified the convention to date. Looking ahead it takes time to implement the UNGPs into Re-visit IMPA ACT model and for code of conduct the company and towards business relaaccessibility Historically, NORDEN’s vessels have been sold to other shipowners for further trade tionships. NORDEN expects all suppliers in Work with Ship Recycling Transparency Initiative. long before recycling has been relevant. If a NORDEN owned ship should be up for the programme to conduct a self-assessrecycling in the future, this will be done at an approved yard and as a minimum in ment against the stipulations of the SuppliRelevant policies compliance with the UN’s Hong Kong Convention and in alignment with the 10 priner Code of Conduct and as such, the Code Supplier Code of Conduct ciples of the UN Global Compact covering not only environmental issues, but also is a valuable tool for dialogue on supplier social issues and anti-corruption. performance and risk management. In Sustainable Development Goals: 2017, NORDEN completed the RSCM programme with ExxonMobil Lubricants, International Paint, Inchcape Shipping Service IMPA ACT six step process and Viking Life-Saving Equipment. 3 2 1 Choosing and engaging Informing Committing 4 5 6 Partnering Implementing Auditing 29 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Human Rights Materiality and scope • Coordination and guidance on human NORDEN reviews the impact assessment NORDEN’s ambitions Ensure that NORDEN conducts business with rerights provided to functional units by on a continuous basis, and during 2018 the spect for human rights as a process of continuous NORDEN is committed to respecting the the CSR Department plan is to conduct an impact assessment improvement internationally recognised human rights as with focus on NORDEN’s business activities expressed in the UN Guiding Principles on • Ownership of human rights allocated across the supply chain. Performance 2017 Business & Human Rights (UNGPs). Assessbetween key functions including HR, Human rights impact assessment ing human rights impact is a complex task Marine HR and Procurement NORDEN’s Responsible Supply Chain Manfor any company, especially companies agement programme is an important part Looking ahead with global operations and business rela• Consultation with human rights experts of the human rights due diligence process Review impact assessment and expand assessment scope to include suppliers tionships all over the world. The responon a regular basis in the Company. Develop priority list of human rights risk based on sibility does not increase in this business impact assessment context, but the challenge of fully meeting those responsibilities may do. Performance 2017 Relevant policies Human Rights Policy With this backdrop, NORDEN recognises Human rights due diligence Supplier Code of Conduct that implementing the necessary policies, NORDEN’s human rights impact assessdue diligence processes and grievance ment focused on 1) owned vessels and emSustainable Development Goals: mechanisms in line with the requirements ployees at sea, and 2) offices and employof the UNGPs is part of a continuous proees on shore. Findings from these assesscess. ments led to a number of key activities: Governance of human rights • Mapping relevant policies and proceNORDEN works to embed respect for hudures with linkages to the relevant human rights into everyday practices and man rights decision-making by ensuring: • Exploring internal business procedures • Regularly reporting to Executive Manand identifying potential gaps agement on identification and management of human rights impacts • Consultation with stakeholders and development of action plans for prioritised risks 30 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Key findings of human rights impact assessments NORDEN’s impact assessment points to 2 severe* issues, both at sea, which are described in the list of key risk areas below: Topic Relevant right NORDEN’s context NORDEN’s approach in brief Health & Safety Right to safe and healthy working conditions. Vessels are high-risk workplaces and severe injuries and even NORDEN ensures that vessels are properly maintained and that our Right to life. fatalities can happen if safety instructions are not followed at all crew has the necessary safety training at all times. This includes times. The health and safety of NORDEN’s crew and people on promoting a strong health and safety culture and having in place a board our vessels will always be a severe issue to the Company. comprehensive health and safety management system and training compliant with the International Safety Management Code. Security Right to life, liberty and security of person. NORDEN operates globally and monitors global security threats. It is often a psychological burden for the crew when passing in Right of detained persons to humane treatment. When calling areas exposed to piracy or other security risks, it may high-risk areas. NORDEN conducts due diligence on the security Right to freedom from torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading be necessary to make use of security guards on board vessels to providers that we contract with in order to ensure that they are treatment or punishment. protect people and assets. Due to the potential impacts of such a qualified to tackle potential extreme risk and security situations. situation, this will always be a severe issue to NORDEN. Security providers receive training in advance of any deployment. Crew Right to rest, leisure and paid holidays. NORDEN may have an impact on the crew’s right to rest on board NORDEN operates by the Maritime Labour Convention that defines vessels, whenever rest hour regulation is not followed. Non-comseafarers’ rights to decent working conditions. pliance with rest hour regulation can have an adverse impact on vessel safety and employee well-being, which makes this area a NORDEN continuously works to ensure compliance with regulations priority area to NORDEN. and conventions concerning working hours, rest hours and leave to ensure employee well-being and a safe and healthy working environment on board vessels. Right to family life. The working conditions for seafarers can mean longer periods NORDEN seeks to provide an attractive workplace for our seafaraway from family and friends. This may have an adverse impact on ers, which includes the opportunity to keep in close contact with family and personal relations at home. family and friends at home and providing for family insurance. It is NORDEN’s priority that seafarers can always keep in contact via internet or phone and that officers can bring their family on board from time to time. Equal treatment Right to non-discrimination, equal treatment and diversity. Non-discrimination, equal treatment and diversity are important NORDEN works to mitigate discrimination and to promote diversity focus areas to NORDEN, both in terms of ensuring the rights, and equal opportunity among sea and land-based staff, for examwell-being and respect towards employees – and in terms of naviple by conducting ‘global mindset training’ for employees and by gating respectfully in different cultural contexts worldwide. ensuring transparency around promotion criteria and needed competencies. NORDEN’s internal grievance mechanisms can be used to voice potential concerns in this area. * Severe human rights issues refer to impacts where the scale, scope and/or irremediable nature make this a significant adverse impact for those affected by it. 31 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS People Materiality and scope NORDEN brings all its employees’ unique contributions into play for the benefit of With people at the core of business, enimproved customer service. This supports gaged leadership, employees, colleagues, our ambition to contribute to smarter globpartners and customers are key aspects al trade – a part of NORDEN’s Corporate of NORDEN’s future success. Taking the Soul Purpose. lead on smarter global trade requires that NORDEN unleashes the full potential of NORDEN seeks to reach a balanced genevery person in the Company. With this der representation where possible through aspiration, NORDEN has initiated a host clear requirements for diversity in recruitof efforts focusing on strengthening the ment and employee development as stated organisation’s leadership capabilities and in NORDEN’s policy for Gender Equality. working smarter together. Specifically, NORDEN works to attract female candidates to shipping trainee Employee Code of Conduct positions to grow the share of women in NORDEN’s Employee Code of Conduct shipping. In 2017, NORDEN employed 14 frames the standard of conduct expected trainees in total with a gender distribution of all employees in the NORDEN Group. In of 29% female and 71% male trainees. addition to the company values of ReliaNORDEN has bility, Flexibility, Empathy and Ambition, NORDEN’s board composition is increasthe Code of Conduct covers amongst other ingly more international with 2 new interEmployees topics anti-corruption, environment, safenational members in 2017 totalling 50% ty, social conditions and compliance. international shareholder-elected board members. 305 690 26 at NORDEN’s offices at sea nationalities globally Performance 2017 The board composition remains at 17% shareholder-elected women (1 out of 6). Diversity and equal opportunity* The target for shareholder-elected women Employee diversity allows for flexible thinkon the Board of Directors was to increase Gender balance in 2017 ing and prevents inveterate conceptions representation of women to at least 33% and habits. By composing teams with a variety of ages, levels of experience, (2 out of 6) by 2017. In accordance with company policy, appointment of minimum 33% 2% nationalities, languages and genders, 1 more female member to the Board of of the workforce on shore of our seafarers are women, due to both were women historical reasons and industry tradition * Refers to section 99b in the Danish Financial Statements Act. 32 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Directors would be preferable. However, it The leadership programme began with ployees feel empowered, find relevance in NORDEN’s ambitions Preferred employer in the shipping industry has not been possible to find female canonshore managers in 2015 and consists the work they do and have a good underdidates with qualifications to match the of a mix of group sessions and individual standing of the relationship between own Performance 2017 elected candidates. The Board of Directors’ coaching. So far, 60 managers have been and company goals. One issue on easy ac24% women in leadership target is 33% women (2 female members through the programme to strengthen their cess to information requires further action Quarterly employee engagement survey out of 6) by 2020. To reach this goal the abilities to help their employees release which will be taken during 2018. 94% retention rate on shore Board of Directors consistently considers their potential. In 2017, 2 global leadership 32 cadets in Denmark female candidates when recruiting new coaches have been hired to assist leaders Investing in education 8 cadets in India board members. on board in developing their leadership NORDEN is involved in the identification 20 cadets in Philippines skills further in a programme similar to that and education of new skilled persons to Exercising leadership for onshore managers. the shipping industry. With input from Looking ahead NORDEN is operating in fast changing marNORDEN and the industry, Copenhagen Leadership training at sea. kets where demands, products and compaSoulship is about enabling us to draw on Business School has established a Bachelor nies are developing quicker and in more unthe combined knowledge and skills of the programme in International Shipping and Relevant policies Employee Code of Conduct foreseen ways than ever before. Successful entire organisation in order to succeed. Trade, which is completed with an internPolicy for Gender Equality organisations today acknowledge that to With this foundation in place, the results ship during the fifth and sixth semester. In succeed in such a disruptive environment, are expected to support a long-term or2017, 2 interns completed their degree at Sustainable Development Goals: the ability to unleash and use all employganisational transition. NORDEN’s head office while 10 new shipees' full potential in an atmosphere of comping trainees began their training, bringing mon purpose, mutual respect, inclusion and Employee engagement survey the total number of trainees at NORDEN trustful cooperation is crucial. In 2017, NORDEN initiated an agile employoffices around the world to 18. 4 trainees ee engagement survey where employees completed their training and were subseNORDEN’s Corporate Soul Purpose and respond to assessment questions a number quently hired by the company. business objectives rely on strong individof times every year. Under the programme, ual engagement and leadership. Soulship employee engagement is measured on This effort adds to NORDEN’s current cais the collective name for Corporate Soul a continuous basis to monitor employee det programme for Danish and Philippine Purpose, how we lead and individual soul satisfaction and thereby introducing a mariners and marine engineers, along with purposes and Leadership Manifestos. Soulculture of dialogue as well as uncovering NORDEN’s deep involvement with Shanghai ship is a part of the programme that mergpotential issues before they become actual Maritime University, Singapore Managees strategy, goals, culture and leadership. problems. Maybe the effect of the survey ment University and Maritime Academy is reflected in the increase in retention rate of Asia and the Pacific in the Philippines. To bolster long-term leadership capabilon shore from 90% in 2016 to 94% in 2017. From 2017 and onwards, NORDEN started ities, NORDEN continues its leadership a programme for Indian cadets – contribprogramme. The results of the agile employee engageuting to the education of future officers in ment survey show that the NORDEN emone of NORDEN’s key markets. 33 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS NORDEN – close to the customers With 9 offices on 5 continents, NORDEN is physically present in relevant markets – and close to the customers COPENHAGEN, DENMARK Head office – opened when NORDEN VANCOUVER, CANADA was established in the year of 1871. Office opened in 2018. 217 employees. 2 employees. ANNAPOLIS, USA Office opened in 2001. SHANGHAI, CHINA 22 employees. Office opened in 2003. 16 employees. MUMBAI, INDIA Office opened in 2005. 5 employees. SINGAPORE NORDEN’s second home. Office opened in 1996. 34 employees. RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL Office opened in 2003. 6 employees. SANTIAGO, CHILE Office opened in 2015. 2 employees. MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA Office opened in 2015. 3 employees. 34 O P E R AT I O N A L F O U N DAT I O N CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Other The Philippino children who take part in NORDEN’s health programme live in Mariveles where NORDEN delivers coal for the power supply. Contributions Engaging with Community While the Orients Fund is an independent EAC/ØK-founder H.N. Andersen in 1915, respectively. The formal merger between Reaching the unreached children legal entity separate from NORDEN, the NORDEN and Orient came in 1994. Legally fund’s donations to maritime-related proand for accounting purposes, Orient conjects are made at the request of NORDEN. tinued as the operating company but under In 2017, Orients Fund donated about DKK the NORDEN name. The charitable founda28 million for maritime-related purposes tion Orients Fund was established in 1962 With a donation from Orients Fund of DKK 120,000, NORDEN’s port captains such as education, communication, rethrough an amalgation of Orients PensionJim Jara and Søren Retz Johansson have launched a health project in Marivesearch and initiatives promoting NORDEN’s skasse and Orients Understøttelseskasse. les in the Philippines, where the poorest of children have very limited or no activities, as well as for non-profit and access to public health care. 100 children have been thoroughly screened. charitable projects. Corporate tax ”90% have serious dental problems, and more than 20% have tuberculosis and NORDEN is subject to the Danish tonnage maybe also other diseases. Added to this, approximately 40% are underweight Orients Fund generates earnings through tax regulation, to taxation on capital inbecause of malnourishment and illnesses,” explains Søren Retz Johansson. The shareholdings – primarily by owning twocome and in some instances to taxation money from Orients Fund is spent on equipment and medicine while treatment thirds of Motortramp, which is NORDEN’s on profits from sale of vessels. In some of the children is delivered free of charge by Jim Jara’s daughters – one is a majority shareholder with an equity intercountries a special freight tax is levied. The dentist and the other a doctor – and by Søren Retz Johansson’s wife who is a est of 31%. amount of tonnage tax payable is defined dentist. by the size of the fleet, flagged in DenNORDEN is a merger between the shipping mark. companies Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN and Dampskibsselskabet Orient, estabNORDEN follows the tax regulation in the “In recent years, the fund lished by Mads C . Holm in 1871 and the countries, where the Company operates. has handed out DKK 20-50 million a year, and the majority of the money is donated to maritime-related projects.” Business Manager Dan Pode Poulsen, Responsible for the day-to-day management of the fund 35 DATA CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS DATA 36 DATA CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS Limited Assurance Report of the Independent Auditor To the Stakeholders of Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Work performed • Measuring and reporting the CSR Performance Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S Historical Financial Information’. A limited assurance We are required to plan and perform our work in Data based on the accounting policies; engagement is substantially less in scope than a order to consider the risk of material misstatement Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S (NORDEN) enreasonable assurance engagement in relation to of the consolidated CSR performance data. In doing • Preparing the NORDEN CSR Report 2017 in supgaged us to provide limited assurance over the both the risk assessment procedures, including an so and based on our professional judgement, our port of the UN Global Compact Principles. CSR performance data on page 38 in the NORDEN understanding of internal control, and the procedures procedures have included: Corporate Social Responsibility Report for the year performed in response to the assessed risks; conseOur responsibility ended 31 December 2017. quently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited • Inquiries regarding methods, procedures and We are responsible for: assurance engagement is substantially lower than internal control, observation of processes perOur conclusion the assurance that would have been obtained had a formed and selected interviews with data and • Planning and performing the engagement to Based on the procedures we have performed and reasonable assurance engagement been performed. reporting responsible personnel; obtain limited assurance about whether the CSR the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to Performance Data as stated on page 38 in the our attention that causes us not to believe that Our independence and quality control • Checking data on a sample basis to underlying NORDEN CSR Report 2017 are free from material We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Prodocumentation, and evaluation of the appromisstatement, whether due to fraud or error; • The NORDEN CSR Report 2017 has been prefessional Accountants issued by the International priateness of quantification methods and compared in support of the UN Global Compact Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which inpliance with stated non-financial accounting • Assessing whether the NORDEN CSR Report 2017 principles, and that cludes independence and other ethical requirements policies; has been prepared in support of the UN Global founded on fundamental principles of integrity, Compact Principles; • The CSR Performance Data as stated on page objectivity, professional competence and due care, • Analytical review of the data and trend explana38 in the NORDEN CSR Report 2017 are free of confidentiality and professional behaviour. The firm tions submitted by data suppliers for consolida• Forming an independent conclusion, based on material misstatements and have been prepared, applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 tion at Group level; the procedures we have performed and the eviin all material respects, in accordance with the and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system dence we have obtained; and CSR Accounting Policies as stated on page 39 in of quality control including documented policies • Assessment of internal and external documenthe NORDEN CSR Report 2017. and procedures regarding compliance with ethical tation to determine whether information in the • Reporting our conclusion to the Stakeholders of requirements, professional standards and appliNORDEN CSR Report 2017 are supported by sufNORDEN. This conclusion is to be read in the context of what cable legal and regulatory requirements. Our work ficient evidence; we say in the remainder of our report. was carried out by an independent multidisciplinary Hellerup, 6 March 2018 team with experience in sustainability reporting and • Assessment of how NORDEN have reported upon What we are assuring assurance. the ten principles of UN Global Compact. PricewaterhouseCoopers The scope of our work was to provide limited asStatsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab surance over consolidated CSR performance data Understanding reporting and Management’s responsibilities CVR no. 3377 1231 as stated on page 38 in the NORDEN CSR Report measurement methodologies Management of NORDEN is responsible for: 2017 and whether the NORDEN CSR Report 2017 has Data and information need to be read and underbeen prepared in support of the UN Global Compact stood together with the accounting policies (page 39 • Designing, implementing and maintaining inprinciples. of the NORDEN CSR Report 2017), which Manageternal controls over information relevant to the Bo Schou-Jacobsen Jens Pultz Pedersen ment is solely responsible for selecting and applying. preparation of the CSR Performance Data that State Authorised M.Sc.(eng.) Professional standards applied The absence of a significant body of established are free from material misstatement, whether Public Accountant and level of assurance practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure due to fraud or error; We performed a limited assurance engagement non-financial information allows for different, but in accordance with International Standard on Asacceptable, measurement techniques and can affect • Establishing objective accounting policies for surance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance comparability between entities and over time. preparing data; 37 DATA CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS CSR Performance 2017 2015 2016 2017 Environmental performance Energy consumption * The increase of 21% in absolute sulphur emissions from Heavy fuel oils (1,000 tonnes) 882.8 932.5 1,086.0 2016 to 2017 is due to increase in fuel consumption by 17% because of increased activity. The sulphur content Distillate fuel oils (1,000 tonnes) 108.7 94.3 116.8 in the oil has also increased by 3% but this is unlikely to Electricity (MWh) 1,395.4 1,380.7 1,283.4 impact the sulphur emission increase significantly. Total energy consumption (TJ) 45.2 46.5 53.3 ** The calculation of NO has been adjusted to include x emissions from both heavy fuel oil and distillate fuel oil. Historical data has been adjusted accordingly. From 2016 Transport work (million tonnes cargo x mile) to 2017 the 17% increase in NO to correlates to 17% inx Owned vessels 45,891 38,845 31,153 crease in total fuel consumption. Other operated dry cargo vessels 278,407 296,487 373,785 *** Onshore employees only. Other operated tankers 28,846 24,023 24,926 **** Rest hour non-conformity/FTE: Incomplete data due to Total owned and operated vessels 353,144 359,355 429,864 change of supplier in 2017. This is not considered significant for the total number since under 5% is missing for the year. CO₂ emissions (1,000 tonnes) ***** Despite all efforts, safety bulletins and safety campaigns Direct CO₂ emissions (Scope 1 GHG protocol) 454.3 439.1 351.6 introduced last year we experienced a negative lost time injury development with our colleagues at sea. In 2017, Indirect CO₂ emissions (Scope 2 GHG protocol) 0.5 0.5 0.4 11 crew members were injured with 1 fatal accident as the Other indirect CO₂ emissions (Scope 3 GHG protocol) 2,646.5 2,807.1 3,408.7 worst. Total CO₂ emissions 3,101.3 3,246.7 3,760.7 SO emissions* 40.1 43.7 52.7 x NO emissions** 97.4 100.9 118.2 x Spills Spills > 1 barrel 0 0 0 Social performance Employees Employees at sea 689 642 690 Employees on shore 288 284 305 Retention rate employees at sea (%) 94 91 94 Retention rate employees on shore (%) 84 90 94 Nationalities represented (of total workforce) 21*** 27 26 Women in management (% based on headcount) n/a 22 24 Women on Board of Directors (%) 20 20 17 Gender split (% of onshore workforce) n/a 33 33 Rest hour non-conformity per FTE (%)**** 0.42 0.39 0.34 Fatalities 0 0 1 Lost time injury frequency (million working hours)***** 0.88 0.89 1.58 Covered by PwC's 2017 report on non-financial data 38 DATA CS R R E P O RT 2017 C O N T E N TS CSR Accounting Policies Boundary setting In 2017, NORDEN consolidated data to form new inNOx and SOx emissions Health and safety The CSR report boundary includes assets and emdicators in the CSR Report: • NO : Nitrogen oxide emissions from combustion Scope includes area where NORDEN has the direct x ployees in the parent company and in subsidiaries, • Heavy fuel oils of fuels from owned and operated vessels governing authority and responsibility for safety as well as assets in joint ventures (JVs). • Distillate fuel oils (Gas) • SO : Sulphur oxide emissions mainly stem from and environmental management of people, prox • Electricity the burning of the sulphur compound in the fuel cesses, facilities and vessels. NORDEN holds the Assets in JVs include vessels owned by NORDEN • Total energy consumption from owned and operated vessels. International Safety Management (ISM) Code and together with partners in the company NORD SUMDocument of Compliance (DOC) for the vessel. MIT Pte. Ltd. NORDEN’ owns 50% of the JV Polar Environmental performance Spills: includes incidents of oil spills larger than 1 Navigation Pte. Ltd that holds assets in the form of Energy consumption barrel into the sea from owned and/or operated Out of scope: Non-owned vessels, vessels for which chartered vessels. Common to the vessels in JVs is Heavy fuel oil and distillate fuel oil: Bunker fuel vessels. NORDEN does not hold the ISM DOC and vessels on that they are managed and operated by NORDEN, consumed directly by owned and operated and bare-boat charter. but all material decisions regarding the commercial, chartered vessels including all the fuels and gas oils Social performance operational and technical management of the vesused on board for activities such as steam, generEmployees Rest hour non-conformity: The rate of rest hour sels are made in agreement with the partners. ating electricity, marine boilers, heating, main and Number of employees: The number of employees non-conformity per full-time equivalent (FTE) per auxiliary engines. on shore and at sea employed by NORDEN at yearmonth. Rest hours are monitored onboard in accordThe reporting boundary includes end. Scope includes employees at NORDEN’s offices ance with the ILO and STCW conventions. All viola• Owned vessels Electricity: Electricity consumed indirectly in opand on NORDEN’s own vessels. tions of rest hour conventions are recorded on board • Operated vessels erational activities for onshore offices divided by each vessel and they are all reported to office. Rest • Employees on shore country of purchase. Retention rate at sea and on shore: Resignations hour non-conformities is defined as number of days • Employees at sea include employees who resign on their own initiawhere a seafarer is not in compliance. • NORDEN Site Offices Total energy consumption: Sum of heavy fuel oil, tive excluding beneficial or unavoidable dismissals distillate fuel oil and electricity. Calculated using during the accounting year. Retention rate at sea Fatalities: reported throughout NORDEN during the Data quality and data collection heating value 40.2kJ/kg for heavy fuel oil and is based on the number of seafarers employed on accounting year. Collecting information and data on NORDEN’s CSR 42.7kJ/kg for distillate fuel oil. permanent and fixed term contracts as well as seaperformance, the reporting principles of balance, farers between fixed term contracts. Retention rate Lost Time Injury Frequency: Calculated based on clarity, accuracy, reliability, timeliness and comTransport work: Transport work of owned and on shore is based on permanent employees. the number of work-related accidents, which cause parability are applied. Data are presented with operated vessels as well as vessels chartered and a seafarer to be unable to work for more than 24 comparative data from the past 3 years. Significant operated. Transport work expresses the mass of Number of nationalities: For employees on shore at hours (based on exposure hours), in accordance variations in data of over 5 % are explained in the cargo transported over distance. Compared with year-end and among all employees at sea during with OCIMF’s ‘Marine Injury Reporting Guidelines’, relevant section of the CSR report. The CSR assurthe amount of CO₂ emitted, it provides a picture of the accounting year at sea. per one million working hours. ance provider, PwC, provides independent limited fleet efficiency. assurance on NORDEN’s CSR performance indicaWomen in management: The percentage of the tors. CO₂ emissions: Compatible with the Greenhouse number of women in management positions on Gas (GHG) Protocol. shore at year-end. A manager is defined as an emChanges to reported CSR data compared with 2016 ployee who hold responsibility for a team of at least Due to updated materiality assessment and new • Scope 1: Direct emissions from NORDEN’s own one other person. business model, n 2017, the following CSR indicators consumption of fuel from owned company cars have been excluded from the CSR report: and energy from owned and operated vessels. Women in the Board of Directors: The percentage of • Other discharge: Waste • Scope 2: Indirect emissions from purchased elecshareholder-elected women on the Board of Direc• Other discharge: Spills < 1 barrel tricity and district heating. tors at year-end. • CO₂ emissions: Owned vessels • Scope 3: Indirect emissions from third party ac• CO₂ emissions: Operated dry cargo vessels tivities. Measures CO₂ emissions from chartered Gender split: The percentage of the number of • CO₂ emissions: Other operated tankers vessels, air travel and leased company cars. women on shore at year-end. 39 C O N T E N TS Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S 52, Strandvejen DK-2900 Hellerup Denmark Telephone: +45 3315 0451 CVR no. 67 75 89 19 Contact regarding content of this report csr@ds-norden.com Nicolai Bro Jöhncke Head of Corporate Communications & CSR Email: nbj@ds-norden.com Design and production: Noted Telephone: +45 3271 0865 www.ds-norden.com
