United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Sustainability Report 2017 We Promote Sustainability Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 1 Contents 3 // FOREWORD Profile of NRW.BANK and Key Performance Indicators 10 // STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Living up to Our Corporate Responsibility 17 // PROMOTION REPORT Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients 23 // GREEN BOND NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2017 39 // ECO-BALANCE Climate and Environmental Protection 47 // HUMAN RESOURCES Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees 59 // CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Showing Commitment to Society This is an unofficial translation of the Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2017 (German Sustainability Report 2017) and is provided for convenience purposes only. In the event of any ambiguity, the German text will prevail. Foreword by the Managing Board Dear Readers, As the promotional bank for North Rhine-Westphalia, sustainable operation is our statutory mission – and also a top priority for our company. Sustainable operation means meeting the requirements of today’s generations without compromising on the well-being of future generations. It is our goal to make the life of today’s and tomorrow’s generations in North Rhine-Westphalia better in economic, social and environmental terms. In doing so, we are guided, among other things, by the ten internationally accepted principles of the UN Global Compact, which we joined in 2009. For more than ten years, we have reported on the successes of our sustainable action in an annual Sustainability Report. The contents are based on the requirements of the German Sustainability Code. In addition, we comply with the requirements of EU Directive 2014/95/EU. On this basis, our corporate sustainability progress is documented in a transparent manner. We continuously work on sustainability within our Bank and introduced Sustainability Guidelines in the beginning of 2018. These guidelines govern the Bank’s present and future approach to sustainability. This also includes integrating the resulting demands and requirements more closely into our organisational structure and overall strategy. Our banking operations have been entirely carbon-neutral for several years already. Where we cannot avoid emissions, we fully neutralise them through the acquisition of certificates. NRW.BANK attaches great importance to treating its employees in a respectful and forward-looking manner. To secure young talent for the future, we aim to offer our trainees and apprentices the best possible conditions for their career start. This is not least reflected in the fact that we made second place among the banks participating in the survey “Deutschlands beste Ausbildungsbetriebe” (Germany’s Best Providers of Vocational Training) conducted on behalf of “Focus Money” magazine. Sustainability Report 2017 Foreword 3 Moreover, we offer our employees a large number of career prospects and further training options within the Bank to support their personal and professional development. We also attach great importance to good working conditions. The occupational compensation fund for North Rhine-Westphalia has confirmed the exemplary quality of our health and safety scheme. We offer the right promotional product for any promotional occasion in North Rhine-Westphalia. Our sustainable promotional business was again expanded significantly in 2017, with the volume of new commitments exceeding the high levels of the previous years and reaching € 11.6 billion. A focus was placed on the promotion of start-ups and SMEs, housing and municipal infrastructures. 2017 also saw us expand our portfolio by new offerings for startups to support innovation in North Rhine-Westphalia as well as by funds for school infrastructures and sustainable urban redevelopment. The Green Bonds issued by NRW.BANK each year offer investors the possibility to place their money in environmental and sustainable investments. Since 2013, we have issued five NRW.BANK.Green Bonds with a total volume of € 2.25 billion, of which € 2.0 billion were still quoted on the Luxembourg Green Exchange (LGX) as at 31 December 2017. These funds are exclusively invested in sustainable promotional projects focusing on climate and environmental protection. The special climate and environmental benefit of these projects is determined by the Wuppertal Institute. The latter has calculated that all projects of the 2017 NRW.BANK.Green Bond save about 4 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents over their ten-year term. This forecast illustrates the sustainable benefit of the Green Bond projects. The present Sustainability Report will give you a detailed overview of the diverse measures we take to support sustainable operation in North Rhine-Westphalia and the progress we make in this context. We wish you interesting reading and look forward to communicating with you. The Managing Board of NRW.BANK Eckhard Forst Gabriela Pantring Michael Stölting Dietrich Suhlrie Chairman of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Managing Board Managing Board Managing Board Managing Board Sustainability Report 2017 Foreword 4 Profile of NRW.BANK and Key Performance Indicators NRW.BANK is the promotional bank of North Rhine-Westphalia. Its misIn the context of its social housing promotion activities, NRW.BANK ad­ sion is to support its owner, the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, in the vises the approval authorities of the responsible municipal or local governcompletion of its structural and economic policy tasks. In its three promoments as well as prospective developers and owners on the possibilities to tional fields “Economy”, “Housing” and “Infrastructure/Municipalities”, make social housing construction modern, flexible and profitable using NRW.BANK uses a wide range of promotional tools – from low-interest suitable promotional programmes. promotional loans to equity financing to advisory services. It cooperates with all banks and savings banks on a competition-neutral basis. The clients Municipal financing also forms part of NRW.BANK’s public mission. The of NRW.BANK benefit from favourable conditions as well as from long Bank is the ideal partner of the North Rhine-Westphalian municipalities, maturities and fixed interest periods. The Bank secures access to promowhich it supports with advisory services and promotional products also in tional loans through optional liability releases for on-lending house banks. times of low interest rates. The Bank is a strong and reliable partner to small and medium-sized enterThis is already the third time that NRW.BANK publishes a separate prises in North Rhine-Westphalia and supports them with the right pro­ Sustain­ability Report which is inspired by the criteria of the German ducts in any phase of their lifecycles. ­Sustainability Code. This ensures that the progress made is presented in a transparent manner. Sustainability Report 2017 Foreword 5 Sustainability Balance Economic Performance Indicators 2017 2016 2015 Unit Financial performance indicators Total assets 147,584 142,066 141,175 €m Equity capital pursuant to the German Commercial Code 17,983 17,983 17,982 €m Net interest and net commission income1) 722 738 700 €m Administrative expenses 219 215 210 €m Operating result 395 465 364 €m Cost income ratio 35.6 31.6 36.6 % Non-performing loans ratio 0.3 0.2 0.5 % Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 41.34 41.76 42.58 % Leverage ratio2) 11.37 11.63 11.80 % Liquidity coverage ratio > 100 > 100 > 100 % NRW.BANK.Green Bonds Volume 500 500 500 €m Maturity 10 10 10 years Focus energy energy energy Second Opinion oekom oekom oekom CO2-savings per year 804 685 540 t/€ m Promotional fields (new commitments) “Economy” 3,667 3,210 3,502 €m “Housing” 2,609 2,746 2,222 €m “Infrastructure/Municipalities” 5,359 5,205 3,953 €m Sustainability Report 2017 Foreword 6 Sustainability Balance Social Performance Indicators 2017 2016 2015 Unit Employee structure Number of permanent employees 1,319 1,301 1,271 employees Women in % of total workforce 52.2 52.4 52.8 % Share of women in management positions 31.1 31.6 30.3 % Part-time employees in % of total workforce 32.6 28.8 24.9 % Turnover ratio 3.9 3.7 3.1 % Average period of employment 16.3 16.4 16.6 years Average age 45.0 44.6 44.5 years Additionally: temporary employees 33 34 53 employees Additionally: apprentices/trainees 47 37 38 employees Vocational and further training Participation in internal seminars 1,121 762 866 employees Participation in external seminars 404 373 361 employees In-house trainers 192 172 191 employees Balance of work and family life Part-time employees 430 375 316 employees Executives working part-time 42 34 24 employees Employees on passive parental leave3) 41 40 40 employees Corporate citizenship Total 0.8 0.8 0.7 €m Science & Education 45 49 49 % Society & Social Affairs 16 31 14 % Arts & Culture 39 20 37 % Sustainability Report 2017 Foreword 7 Sustainability Balance Environmental Performance Indicators 2017 2016 2015 Unit Greenhouse gas emissions4) Total emissions 2,314 2,330 2,220 t CO2 thereof direct emissions (Scope 15)) 442 412 626 t CO2 thereof indirect emissions (Scope 25)) 815 818 940 t CO2 thereof indirect emissions (Scope 35)) 1,057 1,100 653 t CO2 Emissions per employee 1.6 1.7 1.5 t CO2 thereof offset6) 100 100 100 % Building energy Total electricity consumption 5,678,066 5,846,930 5,381,110 kWh thereof from green electricity 100 100 100 % Electricity consumption per employee 3,977 4,148 3,747 kWh Total heating energy 5,386,870 5,406,170 4,846,170 kWh Heating energy per employee 3,773 3,836 3,374 kWh Business travel Total kilometres travelled 4,620,434 4,565,586 4,584,672 km Kilometres travelled per employee 3,236 3,239 3,192 km Paper Total paper consumption7) 38,389 42,936 44,077 kg Paper consumption per employee7) 26.9 30.5 30.7 kg thereof recycled paper 65.8 63.4 71.1 % Waste Total8) 125.0 227.0 249.9 t Recycling ratio 72.6 53.2 55.3 % Waste per employee 88 161 174 kg Full-time equivalents For the calculation per employee 1,428 1,409 1,436 employees Sustainability Report 2017 Foreword 8 Sustainability Balance Ratings 2017 2016 2015 Credit ratings (long-term) Fitch Ratings AAAs AAAs AAAs Moody’s Aa1s Aa1s Aa1s Standard & Poor’s AA-p AA-s AA-s Dagong AA+s AA+s AA+s As of 19/3/2018 Sustainability Ratings oekom research imug MSCI ESG Vigeo Prime (C) positive (B) AA not public 1) A  s of fiscal 2016, interest effects from provisions not related to the banking business (mainly provisions for pensions and provisions for additional benefits) are no longer recognised in net interest income but in other operating income. The prior year figures were adjusted accordingly. 2) Pursuant to Disclosure Report 3) As of 31 December. Does not include employees who work part-time during parental leave. They are shown under “Part-time employees”. 4) The conversion factors correspond to the 2015 VfU Update. 5) Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission category (Scope 1): all direct emissions. – Emission category (Scope 2): all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources. – Emission category (Scope 3): all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. 6) NRW.BANK offsets its CO2: emissions through the purchase of certificates from wind park projects in developing countries. 7) Printing and copying paper, excl. printed matter, envelopes and marketing materials 8) Only office waste, excl. kitchen and other waste Abbreviations: CO2: carbon dioxide; kg: kilogramme; km: kilometre; kWh: kilowatt hour; m: million; t: tonnes Sustainability Report 2017 Foreword 9 // STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Transparent, responsible and conscientious dealings with its owner, its customers, its employees and society form the basis of the sustainable operations of NRW.BANK. The Bank is committed to living up to its corporate responsibility and to evolving it in a far-sighted manner across all areas of the company. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 10 Living Up to Our Corporate Responsibility In accordance with the law under which it was founded as the promotional To make further progress in the field of sustainability, NRW.BANK introbank of North Rhine-Westphalia, NRW.BANK accepts its corporate responduced Sustainability Guidelines in early 2018, which govern the Bank’s sibility. Its activity is geared to the principle of sustainability, which it has approach to sustainability and its continuous further development. Their defined as follows: “Sustainable development is development that meets purpose is to document the already established sustainability processes the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generaand to anchor them more firmly in the organisational structure and Banktions to meet their own needs”.1) wide strategy of NRW.BANK. The former Principles of Corporate Responsibility have been incorporated in the new Sustainability Guidelines, which NRW.BANK sees sustainability as a central guiding principle and a key are available on the website of NRW.BANK. criterion in taking decisions on business policy. This credo is reflected in all phases of NRW.BANK’s corporate activities, starting from its strategic The Sustainability Guidelines define the business approach of the Bank, and business policy decisions to the shaping of its range of products and taking sustainability aspects into account. Besides the economic viability services down to the implementation of specific financings, its capital of the projects funded by NRW.BANK, compliance with the interests of its market activities and its offering of consulting services. customers and with all other aspects of sustainability are key preconditions for the Bank’s promotional activities. NRW.BANK understands the economic, environmental, social and ethical aspects of sustainability as being inextricably linked. In accordance with The Sustainability Guidelines specify detailed rules for NRW.BANK’s treatits sustainability strategy, NRW.BANK specifically promotes such projects ment of controversial business practices (e.g. human rights violations, and programmes which are designed to improve living conditions, social child labour, violations of labour law, controversial economic behaviour and development as well as environmental and climate protection in North animal testing) and controversial business fields (e.g. arms industry, illegal Rhine-­Westphalia. gambling, controversial business activities relating to the environment, nature and animals). 1) Source: Bundtland Report, 1987 Sustainability Report 2017 Strategy and Governance 11 Objectives In addition, NRW.BANK has defined the core elements of its corporate The Bank uses its Sustainability Guidelines to annually explore potential mission in its corporate mission statement. objectives for the further development of sustainability at NRW.BANK for the next four-year period. The objectives represent the fields of action in During the preparation of the Sustainability Guidelines, NRW.BANK also which the Bank wants to achieve further progress in its sustainability efforts refined its stakeholder dialogue. Going forward, NRW.BANK will intensify by taking suitable measures which should have a positive influence on the the regular exchange with those stakeholders it considers to be particularly future of North Rhine-Westphalia. relevant with regard to sustainability. The insights gained from the stakeholder dialogue are to be taken into account in the further development of The objectives agreed between the Supervisory Board and the full the sustainability issue, taking the aspects of feasibility and benefit into ­Managing Board are derived from the overall strategy of NRW.BANK, account. which follows the general principle: “The Bank’s activities are guided by the principles of sustainability. The details are outlined in the Sustainability The annual financial report and the Sustainability Report are important Guidelines of NRW.BANK.” communication tools used by NRW.BANK to supply its stakeholders with transparent information about its corporate responsibility. Going forward, The promotional strategy is at the core of the overall strategy and describes NRW.BANK will also publish information on the stakeholder dialogue and objectives and measures which help NRW.BANK support the State of the main insights gained from this dialogue as part of its Sustainability North Rhine-Westphalia in its structural and economic policy tasks. To Report. The sustainability portal on the Bank’s website provides additional underpin NRW.BANK’s efforts to make a contribution to achieving the information. climate and environmental targets set by the Federal Republic of Germany and the State of North Rhine-Westphalia, the current promotional strategy Stakeholders primarily encompasses the further development of the promotional offerings aimed at protecting resources, increasing efficiency and implementing the energy transition. This further development always takes place on the basis Investors End Borrowers of trusting communication in close coordination with the competent state ministries. Media Employees The progress and the effects of NRW.BANK’s sustainability efforts are NGOs House Banks ­communicated in a transparent manner, primarily through the Sustainability Report and the Sustainability Portal. Rating Agencies Suppliers Stakeholder Dialogue Guarantor The essential cornerstones of the sustainability efforts pursued by NRW.BANK include transparent and responsible relations with its owner, customers, employees and society at large. NRW.BANK lives up to this commitment based on its Public Corporate Governance Code. Sustainability Report 2017 Strategy and Governance 12 In performing its tasks, NRW.BANK is guided by the principle of sustainaCompliance-related topics are implemented in accordance with the Minimum bility. This is firmly anchored in its statutes (section 5, para. 1) and the Act Requirements for Risk Management (MaRisk), the Anti Money Laundering on NRW.BANK (section 3, para. 1) and thus underlines the importance of Act (GwG) and the Securities Trading Act (WpHG). this topic. Sustainability is also a general principle of overriding importance in the Bank’s strategy. The Compliance Department, which forms part of the Risk Control unit, is the central body that is responsible for addressing these tasks. The Bank Statutory Framework and Internal Regulations has appointed a Compliance Officer (MaRisk, WpHG) as well as Money As a matter of course the Bank complies with the statutory provisions Laundering and Operational Risk Officers as well as deputies for exercising applicable in Germany. NRW.BANK has additionally formulated its own the various Compliance functions. They report directly to the Managing “Sustainability Guidelines”. They contain rules on cultivating sustainable Board and are bound by instructions only from the latter in performing relations with customers, employees and society as well as special aspects their tasks. resulting from the framework conditions of NRW.BANK such as “Verständigung II”, public mission and house bank principle. The tasks of these Officers primarily include: development, communication and review of the Bank-wide Compliance/Money Laundering Prevention In addition, the Bank has developed internal policies addressing various framework, managing the compliance risk whilst taking other risk types aspects of sustainability at NRW.BANK. into account, such as reputational and operational risks. In addition, they carry out Bank-specific risk analyses to assess the appropriateness and Labour Standards and Human Rights effectiveness of the principles, resources and processes and refine and Compliance with human rights and with the labour standards that are update them. They assist the Managing Board in all compliance-related applicable in Germany as well as the rejection of child and forced labour matters and regularly report to the latter. are a matter of course for NRW.BANK at all its locations and has been anchored in its Sustainability Guidelines. The promotional bank pursues a preventive approach to raise awareness of compliance matters. It has established a set of detailed, written internal Equal Opportunities and Principle of Non-discrimination Compliance Regulations as well as mandatory regular training courses on To offer its employees a fair and good working environment, the Bank compliance, money laundering prevention and other criminal acts for all its attaches importance to mutual respect and avoiding discrimination. This employees. is why equal opportunities and the principle of non-discrimination are laid down in the Sustainability Guidelines and in special internal guidelines. Both of NRW.BANK’s locations have the same risk profile. Compliance and Money Laundering Prevention NRW.BANK’s business model hinges on its owner, its employees, customers, business partners and the public trusting in its expertise, performance and integrity. The Bank is committed to compliance with regulatory and statutory provisions as well as with internal requirements, which form the basis for such trust. Sustainability Report 2017 Strategy and Governance 13 Data Protection Sustainable Procurement To ensure that data are handled responsibly and confidentially in the conNRW.BANK is committed to the economic, cost-effective, efficient and text of its business activity, NRW.BANK has regulated all activities in the sustainable procurement of goods as well as construction and other services. area of data protection and banking secrecy in a set of written policies and All purchases are made in accordance with the applicable regulations of instructions. public procurement law and, in particular, with the North Rhine-Westphalian wage law for public procurement (TVgG-NRW). The Bank fulfils its statutory obligations to train its staff on data protection and information security. NRW.BANK is fully aware of its role model function for sustainable procurement and consistently implements environmental, economic and social Corruption Prevention sustainability in the procurement process. Compliance with a number of Besides its regulations on compliance, anti money laundering and data essential sustainability aspects is mandatory under the Restriction of Comprotection, NRW.BANK’s set of written policies and instructions also include petition Act (GWB), the Procurement Regulations (VgV), the TVgG-NRW general instructions and regulations relating to other criminal acts as and the Minimum Wage Act (MiLoG). This includes compliance with ­defined in section 25h of the Banking Act (KWG). These are addressed at requirements relating to minimum and collective wages, environmental all employees of the Bank and also include the prevention of corruption. protection, energy efficiency, promotion of women, work-life balance as well as social criteria (ILO Core Labour Standards). NRW.BANK has also established effective processes for receiving and pursuing reports of suspicious behaviour. In the event of infringements or The Bank places orders which exceed the EU thresholds in accordance the detection of other criminal acts, the central function established in with the Procurement Regulations (VgV) as well as the Construction the Risk Control unit in accordance with section 25h KWG takes action. ­Contract Procedures (VOB/A). The Bank additionally performs an audit in It receives potential reports and coordinates the entire process relating to accordance with section 8 of the North Rhine-Westphalian Anti-Corruption reports of suspicious behaviour and risk notifications relating to money Act (KorruptionsbG) before placing orders worth € 25,000 or more. This laundering and other criminal acts. Charges are filed by the Legal unit only way, the Bank can rule out bribery, fraud, influence peddling, restrictive in consultation with the central function. agreements and other forms of corruption. There was no evidence of infringements or reports of suspicious behaviour NRW.BANK has decided to also implement a structured procurement at NRW.BANK in the reporting year, nor were any fines or non-monetary process for orders that do not exceed the EU thresholds for tenders. penalties imposed on NRW.BANK. In the context of its procurement policy, the Bank integrates environmental aspects also into the procurement of office materials as well as the ordering and logistic processes. An example is the carbon neutral sending of mail through NRW.BANK’s participation in the “GoGreen” programme of Deutsche Post DHL Group. Sustainability Report 2017 Strategy and Governance 14 In the reporting year, NRW.BANK again demonstrated its commitment to Initiatives and Memberships assuming responsibility towards society at its two locations in Düsseldorf In accordance with its Principles of Corporate Responsibility, NRW.BANK and Münster, where the Bank promoted the employment of disabled people also contributes to tasks identified outside its own business activity. The by commissioning workshops for disabled to provide such services as Bank is a signatory of the following sustainability-relevant initiatives and/or laundry and cleaning. the voluntary commitments for sustainable corporate activity developed by the latter: Public Corporate Governance Code As a promotional bank, NRW.BANK is very much committed to transparent German Diversity Charter and responsible action towards the public, its guarantor and owner as well Green Bond Principles as investors, customers and employees. This commitment is based on the UNEP Finance Initiative Public Corporate Governance Code, as last amended on 1 January 2014, UN Global Compact with which the members of the Managing Board, the Supervisory Board VfU e. V. and the Board of Governors fully identify. Building on this, the Bank ­publishes an annual Public Corporate Governance Report to inform about As an ordinary member of the Association of German Public Sector Banks material corporate governance developments. This report is contained and the European Association of Public Banks, NRW.BANK actively particiin the Annual Report and is additionally published as a separate document pates in working groups and panel discussions on sustainability and green on NRW.BANK’s website. bonds. For many years, the Bank has implemented transparency and responsibility Sustainable Products in its dealings with its target groups. In early 2006, NRW.BANK was one NRW.BANK continuously optimises its business activities with regard to of the first public-sector entities in Germany to adopt a Public Corporate sustainability and has anchored these efforts in its Sustainability GuideGovernance Code and to officially commit itself to this standard of corpolines. The focus is placed on the core business segments and, hence, on rate governance. the integration of the individual sustainability issues in its promotional products in order to “design sustainable promotion for clients”. Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining The Bank’s staff council represents the interests and needs of the em­ Special attention is paid to sustainability risks and to compliance with the ployees of NRW.BANK based on the North Rhine-Westphalian State Staff Sustainability Guidelines also when launching new products. The Bank has Representation Act. In 2017, the staff council again monitored compliance established an internal process in which each new promotional product of with applicable laws, regulations, collective bargaining agreements as well NRW.BANK is checked for compliance with sustainability values. as labour agreements and informed the employees of both head offices at the annual staff assembly. Being an institution under public law, NRW.BANK is subject to the collective bargaining agreement for the private sector and the public banking industry. It implements the collectively agreed results for its employees under collective agreements. This is also done on a voluntary basis for the majority of employees not covered by collective agreements. Sustainability Report 2017 Strategy and Governance 15 Responsible Marketing The Bank is firmly committed to treating customer information confidentially. The Bank’s Data Protection Officer is involved in SUSTAINABILITY all dialogue-based marketing measures based on customer data RATINGS to ensure responsible marketing. In compliance with the provisions Rating agencies specialising in sustainability have rated NRW.BANK’s performance in fields such of the TVgG-NRW, NRW.BANK as environment, society and governance for several years. In 2017, the Bank again scored good considers important aspects of ratings. corporate responsibility when ­making purchases or placing orders Rating agency oekom research AG, for instance, rates the sustainability of issuers on a scale from in the context of its marketing A+ to D–. NRW.BANK scored a “C” rating, with the additional “Prime” rating thus classifying the activities. Bank as a sustainable investment. This means that the Bank’s rating is only three notches below the best sustainability rating “B” in its peer group. The Bank’s advertising materials also reflect its commitment to In the 2017 imug sustainability rating of bank bonds, NRW.BANK ranks within the top five of the ­sustainability and include, for 30 promotional and development banks analysed. instance, articles made from recycled or renewable, biodegradable In addition, DZ BANK awarded NRW.BANK with the “sustainability seal” in its “EESG” rating. materials. Sustainability Ratings oekom research imug MSCI ESG Vigeo Sustainalytics Prime (C) positive (B) AA not public not public Sustainability Report 2017 Strategy and Governance 16 // PROMOTION REPORT NRW.BANK’s products and services are designed to secure the standard of living and to improve climate and environmental protection in North Rhine-Westphalia. In addition, the Bank supports a balanced social development in the North RhineWestphalian regions. The aim is to strengthen the stability of society. Accordingly, all of NRW.BANK’s promotional activities con­tribute to the development of enterprises and municipalities in North Rhine-­ Westphalia. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 17 Designing Sustainable Promotion for Clients Sustainable behaviour is a key objective of NRW.BANK’s business policy The latter check the loan and promotion applications and pass those that and means the equal consideration of social, economic and environmental have been approved on to NRW.BANK. The house banks are liable to objectives and ethical matters. Most importantly, the sustainability NRW.BANK for potential credit defaults and bear the full default risk for ­objective shapes and guides NRW.BANK’s promotional offerings. promotional loans they channel through. For its promotional business the Bank uses the full range of lending tools To ensure that the house banks are willing to act as conduits also in the case and also steps in when banking and lending expertise is required for of insufficient collateral, NRW.BANK optionally offers liability releases for the promotion process. The main instruments used include low-interest house banks, resulting in the house banks and NRW.BANK sharing the risk. promotional loans, risk assumptions and equity financing. In 2017, NRW.BANK committed promotional funds totalling € 11.6 billion. This As defined in the NRW.BANK law, municipal loans and commercial loans represents yet another increase on the high of € 11.2 billion recorded in to central, regional and local governments as well as to public-sector the previous year. For detailed information on the promotional business, special-purpose associations and social housing promotion programmes please refer to the chapter “The Promotional Business of NRW.BANK” in are typically extended directly by NRW.BANK. the financial report. Focus of the Promotional Business Apart from the provision of funds, forward-looking and requirement-­ NRW.BANK’s promotional business is qualitative and theme-oriented. oriented promotion increasingly requires customer-oriented advisory Since the beginning of 2017, the promotional services have been provided services. NRW.BANK has therefore built its advisory services and soluin the three promotional fields “Economy”, “Housing” as well as “Infrations into a second, equally important pillar of its business. structure/Municipalities”. These promotional fields are divided into various promotional themes. Objectives and measures defined for each of these Partnership and Cooperation promotional themes are put into practice using specific promotional NRW.BANK cooperates with other financial and promotional institutions in products. a spirit of partnership. NRW.BANK conducts its commercial promotional business in cooperation with the banks and savings banks in a competition-­ NRW.BANK’s offerings in the promotional field “Economy” cover the full neutral manner based on the “house bank principle”. According to this lifecycle of small and medium-sized enterprises. Besides the general supply principle, the Bank has no direct contact with its clients. Instead, it extends of capital for SMEs, the Bank has placed a focus on the effective promotion its promotional loans via banks and savings banks, which act as inter­ of investments in the protection of resources or in increasing corporate mediaries. Sustainability Report 2017 Promotion Report 18 energy efficiency. Targeted support for start-ups and innovations is another An integrated approach is required to consider environmental protection special promotional theme of NRW.BANK. aspects and implement the energy transition. These tasks therefore relate to all three promotional fields of NRW.BANK, albeit with different facets and promotional measures. “Energy Transition/Environmental Protection” Net Volume of New Commitments by New Fields of Promotion is a cross-sectional theme addressed by all promotional fields and had a in € millions total volume of € 2.2 billion in 2017. Economy Infrastructure/Municipalities 3,667 Performance Indicators in the Promotional Business 5,359 NRW.BANK’s objectives are primarily geared to providing the State of North Rhine-Westphalia with long-term support in performing its structural and economic tasks. Due to NRW.BANK’s public mission as the proHousing 2,609 motional bank of North Rhine-Westphalia, development and promotion is the primary business objective and the net volume of new commitments represents a key performance indicator used for controlling purposes. This performance indicator comprises the commitments for promotional The promotional field “Housing” comprises NRW.BANK’s offerings for the funds made in the current fiscal year. Defined budget values exist for this promotion of new housing construction and the modernisation of existing and all other key performance indicators and are regularly subjected to housing stock. When buildings are modernised, special attention is paid to plan/actual comparisons as well as scenario and forecast analyses in order energy efficiency aspects as well as to barrier-free design and suitability to provide appropriate control stimuli. for the elderly. Here, social housing promotion programmes play a special role. The respective promotional measures are geared towards the State of NRW.BANK additionally records other special promotion-typical per­ North Rhine-Westphalia’s annual housing promotion programme (Wohnformance indicators for its performance business. The number of funded raumförderungsprogramm, WoFP) which translates the state governresidential units, for instance, is a performance indicator for its social ment’s general promotional policy concepts into concrete promotional housing promotion operations and is reported regularly. In the various measures. special programmes of the Bank for the promotion of environmental protection, innovations and society, suitable additional promotion-related The promotional field “Infrastructure/Municipalities” covers financing and information such as the purpose of the funded environmental projects advisory services supporting the solid capitalisation of municipalities and is documented in addition to the promotion volume. the implementation of infrastructure projects. NRW.BANK promotes both public and private projects for the improvement of infrastructures. Among The use of promotional funds is always linked to certain promotional con­ other purposes, its products effectively support infrastructure measures ditions, whose compliance is secured by NRW.BANK especially in cooperadesigned to implement Germany’s energy transition. tion with the house banks. Compared to more broadly based programmes, the Bank’s special programmes are characterised by comprehensive promotional conditions in that they offer higher promotional amounts. Sustainability Report 2017 Promotion Report 19 Economic Development NRW.BANK supports seed financings of business start-ups and young comNRW.BANK.Mittelstandskredit and NRW.BANK.Universalkredit are the two panies in high-technology sectors by offering equity-strengthening solutions programmes with the highest volumes. Under these programmes, interest-­ through its Seed and Venture Funds, which have a combined volume of subsidised loans in the total amount of € 2.4 billion were granted to some € 310 million. These funds make an important contribution to reducing the 5,600 enterprises for investments and working capital in 2017. high market inefficiencies in the German venture capital market, thus providing important stimulation for innovation and the future competitiveness of North Like NRW.BANK.Universalkredit, NRW.BANK.Gründungskredit is targeted Rhine-Westphalia. In the venture capital segment, the Bank acts as a co-inat business start-ups and young companies. More than 1,100 start-up and vestor to finance newly established technology-oriented companies in sectors growth projects received funding under this programme in 2017, with loans such as information and communication technology, biotechnology, cleantech, totalling approx. € 281 million. Micro start-ups with credit requirements of up medical engineering and microsystems technology. The seed funds operate to € 25,000 receive customised promotion through the NRW/EU.Mikrodarlehen. on a fund-of-funds basis. Currently NRW.BANK invests in eleven regional As this programme focuses on the viability of the concepts and the individual, seed funds, which, in turn, have made investments in 92 high-tech start-ups. projects may be financed also without proof of equity capital or the usual collateral required for bank loans. This makes it possible for formerly unemIndustry Structure in % ployed people to set up their own businesses. NRW.BANK.Venture Fonds and NRW.BANK.Seed Fonds For several years, the NRW.BANK.Innovationskredit has helped promote the Others 12 implementation of new, technologically advanced products or production processes in the SME sector. This product is complemented by the Microsystems NRW.BANK.Innovative Unternehmen programme. It provides special promoTechnology 5 Biotechnology 42 tion for the proprietary development and production of innovative products, processes and services and offers favourable terms and conditions as well as Medical Engineering 13 an obligatory 70% liability release for the on-lending house bank. The programme thus takes account of the fact that it is often difficult for innovative Cleantech 11 companies to raise loans because of a lack of unencumbered collateral. Information and Communication 17 For many start-ups it is difficult to raise follow-up finance once a project loan expires. In autumn 2017, NRW.BANK therefore added NRW.StartUp­Kapital to its range of promotional offerings aimed at supporting innovation. This new promotional programme provides newly established companies which previously received funding under the “START-UP-Hochschul-Ausgründungen NRW” state programme with follow-up finance in the form of convertible loans of NRW.BANK. Sustainability Report 2017 Promotion Report 20 Under the NRW.SeedCap Digitale Wirtschaft programme NRW.BANK makes Housing Promotion available equity capital or near-equity funds for start-ups from the digital As part of its social housing promotion activities, NRW.BANK made available sector in parallel to investments by business angels. The new offering comnew commitments of roughly € 907 million (previous year: € 1.1 billion) for plements the win NRW.BANK Business Angels Initiative, in which the Bank the creation of affordable, high-quality housing for low-income earners in 2017. helps capital-seeking innovative companies gain access to business angels. This ensures that families with children or handicapped people continue to find affordable housing also in conurbations characterised by rising rents. A The NRW.BANK.Effizienzkredit is a central offering to support the nuclear total of 9,666 residential units were funded in 2017 within the scope of social phase-out and to promote environmental protection in the field of economic housing promotion. development. The loan offers strongly interest-subsidised terms for investments with clear ecological merits. To qualify for promotion, borrowers The majority of the promotion of new housing within the field of social housmust prove that their projects will increase energy and resource efficiency ing promotion accounted for € 761 million for approx. 6,200 rent-controlled permanently by at least 20% and 6%, respectively. Replacement investand occupancy-controlled rental housing units. Other areas of interest in the ments with lower efficiency increases are eligible for promotion only on the promotion of new housing were the creation of nursing homes, the construcbasis of certified environmental protection processes (e.g. PIUS Check or tion of dormitories for students and people with disabilities as well as the environmental management system). new construction of owner-occupied housing. Measures addressing the existing housing stock primarily comprise mea­ sures aimed at improving energy efficiency. NRW.BANK also supported the acquisition of owner-occupied residential property, measures of urban re­development as well as the reduction of barriers in the existing housing stock with regard to demographic change. In addition to social housing promotion, NRW.BANK offers low-interest ­capital expenditure loans for nursing homes and facilities operated by notfor-profit entities. These loans can be used, for instance, to finance modernisation and refurbishment projects or to fund the conversion of conventional care facilities into alternative nursing and care concepts. Low-interest loans are granted under the NRW.BANK.Gebäudesanierung ­programme to support projects for raising energy efficiency as well as barrier-­free refurbishment measures for privately owned buildings. Sustainability Report 2017 Promotion Report 21 Infrastructure and Municipal Promotion Investments in plants for the generation, storage and distribution of energy To support the expansion of the infrastructure in North Rhine-Westphalia, are promoted under the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur programme. In NRW.BANK offers both customised, individual financing solutions and 2017, promotional loans with a total volume of € 693 million were granted standardised promotional programmes. Individual financing solutions are under this programme, which were mainly used to finance wind turbine provided for both corporate financings and project financings. generators, partly in citizen wind farms. In total, more than 120 new wind turbine generators were financed in North Rhine-Westphalia. A new product At the beginning of 2017, NRW.BANK launched the NRW.BANK.Gute launched in 2017 is the NRW.BANK/EU.Wärmeinfrastrukturkredit for the Schule 2020 programme in cooperation with the State of North Rhine-­ effective promotion of energy-efficient district heating and cooling netWestphalia to finance municipal investments in the refurbishment, modworks. ernisation and expansion of the municipal school infrastructure. In the context of this joint programme, NRW.BANK makes available € 500 million For several years, NRW.BANK has actively supported the renaturation of per year for long-term loans over a period of four years. The offering prothe River Emscher, for which the Bank makes available long-term loans. vides fixed quotas for individual municipalities. To prevent investments from failing because of the financial situation of a municipality, the State of In addition to these infrastructure development and promotion programmes, North Rhine-Westphalia supports the municipalities by taking over their NRW.BANK again was a reliable partner to the North Rhine-Westphalian interest and principal payments. In addition, municipal school operators municipalities in 2017. Its municipal loans and liquidity loans to North and school associations continue to benefit from the NRW.BANK.Moderne Rhine Westphalian municipalities made an important contribution to en­ Schule programme, which provides long-term loans for the construction suring the municipalities’ ability to act. The Bank moreover supports the and modernisation of school buildings. municipal sector with a wide range of advisory services. Infrastructure improvements require not only public-sector investments Trusting Customer Relationships but also private investments. NRW.BANK.Infrastruktur is a programme Potential recipients of promotional loans increasingly inform themselves designed to raise private capital for low-interest financing of projects in independently about available promotional options and hence expect proa wide range of different fields such as environmental protection, urban motional banks to provide targeted and objective information about promodevelopment, social affairs or education and qualification. At the beginning tional funds. NRW.BANK has therefore optimised its Internet presence on of 2017, NRW.BANK additionally launched a special promotional product an ongoing basis over the past years. for the sustainable economic and social revitalisation of neighbourhoods in the form of the NRW.BANK/EU.Stadtentwicklungskredit. This product Following on from its 2014 survey, NRW.BANK again conducted a broadprovides low-interest loans and optional liability releases to support urban based survey in 2017 to ask borrowers, customers using the Bank’s advisory development projects which match the integrated action plans of the reservices as well as seminar participants about their satisfaction and their spective municipalities. In addition, NRW.BANK has special programmes readiness to recommend NRW.BANK and its offerings to others with a to support, for instance, the preservation of monuments, the expansion of view to further improving customer satisfaction. broadband coverage in North Rhine-Westphalia, flood protection measures as well as investments in sports facilities. Sustainability Report 2017 Promotion Report 22 // GREEN BOND Green Bonds issued by NRW.BANK allow investors to participate in ecological projects, which, in turn, generate sustainable yields for the Bank’s investors. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2017 Strategie 23 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2017 In 2013, NRW.BANK was Europe’s first regional agency to successfully launch a green bond. Since then the Bank’s annual Green Bond issues have established a close link between NRW.BANK’s environmentally oriented promotional programmes and its own funding activities in the international • Borrowers are encouraged to agree to the transparent capital market. ­dis­closure of their project • Loans and the issue itself are closely linked; The funds raised under the Green Bond programme are exclusively used to they are only up to 12 months old at SPO initiation fund previously identified promotional projects in North Rhine-Westphalia All projects are “live” that have a special environment and climate benefit. No risk of “green default”. The maximum term of the issue is determined by the shortest loan maturity Internal designation of the loans is made by the sustainability officer Loan portfolio remains unchanged during the term of the Green Bond Principles define the framework issue NRW.BANK Green Bonds are Use of Proceeds Bonds One-off reporting is sufficient Projects are selected by the Green Bond Team oekom research confirms the sustainability of the projects In selecting the loans of the asset pool, NRW.BANK applies (second party opinion, SPO) the following criteria: No “green washing”! • All selected projects have to support North RhineThe Wuppertal Institute prepares impact analysis West­phalia’s climate and sustainability strategy as well as Reporting about the projects and their environmental the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) benefits is transparent • Eligible fields include “Climate Mitigation” and Ernst & Young audited the Green Bond concept in the “Climate Adaptation” context of NRW.BANK’s “Non-financial Report” • Focus on climate protection Internal earmarking process is subject to regular internal • Climate benefits to be maximised by allocating projects to audits the portfolio based on the highest carbon footprint reduction Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 24 To be eligible for selection under the Green Bond programme, projects must Westphalia’s climate protection policy, supporting adaptation and mitigation have a commitment date within the past twelve months and match the of the unavoidable implications of climate change and finally, the United defined themes. The focus is on contributing to the State of North Rhine-­ Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS – TAKING A NEW VIEW Source: Azote Images for Stockholm Resilience Centre Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 25 The measures supported by the Green Bond thus serve to reduce and Since 2014 the ecological benefit and quality of the projects selected for avoid adverse environmental influences on the climate (mitigation) and to the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds have been analysed and assessed by oekom manage the consequences of climate change (adaptation). As the main research, an independent sustainability rating agency. This second opinion emphasis is on climate protection, the selection of the projects primarily has confirmed their consistently sustainable concept and compliance with focuses on the highest carbon savings to be expected. the requirements of the Green Bond Principles (GBPs). Between them, the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds issued to date have a total Focus on the Environmental Impact volume of € 2.25 billion, of which an amount of € 2.0 billion was outstanding NRW.BANK has assessed the environmental impact of its Green Bonds as of 31 December 2017. since 2015 with the aim to publish the CO2 emissions that have been saved and/or avoided by investing in its Green Bonds on an annual basis. Since the issue of the 2015 NRW.BANK.Green Bond, the Wuppertal Institute has Overview of all NRW.BANK.Green Bonds (volume in € millions) been NRW.BANK’s competent partner for analysing the positive environ500 mental impact. 86% 78% 81% 74% 400 NRW.BANK has published a detailed impact analysis in cooperation with the latter since 2016.The Wuppertal Institute prepares the analyses in 300 accordance with the recommendations of the Harmonized Framework for Impact Reporting, which were developed by multilateral development 19% banks under the umbrella of the GBPs. This framework permits the pre­ 200 paration of a transparent and comparable impact analysis of green bonds 100 81% as recommended by the GBPs. 22% 26% 19% 14% 0 2017 – 2027 2016 – 2026 2015 – 2025 2014 – 2018 2013 – 2017 Maturity Energy Water The liquid Green Bonds of NRW.BANK are issued exclusively in euros in order to create a green euro benchmark curve in the long term. This will enable the Bank to illustrate a potential price difference between the green NRW.BANK curve and the regular NRW.BANK benchmark curve. Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 26 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2017 On the basis of this asset pool, NRW.BANK successfully issued its fifth In the past fiscal year an internal selection process identified eligible proGreen Bond, the € 500 million 10-year NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2017, in jects from the water and energy areas with a total volume of € 500 million. September 2017. NRW.BANK guarantees its investors that the funds of the At approximately € 430 million, the focus was once again on energy projects. 2017 Green Bond will be used to fund water management, energy efficiency Some € 70 million was invested in water projects, in particular the Emscher and renewable energy projects over the total term of the bond. 2020 project, the biggest single water management project in the EU. The projects chosen were clearly earmarked by NRW.BANK as “2017 Green Bond Asset Pool”. oekom research confirmed the sustainability and environmental benefit of these projects through a positive second opinion. Number of Promotional Area Field Topic Projects Funded Volume in € m Water Adaptation River renaturation 1 70.8 – Flood management – Biodiversity – Canal construction Energy Mitigation Renewable energy 48 409.8 – Onshore wind power Energy Mitigation Energy efficiency 194 20.1 – thereof modernisation of public facilities 2 13.9 – thereof energy-efficient buildings 192 6.2 Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 27 Summary of the Environmental Impact of the NRW.BANK.Green Bonds NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2017 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2016 NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2015 CO2 savings per year CO2 savings per year CO2 savings per year € € € 1 year 1m 804 t CO2 1 year 1m 685 t CO2 1 year 1m 540 t CO2 € € € 1 year 500 m 402,000 t CO2 1 year 500 m 342,500 t CO2 1 year 500 m 270,000 t CO2 10 4.0 Mio. t CO2 10 3.4 Mio. t CO2 10 2.7 Mio. t CO2 years years years “Climate Adaptation” – Rebuilding the River Emscher Single biggest water management project in the EU to implement the European Water Framework Directive Project period: almost three decades to the “Blue Emscher” in 2020  Conversion of the river and its affluents into semi-natural waters with a positive impact on biodiversity and other eco-system services  Creation of a modern sewage system: 132 pump stations, five sewage treatment plants as well as one central sewage sludge plant and 87 rainwater treatment plants Direct participation of citizens Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 28 Environmental Impact Analysis for the NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2017 In the reporting year, the Wuppertal Institute again determined the positive 4 MILLION TONNES OF CO2 environmental effect of the selected projects in the field of “Climate Mitigation” with a total volume of around € 430 million. The remaining approximately € 70 million in the field of “Climate Adaptation” were exclusively used EQUIVALENTS SAVED for the renaturation of the River Emscher in 2017. NRW.BANK determined the progress made as a result of the Green Bond funding in close cooperation with the “Emschergenossenschaft” water management association. It has been calculated that these projects avoid greenhouse gas emissions of approximately 4 million t of CO2 equivalents Field “Climate Mitigation” over the 10-year term of the NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2017. The projects financed in the field of “Climate Mitigation” by the This is equivalent to the CO2 storage capacity of a managed NRW.BANK.Green Bond 2017 help reduce or even avoid negative forest five times the size of Berlin. Measured by the size of the ­environmental influences on the climate. The projects relate to: Green Bond asset pool of € 500 million, 804 t of CO2 equivalents are saved per € 1 million per year. the expansion of renewable energy (wind energy), the modernisation of residential buildings, and the modernisation of university hospitals. Breakdown of Project Financing Volume in the Field “Climate Mitigation“ CO2 Equivalents Avoided Through a € 1 Million Investment over a Ten-year (€ 430 million) in % Period (based on the Investment Volume of € 430 Million) in tonnes 10,000 Building Modernisation 9,808 (private) 1 Renewable 9,000 Energy 95 8,000 Building Modernisation 7,000 (public) 4 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 130 171 Renewable Building Building Energy Modernisation Modernisation (university hospitals) (private buildings) Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 29 In relation to the pro-rated financing, onshore wind turbine generators Field “Climate Adaptation” have proven to be the most efficient form of investment for the avoidance About € 71 million of the Green Bond 2017 were used to refinance mea­ of greenhouse gas emissions in the Green Bond (980 tonnes per year and sures taken by the “Emschergenossenschaft” water management associa€ 1 million). All investments will continue to avoid greenhouse gases also tion as part of the conversion of the River Emscher. Also in 2017, the funds beyond the maturity of the Green Bond. permitted this way to implement various water management measures – all with the aim to create a sustainable ecologically renewed riverscape in The newly built onshore wind farms with a total output of 400 MW included the Emscher region. in the Green Bond Asset Pool at an amount of € 410 million were realised with a promotion portion of 64%. They produce an estimated 645 GWh Renaturation of the River Emscher Is Making Progress of electricity per year. These wind parks avoid 4.0 million tonnes of CO2 A large number of hydraulic engineering measures were implemented for equivalents over a period of ten years. North Rhine-Westphalia’s largest infrastructure project in 2017 with the help of calls for funds – refinanced by the Green Bond in 2017 – totalling The Bank uses funds in the total amount of € 13.9 million from its Green approx. € 80 million. The focus was on the imminent completion of the Bond to support the modernisation of university hospitals. Of this amount, large modern sewer along the Emscher (Abwasserkanal Emscher, AKE). an estimated € 6.3 million is directly invested in energy efficiency upgrades Its completion is an absolute precondition for developing the Emscher into (45% of the promotional amount). Compared to existing buildings, the a semi-natural river landscape. greenhouse gas emissions are thus reduced by approx. 2,100 tonnes of CO2 equivalents over a period of ten years. Another focus of investment is the construction of new, modern sewers for the large inlets of the Emscher, which ensure that clean water and waste An amount of € 6.2 million originates from the NRW.BANK.Gebäude­ water are separated. As systems for urban water management, the new sanierung programme. Compared to the existing housing stock, the waters also include the necessary rainwater treatment facilities. ­modernisation of residential buildings in North Rhine-Westphalia helps save another 800 tonnes of CO2 equivalents over the ten-year term and in Some 340 km of new, modern sewers have been built in the Emscher area relation to the estimated promotion portion of 90%. to date. 130 km of the total length of the Emscher (326 km) have already been renaturated; they have developed so well that they have proven to Details as well as information on the precise method and presentation allow for a new, urban biodiversity. of the results in accordance with the Harmonized Framework for Impact Reporting can be found in the impact analysis prepared by the Wuppertal The renaturation of the Emscher realised with funds from the Green Bonds Institute. is a sustainable large-scale project for the entire Ruhr area, which will help develop new habitats and spaces and in addition has served as a blueprint for similar river projects in Asia, Africa, Latin America and the USA. Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 30 Green Bond Projects Green Bond funding is used to promote sustainable energy provision and manufacturing methods. Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 31 Approx. 23.5 MW of climate-friendly district heating and cooling capacity Münster University Münster University Hospital Optimises Security of Supply Hospital INFRASTRUCTURE The Münster University Hospital has addressed a total of eleven construction and modernisation projects since 2016. Besides the modernisation and reorganisation of the dermatology ward and the bone marrow transplantation centre, this also includes the construction of Supply Centre II. This new energy centre improves the security of www.ukm.de supply and the carbon footprint through the more efficient use of cold and heat. The university hospital receives roughly € 78 million under a promotional loan from NRW.BANK refinanced via the NRW.BANK.Green Bond. The first of the five tranches in the amount of € 3.9 million was paid out in 2016. Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 32 Approx. 21,000 sqm for parents and children MedMoP Cologne Cologne University Hospital Is Building for the Future University Hospital INFRASTRUCTURE In the context of the Medical Modernisation Programme (MedMoP), the State of North Rhine-Westphalia supports the Cologne University Hospital with close to € 350 million. The hospital intends to build a new Parent-Child Centre, among other things. Part of the costs is financed with a € 180 million promotional loan from NRW.BANK that was www.uk-koeln.de refinanced via the NRW.BANK.Green Bond. The construction of the new Parent-Child Centre will not only improve patient care but also reduce the hospital’s energy requirements. For this purpose, the energy supply is connected to the geothermal ring system. Moreover, much of the heat requirements can be covered by internal sources. A ventilation system with highly efficient heat recovery will be used for the inside rooms such as the operating theatres. Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 33 17.25 MW of wind energy for Brilon Wind Energy Brilon Relies on Wind Power VERBANDS-ENERGIE-WERK GESELLSCHAFT FÜR Since spring 2018, five wind turbine generators (WTGs) from Windpark Brilon GmbH & Co. KG have supplied an ­ERNEUERBARE ENERGIEN MBH imputed 10,000 or so households in Germany’s Sauerland region with environmentally friendly electricity. Ver(VEW) bands-Energie-Werk Gesellschaft für Erneuerbare Energien mbH (VEW) from northern Hesse currently holds a share in the company. It is planned that Stadtwerke Brilon AöR will join the operating company as an equal partner before the end of this year. Together, they will take NRW forward on its way to becoming Germany’s No. 1 climate www.vew-korbach.de protection state. They are supported by a syndicate of three regional banks, which provided the Brilon wind farm with promotional funds in the amount of approx. € 22.8 million from the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur programme, which were refinanced via the NRW.BANK.Green Bond. The funds were used to build the five WTGs, which measure up to 212 m in height, as well as a power substation. Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 34 22,000 t of harmful CO2 saved Wind Energy High Acceptance for Wind Power SL NATURENERGIE GMBH Taken into operation in April 2017, the SL Windpark Lühlerheim in Schermbeck produces some 30 million kWh of carbon-neutral electricity per year – this is sufficient to supply 8,500 families of three with green power. As this is www.sl-naturenergie.com equivalent to almost twice the population of Schermbeck, other communities also benefit from the project of SL Wind­ energie GmbH from Gladbeck. The four wind turbine generators, which are situated on a field owned by Evangelische Stiftung Lühlerheim, save 22,000 tonnes of harmful carbons per year. The success of the wind farm is very much attributable to the high level of acceptance among the population and local players as well as to the local value added. The citizens of Schermbeck invested in the project and now also benefit from its proceeds. The total cost of the wind farm amounted to € 26 million, of which a good € 23 million was financed by a syndicate of four house banks under the NRW.BANK.Energieinfrastruktur programme, which is refinanced via the NRW.BANK.Green Bond. Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 35 Approx. 5,600 construction projects Building modernisation in Stadtlohn The Haverkotte A Modernised Family Home ­Family, Stadtlohn Since 2012, the NRW.BANK.Gebäudesanierung programme has supported private individuals who want to modernise their homes and make them fit for the future with the help of energy efficiency upgrades and efficient heating systems. A total of € 180 million was made available to finance as many as 5,600 construction projects. The Haverkotte family from Stadtlohn was one of the applicants. Built in the 1950s and extended in the 1990s, their single-­ family home no longer complied with today’s demands on comfort and energy efficiency. The heating and hot water systems in the cellar were replaced as was the old water and heating pipes and the electric cables. New windows and blinds as well as a photovoltaic system on the roof additionally improve the property’s energy balance. The living space was increased by adding a further floor to the one-storey extension. Since 2017, the family has thus lived in a completely modernised home. Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 36 NRW.BANK.Green Bond Investment Portfolio Green Bond Investment Portfolio by Countries in % In the reporting year, NRW.BANK began to build up a Green Bond port­ folio, which means that the Bank no longer merely issues green bonds but invest in them as well. Rest of Europe 20 Germany 21 The Bank’s aim is to establish an NRW.BANK.Green Bond investment portfolio with a volume of at least € 200 million by 2020. To qualify for this portfolio, bonds have to meet the Green Bond Principles (GBP) and publish Australia 22 Northern Europe 37 corresponding reports. In addition, the environmental benefit of the bond must be determined by a second opinion or certificate meeting the stan­dards of the Climate Bond Initiative. NRW.BANK primarily invests in climate protection and climate adaptation projects. As at 31 December 2017, the portfolio amounted to as much as € 94.5 million and comprised bonds from the following sectors/ Green Bond Investment Portfolio by Sectors in % countries with terms of up to ten years. Public Institutions 41 Banks 59 Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 37 Maturity Structure of the Green Bond Investment Portfolio in € Millions The NRW.BANK.Green Bond Investment Portfolio consists of green bonds whose proceeds are used by the issuers to invest in environmental projects, e.g. to promote renewable energy, sustainable buildings, low carbon trans30 port and (waste) water management. As six of the seven bonds were issued in the reporting year, no reporting is available yet for investors. An impact analysis was performed for only 20 one bond, which (co-)finances nine projects in six countries. Over 97% of the bond volume is used for projects in the EU, all of which are mitigation projects, with the main emphasis on renewable energy and networks. 10 The impact analysis is based on the Harmonized Framework for Impact Reporting. According to the impact analysis, annual CO2 savings amount to 325 t per € 1 million. Based on the investment volume in the Green Bond investment portfolio, annual CO2 savings total 6,175 t. 0 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Outlook With the implementation of the Sustainability Guidelines in the investment business, NRW.BANK aims to have a high percentage of sustainable investments that meet the MSCI criteria. Starting 2018, NRW.BANK will therefore evaluate its investment portfolio in accordance with the MSCI sustainability criteria and has defined a traffic light system for sustainable invest­ments in the reporting year to meet this end. The sustainability traffic light indicates the MSCI-compliant share of the sustainability portfolio in the total investment portfolio by means of the colours red, yellow and green. The traffic light system is monitored via a daily report. Sustainability Report 2017 Green Bond 38 // ECO-BALANCE For many years, NRW.BANK has been committed to the responsible use of our natural resources and the protection of our environment and climate. The Bank verifies the sustainability of its activities on an ongoing basis to ensure that it continues to improve. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 39 Climate and Environmental Protection NRW.BANK actively supports the political and social sustainability efforts Data Collection and Reference Values and is doing everything possible also within the Bank to conserve resources As the data are collected in accordance with the VfU standard, they can be and ensure sustainable operations. The Bank thus helps implement the compared with data of companies applying the same standard. The basis is North Rhine-Westphalian government’s guiding principle of “sustainability”. formed by the VfU’s revised guidelines in conjunction with the conversion factors of the 2015 update. The data presented here is an extract from the It is the Bank’s declared objective to vigorously cut the use of resources 2017 eco-balance. and to offset unavoidable impacts to the extent possible. To ensure that the positive trend in its environmental performance indicators continues, the The number of employees provides the basis for the formation of relative Bank pays attention to resource-efficient and energy-efficient technology, environmental performance indicators (consumption per employee). Partuses district heat and energy-efficient IT hardware in all its buildings and time employees are added up to full-time employees, and external temposources 100% certified green electricity from run-of-river hydropower rary employees are covered for the duration of their employment. plants. Staff numbers of 1,4281) for 2017, 1,4091) for 2016 and 1,4361) for 2015 Since 2007, NRW.BANK has published an eco-balance in accordance with were taken as the basis. the standards of the VfU. To calculate water consumption per employee/day the number of working Scope and Period of Reporting days was fixed at 250 days. To prepare its eco-balance for 2017, NRW.BANK has determined the ­en­vironmental impacts resulting from its business operations. The Bank Building Energy operates at two locations in Düsseldorf and at a building complex in Resource-efficient energy sources such as certified green electricity from ­Münster. run-of-river hydropower plants and district heat from combined heat-and power units are the most important elements of NRW.BANK’s sustainable The reporting period corresponds to the calendar year. The consumption building management efforts. These high environmental standards are and flow data (input and output) were collected for the period from implemented at all of the Bank’s locations. In addition, the photovoltaic 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017. Information relating to space, vehisystems in Münster produced roughly 18 MWh of electricity to cover the cles and employees is stated as of the reporting date 31 December 2017. Bank’s own requirements in 2017. Overall, NRW.BANK makes a point of using energy-efficient technology. 1) Staff numbers are rounded to full employees. Sustainability Report 2017 Eco-Balance 40 Energy Consumption 2017 2016 2015 As in the previous years, multi-leg flights1) were broken down into segkWh kWh kWh ments for the reporting of short-haul and long-haul flights. Heating energy – total 5,386,870 5,406,170 4,846,170 With regard to NRW.BANK’s company cars, binding insights regarding the – per employee/year 3,773 3,836 3,374 relevant carbon emissions are expected only once the regulations for the Electricity measurement technique for emissions are defined in September 2018 (for – total 5,678,066 5,846,930 5,381,110 new cars). More recent publications from the Federal Motor Transport – per employee/year 3,977 4,148 3,747 Authority were not available at the time the eco-balance was published. Consequently, manufacturers’ specifications were again used for the present balance. In 2017, NRW.BANK’s consumption of thermal energy was down by ­approximately 0.4% on the previous year. Specific per-capita consumption Expert advice on choosing new company cars remains a key success factor decreased by 1.6%. for the continuously declining average carbon emissions of the company fleet. Emissions were reduced by another 1.7% from 131.6 g/km in 2016 to Electricity requirements were down by 2.9% on the previous year in 129.3 g/km in 2017. ­absolute terms and by 4.1% per employee. Average CO2 Emissions of the Company Cars in g/km The changes in both thermal energy requirements and electricity consumption are within the usual range of variation and are attributable to climatic and use-specific circumstances. 135 136.2 Business Travel 130 131.6 NRW.BANK’s success hinges on good contacts with its clients and the 129.3 maintenance of its business relationships. Business trips are therefore 125 indispensable. However, NRW.BANK has issued travel guidelines to 2017 2016 2015 ­minimise the environmental impact of employees’ travelling activity. The re­commendation to use video and telephone conferences and to travel by local public transport or rail is an important factor in reducing emissions from business trips. 91.8% of the trips on Deutsche Bahn’s rail services are classed as carbon neutral due to Deutsche Bahn’s carbon mitigation programme and are included in the CO2 balance at a reduced conversion factor. The remaining 8.2% are business trips by local public transport and the Thalys (altogether 77,917 km), which are counted at the full conversion factor for carbon emissions. 1) Multi-leg flights comprise transfer flight and main flight. Sustainability Report 2017 Eco-Balance 41 NRW.BANK’s employees travelled a total of 4,620,434 kilometres on busiThe breakdown of the travel activity by means of transport in 2017 ness trips in 2017. This is equivalent to 3,236 km travelled per employee. ­remained relatively stable compared to the previous years. At 61.1%, cars Compared to the previous year, the total kilometres travelled thus inaccounted for most of the business trips, followed by rail (19.5%) and air creased by 1.2%, while the kilometres travelled per employee remained travel (19.4%). almost constant. Paper For the 2017 eco-balance, NRW.BANK recorded all paper used in the offices Business Travel 2017 2016 2015 including printed matter (e.g. letterhead), envelopes and communication km km km materials (e.g. annual reports, brochures, flyers, etc.). The external printing Rail 897,897 915,722 866,653 output was included in the calculation for the first time in 2017. Road1) 2,823,098 2,748,430 2,723,420 Short-haul flights 320,051 342,905 430,117 Total consumption in 2017 amounted to 61.8 t (2016: 57.8 t), while conLong-haul flights 579,388 558,529 564,482 sumption per employee came to 43.3 kg (2016: 41.0 kg).The increase on the previous year by 6.9% and 5.6%, respectively, may be attributed to the Total 4,620,434 4,565,586 4,584,672 optimised and extended collection of data relating to the paper materials. km per employee 3,236 3,239 3,192 1) total kilometres travelled on business trips with the Bank’s cars, rental cars and private vehicles A look at office paper only (i.e. excl. envelopes and printed matter) shows, however, that consumption declined: Share of Means of Transport in % Paper Consumption1) 2017 2016 2015 kg kg kg 100 13 12 12 Total 38,389 42,936 44,077 7 8 9 kg per employee 26.9 30.5 30.7 75 60 61 60 1) office paper, excl. printed matter, envelopes and marketing materials 50 25 As a result of employees’ growing awareness and the increasing digitisa20 tion of business processes, office paper consumption was reduced by 19 19 0 10.6% in absolute terms and by 11.8% in per-capita terms. 2017 2016 2015 Rail Road Short-haul flights Long-haul flights Sustainability Report 2017 Eco-Balance 42 Process and Drinking Water 2017 2016 2015 Besides the quantity consumed, the quality of the paper used is also an important item in the eco-balance. To determine the share of recycled Total consumption 19,841 m³ 22,266 m³ 20,669 m³ paper, all paper types used (excl. envelopes) were analysed. Daily consumption per employee 1) 55.6 l 63.2 l 57.6 l 1) To calculate water consumption per employee, the number of working days was fixed at 250 days. Paper Grades 2017 2016 2015 % % % Waste Recycled paper 65.8 63.4 71.1 The 2017 eco-balance covers the following waste types: paper (incl. docuPrimary fibre paper, ECF1) ments shredded), mixed packaging, food residues, waste fats, green waste, (incl. wood-free) 8.8 12.8 5.6 glass, residual waste, sludge from the company’s own water treatment, Primary fibre paper, FSC and mixed scrap, electronic waste, data carriers, bulky waste, oily waste and PEFC2) 25.4 23.8 23.3 fluorescent lamps. 1) elementar chlorfrei (ECF) 2) Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification NRW.BANK followed the Federal Environmental Office’s recommendation schemes, PEFC to review the specific waste weights in 2017. This recommendation was made in view of the large fluctuations between the conversion factors As part of an optimised reporting practice, NRW.BANK decided to fully published in the European Waste Catalogue especially for solid waste determine the paper grades of all paper used. According to this complete types. By weighing the waste containers over an extended period of time, data determined for the first time for 2016 ‑ which also include envelopes the exact individual weights were determined. and printed matter ‑ recycled paper accounted for 61.2% in 2017 (2016: 60.2%). These weights were then taken as the basis to determine specific average weights, which differed from the factors in the European Waste Catalogue. Water The latter now reflect the realistic circumstances at the individual locations Water is a precious resource and NRW.BANK is actively promoting its and have greatly improved the quality of the data. The concrete weights sparing use. The Bank’s sanitary facilities use grey water from the air supplied by the waste management service providers for individual waste scrubbers and recooling systems and thus ensure that this water is reused. disposal processes were additionally used for the evaluation. When retrofitting or buying new technical equipment, water-saving technology is considered along with other environmental aspects. Taking the waste types mentioned as well as the empirically determined conversion factors into account, the Bank produced a total of 268.5 t of The following figures show the total water consumption, which also inwaste in 2017 (previous year: 389.8 t). This is equivalent to 188.1 kg of cludes the water consumption of the kitchens at the locations in Münster waste per employee (previous year: 276.6 kg). and at Kavalleriestraße in Düsseldorf. Total waste and waste per employee were thus down by 31.1% and 32.0%, Absolute water consumption across all locations was down by 10.9% on respectively, on the previous year. This is primarily attributable to the the previous year, while per-capita consumption declined by 12.0%. improved data quality explained above, which, in turn is due to the fact that more realistic conversion factors than in the previous years were used. Sustainability Report 2017 Eco-Balance 43 CO2 Emissions 2017 2016 2015 The following table shows the amounts of waste produced exclusively as a result of the banking activity and excluding waste primarily produced in kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 conjunction with the operation of the kitchen: Electricity 40,053 41,339 38,648 Heating energy incl. emergency power diesel 1,057,214 1,057,644 940,157 Waste Volume 2017 2016 2015 Business travel 1,072,292 1,049,567 1,055,711 t t t Paper 69,858 65,443 69,247 Waste paper 29.3 53.5 56.4 Drinking water 13,949 15,653 14,530 Document shredding 51.0 61.4 78.4 Waste 60,969 100,655 101,645 Residual waste 34.2 108.5 111.7 Total emissions 2,314,335 2,330,301 2,219,939 DSD (“Green Dot”) 10.5 3.6 3.4 CO2 /employee 1,621 1,653 1,546 Total1) 125.0 227.0 249.9 Offset by climate kg/employee 87.6 161.1 174.0 certificates 2,314,335 2,330,301 2,219,939 Recycling ratio1) 72.6% 53.2% 55.3% Total 0 0 0 1) excl. other and kitchen waste CO2 Emissions by Producers in % Besides the improved data quality, other improvements made with regard to waste management primarily include the optimisation of the locational 100 infrastructures such as the emptying of containers and the intensified 6 8 8 disposal of packaging waste (“Green Dot”). The latter resulted in a sub75 46 45 48 stantial reduction of residual waste by 68.5% and, consequently, to a much higher recycling ratio of 72.6% (previous year 53.2%). 50 46 45 42 Greenhouse Gases 25 NRW.BANK’s CO2 balance covers all the above-mentioned environmentally relevant consumption figures and wastes as well as the quantity of emer0 2 2 2 gency power diesel used summarised in a single performance indicator. 2017 2016 2015 This performance indicator is an important variable for assessing the Electricity Heating energy Business travel Other Bank’s environmental performance. In 2017, NRW.BANK’s total CO2 emissions amounted to 2,314 t, which is The conversion factors of the VfU standard (updated 2015) form the basis equivalent to 1,621 kg of CO2 per employee, down by 0.7% and 1.9%, for the calculation of the CO2 emissions in the 2017 eco-balance. respectively, on the previous year. This reduction is essentially attributable to the improved quality of the waste management data, which resulted in a lower waste volume than in the previous year given that more realistic conversion factors were used. Sustainability Report 2017 Eco-Balance 44 Direct and Indirect CO2 Emissions at NRW.BANK in 2017 According to VfU (Update 2015) Greenhouse Gas Sources Scope 11) Scope 21) Scope 31) Gesamt kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 kg CO2 Electricity 40,053 – renewable 38,488 38,488 – photovoltaic plant 1,565 1,565 Heating energy 1,057,214 – district heat 815,033 230,019 1,045,052 – emergency power diesel 10,280 1,882 12,162 Travel 1,072,292 – rail 4,254 4,254 – rail, carbon-neutralised 17,384 17,384 – road, company car 431,537 327,159 758,696 – road, rental car 172,926 172,926 – short-haul flights 54,604 54,604 – long-haul flights 64,428 64,428 Paper 69,858 – recycled paper 41,606 41,606 – primary fibre paper (ECF, TCF, FSC, PEFC) 28,252 28,252 Water 13,949 13,949 Waste 60,969 – waste incineration 58,094 58,094 – special waste 2,875 2,875 Total 441,817 815,033 1,057,485 2,314,335 kg CO2/employee 1,621 1) Distinction between direct and indirect emissions: Direct greenhouse gas emissions come from sources owned or controlled by NRW.BANK. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions result from the business activity of NRW.BANK – their sources are owned or controlled by third parties. In accordance with the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol”, emissions are divided into three categories depending on the degree of influence exerted by NRW.BANK: – Emission category (Scope 1): all direct emissions. – Emission category (Scope 2): all indirect emissions produced, for instance, in the generation of electricity, steam or thermal energy sourced by NRW.BANK from external sources. – Emission category (Scope 3): all other indirect emissions in the field of logistics, material consumption, supplies and disposal. This also includes the emissions produced by service providers or manufacturing companies and their upstream suppliers. Sustainability Report 2017 Eco-Balance 45 Avoiding Preferred to Offsetting The CO2 emissions of 2,314 t produced in 2017 were voluntarily offset by Since 2013, NRW.BANK has consistently aimed to make its banking operathe Bank by the use of certificates from the “Inner Mongolia Chifeng tions carbon-neutral. In this context, top priority is attached to avoiding Yihegong Windfarm” project in Inner Mongolia (China). emissions from being generated in the first place. To achieve this aim, the Bank has implemented the above-described measures for many years – inThe analysis also covers emissions from postal services used by the Bank cluding the use of certified green electricity, environmentally friendly in its communications. Since 2015, NRW.BANK has dispatched its mail via district heat, recycled office paper and grey water from air scrubbers and the carbon-neutral GoGreen programme of Deutsche Post DHL Group. In recooling systems as well as providing expert assistance when it comes to 2017, 547,746 letters were mailed under this programme. Carbon emissions choosing new company cars. resulting from this transport totalled 20.2 t. Due to the Bank’s participation in the GoGreen programme, these emissions were neutralised with the Not all emissions can be avoided. In 2013, NRW.BANK therefore decided help of climate protection projects. to neutralise unavoidable emissions caused by its banking operations with the help of certificates from the NRW.BANK Climate Certificate Programme. These certificates stem from climate protection projects in developing and emerging countries and help to achieve the highest possible CO2 savings in relation to the financial expenses incurred in the process. Sustainability Report 2017 Eco-Balance 46 // HUMAN RESOURCES As a public-law institute NRW.BANK has a special responsibility to act as a role model for a sustain­ able human resources policy. This comprises all aspects from offering future-proof training to ­balancing work and family life to ensuring equal opportunities and implementing a modern health management. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 47 Assuming Social Responsibility for Employees The knowledge, commitment and performance of the staff are important factors which underpin the long-term success of the Bank’s business ­activity. The strategic objectives of the Bank’s Human Resources activities therefore include winning and retaining qualified employees and preserving their performance to ensure that NRW.BANK can successfully fulfil its tasks as the promotional bank for North Rhine-Westphalia now and also in future. Award-winning In the context of the Bank’s human resources strategy, this overriding goal vocational training involves three fields of action which ensure that all activities and measures support the accomplishment of the strategic objectives: In a survey conducted by the magazine Focus Money under securing junior staff, the title “Germany’s best providers of vocational training in facilitating development and 2017”, NRW.BANK was voted one of the companies offering maintaining employees’ performance the best vocational training. Scoring 98 of 100 points, the promotional bank was ranked second among the 45 particiThe high relevance of these goals is not least reflected in the fact that the pating (savings) banks. strategic fields of action and the medium and long-term objectives derived from them form part of the Bank’s overall strategy. In addition, NRW.BANK supports the Fair Company initiative, which focuses on interns, working students, job starters Securing Junior Staff and trainees. As a “Fair Company”, NRW.BANK is primarily “Securing junior staff” sums up NRW.BANK’s commitment to training committed to reliable quality standards and verifiable rules young people and improving their qualifications. To ensure that junior staff for interns. can integrate smoothly into the Bank’s existing workforce, their training is carefully aligned with the Bank’s needs in general and the individual departments’ needs in particular. This constant balancing leads to changes in the number of apprenticeships and traineeships as well as to amendments in terms of the course curricula and the job roles the young people are trained for. Sustainability Report 2017 Human Resources 48 In 2017, NRW.BANK was again able to fill all available positions in the three Facilitating Development traineeships it offers: In order to ensure their long-term retention, NRW.BANK offers its junior staff – as well as all its other employees – numerous development opportuniNine school-leavers were admitted into the banking clerk traineeship ties and prospects. programme, four of which were in Münster, six young people opted for the dual study course Bachelor of Arts This includes challenging tasks and growing autonomy, which encourage “Banking & Finance” and professional and personal growth, as well as the possibility to get to learn four enrolled in the dual study course Bachelor of Science “Business IT”. new topics and to assume more demanding tasks. As the remuneration systems have been changed to fixed remuneration only, the above aspects Moreover, two university graduates embarked on a trainee programme at are additionally gaining importance as motivational instruments. NRW.BANK. NRW.BANK offers its employees a wide range of development opportunities Given that NRW.BANK trains young people to cover its own requirements, by filling vacant positions according to the motto “internal promotion is permanent employment contracts are offered to all apprentices who complete preferable to external hiring”; this means that vacant positions are advertised their apprenticeships with good results. Given that no commercial apprentices publicly only if and when no suitable candidates can be found among the were hired in 2015, when the apprenticeship was changed, all apprentices employees or the trainees. who completed their training in 2017 came from dual study courses. All seven accepted the permanent employment contract they were offered. In addition, Apart from vacancies resulting from people leaving the Bank or going into two trainees took up their planned positions after successfully completing retirement, new jobs were created at NRW.BANK as a result of diverse their trainee programme in 2017. ­regulatory requirements. In 2017, the vacant positions were again essentially filled with internal candidates, with 76 employees changing roles to assume In view of the age structure of NRW.BANK’s workforce, the Bank continues new tasks. As internal staffing usually results in a new vacant position, a to pay great attention to its objective to “secure junior staff”. The Bank wants consistently pursued internal staffing policy is ideally suited to offer the its trainees and apprentices to replace at least part of the employees who will Bank’s own employees the widest possible range of career development retire in the coming years. opportunities within the Bank. In 2017, 24 employees who returned from parental leave or from leave granted under the “Landesgleichstellungsgesetz” (State Equal Opportunities Act) found a possibility to work in the Bank. As in the previous year, it was not possible to fill all additional jobs with internal candidates, which is why the Bank again filled vacant positions by hiring temporary staff permanently or by hiring external candidates. Sustainability Report 2017 Human Resources 49 Vacant Positions Filled in 2017 As in the previous years, NRW.BANK actively supported the restructuring of Portigon AG. Consequently, five employees from Portigon AG were transExternal Hiring Internal Transfer 46 76 ferred to NRW.BANK in 2017 (shown in the chart under “External Hiring”). In addition, the Bank arranges employment opportunities for these people outside NRW.BANK and its subsidiaries in ministries and companies of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia. As of the end of the reporting year, 15 former employees of Portigon AG worked at NRW.BANK, while another Permanent Employment of 22 worked for the State of North Rhine-Westphalia. Temporary Staff 16 Employment after the Employees Returning from Parental Completion of Training Leave (excluding Short Leaves) 24 Programmes 9 Age Structure1) in % 25 20 15 10 5 0 up to 20 21–25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 over 60 years years years years years years years years years years 2017 2016 2015 1) excluding employees on parental leave as well as employees under temporary contracts Sustainability Report 2017 Human Resources 50 Age-related resignations will remain at a similar level in the coming years as A comprehensive catalogue of regular seminars covers a range of profesa result of the workforce’s age structure. Forward-looking planning ensures sional subjects both at basic and specialist level, aspects of methodological that measures to retain expertise within the Bank are taken at an early stage. and behavioural competence as well as structured and multi-layered In accordance with the Bank’s strategic objective, these foreseeable resignaleader­ship skill acquisition. This catalogue has been developed and refined tions will be used to offer junior staff suitable career development opportuin recent years, with current professional subjects being added in response nities. to actual demand on an ongoing basis. For several years, e-learning and blended learning courses have, for example, been offered not only for This future-oriented planning also includes employee interviews as part of statutory and compliance-related topics but also for foreign language and the performance review process. At least once a year, the Bank’s executives IT skills as well as behavioural and methodological competence. hold interviews with their employees to give them feedback on their accomplishments and performance in the past year and to plan the tasks for the Internal Seminar Attendance by Topic next year. Building on these interviews, future development opportunities and the steps required to implement them are discussed as well. 1,200 210 Life-long Learning 1,000 Knowledge and experience are indispensable when it comes to grasping and 800 345 189 mastering new challenges. NRW.BANK provides a wide variety of HR devel192 opment measures to support its employees in this respect. Apart from classical 600 157 205 29 seminars and support in completing degree (bachelor or master) courses, this 400 139 170 also includes job rotation schemes and other temporary assignments. 361 402 350 200 After the initial training, NRW.BANK assists employees in obtaining the 0 above-mentioned qualifications and degrees by bearing (part of) the study 2017 2016 2015 and examination fees and releasing employees from work for exams and their Specialist Management IT Methods/Behaviour preparation but also by organising networks and learning groups. In 2017, 13 employees obtained a degree with support from the Bank. Three Master’s 1) Internal seminars are all events organised exclusively for the Bank’s employees at NRW.BANK’s and four Bachelor’s degrees as well as six other degrees reflect employees’ special request and whose contents and concepts closely meet the Bank’s specific requirements and needs; such seminars may be held by in-house or external trainers. great interest. In addition, NRW.BANK offers its employees a comprehensive range of seminars for professional and personal growth. Most of these seminars are held internally1). Over time this form of training has proven to be a great success and has met with a very positive response from all employees due to the high quality of courses offered and how pertinent they are to the Bank’s needs and requirements. Sustainability Report 2017 Human Resources 51 The internal catalogue of seminars comprises 59 different subjects, for More than half of NRW.BANK’s executives have meanwhile completed the which 118 seminars were organised in the reporting year. Apart from the final module. In order to support an ongoing consideration and discussion diversity of the topics covered, the number of participants also increased of leadership issues, the Bank regularly offers workshops on related topics noticeably compared to the previous year. The ratio of participations in for this target group. Since 2015, joint work in these workshops has focused external seminars to participations in internal seminars was 1 to almost 3. on the defined “principles for communication, cooperation and leadership at NRW.BANK”. The principle defined for 2017 was “Daring Development”; This was due, on the one hand, to a strong increase in internal IT training the latter was addressed with a specific view to the leadership requirecourses that were required to train employees in a software programme ments resulting from the change of the remuneration systems to fixed used by the promotional business units. In addition, all of NRW.BANK’s remuneration only. In 2018, the intensive work on the principles and their executives were offered a seminar regarding the changes to the remuneraimplementation in day-to-day leadership practice will be completed, with tion system to a fixed remuneration only. This seminar specifically addressed the workshop participants addressing the principle “Co-operating Conthe motivational power of variable remuneration schemes and other structively”. ­instruments suited to promote commitment, knowledge building and the enjoyment of work. Supplementary measures enabling executives to handle special leadership situations round off the executive programme. To train its executives, NRW.BANK offers them a multi-part systematic executive development programme, completion of which is mandatory. Individualised seminars have been developed also for other employee groups. In addition to an entry module, which was completed by a total of 14 new Since 2012, for instance, there has been a workshop series targeted at executives in 2017, there are two follow-up modules for more experienced employees aged 50+. These workshops address issues such as knowledge, executives. All modules comprise several days of training which are spread relationship, conflict and change management specifically from the point of over a longer period of time to enable participants to process developments view of people with a long professional and life experience. In addition, a and improve the transfer of learnings into practice. Compulsory training on seminar for women gives inspirations and strategies for more efficient and labour and collective bargaining law as well as different systems and proless stressful handling of the dual roles typically fulfilled by women, namely cesses used at NRW.BANK complement the entry module. as members of the workforce on the one hand and as household/family managers on the other. Further measures for the promotion of women will be initiated in 2018. Sustainability Report 2017 Human Resources 52 Other HR development measures introduced in 2017 refer to the main Equal Opportunities and Fair Working Conditions aspects of the advisory services provided to the Bank’s main political, For many years, NRW.BANK has municipal and economic stakeholders. pursued a policy of supporting the balance of work and family life and In addition to the extensive range of internal offerings, the employees of promoting equal opportunities. In NRW.BANK may also take part in seminars organised by external providers. 2015, this policy received the “beruf­ The absolute number of external seminar participations was slightly higher undfamilie” certification. A re-audit is than in the previous year. Close to 90% of these seminars were professional planned for 2018. seminars that are only relevant for a limited number of employees, which means that it would have been uneconomical to organise them internally. Aspects that were assessed particularly positively include the self-management of working time, the individual and flexible part-time schemes and the possibility to assume management roles also when working reduced Ratio of Internal and External Seminar Attendance hours. NRW.BANK also offers its employees various child care services, e.g. in the form of day care facilities, emergency and holiday care services 100% as well as a tax-free child care allowance. Employees whose relatives are in 404 373 361 need of care receive support in the form of advice and services for their 75% care and support. 1,121 866 762 50% These comprehensive offerings especially for children below school age assist young families in balancing work and family life. The past years’ 25% trend towards a fast return of young mothers and short parental leaves of fathers continued in 2017: 67.0% of the mothers returned to work after a 0% period of parental leave of twelve months or less. In addition, 27 fathers 2017 2016 2015 made use of the option to take parental leave, a few of them for more than Internal External two months. This corresponded more or less to the previous year’s figures. Sustainability Report 2017 Human Resources 53 A two-year test phase for the more extensive use of alternating telework Changes in the Share of Women and Men in Executive Positions in % started in spring 2017. The insights gained during this period are to be used to adopt a final telework regulation. 100% 31.1 31.6 30.3 The equal opportunities statistics for 2017 confirm the high acceptance and 75% success of the support offered to date. As a growing number of employees 68.9 69.7 68.4 are taking advantage of the flexible and individualised working hour 50% schemes, the percentage of part-time employees climbed to 32.6% as of 31 December 2017 (2016: 28.8%). The average working hour percentage 25% of women and men working part time amounted to 68.9% and 84.9%, ­respectively. At 17.2%, the percentage of executives working part time 0% clearly exceeded the prior year level of 10.3% – not least due to the possibility 2017 2016 2015 to flexibilise the annual working time. Men Women For the first time in many years, the share of women in executive positions across all management levels including the Managing Board declined marginNRW.BANK’s Equal Opportunities Officer is closely involved in the improveally from 31.6% to 31.1% as of 31 December 2017 as a result of changes to ment of development opportunities for women. This applies in particular to the organisational structures of individual units. The Bank maintained the social, organisational and personnel-related measures including job offers, tried-and-tested measures – especially the effective targeting and promotion selection processes and job interviews. She will also participate in the of female young talent – of the previous years to increase the share of women. preparation and updating of the Equal Opportunities Plan, which comprises all pertinent measures, and report annually on its implementation. According to the guidelines for the filling of executive positions, women have to be increasingly considered for such positions. The continuously growing NRW.BANK’s Equal Opportunities Officer also serves as the designated number of women in positions not covered by collective agreements forms a complaint recipient within the meaning of the German Equal Treatment Act. good basis for this. As at 31 December 2017, the share of women in such Should, in spite of the measures taken, an employee be disadvantaged or positions stood at 41.8% (previous year: 38.6%). harassed because of their ethnic background, gender, religion, belief, handicap, age or sexual identity, they may contact the complaints unit. As in the previous years, no incident was reported to the complaints unit in 2017. Sustainability Report 2017 Human Resources 54 A fair and adequate remuneration system is one of the working conditions that An important tool to identify strains in good time is a systematic hazard have a notable impact on the satisfaction and the loyalty of the employees. analysis. All employees are regularly asked about potentially hazardous circumstances and stress factors at work. In order to obtain a more comSince its inception, NRW.BANK has, in consensus with its owner, focused prehensive picture, the focus is placed on varying topics when the survey its remuneration system and remuneration parameters on the promotional is repeated. Thanks to the collaboration between the responsible persons and development tasks performed by it. Accordingly, its remuneration – especially the Occupational Safety Officer, the company doctor, the staff strategy is derived from the overall Bank strategy taking into account its council, the Social Officer, building management as well as the managers statutes, corporate culture and values. For a detailed presentation of the and executives – any strains identified by the survey are usually eliminated remuneration system, please see the Financial Report 2017. in an unbureaucratic way. Maintaining Performance The excellent quality of the health protection measures has been confirmed Occupational Safety and Strategic Health Management by Unfallkasse Nordrhein-Westfalen, which assigned the Bank to the highest Good working conditions and exemplary health and safety policies form rank of its award scheme in recognition of the “excellent organisation of part of NRW.BANK’s corporate responsibility. For many years, the Bank safety and health”. The safety measures are also reflected in the constantly has implemented this in the context of its strategic health management low accident numbers. There were only 13 accidents in 2017, of which only system, which has been expanded continuously since 2006. Services range one was a work accident in the narrow sense of the word; of the remaining from a company doctor to a social worker offering confidential help to a accidents, ten were commuting accidents – mostly bicycle or car accidents. variety of offerings revolving around such topics as preventive medicine, nutrition and sports. For NRW.BANK, health means much more than just the absence of illness. Its health promotion activities therefore aim to encourage healthy behaviour and reduce avoidable strains in the workplace. Therefore, the focus is on the question “what keeps people healthy in the long term”? Sustainability Report 2017 Human Resources 55 NRW.BANK has established two working groups to address the health individualised concept in co-operation with a psycho-oncologist. The year protection issue to the benefit of all employees: ended with an issue typing campaign in cooperation with the Bone Marrow Donation Centre in Düsseldorf. The Occupational Safety Committee advises the Bank on all matters of occupational safety as well as accident prevention. Its members Since autumn 2016, NRW.BANK has offered its employees the possibility to comprise representatives of the Bank, the staff council, the company lease a bicycle by converting part of their salary. The Bank contributes an doctor, the representatives of the severely disabled, a Safety Officer amount of € 10 to the monthly lease instalment. This offer has met with great and the Occupational Safety Officer. interest: Following on from the very good start, another 85 bicycle leasing The Health Working Circle further develops the strategic health manapplications were filed in the reporting year. A total of 147 employees make agement and decides concrete measures. In addition to the human use of this offer, which means that a growing number of employees come resources staff responsible for health management, the regular meetto work by bicycle each day. In summer 2017, the ADFC (German Cyclists’ ings are attended by the company doctor, the social counsellor, the Association) awarded the Bank the title of “Bicycle-friendly Employer”. Occupational Safety Officer, the representatives of the severely dis­ abled as well as a representative of the staff council. To ensure that The Bank’s health management offerings, which are usually free, are availthe services provided by the staff restaurant can also be reasonably able to all employees. integrated, the circle of participants also includes the catering services. All current occupational health and safety measures as well as NRW.BANK’s For 2017, the Working Circle chose “Aktiv gegen den Krebs – Kraft für das future plans are detailed in the annual health report which is available to all Leben” (Active against cancer – power for life) as the main topic of the members of the workforce. year. This is an issue inevitably faced by everyone, either personally or through relatives, friends or colleagues. The main emphasis was placed on Preventive check-ups, no matter how expertly planned and performed, medical information and how to deal with a cancer diagnosis. NRW.BANK’s cannot entirely prevent illnesses. NRW.BANK’s post-illness reintegration social advisor and the company doctor introduced the Bank’s employees to management system – a voluntary offering aimed at defining individualised the topic by holding introductory lectures, which recorded a high level of measures matched to the working environment through personal talks with attendance. employees affected by illness – helps employees restart work after long illness and stabilise their health in the long term. The Bank is very much Building on this introduction, lectures held by medical experts in cooperaaware of the sensitive personal issues touched by this process and attaches tion with the North Rhine-Westphalian Cancer Society presented the current the utmost importance to ensuring absolute confidentiality and data prostate of scientific knowledge regarding different types of cancer. With the tection. lectures on how to deal with a cancer diagnosis, the Bank developed an Sustainability Report 2017 Human Resources 56 Flexible working arrangements Flexible Working Lifetime NRW.BANK offers its employees very flexible agreements to reduce their Because of the age structure and the expected retirement of a large number regular working hours. In addition, the Bank provides two more possibilities of specialists within the course of a few years, NRW.BANK will offer an oldthat allow employees to increase the flexibility of their working time: age part-time work scheme starting 2018. This has several advantages for both the Bank and its workforce: it offers NRW.BANK the possibility to better Since 2013, NRW.BANK has offered its employees the option to take control and manage critical age-related staff departures as well as the knowup to two months of unpaid leave of absence in addition to the paid how transfer that becomes necessary as a result of such departures. Successor vacations. This option was used by eleven employees in the reporting planning will be possible over a longer-term period, allowing the Bank to offer year, with most of them using the maximum sabbatical period allowed. specific development opportunities to qualified junior staff at an earlier stage. They were men and women alike, spread across all age groups and Old-age part-time work also caters to employees’ wish to make their transition roles. into retirement more flexible. Introduced in 2016, the possibility to take up to ten additional days off per year against a corresponding reduction of the salary is very popular among the workforce. 102 employees made use of this possibility in 2017. 117 employees will do so in 2018. Sustainability Report 2017 Human Resources 57 NRW.BANK Personnel in Figures 2017 2016 2015 absolute in % absolute in % absolute in % Active employees, total 1) 1,319 100% 1,301 100% 1,271 100% by sex – women 688 52.2% 682 52.4% 671 52.8% – men 631 47.8% 619 47.6% 600 47.2% by company location – Düsseldorf 926 70.2% 898 69.0% 874 68.8% – Münster 393 29.8% 403 31.0% 397 31.2% by type of employment – full time 889 67.4% 926 71.2% 955 75.1% – part time 430 32.6% 375 28.8% 316 24.9% by function group – management (incl. Managing Board) 244 18.5% 234 18.0% 234 18.4% – specialists/project workers 553 41.9% 523 40.2% 473 37.2% – case workers 419 31.8% 437 33.6% 454 35.7% – secretaries 46 3.5% 47 3.6% 48 3.8% – non-commercial functions 51 3.9% 54 4.2% 54 4.2% – special functions2) 6 0.5% 6 0.5% 8 0.6% by remuneration – collective pay 823 62.4% 840 64.6% 834 65.6% – non-collective pay 496 37.6% 461 35.4% 437 34.4% Average age, total 45.0 44.6 44.5 Average years of employment 16.3 16.4 16.6 Departures, total 51 3.9% 48 3.7% 39 3.1% – due to termination 17 1.3% 21 1.6% 9 0.7% – due to age 34 2.6% 27 2.1% 30 2.4% In addition: temporary employees 33 34 53 In addition: apprentices and trainees – trainees 2 3 1 1) excluding employees on parental leave, – apprentices 45 34 37 apprentices/trainees as well as employees under temporary contracts – thereof new apprenticeships 19 16 12 – completed apprenticeships 7 17 20 2) as of 2016: exempted staff representatives, previously also: Equal Opportunities Officer, – hiring rate (unlimited) 100.0% 88.2% 90.0% Occupational Safety Officer, Remuneration Officer Sustainability Report 2017 Human Resources 58 // CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP NRW.BANK is aware of its social responsibility. Every year, it supports projects from the fields of “Science & Education”, “Arts & Culture” as well as “Society & Social Affairs” that contribute to improving society and the quality of life in North Rhine-Westphalia. Nachhaltigkeitsbericht Strategie 59 Showing Commitment to Society NRW.BANK also lives up to its corporate responsibility through its contribuAs part of its commitment to society and under its remit as a promotional tions to public and community life in North Rhine-Westphalia. Suitable bank, NRW.BANK endeavours to shape a subsidiarity-based and project-­ measures are supported in accordance with the Bank’s “Guidelines for related collaboration with its partners on a medium to long-term basis in ­Corporate Citizenship and Other Services” adopted by the Supervisory Board. order to create a reliable basis for its corporate citizenship. In this context, the Bank strives to ensure the social and regional balance of its activities in The Bank is committed to making its decisions on grants and sponsorships North Rhine-Westphalia. The corporate citizenship budget is divided into transparent and comprehensible. It has established a formal internal process the following categories: “Science & Education”, “Arts & Culture” and for this purpose. All requests received regarding the sponsorship of projects “Society & Social Affairs”. are documented centrally by the Bank, voted on using standardised assessment criteria and submitted to the Managing Board for decision on a quarter­ly In 2017, NRW.BANK spent a total amount of € 812,000 on donations, sponbasis. In exercising its senior responsibility for the allocation of funds, the sorships or memberships in North Rhine-Westphalia. The corresponding Managing Board bases its promotion resolutions on these decision-making projects are presented below. requests. Science & Education One essential precondition for approval is that the resources made available The Bank’s concept of corporate citizenship calls for the promotion of by NRW.BANK exclusively benefit projects in North Rhine-Westphalia. creativity and ideas as well as education-related topics for a young target group. The Bank consequently focused on sponsorships related to educaThe Executive and Nomination Committee is the highest controlling body tion in 2017. The following projects from the field of “Science & Education” for the allocation of the funds available for corporate citizenship purposes. were sponsored by the Bank: At the beginning of each fiscal year, NRW.BANK submits a budget for all activities planned in the context of corporate citizenship to the Executive EDUCATION Y Bildung. Gemeinsam. Gestalten. e.V., Düsseldorf and Nomination Committee for approval and explains the investments Since 2015, NRW.BANK has supported the state programme of the NRW planned to date. After the end of each fiscal year, NRW.BANK provides the Ministry for School and Education developed by EDUCATION Y in co­ Executive and Nomination Committee with a detailed report on the use of operation with UNICEF on “primary school children’s rights”. Teachers and the corporate citizenship funds. educational staff are trained in implementing the participatory idea of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in schools using suitable formats such as the installation of class councils. The idea is to offer school children effective development opportunities, to allow them to assume responsibility by helping to shape their own learning process and to give them protection. Sustainability Report 2017 Corporate Citizenship 60 School Cooperations in Düsseldorf and Münster Arts & Culture Since 2007, NRW.BANK has financed study and job orientation workshops NRW.BANK’s sponsoring activities in the field “Arts & Culture” focused at four schools, namely Cecilien-Gymnasium and Hauptschule St. Benedikt on the promotion of young talent. in Düsseldorf as well as Freiherr-vom-Stein-Gymnasium and Hauptschule Coerde in Münster. Pupils are given the opportunity to discover their own Concerts by Young Artists and Corporate Volunteering strengths, talents and interests for their future careers. Parents are involved In the reporting year, the Bank again supported cultural events at its two in the project and learn how to assist their children in finding the right occulocations by making available its premises: pation. The Bank also finances a state-wide further training programme for teachers to enable them to advise their pupils more effectively with regard to In the context of the “CHAPEAU classique” music festival, which has been their career choices. held annually since 2011, NRW.BANK’s staff restaurant in Münster served as the venue for a performance by “Mariani Klavierquartett” in May and by Schlaun-Forum e.V., Münster “Ensemble 87” in September. As in the past, the events were organised in Since 2011, the Bank has supported the “Schlaun Competition” for students cooperation with “Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Westfälischen Kultur­ from the 5th semester as well as graduates up to the age of 35 of the fields arbeit e.V.”, Münster. of study of urban development, architecture, landscape planning and civil engineering. Every year, a new location is chosen for which urban planning For the ninth consecutive year, NRW.BANK organised two evening concerts and development solutions are to be found. One of the objectives of the in the foyer of its Düsseldorf building in cooperation with the “düsseldorf competition is to encourage creative young talent to come up with new festival!” held annually in September. The first concert starred “Rhythmus­ ideas for the creation of progressive, energy-efficient and sustainable sportgruppe feat. Tossia Corman”, while the second concert was performed housing as well as with adequate solutions to the traffic situation in current­ly by “Antonio Lizana”. problematic city centres. Mönchengladbach has been chosen as the location for the 7th Schlaun Competition 2017/2018. NRW.BANK employees volunteered at all concerts, serving beverages and snacks to the guests. The proceeds of approximately € 4,000 were once again donated to music schools in North Rhine-Westphalia in favour of the programme “JeKits – Jedem Kind Instrumente, Tanzen, Singen”. The “JeKits”­Foundation doubled this donation to allow children in North Rhine-Westphalia to share the musical aesthetic experience of playing musical instruments, dancing and singing in a group. Sustainability Report 2017 Corporate Citizenship 61 NRW.BANK.Kunstpreis Society & Social Affairs In accordance with its arts policy, NRW.BANK has sponsored up-and-­ NRW.BANK attaches special importance to promoting responsible behaviour coming artists since 2010. In 2017, the Bank launched an annual art award in socially relevant areas. at all state art schools in North Rhine-Westphalia. The principals of the participating colleges and universities nominate students or graduates for SOS Children’s Village Lippe the categories “Painting & Graphic Design”, “Photography & Media Design” 60 children who can no longer live with their parents currently live in the and “Sculpture & Installation”. The winners are chosen by a jury of SOS Children’s Village in Lippe. The Children’s Village also includes two ­renowned regional arts experts. In October 2017, NRW.BANK awarded residential groups for adolescents and young adults as well as three family-­ prize money totalling € 33,000 on the occasion of an exhibition opening in oriented residential groups. The children and adolescents live together the foyer of its Düsseldorf building. The works of the participants will be with up to five biological and Children’s Village siblings as well as with the presented to the public at annual exhibitions alternating between DüsselSOS Children’s Village mother or father. The latter are there for them at dorf and Münster. any time and give them shelter, security and affection. NRW.BANK co-­ finances the extension and conversion of a house at the SOS Children’s LVR-LandesMuseum Bonn Home in Lippe. The project “Kultur – Der andere Blick. Interdisziplinäres Projekt für alleinerziehende Familien” of the LVR-LandesMuseum in Bonn is designed to Employee Commitment / Christmas Activity give single parents and their children the possibility to spend quality time Since 2017, NRW.BANK has made available a total annual amount of together, establish new contacts and explore the many exciting aspects of € 20,000 to support the honorary work of its employees in charitable culture. Lecturers from different disciplines take different looks at the ­organisations. In the reporting year, 40 organisations received an amount museum’s exhibits, present the wide range of arts and cultural history from of € 500 each. their personal point of view and help to arouse interest in arts and culture. Marking the tenth year of this Christmas activity, NRW.BANK employees again supported charitable institutions looking after children and adolescents. Stars on which children from socially deprived areas had written their Christmas wishes were hung from two large Christmas trees in the foyers of the Bank’s two head offices. The employees in Düsseldorf donated presents for the pupils of Gemeinschaftsgrundschule Neustrelitzer Straße in Garath in the context of a campaign organised by the Düsseldorfer Tafel. In Münster, the employees fulfilled the wishes of the pupils of Eichendorffschule Angel­ modde. Sustainability Report 2017 Corporate Citizenship 62 Apart from making presents, employees also donated approx. € 2,700 to available by NRW.BANK to purchase two bee colonies and the material for three institutions NRW.BANK employees volunteer at: additional beehives to be populated in 2018. Interested employees of the Bank had the opportunity to learn more about bee protection and to increase Hospizgruppe Billerbeck e.V., their awareness of this important issue at the educational beehive in Düssel Verein zur Förderung des Feuerschutzes und der Jugendfeuerwehr in dorf-Lichtenbroich. A similar project in Münster will be supported in 2018. Neuss e.V. and DJK Kleinenbroich 1951 e.V., Korschenbroich. Besides the measures described above, which merely serve as examples, NRW.BANK added an amount of € 20,000 to the donation. NRW.BANK supported many other projects in the fields of “Science & Education”, “Arts & Culture” as well as “Society & Social Affairs” in 2017. More Kreisimkerverband Düsseldorf im Imkerverband Rheinland e.V. information and an overview of the individual projects can be found here. In keeping with its commitment to sustainability, the Bank promoted the protection of bees for the first time in 2017. Bees are of great ecological In accordance with the “Guidelines for Corporate Citizenship and Other importance as they make a significant contribution to the preservation of Services” set by the Supervisory Board, NRW.BANK made neither direct nor wild and cultivated plants and their yields. Local bee protection additionally indirect donations to political parties or party-related foundations in 2017. supports the urban biodiversity. The association used the funds made Moreover, the Bank places no advertisements in their publications. NRW.BANK Düsseldorf Münster Responsible (under press law) Photo Credits Kavalleriestraße 22 Friedrichstraße 1 Caroline Gesatzki, Cover: amenic181/Fotolia.com; 40213 Düsseldorf 48145 Münster Head of Communication p. 3 Christian Lord Otto, Düsseldorf; Phone +49 211 91741-0 Phone +49 251 91741-0 p. 10 weerachaiphoto/Fotolia.com; Fax +49 211 91741-1800 Fax +49 251 91741-2921 Concept, Design p. 17 zapp2photo/Fotolia.com; vE&K Werbeagentur p. 23 Tom Wang/Fotolia.com; Investor Relations www.nrwbank.de GmbH & Co. KG, Essen p. 32 UKM IM GmbH; p. 33 Uniklinik Phone +49 211 91741-5555 info@nrwbank.de Köln; p. 34 Windpark Brilon GmbH & investorrelations@nrwbank.de Co. KG; p. 35 SL Naturenergie; twitter.com/nrwbank p. 36 NRW.BANK/Lokomotiv; Sustainability p. 39 silver-john/Fotolia.com; p. 47 Jacob Lund/Fotolia.com; Phone +49 211 91741-8081 p. 59 Coley Christine/Unsplash.com nachhaltigkeit@nrwbank.de Sustainability Report 2017 Corporate Citizenship 63
