Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. November 2018 Our priority goals. The Little Helps Plan helps us respond We list these priority SDGs in table 1. to the global challenges affecting our For full details on how we identified business, suppliers, customers, our priorities and focus areas for colleagues and other stakeholders, the Little Helps Plan, read our from inequality and human rights to summary on www.tescoplc.com/ climate change and food waste. materiality. The UN Sustainable Development Goal 12, on responsible consumption Goals (SDGs) provide a focus for how and production, is particularly businesses, governments and significant for Tesco. We are proud to civil society can tackle these be members of Champions 12.3, a challenges in order to promote a global coalition of leaders chaired by more sustainable future for all. They our CEO Dave Lewis. This group is have helped to inform our thinking dedicated to accelerating progress about where we can play a role. towards achieving the UN Sustainable Tesco contributes in different ways Development Target 12.3 to halve and to different degrees to all the global food waste by 2030. We were SDGs. In line with UN Global Compact the first UK retailer to publish data on guidance, we have identified which food waste in our own operations so goals are particularly relevant to us: that we can track our progress where expectations, risks and against this target. We are now opportunities for Tesco are greatest, encouraging other organisations, and where we can make the most both within and outside our supply significant contribution. chain, to do the same. Table 1: Priority Goals SDG Tesco Target Tesco Action Key Data Facilitate food surplus donation We work closely with food banks and charities wherever we operate to donate good food that 48 million meals donated programmes in all stores in all would otherwise go to waste. Organisations we have supported have included homeless shelters, Group-wide through our food regions to provide meals to after-school clubs, food banks and domestic violence hostels. We also organise regular food surplus donation programmes those in need by 2020. collections during festive periods giving our customers the opportunity to join us in donating food in 2017/18. to help feed people in need. To support all of our colleagues We want to make Tesco a healthier place to work and shop. Guided by our partnerships with Cancer 66% of Group colleagues and 55% to live healthier lives and help Research UK, Diabetes UK and the British Heart Foundation we are making the healthiest choice, of UK customers agree that Tesco our customers make healthier the easiest choice. We aim to create the UK’s leading workplace health programme, helping helps them lead a healthy lifestyle. food choices every time they colleagues make changes to reduce the risks of cancer, Type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. shop with us. We are sharing ‘helpful little swaps’ in stores and online for customers, highlighting products lower in sugar, fat or salt compared to the regular alternatives; and lowering prices on hundreds of healthier products during our health events. Source 65% of our electricity We currently source 100% renewable electricity in the UK, Republic of Ireland and Slovakia, Group-wide, 58% of electricity from renewable sources by supported by renewable energy certificates. We are now surveying UK stores for the potential to comes from renewable sources. 2020 and 100% by 2030. generate our own renewable energy. Help our colleagues succeed by We are introducing new measures to provide colleagues with greater flexibility to manage their work 77% of Tesco colleagues providing them with the patterns around their lifestyles. In the UK, we have begun piloting a new suite of flexible contracts Group-wide agree they have the flexibility, skills and reward to with the ambition of implementing them across the business soon. opportunity to learn and develop. ‘get on’. Our new learning curriculum will help our colleagues develop the skills they need for the future, including management and digital skills. We have introduced 24 learning partners who have delivered learning to over 2500 UK colleagues in our stores and distribution centres. Ensure international human We want to promote better working conditions and sustainable livelihoods for workers and producers In 82% of our tier 1 high risk rights standards are respected in our supply chain. The Ethical Trading Initiative’s Base Code human rights standards are fundamental sites in which critical at all our suppliers’ sites. requirements for all our suppliers, wherever they operate. We are also partnering on projects in high non-conformances were risk supply chains to improve working conditions. For example, we are signatories to the Bangladesh identified in 2017/18, mitigation Accord and have conducted structural surveys to ensure workers in our supply chain are not at risk or remediation processes have from fire, building disrepair or similar concerns. been implemented on time. Through our membership of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) we are collaborating to eradicate forced labour from our supply chains, including the lower tiers. We helped to design and strongly support CGF’s priority industry principles: every worker should have freedom of movement; no worker should pay for a job; and no worker should be indebted or coerced to work. SDG Tesco Target Tesco Action Key Data Help halve global food waste, We have adopted UN SDG 12.3 to help halve food waste from farm to fork. We are proud members Percentage change in tonnes farm to fork, by 2030. of Champions 12.3, a coalition of leaders chaired by our CEO Dave Lewis to accelerate progress on of food wasted as a percentage this target. In the UK and Central Europe we have sold nearly 25,000 tonnes of Perfectly Imperfect of tonnes sold since our fruit and vegetables that previously would not have met our specifications and have removed best baseline year: before dates from over 180 UK fruit and vegetable lines to help stop perfectly edible items being • UK: 0% since 2013/14 thrown away. • Central Europe: 25% since 2016/17 • Ireland: 9% since 2016/17 Making all packaging fully We want to create a closed loop system for packaging so everything can be re-used, recycled or 83% (by weight) of UK Own Brand recyclable by 2025. re-purposed. We have committed to remove all hard to recycle materials from our Own Brand packaging meets the ‘widely packaging by the end of 2019 and are working with our suppliers to find alternatives. For example, recycled’ criteria. by replacing polystyrene, a hard-to-recycle material, with cardboard in our Own Brand pizzas we have saved 300 tonnes of plastic. Reduce absolute carbon We have worked with external experts to set new, science-based targets which are aligned with a 1.5 26% reduction of GHG emissions emissions from our operations degree trajectory and enable us to meet our zero-carbon ambition. As one of the largest van fleet since 2015/16. from 2015 levels: 35% by 2020, operators in the UK we have signed up to the Clean Van Commitment (CVC). The commitment publicly 60% by 2025 and 100% by 2050. demonstrates our support for the switch to low emission vehicles. Sustainably source all our wild We are committed to supporting truly sustainable fisheries and the protection of marine 72% of Tesco UK wild-caught fish. environments. We are working with the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) to increase our range of seafood is MSC certified. certified sustainable counter, pre-packed, canned and frozen fish. Beyond certification we have worked with the krill fishing industry and NGOs to develop an agreement that will protect vulnerable species and habitats in the Antarctic that rely on krill. Krill is an ingredient in salmon feed and some health supplements. Achieve zero net deforestation We are working to reduce the impact of our beef, soy, palm, dairy, cotton and other key supply chains. 100% palm oil in UK Own Brand in our supply chain by 2020. We developed our Zero Deforestation Soy Transition Plan in consultation with leading NGOs to help products is certified to achieve our aim to source all the soy-based animal feed in our UK supply chain from areas verified as Roundtable on Sustainable Palm having zero deforestation by 2025. We are supporting this with trials of more sustainable sources of Oil (RSPO) standard. animal feed such as algal oil and insect protein. 88% paper/wood in UK Own Brand products are certified by Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), or are from a recycled source. Our contribution to the other goals. Though our contribution is less significant to the remaining goals, we are committed to ensuring we make a positive impact against all the SDGs. Table 2 shows how we are contributing to the SDGs we have identified as lower priority for Tesco, where risks and opportunities for Tesco are fewer and where the contribution we can make is less significant. Table 2: Our contribution to the other goals SDG Tesco Action Our work with suppliers and other organisations helps raise working standards and ensure living wages for people working in our supply chain. As members of Malawi 2020 we supported the first ever collective bargaining agreement between the Tea Association of Malawi and the Plantation Agricultural Workers Union. This will make workers more aware of the opportunity to join a trade union and help to ensure tea workers receive a living wage by 2020. We continue to invest in training for our colleagues, so they have the opportunity to ‘get on’ both at work and at home. In Thailand, our ‘Learning Dollars’ programme gives colleagues a ‘learning budget’ that they can redeem against a range of courses offered by universities. Since its introduction in 2016, 2,299 colleagues have participated in the programme to support their development. In 2016/17 our median gender pay gap was 8.7%, significantly below the UK median of 18.4%. Looking at gender balance at different work levels has shown that the number of women in our workforce decreases at more senior levels. To address this, we have been refreshing our internal succession plans to ensure we have a more inclusive talent pipeline and have introduced a tailored development programme to help talented female colleagues progress their careers. We also continue to strive towards gender equality in our supply chains. Our partnership with the Ethical Tea Partnership and UNICEF is focussed on addressing gender inequality in the Assam region of India and has funded capability training for women, girls and the wider community to help them secure a better future and reduce their vulnerability. We are mapping and monitoring key supply chains to understand water risks and what our suppliers are doing to manage them. We are working with suppliers to introduce measures, such as more efficient irrigation systems, to reduce both water use and local environmental impact. We are members of the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Waste programme which aims to move the clothing industry towards the use of more sustainable chemicals with lower impacts on the environment and human health. As part of this our clothing suppliers publish their waste water testing results publicly to demonstrate progress in reducing hazardous discharges. SDG Tesco Action Sustainable innovation supports the Little Helps Plan in all areas. We have initiatives across the Group to make our stores and operations more efficient and these investments have enabled us to reduce our net carbon intensity per sq. ft. of retail and distribution floor space by 6% compared with last year. In our supply chain we are encouraging our suppliers to set strong, science-based GHG targets that will require a move to more sustainable ways of working. Creating a closed-loop packaging system requires innovation in the materials we use, packaging we create and the methods to collect and recycle packaging, such as our current trials of reverse vending machines for plastic bottles. We are committed to upholding human rights and fully support the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization Core Conventions and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights within our own operations and supply chains internationally. Our work often promotes equality in our supply chain, supporting disadvantaged groups and promoting sustainable development. For example, we are helping to provide training for young people from disadvantaged communities in Southern Africa so they can access work in the agricultural sector through the Tesco and Community Fund. We are committed to creating an inclusive environment for colleagues. We have a wide range of networks and initiatives to promote inclusion and have signed up to the UN standards to support the rights of LGBTI people. In the UK, Republic of Ireland and Central Europe we have supported almost 18,000 community projects so far this year. To ensure our support goes to the right places in the UK, Ireland and Central Europe we give our customers and colleagues the opportunity to vote for the local causes that we support. We are committed to upholding human rights within our own operations and supply chains internationally. We are helping to address entrenched social issues such as freedom of association and the empowerment of workers. For example, in South America we have been working with the Ethical Trading Initiative and suppliers to ensure that a worker representative is democratically elected to worker committees. Through our partnership with the Ethical Tea Partnership and UNICEF we have also engaged national, state and district governments to protect children and review policies for those living in tea communities. We work in partnership with NGOs, suppliers and the wider industry to progress the Little Helps Plan, contribute to the SDGs and build the resilience and sustainability of our business. Examples include our new partnership with WWF with the ambition of halving the environmental impact of the average UK shopping basket; our work with FareShare to reduce food waste and support vulnerable people in communities across the UK; and a partnership with Cancer Research UK, Diabetes UK and the British Heart Foundation to deliver our health strategy, to name but a few. UN Global Compact “With 440,000 colleagues operating in more than 6,500 stores in Communication on Progress. 8 countries, we are very conscious of the impact we have on the world, and the opportunity and responsibility we have to make a positive difference. As a member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed We have demonstrated our progress against the UNGC’s ten principles in our Little Helps Plan to taking action on the Sustainable Development Goals and today Progress Update 2018 report, our Annual Report, in the tables above and on our website. we recommit to the Compact.” Dave Lewis, Group Chief Executive Table 3 provides links to where further information can be found. Table 3: UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Area Principle Links to progress information Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. www.tescoplc.com/humanrights www.tescoplc.com/humanrightspolicy 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. www.tescoplc.com/humanrightssupplychain www.tescoplc.com/top20 www.tescoplc.com/littlehelpsplanreport Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right www.tescoplc.com/codeofbusinessconduct to collective bargaining. www.tescoplc.com/humanrightssupplychain www.tescoplc.com/unions www.tescoplc.com/littlehelpsplanreport 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. www.tescoplc.com/modernslavery 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. www.tescoplc.com/modernslavery www.tescoplc.com/tea www.tescoplc.com/cocoa www.tescoplc.com/cotton 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and www.tescoplc.com/inclusion occupation. www.tescoplc.com/humanrightssupplychain www.tescoplc.com/littlehelpsplanreport Environment 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. www.tescoplc.com/environment www.tescoplc.com/littlehelpsplanreport 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. www.tescoplc.com/foodwaste www.tescoplc.com/packaging www.tescoplc.com/soy www.tescoplc.com/chemicalmanagement www.tescoplc.com/carbonfootprint 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly www.tescoplc.com/energy-efficient-stores technologies. www.tescoplc.com/packaging Anti10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. www.tescoplc.com/whistleblowing Corruption www.tescoplc.com/codeofbusinessconduct www.tescoplc.com/littlehelpsplanreport
