• • • • ❖ ❖ ❖ What we want In Denmark, for example, we observe the Danish have nationality other than Danish in 2017/18. 33 % We want to be an open, international and welcoming legislation, which does not allow any discrimination of our employees on management level or working in workplace. Green Team A/S commits to comply with what so ever. All terms of employment are established confidential jobs, are women, which is an increase international human rights conventions, and we by individual workers contracts according to Danish compared to the year before. condemn discrimination based on race, religion, sex, legislation and the relevant Collective Bargain 100 % of all suppliers in risk countries are audited age or disability. It is important for us that people with Agreement. according to BSCI with the latest audit result: Grade disabilities, women, people with other nationality than One of these areas we are focusing on is our business A. 100 % of all farms and nurseries in EC are Danish or others with special conditions are visible in partners around the world. We operate in long term certified according to Global GAP. the workplace and have equal opportunity to make a relationships with few core suppliers with whom we career. have been doing business with for many years. At Goals for 2018/19 We will increase our focus on diversity at all levels of present we have only one supplier in a risk country, In 2018/19 we will continue to focus on human rights the organization, and we are constantly working to Georgia. It is our belief that we have influenced all our within our sphere influence. In 2018/19 we will create an inclusive workplace with room for diversity. suppliers by upholding a constant pressure on endeavor to have a level of at least 55 % of We believe that diversity creates value for the company information and documentation for decent labor employees with different nationality than Danish, as and expand our horizons. standards every where our company is represented. we believe that diversity strengthens our organization. What we do What we have achieved It is our goal that all employees knows the basics We have focused on international human rights in our We have raised awareness about human rights issues in CSR issues of the company and the BSCI concept. diversity policy, which we have implemented in our our headquarters. We have formulated policies and We are aware of our obligations to address all human organization. This means that we upon recruitment, have a key person responsible for action plans in rights conventions according to the UN Guiding promotion and dismissal are focused never to violate human rights issues. Principles. basic human rights conventions of discrimination. Because of our common values and our commitment to diversity policy, 50 % of our employees • • • • • • • • • • • •
