T H E VO LVO G R O U P Annual and Sustainability Report 2017 Driving Performance and Innovation CONTENT A GLOBAL GROUP STRONG BRANDS OVERVIEW This is the Volvo Group. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 T CEO comments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 he Volvo Group’s brand portfolio consists of Volvo, Volvo STRATEGY Committed to staying ahead . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Penta, UD, Terex Trucks, Renault Mission. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Trucks, Prevost, Nova Bus and Vision. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10 Mack. We partner in alliances and Values . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 joint ventures with the SDLG, Aspirations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Code of Conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Eicher and Dongfeng brands. By Driving innovation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12 offering products and services Strategic priorities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16 under different brands, the Group Financial targets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21 addresses many different BUSINESS MODEL ­customer and market segments in VALUE CHAIN. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 mature as well as growth markets. Customers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Product development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Purchasing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 Production & Logistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Retail & Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 Reuse. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 EMPLOYEES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68 OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .74 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 Sustainability Reporting Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 Global strength in a changing world. . . . . . . . . . 82 Significant events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 Financial performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86 Financial position . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89 Cash flow statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92 Trucks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94 Construction Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98 Buses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101 Volvo Penta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103 Financial Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105 Financial management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107 Changes in consolidated shareholders’ equity. . . 108 The share. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109 Risks and uncertainties. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112 NOTES Notes to the financial statements. . . . . . . . . . . 118 Parent Company AB Volvo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 178 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report 2017. . . . . . . . . 188 Board of Directors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 196 Group Executive Board. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .202 OTHER INFORMATION Proposed remuneration policy. . . . . . . . . . . . .206 Proposed disposition of unappropriated earnings . . 207 Audit report for AB Volvo (publ). . . . . . . . . . . . 208 Alternative Performance Measures . . . . . . . . . . 211 Eleven-year summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214 Reporting scope and boundaries. . . . . . . . . . . 222 Annual General Meeting. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224 Preliminary publication dates. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224 The Volvo Group’s formal financial reports are presented on pages 82–187, 206–207 and 211–213 and have been audited by the ­c ompany’s auditors. For information on which pages constitute the Volvo Group’s Sustainability Report, please see Sustainability Reporting Index on page 82. A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 OVERVIEW 2 0 17 I N B R I E F Increased sales and continued profit improvement S  trong demand for the Volvo Group’s products and services  trong financial position with net financial assets of SEK 26.3 S in many of the world’s markets. Net sales increased in billion, corresponding to 26.9% of equity in the Industrial all regions and amounted to SEK 335 billion. ­Oper­ations, excluding provisions for post-employment benefits. Increased sales volumes contributed to an increase in profit­ New financial targets introduced. ability. Adjusted operating income improved to SEK 29.9 M  ew trucks from Volvo Trucks and Mack Trucks contributed N corres­ponding to an adjusted operating margin of 8.9% with to the Group’s biggest product renewal in North America in a particularly strong development in Construction Equipment. 20 years. Furthermore, all-new heavy-duty and medium-duty O  perating cash flow in the Industrial Operations increased truck ranges were launched under the UD brand. to SEK 28.4 billion. 335 29.9 30.3 28.4 273 283 313 302 9.2 11.6 20.2 21.1 5.8 23.3 20.8 1.5 6.4 18.3 3.5 7.1 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 NET SALES, ADJUSTED O P E R AT I N G O P E R AT I N G SEK BN O P E R AT I N G INCOME, C A S H F L O W, I N C O M E ¹, SEK BN INDUSTRIAL SEK BN O P E R AT I O N S , SEK BN 335 SEK bn 29.9 SEK bn 30.3 SEK bn 28.4 SEK bn K E Y R AT I O S 2 0 17 2 0 16 K E Y R AT I O S 2 0 17 2 0 16 Net sales, SEK M 334,748 301,914 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 20.8 14.9 Adjusted operating income¹, SEK M 29,928 21,094 Total number of employees 99,488 94,914 Adjusted operating margin, % 8.9 7.0 Share of women, % 18 17 Share of women, presidents and Operating income, SEK M 30,327 20,826 other senior executives, % 25 24 Operating margin, % 9.1 6.9 Employee Engagement Index, % 75 72 Income after financial items, SEK M 28,254 19,230 Energy consumption, MWh/SEK M 6.4 7.1 Income for the period, SEK M 21,283 13,223 Total CO2 emissions, tons/SEK M Diluted earnings per share, SEK 10.32 6.47 (GHG scope 1 & 2) 1.2 1.4 Dividend per share, SEK 4.25 2 3.25 Share of direct material purchasing Operating cash flow, ­ spend from suppliers having made a Industrial ­Operations, SEK bn 28.4 3.5 CSR self-­assessment, % 95 88 1 For more information on adjusted operating income, please see Alternative Performance Measures on page 211. 2 Proposed by the Board of Directors. 1 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 OVERVIEW OVERVIEW This is the Volvo Group The Volvo Group is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of trucks, buses, construction equipment and marine and industrial engines. The Group also provides complete solutions for financing and service. With its headquarters in Gothenburg, Sweden, the Group employs almost 100,000 people, has production facilities in 18 countries and sells its products in more than 190 markets. W H AT W E D O O N T H E R OA D AT T H E S I T E IN THE CIT Y AT S E A Our products help ensure that Engines, machines and vehicles Our products are part of daily life. Our products and s­ ervices are ­people have food on the table, can from the Volvo Group can be found They take people to work, distribute there, regardless of whether some­ travel to their destination and have at con­struction sites, in mines and goods and ­collect rubbish. one is at work on a ship, on holiday roads to drive on. Our products in the middle of forests. We develop the public transport in a pleasure boat or need urgent deliver goods to keep production solutions of tomorrow, with an help from the sea rescue services. plants running. increased focus on electrification. SHARE OF NET SALES SHARE OF NE T SALES BY MARKE T 75% 21% Vehicles, 75% EUROPE Services, 21% NORTH 43% Financial Services, 4% AMERICA 4% 25% ASIA 20% SOUTH AMERICA 5% 7% AFRICA AND OCEANIA 2 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 OVERVIEW OUR CUSTOME RS MAKE SOCIE TIE S FUNCTION TRUCKS The Volvo Group’s products and services contribute to much of what we all expect of a well-functioning society. Our trucks, buses, engines, construction equipment and financial services are involved in many of the functions that most of us rely on every day. The majority of the Volvo Group’s customers are companies within the transportation or infrastructure industries. The reliability and productivity of the products are important and in many cases ­crucial to our customers’ success and profitability. STRONG P ­ O S I T I O N S G L O B A L LY Thanks to competitive product programs, strong dealers with dense service networks and increasingly more complete offerings, including services such as financing, insurance, l­easing, various service contracts, accessories and spare parts that support the CONSTRUCTION core products, the Volvo Group has established leading positions EQUIPMENT on a global market. The Volvo Group is the world’s second largest manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks, one of the world’s largest manu­ facturers of construction equipment, buses and heavy-duty diesel engines as well as a leading supplier of marine and industrial engines. These positions provide for economies of scale in product development, production, purchasing and financial services. COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS All of the Volvo Group’s products have been developed to contri­ bute to efficient transport and infrastructure solutions. Sales of BUSES new vehicles, machines and engines as well as used vehicles and machines, superstructures and special vehicles accounted for 75% of the Group’s net sales in 2017. Sales of vehicles and machines build a population of ­products that drives spare parts sales and service revenue. F I R S T C L A S S ­S E R V I C E S ENGINES AND COMPLETE In addition to vehicles and machines, the Volvo Group’s offering POWER SOLUTIONS FOR MARINE AND INDUSTRIAL includes various types of services such as insurance, rental ser­ A P P L I C AT I O N S vices, spare parts, preventive maintenance, service agreements, assistance services and IT services. The range and flexibility of the offering means that the solutions can be customized for each cus­ tomer. The service business contributes to balancing the fluctua­ tions in the sales of new products and is an area of priority. Sales of services accounted for 21% of Group net sales in 2017. The Volvo Group also offers financing for customers and dealers. During 2017 Financial Services provided financing solutions for 25% of Group products in the markets where financing is offered. 3 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 CEO COMMENTS CEO COMMENTS Driving performance and innovation 2017 was a record year in terms of sales and profitability for the Volvo Group. We supported our truck customers who worked at high activity levels in many markets and successfully met the global surge in demand for construction equipment. For us, this resulted in increased sales, improved profitability, strong cash flow and a strengthened balance sheet. In fact, we achieved the highest sales and operating income in the Volvo Group’s history. S T R AT E G I C P R I O R I T I E S To be successful the key is to create value for our customers by impacting their bottom line profitability. By understanding our customers’ priorities and challenges, we are able to provide products and services that grow customers’ revenues and decrease customers’ costs. This is the basis for our strategic direction. Read more on page 16 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 4 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 CEO COMMENTS I n addition we renewed and extended our truck ranges in The Japanese market for heavy-duty trucks continued to be good, North America, Japan and Southeast Asia and demon­ with UD Trucks regaining market share in the heavy-duty truck strated innovations within electromobility, automation and ­segment. The Brazilian truck market, in which Volvo holds a leading connectivity. I am proud of the dedication and hard work position, rebounded from low levels. For our truck operations, both done by my colleagues across the Group as well as at the adjusted and reported operating margin improved to 9.4%, ­dealers, suppliers and other business partners. ­compared to an adjusted operating margin of 8.7% in 2016. The For the full year, we grew our net sales by 11% to SEK 335 billion improved profitability was driven by increased sales and higher and improved our operating income to over SEK 30 billion. Trucks, earnings in our joint ventures. Construction Equipment, Volvo Penta and Financial Services all recorded their highest operating income ever. We also improved our Strong rebound for Construction Equipment profitability with an operating margin of 9.1%. All business segments Our performance program to strengthen the competitiveness of contributed, with the biggest step up in margin in Construction Equip­ Construction Equipment combined with increased market demand ment. Furthermore, we increased our financial strength, with the yielded good results in 2017. Net sales rose by 31% to over SEK 66 operating cash flow of SEK 28 billion leading to us having a net cash billion and Construction Equipment substantially improved the prof­ position of SEK 26 billion at year end. In line with the improved profit­ itability, with the operating margin increasing to 11.9% compared to ability and strengthened financial position, the Board proposes a divi­ 4.4% in 2016. This was thanks to a focus on core products, reduced dend of SEK 4.25 per share. During 2017, the Board also introduced break-even and tight control over costs as volumes returned in most new financial targets: the operating margin for the Group shall exceed markets across the globe. Furthermore, we successfully gained 10% measured over a business cycle and the industrial business shall market shares in our stronghold segments – excavators, wheel have no net financial debt. This is further outlined on page 21. loaders and articulated haulers. More than half a century after inventing the concept, Volvo Construction Equipment in 2017 cele­ Profitability improvement in Trucks brated the production of the 75,000th articulated hauler. This is a Most truck markets were on high levels or in upward trends during segment where we have more than a third of the world market. the year. In Europe, good freight demand, low fuel prices and low ­During the year we also launched a new flagship 50 ton class wheel interest rates provided support to customer profitability and their loader, the L350H, and unveiled a concept machine, the EX2, which demand for our trucks. Our performance in Europe was strong, with is a 100% electric compact excavator prototype that emits zero Volvo Trucks’ market share on a historically high level and with emissions. In January this year, we took another step in strengthen­ Renault Trucks regaining market share. The North American market ing the customer offer with the announcement of the Volvo brand picked up with both Volvo and Mack taking advantage of the entering the rigid hauler market. increased demand. In a move that is very important for the future, we launched new truck generations for Volvo and Mack in the Group’s biggest product upgrade in North America in 20 years. We also carried out a major product renewal of our range of UD trucks We are targeting a consistent in Japan, Southeast Asia and other growth markets. These are products improvement in financial performance that will contribute to the Group’s with all business areas contributing. earnings for years to come. IMPROVING PERFORMANCE 5 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 CEO COMMENTS Buses spearheading the move to electrification work to deepen the relationship with customers, and there is still an Our bus business had a year of record sales as global demand untapped potential for us to increase the sales of financing and insur­ remained high. Increased service sales and good traction in internal ance packages for Group products. During the year, we opened-up efficiency programs provided support to profitability. The operating new markets with a new operation in South Africa and new alliances to margin of 3.6% was a slight improvement from 3.4% in 2016. Volvo reach customers also in South Korea, Indonesia and the Philippines. Buses has been spearheading our investments in electromobility and today we have a complete range of buses and end-to-end Investing in technology and innovation ­systems for electrified public transport with turnkey solutions for As mentioned, 2017 was a year when we launched a large number of electric bus routes, including charging infrastructure. During the new products and services, some of which you can read more about in year we announced an upgrade of the fully electric Volvo 7900 this report. It was also a year when we demonstrated new techno­ Electric with increased battery capacity and more charging options, logies and innovations within automation, connectivity and electrifica­ which translate into an extended operating range of up to 200 km tion. We are committed to successfully make the transition into new and more flexibility for operators. To date Volvo Buses has delivered technologies and business models and have a strong platform in over 3,800 electrified buses under the Volvo brand, bringing the terms of the Group’s modular system, customer relations and not least advantages of energy efficiency, low emissions and reduced noise the knowledge gained from our leading position in electrified buses. to c­ ities and commuters around the world. The key here is to utilize our Group assets, work cross-function­ ally and innovate together with customers, suppliers as well as new Continued good profitability in Volvo Penta partners to drive more efficient and sustainable transport and infra­ Volvo Penta continues to successfully grow profitably into new cus­ structure solutions. tomer segments. Net sales increased by 12% and the operating One example is the announcement in January 2018 that both margin amounted to 12.9% (12.8). We have a strong position in the Volvo Trucks and Renault Trucks will start selling electric medium­marine engine market and is also successfully driving and develop­ duty trucks for city distribution in Europe in 2019. The first of these ing the industrial engine business by continuously expanding the trucks will be put into operation together with selected customers product offer to fit new market segments, such as agriculture. already this year. These trucks are based on the Group’s modular Thanks to the wide range of new products, Volvo Penta continues to technology already used for our electrified buses, which can be gain business with new and existing customers. ­leveraged also by our other business areas. Good portfolio performance in Financial Services Sustainability is at the heart of the Volvo Group Our credit portfolio in Financial Services continued to perform well with Our transport and infrastructure solutions drive prosperity here and low credit losses. Profitability improved and the underlying return on now, regardless of where in the world our customers operate. As the shareholders’ equity was 14.3% (13.7). Financial services are key in our population in the world continues to grow, the need for sustainable There are still a lot of opportunities in services – both by improving the basics and by climbing the services ladder. GROWING SERVICES 6 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 CEO COMMENTS transport will increase. For us, sustainability includes economic, To be successful, engaged and passionate people will continue to environmental and social dimensions, and we have been working be the most important asset in any company. The voice of my towards transport solutions that take these aspects into considera­ ­colleagues is captured in the Volvo Group Attitude Survey. For the tion for a long time. It is also manifested in the Volvo Group support­ second year running, the Employee Engagement Index increased and ing UN Global Compact, which we signed as early as 2001. Global there were improvements in all areas. That tells me that we are well on Compact is a call to companies to align strategies and operations our way, but there is still room for further improvement in areas such with universal principles on human rights, labor, environment and as speed and efficiency in decision making, internal collaboration, the anti-corruption, and take actions that advance societal goals. time it takes to solve customer problems and to deliver an even better We believe that efficient and accessible transport is a driver of customer experience. I believe that the areas pointed out show that sustainable development and a precondition for economic growth, we see things the way they are and that we want to improve for real. alleviating poverty and combating climate change. The shift towards They also show the passion my colleagues have for their work and for sustainable transport represents great opportunities for society, our our company. The improved profitability is the result of hard work by industry and for us in the Volvo Group. We are embracing these many and I would like to extend my gratitude to all colleagues and opportunities by developing new technologies and new business business partners for their efforts and a job well done. models and by working closely together with our customers and other parties in the entire value chain. Focus for 2018 In 2018 we will continue our focus on continuous improvement to Strategy for improved performance drive operational efficiency throughout the Group and the value There is no doubt that market developments worked in our favor in chain as well as on managing the introduction and production ramp2017, but the good profitability is also the result of our own efforts. ups of the new trucks in North America. It will also be a year when Through our strategic priorities, we are targeting a consistent profit­ we continue to invest in new and innovative technologies to the ability improvement with all business areas contributing. Our strategy ­benefit of our customers and society. We work with continuous with brand and business area driven organizations combined with improvement, to secure our customers’ success and shareholder decentralized accountability is working well. I firmly believe that those value in both the short and the long term. closest to the customer should be empowered to make the decisions. Also, our efforts to grow the service business are paying off and dur­ ing the year it grew by 6%. We are putting increased focus on areas such as workshop performance, spare parts availability and higher service contract penetration. A solid service business makes our dealers and Martin Lundstedt ourselves more resilient to downturns in the economy, but most import­ President and CEO antly, a well performing service business keeps our customers happy! We are committed to successfully transition into new technologies and business models. LEADING IN T E C H N O L O GY 7 S T R AT E G Y Committed to staying ahead A CLEAR STRATEGY FOR THE FUTURE Our strategy guides what we need to do in order to secure competitiveness. After more than a decade of acquisitions to build the scale needed to be competitive in commercial vehicles, the Volvo Group is now in a phase focused on organic growth, improved efficiency, increased profitability and getting even closer to customers. 19 9 9 –2 011 2 012–2 015 2 016 – ACQUISITIONT R A N S F O R M AT I O N IMPROVED ­ DRIVEN GROW TH TO C LO S E T H E G A P PERFORMANCE Scale, synergies and Product renewal, restruc­turing Customer focus, simplicity, speed, geographical expansion. and cost ­efficiency. continuous improvements and organic growth. 8 AAGLOBAL GLOBALGROUP GROUP2017 2017 STRATEGY AVSNITT F rom the late 1990’s to 2011 the Volvo Group’s stratcommercial vehicles has also involved the divestment of non-core egy was primarily targeted at growth, not least through operations such as Volvo Aero, Volvo Rents, real estate and the acquisitions, while at the same time focusing the external IT business. ­business on commercial vehicles. On the truck side, During 2012 to 2015 the Volvo Group underwent a transform­ acquisitions include Renault Trucks, Mack Trucks and ation program aimed at reorganizing the company to take out overNissan D ­ iesel (now UD Trucks), the joint venture with Eicher Motors laps, reduce structural costs and increase efficiency and profit­ in India (VECV) and the strategic alliance with a 45% owner­ship ability after the period of acquisition-driven growth. Among the in Dongfeng ­C ommercial Vehicles (DFCV) in China. Examples activities in the program to reduce the Group’s structural cost from the Construction Equipment side include the acquisition of levels were substantial reductions of white-collar employees and ­Samsung’s excavator business, the 70% ownership in the C ­ hinese consultants, a reduction in research and development expenses, wheel loader manufacturer ­Lingong (SDLG), road equipment from optimization of the sales and service channel and the industrial Ingersoll-Rand and the hauler business from Terex. footprint as well as a consolidation and optimization of the spare The acquisitions along with organic growth have enabled the parts distribution worldwide. Volvo Group to reach economies of scale in product development, Now the Group has entered the next phase with a focus on production, purchasing and financial services. The streamlining to organic growth and improved performance. MIS S ION VIS ION I N 2 016 A N E W M I S S I O N A N D S T R AT E GY AS PIRATIONS WAS L AUNCHE D VALUES CODE OF CONDUCT 9 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY S T R AT E G Y MISSION V I S I O N Driving prosperity through Be the most desired and transport solutions ­successful ­transport solution provider in the world The Volvo Group’s mission statement expresses a broad ambition Our vision is to be the most desired and successful transport – to drive prosperity. Our customers provide modern logistics as ­provider in the world. We are in a people business. Even though the base for our economic welfare. Transport supports growth, we operate in a business-to-business market, where people make provides access for people and goods and helps combat poverty. the decisions. Trust and relations are as important as the total Modern transport solutions facilitate the increasing urbanization offer. We have competitive products and services and it is with in a sustainable way. Transport is not an end in itself, but rather a these and our people that we build lasting relations with our means allowing people to access what they need, economically ­customers. In the end, by bringing together the best of everything and socially. from the offer to the relationship, we will become the customers’ preferred choice.  VA L U E S Building a ­performance C U S TO M E R S U C C E S S best and we respect the deci­ culture We truly understand our customers’ business. We listen sions made. We collaborate ­easily and create excellent to and talk with our customers results through teamwork and The wanted culture is described by a set of five carefully chosen about their needs, desires open dialogue. We are em­­ ­values. They serve as a guide to our day to day behavior and they and challenges. We focus on powered and have the courage drive our decisions at all levels of the organization. They express transport solutions that make to act. our shared beliefs across regions and entities and create the base customers successful and for a high performing culture through employee engagement. PA S S I O N create value for society. We value: We are proud of the work We deliver on our promises. and business we do. We are TRUST engaged and committed to We are transparent and have meet our goals. We see how respect for the individual. We diversity strengthens us and trust other teams to do their try to bring out the best in 10 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY  A S P I R AT I O N S Guiding H AV E L E A D I N G BE THE MOST H AV E I N D U S T R Y us on our C USTO M E R SAT ISFAC T IO N A D M I R E D E M P L OY E R L E A D I N G P R O F I T­A B I L I T Y FOR ALL BR ANDS I N O U R ­I N D U S T R Y journey I N T H E I R ­S E G M E N T S Through strong performance By being the most admired we are able to invest in products, Our vision describes where The only true measure of suc­ employer we attract and retain services and people – and we want to be in the future. cess is c­ ustomer satisfaction. the best people. thereby own our own destiny. The aspirations are there to guide us on our journey. Working towards them Read more about how we On page 68 you can read In August, the Board of Directors ensures that we are on the work with customer satisfaction more about the many ways in of AB Volvo introduced new right track. on page 28. which the Volvo Group works financial targets aimed at driving to attract and retain talent and performance and managing to create a culture of highly cyclicality. More information is engaged employees. avail­able on page 21. C O D E OF CONDUCT everyone. We admit mistakes, PERFORMANCE Business made right fix them and learn from them. We are proud of our achieve­ We have a strong business instinct. We have the skills, is good business ments, have fun and celebrate knowledge and intuition to do our successes. the right thing. We expect a In 2017 the Volvo Group launched a new Code of Conduct, which lot from ourselves and others, clearly states the expectations for how we do business – not just in CHANGE a few locations, but everywhere we operate. and walk the extra mile to do We are curious about the world a great job. We see the big • We respect one another around us. We are innovative ­picture and know when to • We earn business fairly and lawfully and find smart ways to create let go of an idea, a project • We separate personal interests from business activities new solutions and business. or a plan. • We safeguard company information and assets We see change and transform­ • We communicate transparently and responsibly ation as a source of inspiration and energy. We are open-minded Read the Code of Conduct on volvogroup.com and find more and share our knowledge. ­information on pages 74–75. 11 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY DRIVING INNOVATION S T R AT E G Y Driving innovation D E F I N I N G T H E F U T U R E W H I L E M A S T E R I N G T O D AY Moving ­ WHY WHAT HOW to the next level W e are living in exciting times, where technol­ ogy we have available already today brings major opportunities for us and our custom­ ers. Social and environmental challenges, FOCUS ON political instability and changed behaviors W E L LK N O W N due to digital and technological transformation are h ­ owever increas­ AND NEW ing the uncertainty around us. The Volvo Group is committed to ­T E C H N O L O G I E S take an active part in defining the transport solutions meeting future demands. Continued successful development of combustion engines, trans­ missions and aerodynamics, to name a few, will be important also tomorrow. By focusing on common components between our brands and business areas as well as common product architecture and DRIVING shared technology (CAST) we will free up capacity and resources Business models ­I N N O VAT I O N for new technologies while mastering the existing. I N ­T E C H N O L O GY Innovation does not come out of machines or computers. It comes A N D ­B U S I N E S S out of people. Increased need for transports, climate challenges MODELS Technology and to lift countries out of poverty set demands on technological innovations and on new ways of doing business. 12 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY DRIVING INNOVATION WHY IMPROVING EFFICIENCY U T I L I Z AT I O N CUSTOME R E FFICIE NCY E N V I R O N M E N TA L R OA D S A F E T Y In general, today’s trucks are used By understanding our customers’ EFFICIENCY Every year there are more than for a fraction of the day and only to ­priorities and challenges, the Volvo Improved fuel efficiency is one way 1.2 million fatalities and 50 million part of their capacity. This is due Group is able to provide products and to lower emissions. Other ways are ­people injured in traffic accidents to congestion, regulations for services that grow customers’ rev­ lower carbon alternatives and new globally. Safety is about reducing resting time, service and low fill enues and decrease customers’ cost. business models that use resources the risk of accidents and mitigating rates. As demand for transportation On average about 30% of the total more efficiently. Environmental the consequences of any incidents is growing, the Volvo Group works to cost of a truck in use relates to fuel. concerns drive interest for and that occur. It is therefore an integral improve utilization rates and thereby The focus on improved fuel efficiency opportunities in electromobility, part when developing our products. delivering benefits to customers, in our vehicles and machines is as well as for alternative and society and the ­environment. directly translated into increased renewable fuels. ­profitability for our customers. Trucks, construction equipment, buses and industrial and marine engines make our societies function. When customers use products and services to build socie­ ties and facilitate trade, they contribute to prosperity. Still, there are a lot of opportunities to improve efficiency in the logistical value chain by moving goods and people in a safer, more affordable and timely manner with less impact on the environment. Facts show that there is great improvement potential in the transport industry related to the utilization of trucks, energy efficiency, as well as safety and con­ gestion aspects. Today’s trucks are not used to their full capacity due to conges­ tion, resting time, service and low fill rates. A truck operating on diesel is one of D R I V E R A N D O P E R ATO R the most energy-efficient ways of transporting goods on our roads. There is no ENVIRONMENT doubt, however, that alternative fuels will play a more important part going Improving the working conditions ­forward, as a response to regulations as well as our customers’ and their custom­ and overall experience for the driver or operator, results in more relaxed, ers’ demands. When it comes to safety aspects, it’s a fact that people die in safer and healthier driving. Over traffic and human error is by far the main reason. It is also a fact that people and the years, the Volvo Group has goods spend too much time in congestion. Our daily life pattern and non-­ developed a number of features to support the driver’s comfort and optimized infrastructure and logistics models result both in temporary conges­ driving experience and this work tions and at other times heavily unutilized road networks. will continue. 13 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY DRIVING INNOVATION WHAT G R O U P T E C H N O L O GY P L AT F O R M There are three main technology trends impacting our industry: connectivity, automation and electromobility. To a large extent, these technologies are enabled by software technology. The Volvo Group has an excellent platform for the future as evidenced by 700,000 connected Volvo Group vehicles, pilot projects in auto­ mated solutions for trucks and machines, as well as our electric and hybrid solutions. The increased focus on the development of soft­ ware opens up for new opportunities. One example is meeting ­customers’ demands and delivering productivity as a service instead of selling hardware. SOF T WARE ELECTROMOBILIT Y PAT H TO ­A U TO M AT I O N C O N N E C T E D ­V E H I C L E , DRIVER AND GOODS 14 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY DRIVING INNOVATION HOW MEETING THE CHALLENGES It is a fast moving world. To keep up we need to adjust our ways of working. The Volvo Group is adapting to the new environment by a changed organizational structure, larger involvement of the end-customer, smaller and less complex development projects and closer partner collaboration. Our electromobility, automation and con­nect­ivity platforms will be the foun­dation on which to further improve customer success by leveraging on the new ­technologies. There are, however, many challenges ahead. Some of them relate to affordability of batteries, safety and cyber security. Others relate to business model acceptance from customers, drivers, society and ­regulators. The greatest contribution to society is when the three technologies converge. For the Volvo Group the work with these technologies is an investment in our customers’ ability to contribute to prosperity even further. ELECTROMOBILIT Y READ MORE ON PAGE 62 A U T O M AT I O N READ MORE ON PAGE 64 CONNECTIVITY READ MORE ON PAGE 66 NEW STRUCTURES AND WAY S O F W O R K I N G NEW T ­ ECHNOLOGIES – GOVERNANCE O N O U R WAY 15 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY STRATEGIC PRIORITIES S T R AT E G I C P R I O R I T I E S Creating value by supporting customer profitability By understanding our customers’ priorities and challenges, we are able to provide products and services that grow customers’ revenues and decrease customers’ costs. In other words – creating value for our customers by supporting their profitability. This is the foundation of our strategy. 1 2 3 4 5 MOVING FORWARD 6 7 I n a large company, such as the Volvo Group, there are many Our work to drive continuous improvement in product develop­ paths to pursue to take on opportunities and challenges. ment, production, sales and administration will together with an Therefore, our seven strategic priorities consist of areas expanded brand responsibility set the right focus. By leveraging on with large benefits for both our customers and us in the Group assets for trucks and other business areas, we can generate Volvo Group. They guide our decision making and result in additional profits through synergies and technology leadership. actions, but should not be seen as detailed action plans fixed to a To succeed in this work we need a strong, value-based culture specific time frame. that leads to engaged employees and subsequently improved busi­ During 2017, the work within each area was deepened. We have ness performance. strengthened our brand portfolio with new products and further ­utilized our regional advantages through strong collaboration and by increasing the offer of tailor-made solutions to our customers. 16 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY STRATEGIC PRIORITIES THE NEW MACK ANTHEM and the updated Mack Pinnacle and Mack Granite are together with the new Volvo VNL and Volvo VNR the biggest upgrade of the Group’s North American product line-up in 20 years. Read more on page 22 Reinforce Volvo as a global premium heavy-duty truck brand and regain position and market shares of Renault Trucks, Mack and UD as regional high-end truck brands. 1 2 Capture growth in Asia through having the joint ventures DFCV in China and VECV in India as well as the Group’s value truck range in a s­ eparate value chain – and ­leveraging it in other emerging markets. GROUP TRUCKS ASIA & JVS aims for profitable growth through strong brand images, competitive offers and a lean cost structure. Read more on page 32 17 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Create the most desirable heavy-duty p ­ roduct and service portfolio tailored to selected markets and segments. Customers have different requirements and cost structures and therefore want ­different propositions depending on their location and the type of transport work they carry out. ­Creating customer value by improving our customers’ p ­ rofitability therefore means offering trucks adapted for each ­application. 3 In 2017 the Volvo Group introduced a large n ­ umber of new products and services aimed at creating ­further value for our customers by strengthening their competitiveness in the market. Read more on page 42 THE VOLVO VNL HAS BEEN REDESIGNED WITH SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENTS TO ERGONOMICS, AERODYNAMICS, FUEL EFFICIENCY AND ­PERFORMANCE. 18 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Secure robust profitability through leading R&D, quality, purchasing and manufacturing ­operations using Volvo Production System, which is the Group concept for driving continuous improvement in product develop­ ment, ­production, sales and administration. By working with a system which is applied throughout the Volvo Group, it is possible to secure a sustainable way of working with continuous improvement. It can be applied to all functions and secures a Group-wide approach which facilitates cooper­ ation and knowledge sharing. Read more on page 51 4 Have brand specific sales operations with a focus on retail 5 excellence and a growing service business where decisions are made more quickly and closer to the customer. Each brand has an expanded mandate to develop its own business with an explicit responsibility for profitability. As an example, in Australia, the increased focus on services has boosted our truck brands’ market shares, despite tough competition. Read more on page 56 19 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Mack Trucks Leverage Group assets in the non-truck Renault Trucks AUTOMATION ­Business Areas, creating additional profits, EL E C T RO M O B I L I T Y NN E CT I V I T Y ­synergies and technology leadership. Many CO Volvo UD Trucks C H ASS I S Trucks of the Volvo Group’s products are based on a SM I S SI O R AN NS T common architecture and shared ­technology E CTRONIC L IN NG E E S (CAST), a modularized ­concept with stand­ard­ E S ized interfaces. At the center of this strategy are the Group’s engine platforms, which together with electronics, trans­missions, and Buses technology in connectivity, electromobility and automation are Group resources for the Construction Equipment ­Business Areas to draw from. Volvo Penta Read more on page 38 6 7 Revitalize the Volvo Group culture with a focus on Customer Success, Trust, Passion, Change and Performance. We believe that a strong culture leads to engaged people. This in turn drives business performance. Read more on page 68 20 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 STRATEGY FINANCIAL TARGETS F I N A N C I A L TA R G E T S Measuring our ­performance N E W TA R G E T S VA L I D F R O M A U G U S T 31, 2 017 In its annual review, the Board of Directors’ of AB Volvo decided to introduce new financial targets. FINANCIAL POSITION IN O P E R AT I N G M A R G I N RETURN ON EQUITY I N D U S T R I A L O P E R AT I O N S , F O R T H E V O LV O G R O U P, % IN FINANCIAL SERVICES, % % OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUIT Y 15% 30% 20% 15% 15% 10% NET CASH 0% 10% 5% NET DEBT 5% –15% 0% 0% –30% 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2.6 2.1 7.5 6.9 9.1 –29.0 –14.2 –0.5 1.3 26.9 12.1 12.5 13.4 13.7 14.3 The Volvo Group’s operating margin shall exceed The Industrial Operations shall under normal Financial Services’ target is a return on equity 10% measured over a business cycle. In 2017, ­conditions have no net financial indebtedness of 12–15% at an equity ratio above 8%. In 2017, the operating margin amounted to 9.1%. excluding pension liabilities. At the end of 2017, return on equity amounted to 14.3%, excluding the Industrial Operations had a net cash position a revaluation effect from a US tax reform. Reported of 26.9% of equity. return, including the revaluation effect, was 22.6%. R AT I O N A L E The Volvo Group has in recent years gone through a substantial ­ etter aligns with the way the Group and its business areas today b restructuring process in order to reduce structural costs and are challenged and measured internally. The Board therefore increase efficiency and is currently in a phase where focus is on decided to introduce an operating margin target of above 10% over organic growth and improved profitability through continuous a business cycle. improvement and innovation. A debt-free industrial balance sheet enables the Volvo Group to A clear and straightforward operating margin target supports the better manage cyclicality in a capital-intensive industry and to secure efforts to drive performance across the Group. The target also competitive cost of funds for the Financial Services’ operation. 21 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT MACK ANTHEM The next-generation ­highway hero in North America In September 2017, Mack Trucks introduced the Mack Anthem. The new truck was one important part of the Volvo Group’s biggest product upgrade in North America in 20 years. The Mack Anthem is a re-engineered, redesigned and reimagined interpretation of what today’s highway truck should be – aerodynamic, comfortable and connected, all with a distinctively bold Mack look. 22 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT “ A s one of the most significant new trucks in Mack’s 117-year history, the Anthem combines our latest innovations with more than a century of truck-building know-how,” says Dennis Slagle, president, Mack Trucks. “The incredible result is a truck that’s been built for our customers’ business and designed for ­drivers, all while delivering the power and ­presence that only a Mack truck can deliver.” The Mack Anthem gives drivers and businesses the tools they need to command the road. The truck features an all-new exterior design with optimized aerodynamics for improved fuel efficiency by up to 3%. New driving and sleeping environments were crafted with an emphasis on increasing driver comfort and productivity. Gauges on the instrument panel have been positioned higher for ­better driver visibility, the new steering wheel contains illuminated controls for cruise control, Bluetooth and the audio system and behind the steering wheel, Mack’s Co-Pilot display has been updated with a new full-color screen for improved visibility and more intuitive navigation. Mack Trucks also announced an update of its existing range in the vocational and regional haul segments, the Mack Granite and the Mack Pinnacle. Mack also introduced Mack Connect, which will serve as the reference for Mack’s growing connec­tivity and uptime service offers. With Mack Connect, c ­ urrent and future services will be structured under ­connected s­ upport, ­connected business and connected driving. When service is required, the closest dealer location is identified and service bay space and parts availability is confirmed, all while the truck is still on the road. Using predictive ­analytics and connective technologies, Mack B U I LT F O R ­C U S TO M E R S ’ Connect turns data produced by the truck, BUSINESSES. the driver and the service process into insights DESIGNED FOR and actions, resulting in superior support and DRIVERS. service to Mack customers. 23 VA L U E C H A I N Creating value for our ­customers, our company and society Responsible business and sustainable transport solutions are prerequisites for the Volvo Group’s mission of driving prosperity, and thereby we contribute to the development of our society. By addressing responsible business behavior throughout our value chain, we mitigate risk and create long term value and trust. W e strive to assume economic, environmental than 190 countries. With this footprint, we are committed to use our and social responsibility for our operation, leverage to contribute to a more sustainable and prosperous world. our products and our services in the areas Our customers contribute to the prosperity of society by transporting where we have the potential to influence. people and goods, constructing infrastructure and ­provide many of This will enable us to strengthen our brands the services needed in daily life and thereby c­ ontribute to economic and relations with business partners and thus create new business welfare. opportunities that offer long-term growth and improved profitability. As a global company, we have operations, suppliers, customers Contribute to a sustainable future and other business partners all over the world. Volvo Group is b ­ uying Sustainable transport solutions advance development in the society. goods and services from almost 48,000 suppliers, employing almost Volvo Group applies a life cycle approach to developing and deliver­ 100,000 employees and is selling products and services in more ing products and services responsibly and sustainably. Responsibil­ S T R AT E G I C D E L I V E R Y O F G O A L S MISSIO N V ISIO N ASPIRAT IO N S VALU ES CODE OF CONDUCT THE VOLVO GROUP CSR AND SUSTAINABILITY PLAN was developed in 2016 to ensure that we focus on areas supporting the Volvo Group’s mission, vision, aspirations, values and strategic priorities. The plan helps us to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, do business with the intention of the UN Global Compact and create new business opportunities. 24 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL VALUE CHAIN U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T S U S TA I N A B L E T R A N S P O R T S O L U T I O N S In 2001, the Volvo Group signed the Global C ­ ompact, the United Nation’s i­nitiative on r­ esponsible business practices. The right product or service in order to contribute to a highly productive, ­efficient and resilient ­t ransport system Energy efficient ­ Safe, secure, transport solutions accessible and with very low affordable transport emissions of CO2 , systems for p­ eople PM, NOX and noise and goods Economic Environmental Social dimension dimension dimension ity and sustainability are vital components throughout the value Global Compact, ­partner in the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) chain – from product development to recycling. Climate Savers program, and supporter of the UN Sustainable We transform our business and society through products and Development Goals, we consider global trends and challenges, services that advance sustainable economic, social and environ­ inter­national norms of responsible business behavior and stake­ mental development. By linking each of the three areas we build holder expectations when developing our work. resilience and mitigate risk through embedding Corporate Social We address societal challenges related to our industry and con­ Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability into daily work. We clarify tribute to a prosperous and resilient society, therefore Volvo Group accountability by assigning responsibility to the Group CSR and has a societal engagement program based on the creating shared Sustainability function to develop the strategic model for the work value principle. Read more about our s­ ocietal engagement and con­ while responsibility of delivery lies within the business area, or entity tribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals on page 79. closest to the objective. As a signatory of the United Nations (UN) U N S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T G O A L S – V O LV O G R O U P ’ S F O C U S GOOD HEALTH AND WELLBEING Halve the ­number of deaths and ­injuries from road traffic a­ ccidents by 2020. 17 SUST­A INABLE DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND GOALS ­INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, ­promote Adopted by ­inclusive and sustainable industrialization United Nations and foster ­innovation. General Assembly in ­September 2015. SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND ­COMMUNITIES Make cities and human ­settlements inclusive, safe, ­resilient and sustainable. CLIMATE ACTION Take urgent action to combat Volvo Group focus on the goals most relevant to our business and where ­climate change and its impacts. we can contribute the most, but not at the expense of the other goals. 25 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL VALUE CHAIN The Volvo Group is generating long-term competitiveness by maximizing value creation in every part of our value chain through increased efficiency, quality and performance and by acting responsibly towards business partners, employees and the world around us. INVESTMENTS A significant portion of ­generated capital is n­ ormally transferred back into the operation. The capital is used for investments that will CUSTOME RS strengthen competitiveness The customer is at the center of everything and create long-term value we do and the customer’s voice is present in every for the Group and its part of the value chain. By delivering customer ­stakeholders. value we will deliver value for ourselves. REUSE PRODUCT Working with lean methodologies DEVELOPMENT ­enable us to use less material and Fulfilling our customers’ needs and energy, incorporate more recycled ­improving their l­ong-term profitability materials, recover heat and forms the basis of our product and reduce waste. service ­development. The income for Volvo G­ roup 2017 R E TA I L A N D ­S E R V I C E PURCHASING amounted to Our global network of dealers Long-term cooperation with SEK 21,283 M. and service centers staffed by suppliers drives efficiency, ­competent and service-­oriented quality and responsible behavior personnel are key factors for throughout the value chain. ­customer satisfaction and success. PRODUCTION AND LOGISTICS Our well invested global industrial and logistics system efficiently meets the demands of our organization. SHAREHOLDERS VA L U E BY S TA K E H O L D E R G R O U P, S E K M 2017 2016 AB Volvo shareholders normally receive a certain portion of To suppliers – Purchases of goods and services 227,367 205,910 the retained earnings in the form of a ­dividend, after consideration To employees – Salaries and ­remuneration1 41,696 39,069 has been given to the Group’s need for capital for continued To society – Social costs1 9,033 8,228 ­development according to its s­ trategies. The Board of Directors To society – Pension costs1 3,864 3,884 has ­proposed a dividend of SEK 4.25 per share, corresponding To society – Income taxes paid 4,758 4,219 to a total of SEK 8,636 M for 2017. To creditors – Interest paid 1,602 1,584 To the Volvo Group – Investments in tangible assets 5,734 6,643 To shareholders – Dividend 8,6362 6,603 1  or further information, please see note 27 to the consolidated financial F statements. 2 According to the Board’s proposal. 26 A GLOBAL GROUPA GLOBAL 2017 GROUP BUSINESS 2017 MODEL AVSNITT VALUE CHAIN C U S T O M E R S ( PAG E 2 8 – 31) P R O D U C T I O N & L O G I S T I C S ( PAG E 4 8 – 51) We see our customers as our partners and constantly work, Our industrial and logistics system is well invested with modern together with our global dealer network, to understand their ­production equipment and adequate technical capacity. challenges and help them succeed in their business and turn • At the end of 2017 the Group had 87,104 (84,039) regular productivity to prosperity. employees and 12,384 (10,875) temporary employees and • Through interviews with customers, our customer satisfaction sur­ ­consultants, of which 43,086 (40,798) regular employees and veys and materiality analysis, we can conclude that our c­ ustomers 6,222 (4,946) temporary employees and consultants were most value productivity, uptime and fuel efficiency. blue collar. • The Volvo Group offers trucks adapted to a wide variety of • The Volvo Group has wholly-owned factories in 18 countries. ­segments – from city distribution to construction work, long haul • In 2017, the Volvo Group’s wholly-owned truck operations delivered and heavy transport. 202,402 (190,424) trucks. The Group also delivered 9,393 (9,553) • Almost 2,1 million trucks and 100,000 buses, which the Group buses, 64,127 (44,306) units of construction equipment, manufactured in the past 10 years, serve on roads ­worldwide. 19,565 (18,016) marine engines and 21,432 (19,251) • Our construction machines operate at construction sites industrial engines. all over the world. We have delivered about 600,000 units • All the Volvo Group’s wholly-owned production facilities of construction equipment in the last 10 years. have third-party audited quality certificates and 98% have environmental certificates. P R O D U C T D E V E L O P M E N T ( PA G E 3 4 – 4 5 ) R E TA I L & S E R V I C E ( PAG E 5 4 – 5 5 ) In parallel with developing well-known technologies, we are focusing Our global network of skilled service technicians maximizes uptime on strong trends such as automation, electromobility and connectivity. and reduces the risk of unplanned stops for our customers. • Product development is based on customers’ needs, ­legislation, • The Volvo Group’s products are sold and distributed to customers changes in society and new technologies. through wholly-owned and independent dealerships. • Investments in research and development amounted to • 90% of our distribution centers are certified according ISO 14001. SEK 16.1 (14.6) billion for 2017, corresponding to 4.8% (4.8) • Our support services keep thousands of customers’ fleets on the of Group net sales. road, contributing to productivity and growth. Today, approximately • Around 95% of the environmental impact from a truck occurs 700,000 Volvo Group vehicles are connected via different ­during the use phase. Therefore sustainable transport solutions ­telematics solutions. is an integral area for our product development. • Through our Responsible Sales Process we have performed • We work together in partnership with other companies, universities 113 assessments for sales to high risk countries. and suppliers to find the best solutions for the future. Our close • During 2017, our service business represented a­ pproximately cooperation with our customers, ensure that the features 21% (22) of the Volvo Group’s net sales. we develop are useful, and spur new business models. P U R C H A S I N G ( PA G E 4 6 – 47 ) R E U S E ( PAG E 6 0 – 6 1) Solid supplier and business partnerships are essential for our Efficient use of resources, lower energy consumption and and our customer’s success. reduced emissions contribute to lower costs for the company, • We strive to have long-term relationships with suppliers of improved cost of ownership for the customer and less impact ­technologically advanced components. on the environment. • In 2017, the Group made purchases of goods and services • Resource efficiency and recycling potential is designed into our ­totalling SEK 227.4 (205.9) billion. products already in the product development phase. • We have around 48,000 Tier 1 suppliers, of which about 6,000 • The Volvo Group has eight remanufacturing centers worldwide supply automotive product components. handling used components from our whole range of brands. • During 2017, 95% (88) of the value bought from automotive • 85% of a truck produced by Volvo Group is recyclable. ­product suppliers underwent CSR self-assessment, whereof • Gearboxes produced through remanufacturing uses 80% 89% (83) passed. less energy than producing a new component. • Around 92% of the Volvo Group spending on automotive • In 2017, the total sale of remanufactured components products comes from suppliers certified in accordance with amounted to more than SEK 9 billion. ISO 14001 or its equivalent. 27 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS We win when our customers win Our customers’ success is our success. By understanding the customers’ business and needs, values and challenges, Volvo Group can provide solutions that make customers prosperous and create value for the society. Therefore customer focus is integrated in every part of the value chain. Understanding our customers’ business We see our customers as our partners and constantly work, together TRUCK SEGMENTS with our global dealer network, to understand their challenges and WEIGHT help them succeed in their business and turn productivity to pros­ Construction perity. To better understand our customers, we analyze the seg­ Heavy transport ments they operate in to find the best solutions, to meet their needs Heavy Construction and to be flexible for market changes. Demanding Long Haul Create value for our customers Light Construction From interviews with customers, through our customer satisfaction Interregional Haul surveys and materiality analysis, we can conclude that our customers Regional Distribution value productivity, uptime and fuel efficiency the most. City Distribution Distribution Long Haul • Future technologies provide great potential for increased prod­uct­ ivity for our customers. During 2017 the Volvo Group presented a number of automated, electric and connected vehicles. TRANSPORT DISTANCE Read more about our work within these areas on pages 34–45 The Volvo Group offers trucks adapted to a wide variety of and 62–67. ­segments – from city distribution to construction work, long haul and heavy transport. • Uptime is crucial for our customers. To secure uptime, new ­vehicles developed within the Volvo Group are equipped with connected devices to schedule services and prevent unplanned stops. Almost 700,000 vehicles are connected, which is the largest number of connected vehicles in our industry. Read about how our dealer, Volvo Commercial Vehicles Newcastle in Australia, supports SRH Milk Haulage on page 56–59. Learn more about how Volvo Group deliver uptime through our retail and service network on page 54. CONTINUED 28 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL CUSTOMERS DISTRIBUTION, MINING, FRANCE INDONESIA CONSTRUCTION, LONG-HAUL AGE , USA EUROPE Cost items: Fuel Driver Vehicle Repair & maintenance Administration Customers have different cost structures and therefore want different propositions depending on their location and the type of transport work they carry out. Creating customer value by improving our customers’ profitability therefore means offering trucks developed to for each application. NEVER SAY NO – ADAPT AND OVERCOME Scott Hughes, Brand Manager at VCV Newcastle, Australia talks about customer care and ­having the right attitude on page 59. 29 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL CUSTOMERS VA L U E C O C R E AT I O N TO BE SUCCESSFUL the key is to create value for our customers by improving their C USTO M ER VOLVO GROUP bottom line profitability. By understanding VA LUE VALUE our customers’ priorities and challenges, – Customer productivity – Excellent products and services we are able to provide products and services – Asset uptime – Closeness to customers that grow customers’ revenues and decrease – Fuel efficiency – Efficient way of operating customers’ cost. Key areas to create value for our customers are offers that increase our customers’ productivity, ensure that vehicles – Increase customer revenue – Increase Volvo Group revenue – Decrease customer costs – Decrease Volvo Group costs and machines are running as they should and increase fuel efficiency. By delivering customer value and doing so efficiently, – Grow customer – Grow Volvo Group we will also deliver value for ourselves and profitability profitability our owners. • Fuel efficiency and adaption to alternative fuels are central in our product development. As one example, Volvo Trucks introduced a gas-powered truck and presented a long-haul concept truck with W H AT C U S TO M E R S WA N T 6 focus areas Six focus areas for customers when a hybrid driveline that can harnesses brake energy and further ­purchasing a heavy-duty vehicle: reduce energy use and fuel consumption. Read more about our improvements and strategy in this area on page 39. What are the opportunities to increase ­revenue? PRODUCTIVITY is about the effective and efficient use of all resources. It is impacted by factors like transport rates, average Customer satisfaction speed and mileage, time spent on non-driving activities, The only true measure of success is customer satisfaction. Our driving time, load capacity and utilization. vision “to be the most desired and successful transport solution pro­ What is the cost of unplanned stops? vider in the world” states the direction and links to our aspiration of UPTIME is the percentage of time that the truck is up and running having leading customer satisfaction for all brands in their segments. – fully operational or ready to perform its intended functions. Each brand organization within Volvo Group, track customer satis­ faction and brand image perception through world-wide surveys. What cost savings arise from burning less fuel? Performance is integrated in key performance indicators reporting FUEL EFFICIENCY is about covering maximum kilometers with minimum fuel. in the brand organizations. Research and studies are done by leading market research companies and are carried out with ­ What are the costs and consequences of an accident? ­decision makers among customers and non-customers. The data SAFETY is about being safe from suffering – or causing – we get is an integral part of understanding our customers’ needs injuries or loss. and ­continuously improve. What is the cost of crime? SECURITY is about being protected from theft of vehicles, fuel, Follow-up on main brands in main markets cargo or personal belongings. Volvo Trucks’ customer satisfaction survey results showed an overall What is important for driver comfort and performance? improvement in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Most notable DRIVER APPEAL is about providing a supreme working and improvements are in customer care and safety areas. Customer living environment in order to attract the best drivers. care index improved in comparison to previous score, as well as compared to the competition, making the brand gain more ground. These six customer needs have been identified through surveys with Volvo Trucks customers. In South America, the lead over competition continues in most areas being tracked. All tracked areas showed improvements, while 30 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL CUSTOMERS Supporting customers and the local society THE COST OF TRAFFIC ­ACCIDENTS IN PERU IS MORE THAN USD 1 BN PER YEAR (APPROX. 2% OF GDP). MORE THAN 32,000 ­PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KILLED IN ­TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS IN THE LAST 10 YEARS. PERU Lima indices for customer care, fuel efficiency and uptime improved the most. The improvement was most notable in Brazil. Volvo Trucks continues to be the leading brand in image and customer satisfac­ tion areas in most of South America. For Volvo Construction Equipment, customer satisfaction increases in Asia Pacific, the Americas are stable, whilst increasing in Europe, I n many markets there is a lack of, or fierce competition, for the best drivers and operators. In Peru, 100 women got the the Middle East and Africa. Customers agree that our machines chance to join the Volvo Group’s training pro­ offer good productivity with Volvo providing good uptime support. gram to become truck drivers in ‘Iron Women’, Customer ­loyalty to the Volvo brand is high in these markets. In China, an initiative to increase safety and diversity in where overall market conditions are improving for the entire industry, the Peruvian transport industry. The program we see a very positive trend in customer satisfaction. In addition, the position of Volvo CE has improved relative to the competition. includes practice, theory and training in The overall perception of Volvo CE in terms of providing low fuel simulators, which allows students to acquire consumption and safety is very strong among both customers and the skills and knowledge necessary to drive non-customers. trucks and obtain an AIIIB, a license that allows them to drive vehicles of more than 12 tons. They also received a training course called ‘Transformar’ – a ­program addressing driving attitudes to increase safety. One of the first students was Ana Caballero, who used to work for a public transport com­ pany, but now sets out to be a truck driver with her own company: “I was excited to receive the invitation to Iron Woman and the program has already meant a lot to me. I really want to learn everything I can from Volvo Trucks,” she says. 31 GROUP TRUCKS ASIA & JVS Capture growth in Asia and emerging markets Today, emerging markets make up the lion’s share of the volume of medium-duty and heavy-duty trucks sold globally. Markets such as China, India, Southeast Asia, and Africa are the ones with the biggest growth potential. Group Trucks Asia & JVs was set up to seize this opportunity for profitable growth and strengthen the cooperation with our joint ventures. T o meet its unique market challenges, Group Trucks Asia & Kuzer (more information on these trucks is available on pages JVs has its own value chain with resources for purchasing, 42-44). These UD branded trucks’ main markets are in Southeast R&D, manufacturing and sales of heavy-, mediumand Asia with Thailand and Indonesia currently being the countries light-duty trucks sold under the UD Trucks brand. The business area where the trucks have made the biggest impact. However, the truck also works closely with the Volvo Group’s partners in Dongfeng offering is also starting to make inroads into other markets such as Commercial Vehicles (DFCV) in China and VE Commercial Vehicles South Africa and the Middle East. (VECV) in India. UD Quester is a complete range of trucks with configurations for DFCV and VECV delivered a total of 218,031 trucks in 2017, long-haul, construction, distribution and mining applications. After a which can be compared with the Volvo Group’s wholly-owned truck somewhat slow start, the truck range has started to gain momen­ brands’ deliveries of 202,402 trucks. Group Trucks Asia & JVs has tum with increasing volumes. In Thailand, UD Quester had a market a strong position in the heavy-duty segment in China through DFCV share of 5% in the heavy-duty segment in 2017, and in Indonesia and its brand Dongfeng, which is number three in terms of market the share was 12%. In Indonesia, we cooperate with Astra Group to share, and in the light-duty and medium-duty segments in India drive sales and to provide service support to the installed fleet. through VECV and its brand Eicher, which is number three in terms ­Production of UD Croner was gradually ramped up during 2017, and of market share in the commercial vehicle market. UD Kuzer will be hitting the market in volumes in 2018. “Having our own value chain enables us to have a cost-efficient structure, which is necessary to be competitive in these markets. Strong position in China … We will utilize the joint ventures’ assets including strong brand DFCV, in which the Volvo Group is an owner since 2015, has a images to strengthen our capabilities and share components ­complete range that covers heavyand medium-duty trucks for between the JVs and our UD branded products. The Volvo Group demanding operations in long haul, regional and local distribution also brings a lot into these partnerships to support the joint v­ entures’ and for tough construction, mining and off-road operations. The profitability and strengthen their growth, particularly how to develop market share in heavy-duty trucks was 13% in 2017. retail and service excellence to differentiate ourselves in the industry. DFCV produces the Volvo Group’s 14-speed manual gearbox We have a good development in volumes and profitability and I am technology under license and to further strengthen the product very positive about the future,” says Håkan K ­ arlsson, President of portfolio in connection with the introduction of the CN6 emissions Group Trucks Asia and JVs. regulations, DFCV will produce an 11-liter engine based on Volvo Group technology. As the Chinese market matures, a strong retail Expanded UD product offering and service network that offers first-class service will become The heavy-duty UD Quester was launched in 2013 and in 2017 it increasingly important and this is another area where DFCV can 32 was joined by the medium-duty UD Croner and the light-duty UD draw from the Volvo Group’s competence. Develop a joint eco ­system to stay ahead of our competitors We utilize the strength of the Volvo Group and the JV’s competence and technology to develop competitive products and processes. Engines Cabs Transmissions GROUP VECV DFCV TRUCKS ASIA Established in 2007. Established in 2015. Number of employOwnership 45.6% Ownership 45% ees 1,400. R&D and with Eicher Motors with Dongfeng Motor purchasing in Bangaas the partner. Corporation as the lore, India and pro11,000 employees. partner. 24,000 duction in Bangkok, Headquarter, R&D employees. HeadThailand. The main and production in quartered in Shiyan markets are Thailand Pithampur, India. with R&D and some and Indonesia. Some The main market administration sales in South Africa is India. Deliveries located in Wuhan. and the Middle East. in 2017 totaled Main market China, 2017 deliveries: 47,376 trucks. some exports. Deliv6,722 trucks. eries in 2017 totaled 170,655 trucks. In recent years demand in China has improved following a n ­ umber of weak years after the previous peak in 2010. In 2017 the market was very strong, reaching over 1.1 million heavy-duty and medium-duty Strong global market trucks. The increasing volumes and internal restructuring to lower position with our the cost base resulted in DFCV’s profitability improving significantly in 2017. joint ventures … and in India In 2018 VECV celebrates its 10 year anniversary of becoming oper­ REST OF ational. It has been a ­decade of a very positive development. In India, THE WORLD INDIA & CHINA VECV’s brand Eicher had a market share of 32% in the light and medium-duty truck segments in 2017. Eicher is also slowly but 50% 50% steadily increasing its ­market share in heavy-duty trucks. However, MARKET SHARE MARKET SHARE there is more potential to grow in the heavy-duty segment where ~15% ~15% the market share was close to 5%. Volvo Dongfeng UD Eicher In addition to trucks, VECV also produces the Volvo Group’s Renault Trucks UD medium-duty 5and 8-liter engines on a global basis. Euro 6-com­ Mack pliant diesel base engines are supplied to the Volvo Group plant in Venissieux, France where they are adapted to the Euro 6 require­ ments. The same platform is adapted to Euro 3 and 4 engine tech­ Markets outside China and India represent some 50% of the global truck nologies to meet VECV and other Group requirements for these market. In these markets the Volvo Group has a m ­ arket share of around 15% with its wholly-owned truck brands. China and India represent the types of engines in Asia. other half of the global market. In this fast-growing part of the world, Volvo After a weak demand in 2013 and 2014, the Indian market has Group’s own truck brands have a very limited market share. Through the joint ventures with Dongfeng and Eicher, the Volvo Group has a strong been on a rebound in recent years, with some bumps to the growth total global presence and market position. along the way. However, all through the downturn VECV continued to be profitable. Along with retail excellence, profitable growth con­ tinues to be in focus for VECV, especially in heavy-duty trucks. 33 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Investing in the future We are at the start of a paradigm shift in transport that will reshape the industry and the society we live in. We are looking at three strong trends: automated driving, electromobility and connectivity. Several of the current and well-known technologies will remain crucial during the transition period. Therefore we need to find the right balance in our product development investments between well-known and new technologies. A ll our product development is based on the future equally important in well-known technologies as in new techno­ needs of our customers. We will provide them with logies. And we firmly believe there is still huge potential in wellproducts and services that help them offer their known technologies. The Wave Piston, which received the 2017 customers the most efficient transport solutions. Volvo Technology Award, is one good example (see page 37). The working environment for drivers and operators In parallel with developing well-known technologies, we have should be pleasant and safe, and our products should fulfill or embarked on a journey toward increased automation, electromobil­ exceed all requirements on emission standards, safety standards, ity and connectivity. Each of these technology areas have the data protection and more. potential to impact the mobility of goods and people. And when they New technology areas such as automation, electromobility and converge, they will radically transform transport. To ensure we connectivity have huge potential to raise productivity and safety and remain on the frontline of these technology areas, we need to work to reduce the environmental impact, but it will take time before we in a different way. We need to work more in partnerships with other can fully utilize these opportunities. Our engineers need to continue companies, universities and suppliers to find the best solutions for to innovate and develop the well-known technologies – to make the future. And we need to continue working in close cooperation engines and transmissions more fuel-efficient with lower emissions, with our customers to ensure that the features we develop are to further reduce the weight of our vehicles, and make them more ­useful for them, and that we can work together to develop the new aerodynamic, and to ensure that our cabs are further adapted to the business models needed. needs and demands of drivers and operators. Innovative ideas are VOLVO CE PRESENTED THE SECOND-GENERATION OF ITS CONCEPT AUTONOMOUS, BATTERY-ELECTRIC, LOAD CARRIER HX2 IN MARCH. 34 CREALab At CREALab in are no normal rules Lyon , there A t CREALab in Lyon Bertrand Félix got the chance to experiment with new ways of using augmented reality. In record time, he and his team developed a software prototype for hololenses: glasses that use augmented reality technology. The idea is that these glasses will be used by operators at the Volvo Group’s plants to perform quality control with intuitive head-up display instructions. The prototype is now going to be tested at the GTO Powertrain Production plant in Lyon. The team continues to evaluate other possible applications for augmented reality Transport Innovation Lab, Gothenburg iRoom, Innovation Area, CREALab, Wroclaw Shippensburg Lyon iRoom, Incubation center, Changwon Ageo Innovation Lab, Bangalore Anyone in the Volvo Group who is in need of new ideas can try out the creative areas, or innovation labs, that have been established in different parts of the Volvo Group. Here, teams and coworkers are able to work on problem solving, idea generation and development in an environment that stimulates creativity and inspiration. Some facilities also offer laboratories, as well as opportunities for prototyping and demonstrations. 35 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Automation benefits customers and society We believe that automation will redefine the commercial transport TR ANSPORT TECHNOLOGIES IN CONTE X T solutions that most of us rely on every day. Automation will create real-life benefits for both our customers and society in terms of productivity, safety, energy and fuel efficiency. But automation is 4 MISSION Efficiency nothing new. Automated gearboxes and cruise control, to name a 3 TRAFFIC Efficiency few, are functions that are part of our commercial offer since several years, supporting drivers in their everyday work. With the exponen­ 2 COMPLETE Efficiency VEHICLE tial increase of microprocessor capacity, however, it is now possible to take automation much further. There are different levels of auto­ mation throughout the vehicle industry – from no automation to 1 DRIVETRAIN Efficiency self-driving vehicles without the need of a driver or operator. Since the ideal level of automation is determined by its added value for customers and society, Volvo Group aims to introduce automation more complex e ­ nvironments, such as city traffic and mixed traffic at gradually over time. We believe there will be drivers and operators in higher speeds, we believe it will take significantly longer time before our vehicles in most applications for the foreseeable future. During this is possible. the year, we demonstrated fully automated concept vehicles for Our concept vehicles show that we have come a long way in confined areas, for refuse collection, for hub-to-hub applications in terms of technology development, but more research and develop­ semi-confined areas and a self-steering truck for the sugar cane ment is still needed. To fully utilize all possible automated features harvest in South America (see page 65). of the future, we in the industry together with authorities also need We believe that fully automated vehicles in commercial opera­ to further develop and agree upon related areas, including stand­ tions will initially appear in confined and semi-confined areas like ards and regulations, liabilities and cyber security. mines, quarries, ports and dedicated lanes on some highways. For Progressing electromobility There are several reasons why electric vehicles are now emerging in N E X T S T E P F O R A U TO N O M O U S T R U C K S the transport industry. W • An electric motor is highly energy-efficient. e believe autonomous vehicles will initially • Battery capacity is increasing. be commercialized in confined areas, as • Provided that the electricity has been produced from non-fossil shown by the underground tests performed sources, electric propulsion eliminates CO2 emissions. by mining company Boliden. The next step could be • There are no local emissions of nitrogen oxides and particulates, semi-confined areas with somewhat more complex traffic and the electric motor is quiet. situations. A new project to test this has started with We believe that electrification will fundamentally change the way we Boliden, and the autonomous vehicle for this project was look at city planning. Just imagine indoor bus stops at hospitals or first shown at the Volvo Group Innovation Summit in Beijing. shopping malls. Electric vehicles will also enable better use of the Read more about automation on page 64 infrastructure, especially in cities. Today, roads and streets are mostly used during rush hours and daytime. The noise from diesel vehicles makes it impossible to distribute goods or do construction work at night, but electric vehicles are so quiet that the infrastruc­ ture could be used at night for some purposes. More and more cities are investing in electric public transport sys­ tems as the city bus market moves away from pure diesel-powered vehicles. As far back as 2010, Volvo Buses took the decision to offer only complete, low-floor city buses as hybrids on the European mar­ ket. Volvo Buses now offers the entire range of electrified city buses, including hybrids, electric hybrids and all-electric buses. Volvo Buses has sold more than 3,800 (2,300) Volvo branded electrified buses in 22 (20) countries since the start in 2010. During the year, Volvo 36 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Wave piston design reduces fuel consumption THE WINNING TEAM BEHIND THE WAVE PISTON CONCEPT CONSISTS OF FOUR ENGINEERS AND INVENTORS FROM GROUP TRUCKS TECHNOLOGY: JOHN GIBBLE, FRANK LÖFSKOG, MICHAEL BALTHASAR AND JAN EISMARK. Buses further strengthened its electric bus offering with a signifi­ cantly extended range and more charging options (see page 61). Volvo Group benefits greatly from being early in the development of electrified solutions for our buses. The technology developed for buses will also be used for areas such as city distribution, refuse trucks and construction equipment in the coming years. In 2019 A lthough the internal combustion engine has been in existence for 140 years both Volvo Trucks and Renault Trucks will start selling medium-duty – during which time it has electric trucks for city distribution in Europe. The first trucks will be undergone continuous develop­ delivered to selected customers already in 2018. During the year, ment – it still offers room for good results were also obtained when Volvo Construction Equip­ improvement. A team of Volvo ment tested a hybrid wheel loader in California, USA, and the com­ pany presented a fully electric compact excavator concept (see Group engineers developed a page 38). new piston crown that featured Next step will be electrification of trucks for regional and long the addition of “waves” to haul operations. For many applications this will take longer time, not improve the utilization of least because it will take time to secure the charging infrastructure ­oxygen for which they received customers need. Combustion engine technology will therefore be the 2017 Volvo Technology needed for many years to come. We will not necessarily need to use diesel as a fuel – alternative Award. The technology is and renewable fuels are also an option. During the year, a new and unique within the automotive highly efficient gas-powered Volvo truck was introduced in Europe industry and is protected by and we also presented a long-haul concept truck with a hybrid drive­ several ­patents. Working in line that harnesses brake energy to further reduce energy use and combination with other engine fuel consumption. enhancements, the wave piston In the long term, we believe that a dynamic supply of electricity from the road could power long-haul trucks and practical knowl­ delivers improved fuel efficiency edge is therefore being obtained through participation in electric of up to 2.2% for the 11-liter road systems concept studies in both Europe and North America. engine and 2.5% for the 13-liter. 37 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Alternative fuels and drivelines pulling similar semi-trailers loaded to 40 tons total weight. The test Volvo Group acknowledges that there is no single fuel that can meet route where driven four times during the same day. The measure­ all needs. Conventional diesel fuel, with increasing renewable or ments, from preparation to final evaluation, was witnessed, reviewed synthetic content, will likely remain the dominant fuel for most types and approved by an independent third-party, AVL MTC. The meas­ of commercial transport for many years to come. urements showed that the new Volvo FH 2016 has reduced fuel We have advanced our offering of alternative fuels for vehicles, consumption by 19% and NOX emissions by 98%. such as methane and hydrogenated vegetable oils (HVO), and is testing DME in order to reduce the environmental impact and meet Connectivity presents new opportunities market demand. During the year, a new and highly efficient When it comes to connectivity, or the digitization of vehicles, Volvo LNG-powered Volvo truck was introduced in Europe (see page 39). Group was the first in our business to offer telematics solutions In North America, Volvo Trucks and Mack Trucks were the first back in 1994. Today, we have a broad customer offering of ­connected Original Equipment Manufacturers to approve the use of advanced solutions for trucks, buses and construction equipment. With almost hydrocarbon renewable diesel fuel (HVO) in all of their products. 700,000 connected vehicles, we have the largest number of con­ The biggest challenge posed by renewable diesel is not compatibil­ nected vehicles in the industry. ity or emissions, but the lack of adequate supply. Volvo Trucks and Today’s connected solutions help our customers lower their costs Mack Trucks also offer trucks equipped with 9and 12-liter natural through fleet optimization and fuel savings, and to raise their produc­ gas engines, as does Nova Bus. These vehicles offer the benefit of tivity and profitability through improved uptime. And uptime, in the a fuel that is domestically produced and reduces emissions. world of commercial transport, is what everyone is chasing. It means avoiding unplanned stops, which we can help our customers achieve Increasing fuel efficiency by monitoring vehicles and predicting when they will need main­ The Volvo Group performed a fuel consumption and NOX emission tenance, assign a technician and schedule a visit to the service test between two typical European long haul tractors, one Volvo FH ­station at a time when the truck is not operational. During the year, from 2016 and one Volvo F12 from 1991. Both trucks were simulta­ Volvo Trucks and Mack Trucks in North America launched remote neously measured on an open road during normal traffic situ­ations programming services making it possible to download different ­software for the truck wireless wherever the truck is (see page 66). Connectivity has the potential to increase transport and resource efficiency through optimized traffic flows and higher utilization of exist­ VO LVO C E U N V E I L S 10 0 % E L E C T R I C ing infrastructure, as well as new business models for logistics. ­C O M PAC T ­E XC AVATO R P R OTOT Y P E A Common Architecture and Shared Technology t the Volvo Group Innovation Summit in London With 11 different brands in different product segments, we find syn­ in May, Volvo CE demonstrated the EX2 – a fully ergies to reduce product and product development costs, while electric compact excavator prototype that delivers simultaneously securing brand-unique solutions. Volvo Group is zero emissions, ten times higher efficiency, ten times lower now leveraging more than 15 years of work to create a modular system, and we have come a long way. We call the system CAST – noise levels and reduced total cost of ownership. The EX2 Common Architecture and Shared Technology. The engines we is a research project and not commercially available. develop are shared by all our product segments, electric systems and transmissions by most segments, and chassis components by all our truck brands, to name a few examples. Instead of reinventing the wheel with every new product, we use as much common tech­ nology as possible, to benefit both our customers and the Volvo Group. And the efficiency gains generated by our consistent work with commonality are not confined to product development. They can also be seen in our supplier structure, industrial system, sales and, not least, service system. At the same time, it is important to ensure that each product in the modular system is adapted to what customers expect from each brand and product segment, as well as local demands and require­ ments. Therefore we have a global product development system with engineering resources in different parts of the world, close to 38 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT LNG: Same ­performance as diesel – lower CO2 emissions 20–100% LOWER CO2 EMISSIONS customers, to ensure that every product delivers what customers expect. The new truck UD Quon, which was launched during 2017, is a good example of a truck with a high level of solutions and ­components shared with other Volvo Group trucks, combined with V olvo Trucks has introduced trucks for heavy regionaland long-haul operations that run the characteristics that customers expect from a UD truck. on liquefied natural gas (LNG) CONTINUED or biogas (LBG) using diesel engine technology. The new Mack trucks have the same perfor­ Trucks mance, drivability and low fuel Renault Trucks AUTOMATION consumption as Volvo’s diesel-­ EL E C T RO M O B I L I T Y powered models, but with NNE CT I V I T Y CO 20–100% lower CO2 emissions Volvo UD Trucks C H ASS I S Trucks compared with diesel, depending SM I S SI O AN NS TR on the choice of fuel. E CTRONIC L IN NG E E S E S Buses Construction Equipment Volvo Penta 39 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Emissions regulations for heavy-duty vehicles I Safety a prerequisite n recent decades, regulators in Europe, the US and Japan The Volvo Group’s ambition is zero accidents involving our v­ ehicles have progressively implemented stricter emissions stand­ and equipment. Road traffic and worksite safety are global chal­ ards for new heavy-duty engines for trucks and buses. lenges for the Volvo Group. Safety is about reducing the risk of In spite of great progress, particularly related to lower levels of ­accidents and mitigating the impact of any incidents that do occur. nitrogen oxide (NOX) and particulate matters (PM), problems Safety is therefore an integral part of product development. The Volvo Group’s in-house Accident Research Team has been with air pollution and climate change remain. A common focus investigating heavy truck accidents for almost 50 years. Combining for regulators going forward is the actual engine performance accident data analysis with the Group’s own research and test programs in use instead of a generic engine model in a test cell. provides solid insights into the causes of accidents and injuries. This is The Volvo Group supports this direction. The Euro 6 regulation important input for developing even safer products for our customers. implemented 2013 has clearly shown that testing with port­ Volvo Group has pioneered a variety of driver assistance systems, able emissions measurement systems (PEMS) can be a very including Driver Alert Support and Lane Changing Support, which enhance awareness and alert the driver before a situation turns crit­ effective way to reduce real driving emissions during all condi­ ical. The Collision Warning with Emergency Brake system is another tions. The emissions regulation for passenger cars has now sophisticated system, and offers market-leading emergency braking been updated in the same direction. We actively follow devel­ capabilities. The fast development within the automation area will opments to ensure adherence by developing engines that make it possible for us to offer even more sophisticated driver meet all legal requirements. assist­ance systems the coming years. EUROPE Metal 3D printing: In 2016 a new regulation, Stage V, was published for non-road engines in EU. The main changes compared to Stage IV relate The future for lighter and to particulate matters. The new requirements, valid from 2018/2019 are set at a performance level currently expected more compact engines to be achieved with particulate filters. The emissions regulation for on-road vehicles was also updated with a Euro 6 step D entering into force 2018/2019. The main updates concern the in-service conformity testing with PEMS where the limits regarding payload and power have WEIGHT REDUCED BY been changed to include low load duty cycles in a better way. 25% A regulation for certified declaration of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and fuel consumption for heavy-duty trucks has been decided and will start in the beginning of 2019. The regulation has been developed by the EU Commission with broad support A from the Volvo Group and the industry via the E ­ uropean ­Automobile Manufacturers’ Association (ACEA). The certi­fied ­declaration will be the most advanced in the world and is based on certified measurements of components and calcula­ team of Volvo Group engineers in Lyon has tions of complete vehicle CO2 emissions. The system will give ­succeeded in building and running an engine with some vital customers a possibility to, on an equal and fair basis, compare 3D-printed c­ omponents. The estimation is that a 3D-printed CO2 emissions of different product offerings and specifica­ engine could lead to a reduction of the number of c­ omponents in tions. This will even further strengthen and support the market the engine and weight by about 25%. This could lead to greater payloads and lower fuel consumption should it reach production. 40 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT US, RUSSIA CANADA EUROPE Euro 4-5 US10 Euro 6 US GHG CHINA phase I* China 4-5 China FC phase II** JAPAN pPNLT FE 2015*** SOUTH AFRICA INDIA Euro 2 BS 3-4 BRAZIL US 1998 Euro 5 AUSTRALIA Euro 5 US07**** Particulates, g/kWh NOx g/kWh THE EMISSIONS LEGISLATIONS varies for different regions. In some regions the implementation of stricter rules is hindered by insufficient 0.16 Europe USA 8 availability of good fuel quality and low sulfur content. In many parts of the world, the emissions legislations are based on EU and US legislation. 0.12 6 In 2010, US10 was implemented in North A ­ merica and at the end of 2013 Euro 6 was introduced in the EU. With the implementation of US10, 0.08 4 emissions levels for particulates and nitrogen oxides (NOX) have decreased substantially. Euro 6 entails that emissions of nitrogen oxides 0.04 2 and particulate matter are reduced by more than 95% compared to a truck from the early 1990s. 0 0 Euro 3 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 US02 US07 US10 * US Greenhouse gas standard phase I. 2002 2006 2009 2014 2002 2007 2010 ** China Fuel consumption standard phase II. *** Japan Fuel Efficiency targets 2015. Particulates, g/kWh NOx, g/kWh **** In addition to Euro 5 and US07, there is also NLT in Australia. forces regarding CO2 and fuel consumption. The declaration ­values for engines and vehicles have been updated. The level will be followed by a proposed reporting and monitoring of stringency will according to the EPA increase by up to 27% ­regulation, allowing the EU Commission to follow the progress between year 2017 and 2027. and implement further actions if needed. As a third step, a Regarding criteria pollutants, California Air Resources Board CO2 regulation including standards or limits is being prepared (CARB) has adopted optional low NOX certification standards for by the EU Commission. on-road heavy-duty engines. The emissions levels are reduced by up to 90% compared to the current federal NOX levels. USA In the US, the EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) and L O C A L I N I T I AT I V E S NHTSA (National Highway Traffic Safety Administration) have On top of these regulations there are other local initiatives decided the US Greenhouse Gas (GHG) regulation phase II where cities around the world set more stringent regulations to final rule. It includes separate regulations for engines and improve air quality in cities. One example is the commitment ­vehicles, but also a new separate trailer regulation starting in from Paris, Mexico City, Madrid and Athens made at the C40 2018. One main difference from the current regulation is that Mayors Summit to remove diesel vehicles from their cities by the vehicle regulation includes the actual engine performance 2025. C40 is a network of the world’s megacities committed of the vehicle instead of a generic engine model. All limit to addressing climate change. 41 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT L A U N C H E D I N 2 0 17 Several important new products and services In 2017 the Volvo Group introduced a large number of new products and services that strengthen the customer offer and the Group’s competitiveness. FE BRUARY MARCH UD CRONER V O LV O P E N TA S TA G E V V O LV O L 3 5 0 H A N D L 2 6 0 H The UD Croner is a medium-duty ­I N D U S T R I A L E N G I N E The new Volvo L260H and L350H truck designed and developed spe­ In March, Volvo Penta launched its wheel loaders are the latest addition cifically for emerging economies in concept to meet European Stage V to the Volvo CE H-Series range for Asia, Africa, the Middle East and emissions legislation for the full heavy-duty applications. Compared South America. It includes a num­ ­off-road engine range between with the previous models, the loaders ber of features for improving both 5 and 16 liters. have more horsepower and torque fuel and driver efficiency, as well as and a significant increase in pay­ uptime and durability. The auto­ load. These improvements mean up matic transmission in particular – a to 10% better fuel efficiency. Add rare feature in medium-duty trucks the revolutionary Volvo Co-Pilot with in many markets – is widely seen Load Assist, and the result is faster as a game-changer in the industry. cycle times, increased on-site pro­ ductivity, ­maximum operator comfort and ­simpler serviceability. 42 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT UD QUON V O LV O B 8 R The new UD Quon is a full upgrade V O LV O P E N TA I M O T I E R I I I The Volvo B8R is Volvo Buses’ of the brand’s flagship heavy-duty ENGINE CONCEPT ­latest chassis. In comparison with model. It includes a number of V O LV O V N R In May, Volvo Penta revealed its the Volvo B7R, the top-selling unique features for improved driva­ On April 20, Volvo Trucks launched concept to meet future marine chassis that it replaces, it has bility, fuel efficiency, safety, produc­ the new Volvo VNR regional haul emission standards, IMO Tier III. higher power output with improved tivity and uptime, such as the truck in North America, marking Volvo Penta’s new engine and fuel consumption. Further leverag­ ESCOT-VI automatic transmission, the first step in the renewal of the after-treatment concept is based ing the Group’s common engine traffic eye brake and driver alert Volvo range in the North American on both the company’s own experi­ platform, its robust yet highly flex­ system. Its new, more powerful market. With its modern ergonomic ence along with expertise from the ible structure, made from triedGH11 engine complies with the interior workspace and more aero­ Volvo Group in selective catalytic and-tested components, is stringent Japanese pPNLT exhaust dynamic exterior, the new vehicle reduction (SCR) technology, result­ designed to form the foundation gas regulation, and exceeds the will significantly improve Volvo’s ing in a system that is dedicated to for both city and intercity buses, 2015 fuel economy standards for position in the important regional low-emission, heavy-duty marine as well as long-distance coaches. heavy vehicles in Japan by 5%. haul market. operations. APRIL M AY 43 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT L A U N C H E D I N 2 0 17 V O LV O V N L S E R I E S With the long-haul segment accounting for a large portion of UD KUZER SELF-STEERING Volvo Trucks’ business in North V O LV O P E N TA D13 10 0 0 The new Kuzer is a light-duty truck V O LV O T R U C K America, the new Volvo VNL series With 1,000 hp, Volvo Penta’s D13that has been developed specifically Volvo Trucks has developed a is the brand’s new flagship model 1000 is its most powerful marine for growth markets. Strong eco­ new self-steering truck that can in the region. The cab has been ­leisure engine yet. Combined with an nomic growth and increased invest­ become a significant productivity designed for improved aerodynamics IPS pod drive that has been upgraded ment in infrastructure is f­ uelling booster for Brazilian sugar-cane and visibility, while the interior sets to handle this extra power, the D13demand for commercial vehicles, farmers. The truck, which is used to new standards in driver productivity IPS1350 integrated package can and with the Kuzer, we believe that transport newly harvested and ergonomics. Other features offer the equivalent power of a we can fill a gap in the market. With ­sugar-cane, is steered with great include Volvo’s I-Shift automated 1,350 hp engine. It also means that 150 hp, the Kuzer offers the highest precision through the fields in transmission, XE (eXceptional Effi­ the full benefits of Volvo Penta’s IPS engine power in its class, and 25% order to avoid damaging the young ciency) packages, Position Perfect can be extended to larger yachts of extra torque compared to other plants that will form the following steering and collision avoidance up to 120 feet, allowing Volvo Penta trucks currently available in the year’s crop. through Volvo Active Driver Assist. to grow in the super yacht segment. same segment. JUNE J U LY AUGUST BIGGEST UPGR ADE IN spring Volvo Trucks launched the new haul as well as a re-entry into the long NORTH AMERICA IN 20 YE ARS Volvo VNR regional haul and Volvo VNL haul segment with the new Mack Anthem long haul trucks. And in September Mack sleeper cab. These product launches I n 2017 we moved ahead with a Trucks announced an update of its existing mark the biggest upgrade of our North ­comprehensive renewal of the truck range of Mack ­Granite in the vocational ­American truck range in 20 years. port­folio in North America. In the segment and Mack Pinnacle in regional 44 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT V O LV O T R U C K S RUNNING ON GAS With new Volvo FH LNG and Volvo FM LNG trucks, it is now possible to substantially reduce CO2 emissions in heavy regional-haul and long-haul transport, without compromising on performance. Available with 420 hp NE W MACK ANTHE M and 460 hp, the Volvo FH LNG A N D U P D AT E D P I N N A C L E offers the same drivability and relia­ V O LV O 7 9 0 0 E ­ LECTRIC AND GRANITE bility as a standard Volvo FH, but W I T H G R E AT E R R A N G E In North America an important because it is powered by liquefied AND FLEXIBILITY step was taken in September with natural gas, LNG, CO2 emissions are In October, Volvo Buses launched the announcement of Mack Trucks’ 20% lower. It can also be powered a new generation of its all-electric expansion into the long-haul seg­ by liquefied biogas, LBG, which bus, the Volvo 7900 Electric ment with the new Mack Anthem would reduce CO2 emissions by equipped with next generation sleeper cab as well as an update 100%. It was not long after the ­battery technology, offering more of its vocational truck Mack Granite introduction when the new trucks charging options and significantly and its regional haul lineup Mack received Italy’s Sustainable Truck extending the operating range to Pinnacle. of the Year 2018 award. up to 200 km. SEPTEMBER OCTOBE R AND NEW SERVICES T he Volvo Group has a broad range of services that back up the products. In 2017 a number of new services hit the mar­ ket. Volvo CE launched ActiveCare Direct in North America, a telemat­ ics monitoring service supported through the company’s dealer net­ work. Mack Trucks introduced Mack Connect, a telematics solution that supports uptime. Using predictive analytics and connective tech­ nologies, Mack Connect turns data produced by the truck, the driver and the service process into insights and actions that help customers’ operations p ­ erform at their best. Read more about Mack Connect on page 23. Mack Trucks and Volvo Trucks also announced over the air remote programming. For an insight into these new services, please turn to page 66. 45 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PURCHASING PURCHASING Driving purchasing excellence with professional partners In order to achieve synergies and customer value, the Volvo Group is aiming for an industry-leading position in purchasing, placing high demands on ourselves and our suppliers. Together we aspire to have a leading customer satisfaction for all brands in the Volvo Group. W e expect our suppliers to be on the highest professional level in all areas. The selection C S R S U P P L I E R S E L F -A S S E S S M E N T of suppliers is done in a Group-wide forum taking all aspects of quality, delivery, cost, % 2 017 2 016 2 015 2 014 2 013 features and technology into account. In AP* suppliers CSR self-assessed 95 88 87 80 72 2017, we emphasized the importance of responsible purchasing by of which passed increasing the focus on sustainability and risk management in our the assessment 89 83 80 72 62 way of working. We demand responsible and sustainable behavior AP* suppliers in h ­ igh-risk from our suppliers during the complete product life cycle, from the countries 9 9 9 12 15 CSR ­self-assessed 94 94 92 92 80 early phases of project planning, through production and delivery to of which passed aftersales services. the assessment 89 87 79 75 63 “Sustainable purchasing in the supply chain is about driving per­ * Automotive Product. formance from social, ethical and environmental aspects which at Numbers based on spend/value. the end of the day will benefit our customers’ results,” says Andrea Fuder, Chief Purchasing Officer, Volvo Group. meet the high demand. Together with our suppliers we were able to A new purchasing organization with sustainability at heart stabilize the situation through constructive dialogue and cross-func­ In 2017, the Volvo Group bought goods and services for SEK 227 tional efforts. Flexibility, strong focus on improved forecasting tools, billion. In the truck business alone, 2 billion parts were delivered to systems and closer collaboration are on the agenda to handle the 40 plants around the world. To leverage the significant business demands in the commercial vehicle market. impact in the supply chain, two new strategic functions were set up in truck purchasing: ’Uptime, Adaptation & Synergies’, securing Supplier assessment model uptime targets and customer needs with faster and more efficient Potential suppliers are required to undertake our Supplier Assess­ solutions, and ’Innovative Purchasing’, driving and safeguarding new ment Program, which evaluates their technical capabilities, as well technologies, innovations and sustainability. as the quality standards in their products, services and operations. We also expect all our suppliers to fulfill the level of responsible Stretched supply chain in 2017 behavior and environmental standards as set out in our Key Element Solid supplier base and business partnerships are essential for cus­ Procedures (KEP) on CSR and Environment. Responsible behavior tomer success in a volatile market, which we experienced during and environmental performance are measured through a Supplier 2017. Full order books are the best evidence of our customers’ trust Self-Assessment Questionnaire. Our target is to have all our suppli­ in us, but they also put increased pressure on the supply chain to ers, specifically those in high-risk countries or segments, evaluated 46 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PURCHASING on their performance in accordance with our KEP in the areas of working conditions and human rights, business ethics, and environ­ ment. The outcome of these assessments is used in the suppliers’ selection process as well as to act as input for our general CSR risk assessment model. Sustainable purchasing and focus on high risk countries During 2017, we also decided to implement an updated Sustain­able Purchasing Program. It will consist of a range of tools designed to Eva Bennis, help us assess our potential sustainability risk-exposures and to Sustainability Director Volvo Group Purchasing. increase the dialogue, transparency and trust with our suppliers. The aim is to focus our efforts on the areas where we believe that there are the highest risks of doing harm to people and the environment. Therefore, one of the tools aims at setting an increased focus on selected critical materials with potential adverse impacts on human the Director of Sustainability in our purchasing organization as well rights and/or the environment, such as conflict minerals. We will also as other representatives of the Volvo Group, visited the Marikana improve our Human Rights Due Diligence process for selected highmining area in South Africa. They met the management teams of the risk countries and segments where we strive to i­dentify, prevent and primary producers of platinum and made a field trip to the mines. The mitigate any potential human rights violations. purpose was to follow up on the progress regarding workforce con­ In 2017 we initiated a pilot in selected High Risk Countries, focus­ ditions assessed on previous visits, as well to increase our know­ ing on service providers delivering on-site services to Volvo Group’s ledge of the political, economic and social context in South Africa. facilities. Based on the outcome of the social audit pilot performed during the year, we have also decided to increase workplace assess­ Many hands make sustainability work ments on our suppliers in High Risk Countries. The Human Rights The Volvo Group’s purchasing organization is committed to enable a Due Diligence and social audit program for our supply base is closely prosperous and sustainable environment and in 2017 became a aligned with the Volvo Group Human Rights Due Diligence process lead partner in “Drive Sustainability”, a network facilitated by CSR for our own employees, which is further described on page 76. Europe, consisting of the 10 largest automakers in the world. The A tool to be implemented is a Supplier Code of Conduct, replac­ partnership aims to drive sustainability throughout the automotive ing our current Environmental and Corporate Social Responsibility supply chain by promoting a common approach within the industry requirements as set out in KEP, in line with the new Volvo Group and by integrating sustainability in the overall procurement process. Code of Conduct rolled out in 2017 for all Group employees (see Together with the other members of the network, we have devel­ page 74). The aim is to outline the minimum sustainability require­ oped and established a training program for selected suppliers in ments and ambitions for Volvo Group’s suppliers. It is important that the automotive industry that provides an understanding of what sus­ all expectations that we have on our employees are equally tainability is, how to understand and live up to our requirements and respected by our suppliers. To ensure internal understanding of the how to overcome specific sustainability challenges. During 2017 we various aspects of the Supplier Code of Conduct, we have already trained suppliers mainly in India and Italy. started to develop a training program, e-learning and instructor-led tutoring, for all purchasing employees. One example of how we work proactively to understand and build leverage and capacity in our supply chain, is when in august 2017, 47 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS Continuous improvement To secure robust profitability the Volvo Group has developed a mind-set of continuous improvement as well as tools, processes and production systems that contribute to cost efficiency. O ur industrial and logistics system is well invested From restructuring to continuous improvement with modern production equipment and adequate To enhance our manufacturing efficiency and strengthen competitive­ technical capacity. To meet customer expectations ness in Europe, we have restructured our European truck assembly. the Volvo Group focuses on quality, lead times and We have achieved the right balance and size and changes are now delivery precision while working to ensure health, driven by continuous improvement and adaptation to external factors. safety and wellbeing for our employees. The Group has factories in Across all areas of production and logistics, continued standardization 18 countries around the world. In addition to our production sites, our and process harmonization will contribute to improved ­productivity. industrial operations worldwide include several product development In Asia, the Volvo Group has its own industrial structure as well as centers, and a large number of parts distribution centers and logistics established sales and distribution channels with UD Trucks, Volvo centers. Furthermore, there are assembly plants operated by inde­ Trucks, Volvo CE and SDLG. In addition, the Group Trucks Asia & pendent companies at 10 locations around the world. JVs business area is responsible for the Group’s proprietary trucks UD Quester, UD Croner and UD Kuzer and for the joint ventures VE Factories and assembly plants to meet demand Commercial Vehicles (VECV) in India and Dongfeng Commercial Our industrial system for trucks consists of capital-intensive com­ ­Vehicles (DFCV) in China. Read more on page 32. ponent factories as well as labor-intensive assembly plants. The component factories supply the Group’s needs on a global basis, Environmental performance whereas assembly plants in most cases are located close to The Volvo Group’s Environmental Policy is available at volvogroup. end-markets to cater for different local needs and specifications com. We have reported environmental data since 1991 and the latest and shorter delivery time. quantitative data is presented in the graphs on page 50 and in the All the Volvo Group’s wholly-owned production facilities and distri­ 11-year summary on page 211. Please see the GRI (G4) Index at bution centers are third-party audited. We hold certificates as follows: volvogroup.com for further information related to chemical and • ISO 9001 Quality management system: 100% of production harmful substances as well as for waste and water. ­facilities and 90% of distribution centers The following information is disclosed in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. In 2017 the Volvo Group had 12 • ISO 14001 Environmental management system: 98% licensed facilities in Sweden and there were no major environmental of ­production facilities and 90% of distribution centers incidents. The permits cover general conditions, such as allowed • ISO 50001 Energy management system: Lehigh Valley, production volumes and environmental performance measures. All ­Hagerstown and New River Valley plants in the US permits have specific site requirements related to impact on neigh­ • OHSAS 18001 Occupational health and safety management bors and the local environment. For some facilities the environmen­ ­system: 50% of our production facilities. tal permits need to be renewed in 2018 due to planned changes. C O N T I N U E D O N PA G E 5 0 48 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS M A J O R P R O D U C T I O N FA C I L I T I E S NORTH SOUTH AFRICA AND AMERICA AMERICA EUROPE ASIA OCEANIA Blainville (FR), Bangalore (IN), Brisbane (AU), Volvo Trucks New River Valley (US) Curitiba (BR) Göteborg, Umeå (Cabs) (SE), Bangkok (TH) Durban (ZA) Gent (BE), Kaluga (RU) Ageo (JP), UD Trucks Pretoria (ZA) Bangkok (TH) Renault Trucks Blainville, Bourg-en-Bresse (FR) Mack Trucks Lehigh Valley (US) Brisbane (AU) Eicher* Pithampur* (IN) Dongfeng Trucks* Shiyan* (CN) Arvika, Braås, Eskilstuna, Changwon (KR), C onstruction Hallsberg (SE), Shippensburg (US) Pederneiras (BR) Shanghai, Linyi* (CN), Equipment Konz-Könen, Hameln (DE), Bangalore (IN) Belley (FR), ­Motherwell (UK) St Claire, St Eustache, St Francois du Lac (CA), Borås, Uddevalla (SE), Buses Curitiba (BR) Bangalore (IN), Mexico City (MX), Wroclaw (PL) Plattsburgh (US) Volvo Penta Lexington (US) Göteborg, Vara (SE) Shanghai (CN) E  ngines and Köping, Skövde (SE), Ageo (JP), Hagerstown (US) Curitiba (BR) transmissions Vénissieux (FR) Pithampur* (IN) * Ownership ≥ 45% 49 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS Measuring emissions The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol is developed by the World E N E RGY SO U RC E S , G W h 2 0 17 2 0 16 Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sus­ Electricity 981 953 tainable Development (WBCSD). It sets the global standard for how District heating 170 188 to measure, manage, and report greenhouse gas emissions. Natural gas 539 556 According to the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard a company’s Diesel 192 191 GHG emissions are classified into three scopes. Scope 1 emissions Other 187 188 are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 Total 2,068 2,076 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions, not included in scope 2, that occur in the value chain of the reporting company. which is lower than 2,076 GWh used in 2016. Our energy efficiency index, which measures energy use per net sales, was 6.4 MWh/ Carbon emissions from production SEK M, which is 10% better than in 2016 (7.1 MWh/SEK M). The In 2017, the Volvo Group’s total CO2 emissions from production efforts made in energy-saving activities are clearly demonstrated in facilities, including scope 1 – direct emissions and scope 2 – indirect the decrease of energy use despite the high production volumes. emissions, decreased from 408,000 tons to 399,000 tons i.e. 2%, In the last five years, the energy efficiency index has improved by which is more than the reduction in total energy used. This reduc­ 25%. The goal is to implement energy-saving projects that together tion is a result of our transition to low CO2 energy sources. More save 150 GWh per year by 2020. Since 2015, more than 600 than 40% of our total energy use came from low-carbon renewable energy-­saving projects have been implemented resulting in a yearly sources, including hydropower electricity and biomass heating. saving of 102 GWh. The Volvo Group has carbon-neutral facilities in Ghent, Belgium, Between 2007 and 2017, the Volvo Group’s energy use in its own as well as Vara, Tuve and Braås in Sweden. During 2017, we investi­ production processes decreased by 15% in absolute terms. This gated the possibility to supply our facilities in Bengaluru (Bangalore) means that the corresponding energy cost decreased by more than with solar power. Our intention is to supply these facilities with at SEK 200 M comparing 2017 to 2007. The accumulated saving is least 70% of the electricity use with solar power starting in 2018. significantly larger. Typical energy-saving activities cover heating and ventilation efficiency, lighting and energy use during non-pro­ Energy efficiency in operations duction hours. We constantly improve our production processes. By reducing our energy use, we both lower emissions and reduce For example in 2017, we optimized humidity and temperature in the costs. The Group’s 2017 total energy use amounted to 2,068 GWh, paintbooths in Blainville which led to a saving of 700 MWh/year. SCOPE 1 AND 2 CO2 EMISSIONS ENERGY USE kton CO2 12 13 14 15 16 17 12 13 14 15 16 17 Energy use 273 255 231 220 211 207 Total Scope 1 2,483 2,320 2,168 2,077 2,076 2,068 – GWh/year 260 243 218 192 196 192 Total Scope 2 8.5 8.7 7.9 6.8 7.1 6.4 Energy use/Net Sales – MWh/MSEK S C O P E 1 A N D 2 C O 2 E M I S S I O N S P E R R E G I O N 2 017 E N E R G Y U S E B Y M A I N R E G I O N S 2 017 Sweden, 18% Sweden, 41% The US, 31% The US, 18% Asia, 24% Asia, 13% Rest of world, 27% Rest of the world, 28% 50 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL PRODUCTION & LOGISTICS Improved ergonomics in the truck plant Another example of an energy-saving activity is the Hagerstown facility, where the lighting was updated to LED lamps which gave a saving of 4,100 MWh compared to 2016. Continuous work with improving energy consumption in the engine plant in Skövde has resulted in a total saving of 2,200 MWh compared to 2016. Reducing the carbon footprint Volvo Group also estimates the 15 factors in scope 3 of the GHG protocol standard. The use of our products represents more than 95% of the Volvo Group’s total carbon footprint. Therefore we focus on reducing our products’ emissions. In our commitment to the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Climate Savers program, we have a target to reduce product lifetime emissions by 40 Mton CO2 between 2015–2020, compared to 2013. For 2015–2017, the ­savings were 17 Mton CO2. As part of scope 3 reporting, we also focus on carbon emissions from freight transport involved in the supply of materials and deliv­ eries to customers. The size of these emissions is similar to the CO2 emissions from our production plants (scope 1 and 2). Therefore this is a prioritized area and our goal is to reduce CO2 emissions from Volvo Group freight transport per produced unit by 20% LESLIE DE SOUTER by 2020. IMPROVES WORK Carbon emissions for the total volume transported in our manu­ Through a number of small facturing supply chain, were calculated to 410,000 tons for 2017 changes, Leslie de Souter at the compared to 510,000 in 2013. This means that a reduction of 20% Group Trucks Operations assem­ CO2 per produced unit has been achieved. The challenge remains to keep and improve this level going forward. One important reason for bly plant in Ghent, Belgium the reduction in 2017 is the filling rate of the vehicles that has has greatly improved her work improved considerably. station’s ergonomics. As a result, she now experience a lot less back and muscle pain. Volvo Production System One improvement simply – Better every day involved elevating the work bench slightly, so that she could T he secret to improving is to be open Each Volvo Group entity has the fit her trolley wheels underneath to change and constantly re-evalu­ responsibility to identify the areas which ate ways of working. ­C ontinuous continuous improvement should focus on and minimize movement and improvement has always been of impor­ to bring the highest added value. The ­lifting – which has made a huge tance within the Volvo Group, and it is also ­principles of our continuous improvement one of the strategic priorities. Over the system can be used in all work environ­ difference. She is impressed by years the progress and maturity level has ments in order to improve the ways of the speed and responsiveness constantly increased. Working with Volvo working, such as sales, product develop­ Production System (VPS) secures a ment, administration and projects, manu­ to her suggestions. “I submitted ­systematic and sustain­able approach for facturing to name just a few. my idea and our work leader ­continuous improvement. This supports At the same time we aim to stimulate us to produce the best products on the a continuous improvement culture with all said ‘yeah, it’s a very good idea, ­market by focusing on improved customer employees. Everybody has the ability and we’re going to do it’. The next satisfaction, shorter lead times and responsibility to improve their ways of reduced waste. It is a constant journey for working, work environment and team. day it was fixed.” increasing customer value and reducing ­Recognition of such type of behavior is waste through everyone’s engagement. part of our mindset. 51 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT T H E R E N A U LT T R U C K S T R A N G E AT C H A L AVA N E T D U C 0 % failures, 100 % reliability The Chalavan et Duc Group has been constantly renewing and expanding its fleet of Renault Trucks vehicles for almost 20 years. While the dealer’s ability to pay attention to their needs and provide service have always been decisive factors in their choice of trucks, the new Renault Trucks T has improved their satisfaction even further. VIEWPOINT unlike on other vehicles that seem unable to keep the Mr. Guineber t speed up. All controls are within easy reach inside the cab, the seat is comfortable and easy to adjust. This lets driver of a Renault Trucks T. me c­ oncentrate on the road in perfect safety. I particularly appreciate the line departure warning system, which t­ riggers an I’ve been at Chalavan for two years now and I work at night. audio signal if I deviate from my lane. The Renault Trucks T is also very I drive a Renault Trucks T truck on the Carros / Toulon route, which maneuverable, docking is always easy and we are able to work without has many difficult climbs. Whatever the load, it handles these gradi­ any fatigue, thanks also to the very flexible power steering. In fact, ents without incident at 80-85 km/h. I never have to change down, I drive it just like I drive my car!”. 52 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT The Renault Trucks T is Chalavan et Duc’s T E L L U S A B O U T YO U R B U S I N E S S most reliable, cost effective and efficient vehicle. Not to mention its safety! This means our drivers The company was founded in 1955 and today has a workcan fully concentrate on their mission and the force of 1,100. In France, our b ­ iggest client is La Poste, road ahead. All of which results in keeping our customers s­ atisfied!,” says Christian Duc, which exclusively rents vehicles with drivers, an activity Technical and Purchasing Manager which accounts for 70% of our business. Other customers for Chalavan et Duc. are in industrial freight, logistics, services and training. We cover all parts of the country and also provide regional and urban delivery services. H O W I S YO U R F L E E T M A D E U P ? We have a very diversified fleet to meet all of our customers’ specific and increasingly demanding needs. We have been operating Renault Trucks vehicles for twenty years and they account for 35% of our fleet, which will continue to grow. Chalavan We renew the T range tractor trucks every 5 et Duc years. The trucks have 2 lives. During the first 2 F orwarding and distribution of years, they travel about 25,000 to 30,000 km per month, goods in France. Founded in and that falls to 5,000 or 6,000 km in the second part of 1955. 7 agencies in France. 1,100 staff members, including the vehicle’s life. 1,000 drivers. 1,200 vehicle registration cards, including 700 motor vehicles. 35% Renault Trucks vehiW H AT I S T H E R E N A U LT T R U C K S T ’ S M O S T cles. 250,000 to 300,000 km covI M P O R TA N T F E AT U R E S ? ered per year and per vehicle. Unquestionably its reliability, low fuel consumption, ­comfort and safety! Reliability because it’s currently the vehicle with the lowest failure rate. Fuel consumption because it’s lower than those of equivalent trucks thanks to its automated manual gearbox. As for comfort and safety, these are two aspects I have learnt about from our drivers and company instructors. All these characteristics work together, allowing us to accomplish our missions on time. We must mention that La Presse, a subsidiary of La Poste, imposes strict time constraints. For example, on a run scheduled to take about 12 hours, we are only allowed a margin of 5 minutes. Furthermore, this customer’s satisfaction rate must never be less than 98%. At the last meeting, it stood at 99.8%. the rate takes into account delays due to the driver or the vehicle. Thanks to the Renault Trucks T we achieved this performance, since we had a 0% breakdown rate during the period concerned. H O W G O O D I S YO U R R E L AT I O N S H I P W I T H YO U R R E N A U LT T R U C K S D E A L E R ? We use the highly responsive 24/7 service and the Clovis rental service, which offers a diverse range of vehicles that meet our needs. We also use their trainers to take care of new vehicle handovers. Repairs are carried out either at our in-house workshops or at Renault Trucks after-sales service centers all over France. The fast delivery of spare parts they offer allows us to considerably reduce vehicle downtime. 53 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL RETAIL & SERVICE R E TA I L & S E R V I C E Making customers succeed Our retail and service personnel work close to the customers to understand and support the challenges they are facing. The global network of skilled service technicians maximizes uptime and reduces the risk of unplanned stops for our customers. O ne of our strategic priorities is to establish brandspecific sales operations with a focus on retail CLIMBING THE SERVICE L ADDER ... excellence and a growing service business. The Uptime solutions respective brand organizations within the Volvo TOTAL SOLUTIONS Uptime services Group support customers through efficient dealer Service contracts workshops, service and maintenance agreements. With our service contracts and connected equipment, customers know when their Fleet & asset management BUNDLED SERVICES vehicle or machine is due for service and what the cost will be for Leasing/rental maintenance and repairs. Roadside assistance services are avail­ Insurance able whenever customers need support. Customer financing TRADITIONAL We work with continuous improvement through dealer develop­ Emergency services ment programs to ensure our customers get the best service. Workshop services Spare parts Supporting customers around the globe Vehicles/machines During 2017, the spare parts and services in total represented approximately 21% of the Volvo Group’s net sales, compared to 22% in 2016. As services are needed on a continuous basis while our products are in use, they help to balance out the fluctuations in Volvo Construction Equipment (CE) in North America launched our business cycle. an UpTime center where they provide ActiveCare Direct, a 24-7/365 Clear and transparent information is important for customers to active machine monitoring and monthly fleet reporting system. They make an informed decision about our products and services. For also launched a 24-hour parts guarantee for the US. Read more on example, customers can receive environmental product information how Volvo Group increases uptime for customers through con­ for many of our products, based on life­c ycle assessment. For more nected services on page 66–67. details, please see the GRI (G4) Index at v­ olvogroup.com. Responsible sales Deliver uptime Since 2014 we have a Responsible Sales process covering busi­ In 2017 both Volvo Trucks and Renault Trucks introduced new ness ethics, social and environmental factors, developed primarily to remote services through Volvo Remote Programming and Mack secure customer financing. The project was initiated following the Over the Air. Trucks equipped with these services no longer need to Swedish Government’s introduction of requirements on the S ­ wedish be rerouted to a service facility for certain updates. Export Credit Agency, EKN, to include human rights due diligence in their credit assessments of customers. 54 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL RETAIL & SERVICE Everyday heroes TA N K E E S E N G TECHNICIAN , SINGAPORE Singapore’s multicultural identity is reflected in the Volvo CE dealership. There is staff with Burmese, Malaysian, Chinese, Indian and Singaporean origins. Technician Tan Kee Seng is Singaporean and one of the most expe­ rienced members of the team. He has been working as a machine technician since the 1980s and joined Volvo CE a couple of years ago. Today, his work includes repairs, organizing tasks in the workshop and communicating with customers. Our skilled staff keeps our customers operations running they are our everyday heroes. The Responsible Sales process is used for sales in high-risk seg­ ments and countries, as defined in our CSR Country Risk Atlas, for GROWING SERVICES sales using governmental export credit agencies and other private PRODUCTS/SERVICES insurance companies. The Atlas is tailor-made for the Volvo Group * using risk indices from a global risk analytics company and based * on a combination of business ethical, environmental and human * rights factors. During 2017, the Group had about 24% of its sales in Uptime services high risk countries, as defined by the Atlas. Insurance Untapped potential Untapped market Each Business Area is responsible for implementing the process on existing fleet share potential Financing in their respective organization. During 2017, Volvo CE has taken Workshop the lead to develop the process further, including a policy document Spare parts for Responsible Sales. By the end of 2017, the geographical scope for Volvo CE was Europe, the Middle East, Africa and South America. Vehicles/Machines Further, Volvo CE conducted workshops with management teams in MARKET SHARE Southeast Asia and South America to discuss and learn about potential risks in respective markets. For Volvo Trucks and Renault Trucks the geographical scope was Africa, the Middle East and Growing the sales of services is of priority for the Volvo Group. One way is to increase the market share and thereby grow the population of products South America. Volvo Buses continues with a global scope for new to service and another is to increase the penetration of services in the customers in high risk countries, but due to the nature of their busi­ installed fleet. ness very few customers are currently assessed. During the year, the number of assessments performed by Volvo Trucks and Renault Trucks was 54 (46) and by Volvo CE 59 (34). Risks were identified in 10% of the cases, mainly related to the areas of corruption, environment, occupational health and safety. Identified risks were investigated and in one case, EKN is placing requirements on Volvo CE to mitigate risks as a pre-condition for customer financing, with bi-annual progress reports to EKN. This is a joint pilot project between EKN and Volvo CE and lessons learned and results will be evaluated together. 55 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT SERVICE CASE AUSTRALIA The power of good service Customer loyalty starts at the dealership. The Volvo Group’s global retail network, and its dedicated staff, is key to customer satisfaction. Australia’s SRH Milk ­Haulage and their Volvo Group dealer, VCV Newcastle, is a case for how strong customer service brings advantage both for the dealer and the customer. 56 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT T wo hours north of Sydney, you find the rolling hills and dales of the Hunter Valley. Unlike most of this bone-dry continent, the Hunter receives enough rain to support a ­thriving dairy industry. Nestled amidst the valley’s green fields is the town of Rutherford, the home of SRH Milk Haulage, a family business that’s grown into one of Australia’s largest and most successful milk transport companies. “When my wife Regina and I started the company twenty years ago, we had one truck and someone else’s trailer,” says Managing Director Scott Harvey. Now the company has a fleet of 36 tankers servicing Australia’s east coast, from Victoria to Queensland, and another 15 on the other side of the country in Western Australia. All but two of their trucks are Volvo or Mack. CONT. There’s no fail option S cott Harvey and his wife Regina started SRH Milk Haulage 20 years ago with just one truck, now they have more than 50 tankers. Cows never stop producing milk, so SRH works 24/7, 365 days a year and they can’t afford to miss a single delivery. For Scott Harvey, keeping his trucks on the road 24/7 is an obsession and, when things go wrong, the stress levels On top of the game can get extreme. W “Juggling trucks all over the country to make sure you orkshop manager Jamie Maher handles all don’t miss a deadline gets complicated and VCV Newcastle aspects of the daily servicing that keeps the take a lot of the stress out of it,” says Scott Harvey. SRH fleet on the road. “Through our service agreements we can plan everything “Things can change at any time in this industry, so we upfront, but what matters to me is that they’ll do have to re-arrange things all the time. VCV Newcastle have whatever it takes, whenever necessary, to got very good at adapting to us and making sure we keep my trucks on the road. They under­ get what we need when we need it. They’re good stand what matters to us, they’re prac­ people to deal with, they genuinely understand tical and flexible, and they get it right the urgency of a milk tanker that’s sitting on the first time. They’ve got the best prod­ side of the road.” uct, best service and best parts He has noticed a continuous improvement in package, but most importantly VCV Newcastle’s level of service over the years. they’ve got the right attitude. That’s “They’ve really gone out of their way for us what makes great customer service many times, I can’t ask them for much more than and it makes it easy for me to decide that. Certainly when compared with some other where to buy my next truck.” manufacturers, they’re right on top of the game.” 57 SERVICE CASE AUSTRALIA C O N T. “We’ve used Volvos for years, so when Mack started coming out with similar Volvo Group technology, we thought we’d give them a go. Some of my drivers like having a bonnet in front of them and the Mack Super-Liner is ideal for hauling road trains around Western Australia. We’ve got three Macks and more on the way.” For Scott Harvey, the key factor in this decision was that the Volvo and Mack trucks are built and serviced by Volvo Group Australia. “For me, the service I get from the dealer is the decisive factor in any purchase. Any truck will do the job we do, but it’s the support that counts. When things start to get complicated, you appreciate genuine customer service and VCV Newcastle does a brilliant job,” he says. As evidence of how seriously he takes this, Scott ­Harvey keeps a spare tractor sitting idle in the yard. If there is a breakdown, that truck goes to take over. “We send that truck whether or not we think we’ll get the Brand Manager Scott Hughes explains that understanding breakdown fixed before it arrives. It’s not worth the risk of his customers’ business intimately and providing the best leaving 20,000 liters of milk on the side of the road,” he says. possible level of customer service is critical. This zero-tolerance approach led to SRH putting their “We’ve spent the last few years really getting to know entire fleet on service agreements. Under these, all 73 staff Scott Harvey’s business and adapting the way we work to at Volvo Commercial Vehicles (VCV) in nearby Newcastle suit them, not the other way around. Scott knows that any take responsibility for the predictive maintenance and of his people can call us and we’ll solve their problem, scheduled servicing that keeps the SRH fleet on the road. whatever it is. For me, providing excellent customer service Outside the VCV dealership a gleaming Mack Supercomes down to this: Never Say No – Adapt and OverLiner leaves you in no doubt what they sell here. Inside, come,” says Scott Hughes. Driving “Good service always sells. In a growing market there are factors such as production capacity and tralia today. Generally, when customers call us, we first say – ‘Yes!’ Then we work out the details,” exceeding expectations and finding solutions. “If a customer comes to us with growth supply chain efficiency that influence sales, but in a market where says Peter Voorhoeve, Managing Director Volvo Group Australia. His definition of good service is a problem – we solve it. But that doesn’t mean doing a repair and handing the customer a massive through things are not going so well and where customers are taking more about being empathetic and askbill. Instead, we always ensure an time to make decisions, service is ing what does the customer open dialogue. By keeping the service a greater ­differentiator. We’ve built a solutions-focused culture in Ausexpect from me and how can I deliver it? It is about meeting or customer informed, we can avoid unpleasant surprises.” 58 S cott Hughes at VCV Newcastle is convinced of planned preventive maintenance, and the better his team knows the customer’s business, the more it enables his crew to plan their schedule. Despite that, emergencies can always arise. “Our customers know that if one of their trucks is off the road, we won’t stop until it’s up and running. We do everything we can to maximize their uptime and that’s why they keep coming back. More than half our sales are repeat business,” he says. VCV Newcastle’s success can be seen in the activity level in the workshop. A few years ago, they were achieving 2,500 sold hours per month, now it’s 5,000, largely due to repeat sales and service agreements. “When a customer buys a ­service agreement, what they’re really buying is uptime. My entire team takes pride in keeping our customers’ trucks on the road.” 18 27.2 truck brands compete in the Australian market including Volvo Trucks, was the combined % market share for the Group’s truck brands in Volvo Trucks, 15.4% Mack Trucks, 8.5% UD Trucks, 3.3% UD Trucks and Mack Trucks. Australia in 2017. 59 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL REUSE REUSE Better business with circularity Efficient use of resources, lower energy consumption and reduced emissions contribute to lower costs for the company, improved cost of ownership for the customer and less impact on the environment for the society. T o repair, renovate, reuse and recycle components and parts reduces costs and promotes circularity. With higher demands from our customers and their customers on resource efficiency and lower environ­ 85% of a truck produced by mental footprints, we see potential for this business. Volvo Group is recyclable. In order to take further advantage of the opportunities, our remanu­ facturing business is part of our product development. In 2017, total Volvo Group sales of remanufactured components amounted to over SEK 9 billion, compared with almost SEK 9 billion in 2016. In the last 8 years, sales from the Volvo Group remanufacturing busi­ ness have increased by a yearly average of 10%. The first Volvo Group remanufacturing center opened in 1960 in Flen, Sweden. genuine Volvo Penta parts, the Volvo Penta Exchange ­ system Other centers are located in France, Japan, Brazil, USA, China ­enables customers to have components replaced faster and offers a and India. cost effective alternative to repair and overhaul. Today, Volvo Penta offers more than 600 components in the Exchange s­ ystem. Save costs for customers Volvo Trucks and Renault Trucks brands see a continued growth Remanufactured components are offered to Volvo Group custom­ in the new, more basic versions of the brands’ exchange Automated ers worldwide. The exchange system works by customers receiving Manual Transmission (AMT) gearboxes. The new products offer a and installing a factory remanufactured component and returning more sustainable and cost-effective solution for customers with the replaced component to the dealer. Through exchange, engines, ageing vehicles. The gearboxes are produced through remanufac­ gearboxes, exhaust filters and rear axle transmissions can be reno­ turing, which uses 80% less energy and material than producing a vated to the same condition as new parts. Customers benefit from new component. These basic gearboxes are delivered without the same quality and a full warranty, delivered at a lower price. ­several electronic features, which means they are less expensive to In 2016 Volvo Penta expanded its offer of factory remanufactured produce and have a lower retail price than original remanufactured exchange components for marine products with drives and compo­ gearboxes. nents for the Inboard Performance System (IPS). With a guarantee of providing the same quality, reliability and performance as new 60 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL REUSE TA K I N G A DVA N TAG E OF OPPORTUNITIES USE UFACTURE MAN N& ESIG D REUSE O R E S OU R C E P R MAINTAIN CE SI S NG MATERIAL RECYCLE ENERGY END OF LIFE WASTE THE ABILITY TO REUSE, recycle, renovate and repair parts and components is considered already in product development. It supports a growing remanufacturing business, less waste and reduced environmental impact. Financial and environmental benefits Promoting circularity A truck produced by the Volvo Group is largely recyclable, since In Sweden, lithium-ion batteries from Volvo Buses electrified buses almost 85% of its weight consists of metal – mostly iron, steel and in Gothenburg will get a second life in a building project, Positive aluminum. The additional materials are mainly plastic, rubber and Footprint Housing. Second life batteries will be used together with material from electronics components. solar panels for local energy storage and production. The purpose is The Volvo Group works consistently with lean methodologies to use to study energy management and value over time. The energy stor­ less material as well as processes to integrate more recycled materi­ age in the building is being developed collaboratively between the als, reduce waste and energy, recover heat, and assess our water foot­ energy sector, building sector and vehicle sector to demonstrate print. As well as extending the life-time of our products and reducing and research future energy solutions. Batteries for storing solar costs for our customers, remanufacturing ensures that potentially energy already exist on the market but the aim of this project is to ­dangerous residuals inside worn components are dealt with correctly. prolong the lives of batteries built to recharge quickly at bus stops The Volvo Group has together with suppliers managed to extract and to see if their lives may be extended by 10 to 15 years if used in palladium and platinum from the diesel particulate filters that were buildings with less load. Considering the great potential of electri­ scrapped in the process. The environmental impact in terms of saved fied vehicles and machines, reuse and extended life is positive both energy, landfill and mining were substantial, particularly as the from a total cost of ownership perspective for the bus operator and remaining resources globally of palladium and platinum are limited. from an environmental perspective. 61 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT ELECTROMOBILIT Y High speed towards electrification There is no doubt electrification will play a big part in the transport industry of the future. Electric vehicles will significantly lower carbon emissions, noise and other emissions and over long term be the preferred choice for most applications. There are challenges, but technological advances, especially in energy infrastructure, battery storage and battery charging, will gradually reduce costs and improve performance, making electric concepts more feasible, even for heavy vehicles. In a sense the Volvo Group is already in the future with its offering of hybrid buses, fully electric buses and complete transport solutions including charging infrastructure. Volvo Buses is spearheading the Group’s development in this area and has already delivered more than 3,800 Volvo branded hybrid buses and fully electric buses. “We have with our hybrid and electric buses shown that Volvo Group has the competence to be in a leading position also when it comes to electromobility. We will take these steps also with our trucks and construction equipment,” says Lars Stenqvist, Volvo Group Chief Technology Officer. Volvo Buses taking the next step There is a general trend to improve air quality in city centers. This means Volvo will a growing demand for transport capacity without increasing environmental stress. The need for safety zones, silent zones, zero emission areas and bring auto­ even indoor terminals has become a reality. Volvo Buses has a complete offer, including charging infrastructure and everything else a city needs nomous to get started. In October Volvo Buses launched a new version of its all-electric bus, the ­electric buses Volvo 7900 Electric. With significantly extended range and more charging options, the new Volvo 7900 Electric offers bus operators even greater flexito ­Singapore V bility. Battery capacity, in particular, has been significantly extended comolvo Buses and Nanyang Technological University (NTU) pared with before. The new Volvo 7900 Electric is available with a choice of in Singapore have signed a cooperation agreement on 150, 200 and 250 kWh. This means that the bus can run far longer between a research and development program for autonomous charges, allowing it to be utilized more efficiently throughout the day. electric 12-metre buses. The program is part of the Land Transport The all-electric bus is based on the Group’s modular electrical architecture Authority of Singapore’s drive to create new solutions for that will also be the base for the electrification of trucks, construction ­tomorrow’s sustainable public transport. equipment and other industrial and marine applications. Watch videos about electric vehicles on volvogroup.com. 62 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT Key drivers for ­electrification  Sustainable transport solutions  are increasingly important for ­customers. Mack Truck test drives S tricter targets for emissions, air quality and noise in many cities. new eHighway In Europe, some cities are planning T rucks hauling freight from ports emit a lot to ban access for diesel vehicles of greenhouse gases. To experiment with within the next few years. different means of achieving zero-emission goods movement, a new eHighway near busy seaports E lectricity is both less costly in California, on which trucks can connect to electric power, is being tested. A Mack Truck is one of three prototype and depending on source more trucks involved in the project, offering the Volvo Group a unique sustainable, partly thanks to the learning opportunity. breakthrough in solar energy. A dvances in battery technology make it possible to drive vehicles longer distances, at a lower cost and with faster charging. B atteries are becoming less costly. P ublic transport is becoming much more comfortable and ­efficient. Fully electric Both Volvo Trucks and distribution truck Renault Trucks will start selling from Renault Trucks ­electric trucks in 2019 O n November 10, Renault Trucks PresI n January 2018 both Volvo Trucks and Renault ident Bruno Blin handed the keys of a Trucks announced that they will start selling prototype of a 13 ton Renault Trucks electric medium-duty distribution trucks D 100% Electric equipped with a refrigerated in Europe 2019. The first units will be put into box to Brigitte Delanchy head of Delanchy ­operation together with a few selected reference Transports. Delanchy Transports is specialist customers already this year. in temperature-controlled transport and logistics, has been a customer of Renault Trucks since the company’s start 50 years ago and today has a fleet of 700 trucks exclusively from Renault Trucks. 63 A U TO M AT I O N The automation evolution provides real-life benefits We believe that automation will redefine the commercial transport solutions that most of us rely on every day. Automation will create real-life benefits for both our customers and the society in terms of productivity and safety as well as energy and fuel efficiency. Since the ideal automation level is determined by its added value for customers and society, Volvo Group will introduce automated applications gradually over time. Platooning: saving fuel by driving together U sing connectivity, trucks in a platoon or road-train can communicate with each other. Distance, speed and braking can all be controlled. The follower trucks use radar and camera and receive information from the trucks in front. Today, the average platoon can save up to 10% of a truck’s fuel consumption. This figure will rise to 15% in the coming decade, as trucks drive closer and closer to each other. CO2 emissions are also reduced as a result of fuel being saved, while safety is increased by the connected trucks sharing information. Volvo Group is testing platooning in Europe, the US, and Japan, most recently in a trial in Sweden involving Volvo trucks together with trucks from other brands. 64 T he Volvo Group has been at the forefront of this automated evolution for over two decades. The I-Shift automated gearbox has been on the market Meet the refuse truck since the early 2000s, while active safety that drives itself systems such as Adaptive Cruise Control and Collision Warning with Emergency T here is a risk of accidents when refuse trucks reverse in housing areas. With a Brake have set standards as industry self-driving truck, only one driver is leaders in the last few years. As automarequired. The truck reverses automatically, following the driver around houses collecting refuse. This tion advances, new solutions and serresearch project with Swedish recycling company vices and an evolving business model are Renova helps to increase both productivity and safety. the inevitable result. The automated solutions currently being developed place the human very much at the center. The technology might involve replacing the characteristics of a human with those of a machine, but the focus is totally based on the customer experience. Watch videos about automated vehicles on. volvogroup.com Increasing Autonomous the sugar driving cane harvest – under ground A S prime example of how automated technology can conelf-driving Volvo FMX trucks are being tested in regular tribute to profitability. Trucks were previously destroying operations at Boliden. The trucks contribute to increasing a significant percentage of this Brazilian sugar cane productivity and safety, as they can keep working directly farmer’s crops. Using an automated function, the truck follows after blasting has taken place. Normally a wait is required before the harvesters’ footsteps saving thousand of dollars. The driver work can commence. This is an example of full automation in a accelerates and brakes, but is supported by automatic steering. confined area, where no driver is needed. Thus, a great deal of the young plants are saved. 65 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT CONNECTIVIT Y Connected services increasing uptime In the spring of 2017, both Mack Trucks and Volvo Trucks expanded its connected vehicle services with new remote programming to increase truck uptime, reduce downtime costs and improve truck efficiency through Volvo Remote Programming and Mack Over The Air. 66 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 AVSNITT T wo categories of software updates are available through the new services, one for powertrain components, and the other for vehicle parameters like road speed limits, optimizing performance particularly for customers with trucks that change duty cycles based on factors such as economics, load type and geographic area. With Volvo Remote Programming and Mack Over The Air, trucks no longer need to be removed from service and routed to a repair facility for certain powertrain software and parameter updates. Improving the availability of trucks equates to more money. On average, each additional day of uptime equates to about USD 1,100 in additional revenue. REMOTE PROGRAMMING DOWNLOADING 78% Additionally, those who have historically not performed ­software updates due to cost or inconvenience can quickly and easily keep their trucks operating at optimal performance. Optimized fleet utilization with telematics Information is a means of competitiveness in the transport business. Keeping track of a fleet is necessary to maintain a clear overview of the operation. The bottom line is increased revenue through improved utilization, and lower operating expenses through fuel control and optimized administration. The Volvo Group’s different brands offer a range of integrated transport information systems based on the latest digital, wireless communication technologies. Remote Diagnostics and GuardDog Connect are two such systems, which provide Volvo Trucks and Mack Trucks customers in North America with proactive diagnostic and repair planning assistance with detailed analysis of critical diagnostic trouble codes. The remote communication platform facilitates live dealer and customer communication through Volvo Action Service. Certified UpTime Centers are ready to service and repair the trucks when they arrive at the dealer. The Volvo Group’s Uptime Solutions Centers provide support to Volvo Trucks, Volvo Buses, Volvo Penta, UD Trucks, Renault Trucks and Mack Trucks in locations around the globe. 67 EMPLOYEES People make transport solutions AT T R AC T I N G A N D E N G AG I N G E M P L OY E E S The Volvo Group aspires to take the lead in developing prosperity through innovative and sustainable transport solutions. To be successful in this challenging but inspiring context, people are and will continue to be the most important asset in our company. Thus, the key to future success lies in our ability to attract, develop and retain the right people and to create a culture that truly engages employees. A D M I R E D E M P L OY E R E very organization exists for a reason. Our mission is to The open and honest dialogue between employees and leaders drive prosperity through transport solutions. In a world across the organization has been a key driver behind the strength­ that is changing faster than ever before, disruptive ened engagement. To maintain the upward trend, we will continue to innovation and global competition will continue to focus on dialogue and increased collaboration. Other key areas are increase. Values will increasingly guide people and enhanced customer experience and simplified structures. organizations in how to act and make decisions. Organizations that have a higher purpose and show commitment towards the commu­ Securing the competence of tomorrow nities in which they operate will be more successful in attracting and There are many ways to secure the competence of tomorrow and engaging potential as well as current employees. become the most admired employer in our industry. The Volvo Since the launch of our strategy in early 2016, we have continu­ Group cooperates with top engineering and business universities ally worked on revitalizing our culture. By embedding our values – worldwide. We create a close connection to selected target groups customer success, trust, passion, change and performance – in our of students through study visits and internships at Volvo Group and day-to-day behavior we have laid the foundation for a high perfor­ on-campus company activities. mance culture and strong employee engagement. By letting our Our Academic Partner Program, APP, is a highly exclusive pro­ values guide both leaders and employees in their work, we are able gram for selected universities worldwide. The program consists of to make faster and smarter decisions, create solutions that add 11 preferred partners in Sweden, France, the US, China and Japan more value to customers, increase both internal and external collab­ that perform research, education and competence development in oration and have more fun while doing it. areas that match the future business needs of the Volvo Group. The program has three different modules – research, talent and learning Engagement drives performance – designed to provide us with cutting-edge research findings, A highly engaged workforce makes all the difference for a company, increased employer attractiveness and the best-in-class trainings as high engagement fuels both performance and innovation. The and pedagogic methodologies developed by the academic world. voice of the employees is captured yearly in the Volvo Group Atti­ We have expanded our palette of graduate programs and offer tude Survey (VGAS). two alternatives; the Volvo Group International Graduate Program 93% of all employees responded in the 2017 edition of the survey. and the Volvo Group Engineering Graduate program. Both aim at For the second year in a row, there was an increase in the Employee securing future skills and competencies, by recruiting the best Engagement Index, from 72% engaged employees in 2016 to 75% global graduates and strengthening the attractiveness of the Volvo in 2017. Group as an employer. 68 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL EMPLOYEES A dynamic work environment with many opportunities A G L O B A L O R G A N I Z AT I O N Regular employees 2017 EUROPE 47,561 55% NORTH AMERICA ASIA 15,882 16,526 18% 19% 4,774 2,361 5% 3% SOUTH AMERICA AFRICA AND OCEANIA EUGENIA WRETMAN M A N AG E R , S H E E T In terms of vocational training, The Volvo Step is a major initiative M E TA L P U R C H A S I N G in Sweden. This program in industrial production is designed to “ I am a mother of two children, bring young people out of unemployment while at the same time ensuring future competencies for the Group. ten and five years old. I am very happy to work at the Volvo Strategic leader development Group, because I have the We are in a people business. In the Volvo Group, we consider talent opportunity to have an exciting to be a strategic asset as it is our people who turn strategy into career and to be able to take action and create value, for customers as well as for the Group. care of my family at the same We have a structured process to increase knowledge about our ­talents and how they can best develop, for the benefit of the com­ time. I think people who are pany as well as for their own careers. In addition, it secures that we working at Volvo all over the world feel they are working in a company with a strong culture P R O G R E S S I N E M P L OY E E E N G A G E M E N T when it comes to respect for the individual and the environ­ The Volvo Group Attitude Survey results show an improvement in the Employee Engagement Index ment as well as the absence of from 72% in 2016 to 75% in 2017. hierarchies. For people like me who value a dynamic work environment, with a lot of opportunities and interaction, in the forefront of technologi­ cal development, the Volvo 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Group is the right place to 76 72 71 72 75 % employee work.” engagement 69 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL EMPLOYEES Taraneh Vosough, Purchasing Quality I N N O VAT I V E L E A R N I N G D E S I G N I N T H E Manager at Volvo Buses. VO LVO G R O U P U N I V E R S I T Y T he world we live in demands of us the ability to absorb Training courses are developed together with the business new information faster and more efficiently than to make sure the content does not only raise participants’ before. At Volvo Group, we need to meet this new knowledge and sharpen their skills, but also matches the busi­ reality by shortening the time to knowledge. One way of doing ness needs. The broad training offer ranges from virtual, inter­ that is to use the ­latest findings on how people learn. Another active serious games to e-learning and classroom training. way is to use new instruments for teaching, such as digital tools. Volvo Group University has also developed the award winning In the Volvo Group University, we invest in new ways of learning concept of Group Talks; a modern, authentic and effective and innovative training design to provide learning solutions in all way of spreading knowledge through engaging stories from our major competence areas. By applying the latest research in colleagues, inspired by the “TED Talks” experience. training development and using available technology to access During 2017, approximately 87,000 participants took part in knowledge, we aim to help individuals all across the organiza­ training through the Volvo Group University. tion to grow and reach their full potential. have a solid and diverse leader pipeline and a succession planning plan together with their manager to ensure mutual understanding of with leaders who lead according to our values and drive business responsibilities, expectations, performance and development p ­ otential. into the future. This takes place at all levels of the company. Compensation Management Doing the right things in the right way During 2017, the Volvo Group continued to implement and fine-tune We believe that each individual has the potential to grow and all a global compensation approach in our 20 major countries. The key employees are expected to have a personal business plan that trans­ focus of this approach is to ensure a link between fair and compet­ lates our corporate strategic objectives into individual objectives. The itive pay and performance. We will continually review the approach plan includes both business-related and competence developmentto ensure it remains relevant and enables us to attract and retain related targets which give the employee essential input for individual our future workforce. growth, both shortand long-term. Every year, employees review their 70 A GLOBAL GROUP BUSINESS MODEL EMPLOYEES L A B O R R E L AT I O N S – A PA R T N E R S H I P B A S E D O N T R U S T Having a trustful and collaborative partnership with our employees An open dialogue creates solutions as well as the unions and works-councils that represent them, is The Volvo Group maintains an open dialogue and a respectful, col­ crucial for the long-term success of the Volvo Group. The newly laborative partnership with employee representatives to solve labor revised Volvo Group Code of Conduct strengthens the expectations related issues. As a result, the number of working days lost through on our employee-employer-relationship even further. To enable dia­ lockouts or strikes within the Volvo Group were 0.05% (0.33), i.e. logue and ensure we capture the views of our employees, they are remained on a fairly stable and low level with a decreasing trend. represented in several different forums. Strikes were mainly related to negotiations about salary and work­ There are three ordinary and two deputy members appointed by ing time regulations, but also due to general nation-wide strikes employee organizations in the AB Volvo Board of Directors. against governmental changes in some countries. ­Members in the Volvo European Works Council (EWC) meet twice a During 2017, the number of compulsory redundancies decreased year to focus on European issues and share best-practice. In addi­ significantly, to 1.6% of the total regular workforce compared to tion, 9 formal information and consultation meetings were con­ 3.5% in 2016. In total, the Volvo Group increased by some 4,500 ducted during 2017. employees due to macroeconomic factors and increased sales Another important forum is the Volvo Global Works Council ­volumes, compared to a decrease of 3,000 employees in 2016. (GWC). It has 50 union representatives from the EWC and from Employee representatives and relevant government authorities wholly-owned Volvo Group companies representing 25 different are notified about major changes in our organization, in accordance countries as its members. On a yearly basis, the Volvo Global with legal requirements. When there are changes, e.g. layoffs, ­Dialogue (VGD) gives employee representatives from the GWC the restructuring or outsourcing, that affect members of trade unions opportunity to meet with the Volvo Group Executive Board and and/or works councils, the Volvo Group enters into consultation and Group Manage­ment. In 2017, the VGD was held in Lyon, France and negotiations. 41 (61) consultations and negotiations were held with the theme for the event was “How to manage the Volvo Group trans­ trade unions during 2017. An additional 30 (84) consultations were formation in order to face future challenges”. held with works councils or similar representative bodies. When implementing significant changes, we ensure that the Freedom of association notice periods for employees and their representatives that are out­ We respect the right of all employees to form and join a union, just lined by country legislation or collective bargaining agreements as we respect their choice to refrain from joining a union, as stated (CBA) are always respected. In the spirit of the Volvo Group culture, in the Code of Conduct. We estimate that more than 42% (41) of our we strive to find reasonable solutions for employees who are laid regular employees were members of an independent trade union off. Our measures include internal mobility forums and outplace­ during 2017. In all our major countries such as Sweden, the US, ment support. Japan and Brazil, we note a significantly higher union density rate than the average according to ILO labor statistics. The Collective Bargaining Agreements (CBA) coverage rate indi­ cator measures the percentage of employees who are covered by a CBA, regardless of whether they belong to a trade union or not. In total, 71% (72) of the Volvo Group’s regular employees in 21 (22) countries are covered by a CBA, which means that this indicator is significantly higher than the OECD average. 71 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL EMPLOYEES V olvo Penta is making inroads in the agricultural segment, supplying engines and services to a growing number of equipment manufac­ turers. Pictured here is a beet harvester. H E A LT H , S A F E T Y A N D W E L L B E I N G A R E H I G H O N T H E AG E N DA We work actively to provide sound working conditions and integrate the criteria of health, safety and well-being into the design of our prod­ H E A LT H & S A F E T Y * ucts and facilities. A safe and healthy workplace means ­caring not only for our employees but also for our customers and shareholders, as Lost time wellbeing at work leads to increased performance, higher productivity accident rate and stronger employee engagement. Number of fatal accidents The Volvo Group policy on Health and Safety is founded on the belief that accidents, near misses and work-related illnesses can be prevented. Minimizing the physical and psychological risks in 13 14 15 16 17 the workplace is essential to ensure the wellbeing of our employ­ 1.97 1.59 1.38 1.06 1.00 ees, customers, visitors and suppliers we work with. During 2017, 1 3 0 0 3 *The scope of employees included in the numbers have increased we have taken further steps to improve both the physical and psy­ substantially over the past five years and in 2017 it covers 100%. chological work environment. Among other things, we have intro­ duced a new ergonomics guideline for manufacturing, mindfulness 72 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL EMPLOYEES e ­ xercises, wellbeing measurements and workshops as well as a new 18001 certification, Volvo Production System and health and safety Mental Energy Pro app, designed to boost creativity and cognitive audits. 34 out of 67 production sites were OHSAS 18001 certified performance. Health and Safety is high on the agenda for top man­ in 2017. In 2017 we achieved zero accidents at 21 plants compared agement and the Executive Board. The commitment to making to 16 in 2016. health and safety an integral part of daily operations is strong all across management levels. Award-winning best practices For more than a decade, the Volvo Group Health & Safety award has A commitment to safety highlighted internal best practices. In 2017, 43 initiatives from 15 Our Lost Time Accident Rate was 1.00 in 2017, covering 100% of different countries competed, representing a broad range of innova­ employees. Compared to 2016, we noted an improvement of 6%. tive improvements. The winners, the Hagerstown Powertrain plant In the last four years we have a decrease in the accident rate. in the US, were awarded for their exceptional journey in terms of ­Notwithstanding that, we had 3 fatalities in our retail workshops in health and safety culture. By combining knowledge, collaboration, 2017. We take this very seriously and have established a particular trust and ownership they developed a broader health and safety focus on safety in these activities. The Volvo Group addresses the perspective and in three years managed to achieve a 50% to 70% topic of health and safety in many different ways, e.g. OHSAS reduction in accidents and lost days. DIVERSIT Y AND INCLUSION MAKE US STRONGER In the Volvo Group we know that high performance requires diver­ G E N D E R D I V E R S I T Y O F T H E V O LV O G R O U P W O R K F O R C E sity and inclusion, as they increase innovation and employee engagement, help us collaborate across the globe and enable us to % 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Share of women 18 17 18 17 17 better connect with our diverse customer base. We have been work­ Share of women, ing systematically for over a decade to increase both diversity and presidents and other inclusion and our long-term target is that the Group’s employees senior executives 25 24 22 21 19 and management reflect the diversity of the regions where we do business. We strive to create an inclusive culture where each indi­ Diversity and inclusion every day vidual’s abilities are recognized and everyone is able to contribute to The leaders of each division and business unit are responsible for their full potential. Leveraging our diversity is key to developing suc­ making diversity and inclusive leadership part of day-to-day opera­ cessful products and services and meeting our mission of driving tions. Diversity challenges may differ between countries, regions and prosperity through transport solutions. units. As a result, the diversity approach needs to be localized, even though diversity itself is considered to be a global competitive force. To Zero tolerance for harassment maximize the positive effects of diversity and inclusion there are many In the past year, global consciousness has been raised concerning different local and business specific diversity goals and action plans. harassment with such actions as the #MeToo campaign. The update On a global level we use two key performance indicators to of our Code of Conduct states that we do not tolerate any conduct measure diversity: The Balanced Team Indicator is a quantitative or comments that create, encourage or permit an offensive or measure that covers nationality, gender, age and experience across ­intimidating work environment, from any employee. different Volvo Group entities. The results for 2017 show a strong increase in terms of diversity due to an increase in women on the Diversity and inclusion fuel innovation executive board as well as an increase in female managers overall. In October, the Volvo Group celebrated its fourth edition of Diversity In the level below the Executive Board, average diversity scores and Inclusion Week. The focus was how diversity and inclusion fuel showed a slight improvement. The Inclusiveness Index is based on our innovation. Like in previous years, innovative, creative and how employees judge their workplace to be inclusive. The Inclusive­ hands-on activities took place around the globe, allowing everyone ness Index also showed a marked improvement in 2017. to experience what diversity and inclusion truly means. In addition, we measure gender balance in total and at senior A diverse group will produce more new ideas, be better at creative management level as described in the gender diversity table. At the problem-solving and have a wider network for detecting new trends. end of 2017, women accounted for 18% of the Volvo Group’s global An inclusive mindset means we are open to new ideas and we workforce. The share of women among presidents and senior execu­ accept challenges to our current way of seeing the world. tives was 25%. 73 OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY Business made right is good business To be a economically, environmentally and socially sustainable company, value creation must be executed responsibly. Business ethics and integrity, tax and legal compliance and human rights are therefore integral components of our work. It provides us with a solid foundation on which to build our societal engagement activities and demonstrate leadership towards sustainable development. C O N D U C T I N G B U S I N E S S E T H I C A L LY A N D I N C O M P L I A N C E W I T H T H E L AW The effects of not behaving ethically or conducting business with Complying with legal regulations integrity and in compliance with the law will not only affect the way Legal compliance forms the basis for everything we do in the Volvo companies are perceived, they may also have an impact on profit­ Group. It covers many different areas and involves a variety of employ­ ability. For the Volvo Group, our Code of Conduct sets the framework ees with expertise and knowledge across the Group such as our work for everything we do. related to complying with emissions regulations. Two examples from the Code of Conduct are our commitments to A new Code of Conduct (CoC) comply with antitrust (competition) and anti-corruption laws in all During autumn 2017 a new Volvo Group Code of Conduct was jurisdictions where we conduct business. Our Code of Conduct launched. It is a mandatory Group-wide policy that sets the require­ states that we shall compete in a fair manner on the merits of our ments on how to conduct business; ethically and in compliance with products and services and not participate in or endorse any corrupt the law. The new Code of Conduct states the expectations on how practices. These principles of compliance are implemented through we do business within the Volvo Group everywhere we operate and the Volvo Group Compliance Policy and dedicated compliance it focuses on the requirements and expectations on all employees. ­programs. The Code is publicly available on volvogroup.com. The Code of Con­ Across the Group we have programs consisting of a number of duct is complemented by other policies that describe in more detail elements, including policies and guidelines, a comprehensive range how we address the Code’s minimum standards. Both the Code of of e-learning and tailored face-to-face training, counseling and Conduct and a new e-learning are available in 13 languages. ­support, as well as auditing and review. The Volvo Group whistle­ In addition, supporting material is provided that will facilitate team blower procedures also apply to our compliance programs. discussions. The target is that 90% of all white-collar employees The process for anti-corruption due diligence assessments of should complete the new e-learning during 2018. In addition, activ­ business partners aims to enhance the existing processes designed ities will take place to roll out the new Code of C ­ onduct and the to prevent bribery by third parties carrying out business on behalf of e-learning also to all blue-collar employees. the Volvo Group. The system includes the use of external tools, and applies to existing and new business partners. 74 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY Compliance training in the form of e-learning and face-to-face sentatives. If reporting to superiors is not feasible or possible, or is training is provided on a rolling basis with different focus areas each not taken seriously, employees have the possibility of escalating year. In 2015 and 2016, focus was on face-to-face training, and suspected violations to Corporate Audit and the opportunity to during this period more than 13,800 employees received face-toremain anonymous where permitted by law. The Volvo Group does face training in compliance. During 2017, the focus was on up-­dating not tolerate retaliation against a person for making complaints in the Code of Conduct and preparing for the training activities good faith of violations or suspected violations against the Code planned for 2018 linked to the Code of Conduct, including the of Conduct. launch of the new Code of Conduct e-learning in December 2017. In total, 57 (56) reports were logged by Corporate Audit in 2017 including 20 (27) incident reports sent by management. All cases Monitoring adherence were addressed, investigated and reported to the Audit Committee Adherence to the Code of Conduct is monitored through manage­ of the AB Volvo Board of Directors. In total 0 (5) whistleblower ment control systems, internal controls and the annual employee cases and 6 (10) management reports had been substantiated at survey. A whistleblower policy encourages all employees to report the end of the year. The most commonly reported categories were suspected violations to their managers or other management repre­ workplace management and conflicts of interest. 75 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY O U R H U M A N R I G H T S M A N AG E M E N T Our products are built by people, used by people, and serve people sation, as well as modern slavery and child labor. Over time, we may with goods and services. That is why human rights are important to identify other human rights issues which we prioritize. We continu­ the Volvo Group and for our long-term business success. ously moni­tor changes in the international environment, particularly in conflict markets. We also assess changes and potential risks in Social sustainability part of prosperity our own operations and business relationships. This is e.g. done As a global company, the Volvo Group has almost 100,000 employ­ through our human rights due diligence processes, our enterprise ees, close to 48,000 suppliers globally, customers in more than 190 risk management process, union dialogues and industry collabora­ countries and is a part of all communities in which we operate. That tion and benchmarks. sums up to a lot of people in our value chain, living and working in To steer our work with human rights we have established a different countries around the world, including countries with higher cross-functional steering committee with members of the Executive risks of human rights violations. All countries have their own laws, Board. The steering committee will also act as an escalation organ cultural norms, social and economic challenges and varying degrees for potential severe human rights violations identified in our busi­ of state protection for human rights. For the Volvo Group, respecting ness or through business relationships. human rights is a part of our opportunity to drive prosperity through­ out our value chain for all people touched by our business. Working with human rights Our human rights work is a continuous journey. We strive to identify, The Volvo Group respects human rights prevent and mitigate potential negative human rights impacts in our Our human rights management work is integrated into our overall own organization and through our business relationships. Our efforts work on responsible and ethical business behavior. During 2017 we are focused where we believe there are the highest risks of doing updated our Code of Conduct to be clearer on what is expected harm to people, based on country risk levels for human rights viola­ from employees. This includes the human rights areas which we tions (prioritized by relevant indices from a global risk analytics com­ currently believe are most important for the Volvo Group; harass­ pany), high risk segments and/or if there are potential non-conformi­ ments, non-discrimination, safe and healthy workplace, freedom of ties brought to our attention. Read more on our people related risks association and collective bargaining, working hours and compen­ on page 115. For different parts of our business we are continuously V O C AT I O N A L S C H O O L S F O R M E C H A N I C S AND DRIVERS T he Volvo Group has The next move is to start a run vocational training vocational training program for schools for mechanics truck drivers in Ethiopia and in Africa since 2013. The first Morocco during 2018. school was opened in Ethiopia The training is based on and several groups of students cooperation with the Swedish have now completed the course International Development there. In 2016 schools were Cooperation Agency (SIDA), opened in Zambia and the American equivalent Morocco. USAID and the UN Industrial “This helps to create jobs Development Organization. and promote economic growth Read about our vocational in these countries, while also schools for mechanics and benefiting our business and drivers on volvogroup.com. that of our customers,” says Johan Reiman, responsible for the vocational schools within the Group. 76 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY tailoring and improving our due diligence processes for optimized ants, and other people working on Volvo Group premises (e.g. ser­ results, based on common tools, risk analysis, and aligned with each vice providers). By the end of 2017 we decided to continue with the Business Area’s/Truck Division’s strategic priorities. human rights reviews for Group operations, initially focusing on During 2017, we finalized our pilot project for the human rights operations in high risk countries. review process that we have developed and tailored for Volvo Group On page 47 there is more information on our Sustainable Pur­ operations, based on input from the Danish Institute for Business chasing Program and how we work with human rights due diligence and Human Rights, as well as the UN Global Compact’s self-as­ in our supply chain, including progress made during 2017. sessment tool. In the pilot, we conducted human rights reviews For our sales, we strive to ensure that we follow all applicable through self-evaluations and workshops with the management legal and export control regulations, and the products are sold team responsible for the operations of concern, followed by exten­ openly and without restrictions. We have limited possibilities to sive stakeholder dialogues, joint development of mitigation plans influence how the products will be used as they are resold many with local management and continuous follow-up. During 2017 two times throughout their life. Since 2014 we have continuously devel­ assessments where finalized; one in India, being a high risk country, oped our Responsible Sales process, read more on page 54. and one to test the first part of the review process in a low risk During the first half of 2017, we published Modern Slavery State­ country, Germany. The assessment included all employees, consult­ ments for relevant companies within the Volvo Group. R E S P O N S I B L E TA X P R A C T I C E S Given the role of taxes as a way to fund public welfare, we regard corporate tax compliance as a matter of responsible business TA X E S behavior. The Volvo Group shall comply with the tax laws and regu­ % *In 2014 the tax rate was lations of each country where we operate. We do not engage in any affected by non-deductible aggressive tax planning activities through structures in tax havens provision for EU Commission or otherwise. Where tax laws do not give clear guidance, prudence antitrust investigation. and transparency shall be the guiding p ­ rinciples. A fundamental objective of our tax policy is to ensure compliance with these princi­ 13 14 15 16 17 ples throughout the Group, and at the same time ensure tax effi­ 20 56* 26 31 25 ciency through tax-conscious m ­ anagement of our operations. Reporting in accordance with new regulations As part of the OECD project on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting The average corporate tax rate of the Volvo Group for the last five (BEPS), new international standards for reporting corporate income years is approximately 28%, whereof SEK 6 billion or 31% of cur­ tax on a Country-by-Country basis (CBCR) have been developed. rent taxes relate to developing and emerging markets as defined by The Volvo Group has reported according to these new standards to the IMF. the Swedish Tax Agency. 77 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY S O C I E TA L E N G AG E M E N T Contributing to prosperity means contributing to the development of the society in many ways. Our approach to societal engagement S H A R E D VA L U E consists of shared value activities, disaster relief, donations and community support. It involves driving Corporate Social Responsi­ For the Volvo Group, creating bility (CSR) initiatives, establishing strategic partnerships and shared value involves ­moving both our business encouraging employee participation in volunteering opportunities. Societal Business and society forward. We challenges opportunities enhance our competi­ Creating shared value SHARED tiveness while simulta­ VALUE neously advancing the Our ‘Creating Shared Value’ principle is described in the illustration economic, environmental to the right. To leverage the shared value creation, the approach is and social conditions of the connected to the Volvo Group mission, business and expert capabil­ Volvo Group’s societies in which we operate. unique assets and ities. The highest potential for mutual benefit is where our business expertise significantly interacts with society. Therefore, our selected focus areas are: education and skills development, traffic and worksite safety and environmental sustainability. Education and skill development We have a long-term plan to develop vocational training schools for with large trucks. America’s Road Team, sponsored by Volvo Trucks, mechanics, drivers and operators of trucks, buses and construction represents 3.1 million professional truck drivers in the USA and pro­ equipment. At year-end 2017, 1,017 students were participating in motes the trucking industry’s message of safety, essentiality and our vocational training schools in Ethiopia, Zambia and Morocco. In professionalism to audiences around the country. 2017, two new projects were decided and during 2018 one driver training in Ethiopia and one in Morocco will be established. Learn Partnering with the UN World Food Program more about our vocational schools in Africa on page 76 and read As a partner of the United Nations (UN) World Food Program about our truck-driver training for women in Peru on page 31. (WFP), Renault Trucks uses a mobile unit to train local WFP teams in Africa on truck maintenance and fleet and workshop manage­ Traffic safety awareness campaigns ment. After the success of the first partnership in 2012 and growing Volvo Group runs a variety of traffic safety programs in a majority of demand from WFP the training continues. Over five years, program the countries where we operate. Our traffic safety campaign Stop, volunteers have trained 190 WFP staff in twelve countries. Look, Wave focuses on school children, local communities and ­professional drivers. The program promotes safety awareness for Disaster relief and donations children in their immediate environment, with the help of specific Volvo Group has a disaster relief fund that is approved by AB Volvo training kits. Since the launch in 2015 we have reached out to more Board of Directors. This fund is used to support efforts in response than 200,000 children. to global natural disasters or catastrophes by providing products or Similar to Stop, Look, Wave, the Volvo Trucks’ See and Be Seen funds to assist the responding relief organizations. During 2017 program aims to improve understanding of how unprotected road Volvo Group made donations to support the victims of the serious users and trucks can interact in traffic. The initiative was launched flooding in the US and to support the severe humanitarian situation in 2016 and focuses specifically on cyclists and schoolchildren from caused by famine in South Sudan, Somalia, Nigeria and Yemen. The the age of 12 years, but it is also suitable for traffic safety organiza­ Volvo Group seasonal charitable gift of SEK 8.5 M was distributed tions working with adults. With the fast pace of today’s traffic, it is to 16 local societal projects in different countries. vital that as many people as possible are aware of the risks in order to avoid accidents. Responding to Agenda 2030 for Sustainable development Our truck brands in the US continue to support the American On January 1, 2016, the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Develop­ Trucking Associations’ Share the Road and America’s Road Team ment, with the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, officially came outreach programs. Share the Road, sponsored by Mack, is a safety into force. We focus on those goals most relevant for our business program that sends million miles accident free professional truck and where we can contribute the most, but not at the expense of the drivers, across the country to teach the public how to share the road other goals. For the Volvo Group, this means focusing on: 78 A GLOBAL GROUP 2017 BUSINESS MODEL OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY UN SDG 3 – Good health and wellbeing and especially the target to halve the number of global deaths and injuries from road traffic accidents by 2020. Examples of our activities: • Safety focus in product development, page 40 • Safety features in our vehicles and machines, page 64–65 • Safety training for drivers and operators, page 31 and 78. UN SDG 11 – Sustainable cities and communities and the target to provide access to safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable trans­ UN SDG 9 – Industry, innovation and infrastructure with par­ port systems for all, by 2020, notably by expanding public transport. ticular emphasis on the targets to develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure including development in developing coun­ Examples of our activities: tries through enhanced financial, technological and technical support • ElectriCity and increased fleet of hybrid buses, page 36–37 and 62 to African countries. • Supplies to Zone Management Systems, page 102. Examples of our activities: UN SDG 13 – Climate action and taking urgent action to combat • Efficient and reliable trucks and machines in the construction climate change and its impacts. ­segment, see page 42–45 and 98–100 Examples of our activities: • Investments in innovative technologies such as automation, • Fuel efficiency and alternative fuel focus in product development, ­electro­mobility and connectivity for construction sites, page 34–39 page 34-39 and 62–67 • Activities to lower energy consumption and reduce emissions • Vocational schools in Africa, page 76 and 78. from operations, page 48–51 • Commitments and action towards emissions and energy efficiency through the WWF Climate Savers program, page 51 and 79. C O O P E R AT I N G O N R E D U C I N G E M I S S I O N S A N D I N C R E A S I N G E N E R GY E F F I C I E N C Y Volvo Group is the only automotive manufacturer in the world that is approved by World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) for participation in its Climate Savers program. The current agreement, for the 20152020 period, includes the ­following commitments: • A cumulative reduction in lifetime CO2 emissions from products and production by at least 40 million tons by 2020 compared with 2013. • Improving energy efficiency in production to save 150 GWh/year, corresponding to 8% of the energy use in the Volvo Group’s pro­ duction sites compared with 2013. •R  educing CO2 emissions by 20% per produced unit from the Follow-up of results Volvo Group’s freight transport. The results are audited yearly by independent experts. The agreed •D  eveloping truck prototypes with substantially lower fuel target should challenge us to be more progressive than “business ­consumption compared with a corresponding truck today. as usual” and also signal that we are leading our sector in the reduc­ •V  olvo CE will develop and demonstrate technologies with tion of greenhouse gas emissions. ­considerable efficiency improvements. • The results for activities undertaken between 2015 and 2017 •S  tarting up the City Mobility concept in at least five ­cities. show a 17 Mton CO2 reduction in lifetime emissions from products. • Hosting the Construction Climate Challenge (CCC) that aims to • More than 600 implemented energy-­saving activities implemented create a dialogue with construction industry representatives, aca­ since 2015, resulting in 102 GWh/year in energy ­savings. demia and politicians and address mutual projects for improvement. • Reduction of Group freight transport CO2 emissions per produced unit is 20% lower 2017 compared to 2015. 79 BEST IN CLASS PLATINUM LEVEL, VPS ASSESSMENT Continuous improvement is ­embedded across the organization and in place at all levels. The result has to show major improvements, with minor variation and positive trends. Better and better day by day How can I do this even better? Volvo Group employees ask themselves this question every day. Together, they find new ways to improve their work and create value for customers. 80 P owertrain Production (PTP) in Curitiba, Brazil, is among the best when it comes to continuous improvement. Encouraging new ideas is a key part of the strong culture of continuous improvement at the Curitiba Plant and many are turning to them for inspiration. PTP Curitiba has been recognized as the most advanced Volvo Group plant when it comes to working with the Volvo Production System (VPS). In the VPS Assessments, which are carried out to establish performance at different sites, the PTP Curitiba was the first unit to reach Platinum level. “We are certainly very proud. It is recognition that comes from years of hard work. Reaching Platinum level reflects the way we work with continuous improvement in all areas of the plant, even at ­support functions. It is also a result of having a consistent purpose and clear direction,” says Luiz Bohatch, Plant Manager. Team leader Maria Lucas next to operator Célia Gabardo who makes many of the sketches in the Kaizen forms. From her observations, she produces drawings that make continuous improvement part of PTP ­Curitiba’s DNA. 81 B O A R D O F D I R E C T O R S ’ R E P O R T 2 0 17 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T I N G I N D E X Social and employee-related matters Instruments in place Environmental matters and prevention of human rights abuses to fight corruption Business model 6–7, 10–11, 24–67 6–7, 10–11, 24–77 6–7, 54–55, 74–75 Policy and statement about the key areas Products: 34–41, 79, Production: 48–51 Health and Safety: 48–51, 68–74 54–55, 74–75 ­including control procedures and outcome Suppliers: 46–47, Customers: 54–55 Human Rights: 47, 54–55, 76–77 Reuse: 60–61 Key risks/issues, how these are managed, 36-41, 48–51, 60–61, 112–117, 222–223 112–116, 222–223 112–116, 222–223 and impact on business if they occur Main activities conducted and the 24–67 68–77 75 outcome of those KPI and targets, including results and 50–51, 79, 222–223 46–51, 55, 68–77, 222–223 74–75 , 222–223 materiality T  his Annual and Sustainability Report is prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4. We believe we do not have any other non-financial factors that are relevant in our business. For more information, see the GRI (G4) Index at volvogroup.com. Global strength in a changing world Since the streamlining towards commercial vehicles was initiated more than twenty years ago, the Volvo Group has grown into the world’s second largest manufacturer of heavy-duty trucks and one of the largest ­manufacturers of buses, coaches and construction equipment and is today also a leading manufacturer of heavy-duty diesel engines and marine and industrial engines. In 2017, demand improved in many markets around the world. NORTH AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA • Net sales: SEK 84,047 M (80,701) • Net sales: SEK 17,257 M (14,863) • Share of net sales: 25% (27) • Share of net sales: 5% (5) • Number of regular employees: 15,882 (14,245) • Number of regular employees: 4,774 (4,762) • Share of Group regular employees: 18% (17) • Share of Group regular employees: 5% (6) • Largest markets: The US, Canada and Mexico. • L argest markets: Brazil, Peru, Argentina and Chile. • The heavy-duty truck market was flat compared to 2016, with an increase in • Demand in the important Brazilian truck market increased, with the total demand in the second half of the year. heavy-duty truck market being up 9%. •B  oth Volvo Trucks and Mack Trucks lost some market share with Volvo • Demand in other South American markets was on good levels. Trucks coming in on 8.3% (9.9) and Mack Trucks on 7.3% (7.8). • The South American construction equipment market increased by 20% •C  ontinued success for the Group’s captive engines and g­ earboxes, with from very low levels, mainly driven by markets outside Brazil. positive implications for the service market. •D  emand in the construction equipment market increased, mainly due to growth for both compact and larger excavators. 82 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2017 GLOBAL STRENGTH M A R K E T D E V E L O P M E N T, H E AV YD U T Y M A R K E T D E V E L O P M E N T, C O N S T R U C T I O N TRUCKS, THOUSANDS E Q U I P M E N T, T H O U S A N D S 1,200 400 1,000 300 800 200 600 400 100 200 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 111 121 115 126 146 Europe 240 228 270 300 307 Europe 30 100 112 111 106 117 North America 236 270 302 243 244 North America 41 35 21 15 18 South America 104 93 42 30 32 Brazil 193 188 184 178 200 Asia (excl. China) 34 42 44 47 47 Japan 261 215 112 118 206 China 132 155 210 220 251 India 34 34 29 28 34 Africa and Oceania 774 744 551 733 1,117 China DISTRIBUTION OF NET SALES B Y M A R K E T 2 017 ASIA Europe, 43% • Net sales: SEK 68,398 M (55,501) North America, 25% • Share of net sales: 20% (18) South America, 5% • Number of regular employees: 16,526 (16,469) • Share of Group regular employees: 19% (19) Asia, 20% • L argest markets: China, Japan, South Korea, India and Indonesia. Africa and Oceania, 7% • The Chinese market for construction equipment grew strongly, 74%, with larger excavators being up 121% and wheel loaders 50%. • Out of the Group’s main truck markets in Asia, China grew very strongly. India also recorded good growth while demand in Japan was on the same good level as in 2016. AFRICA AND OCE ANIA EUROPE • Net sales: 21,811 M (19,137) • Net sales: SEK 143,236 M (131,712) • Share of net sales: 7% (6) • Share of net sales: 43% (44) • Number of regular employees: 2,361 (2,373) • Number of regular employees: 47,561 (46,190) • Share of Group regular employees: 3% (3) • Share of Group regular employees: 55% (55) • Largest markets: Australia, South Africa, ­New Zealand, Morocco and Algeria. • L argest markets: France, the UK, Germany, ­Sweden and Russia. • Demand for trucks in Australia continued to be good with support from • Registrations of heavy-duty trucks in Europe continued to be high, increasing increasing raw material prices. by about 2% compared to 2016. • Demand for trucks in South Africa rebounded after the weak 2016. • The market share of 16.8% for Volvo Trucks in EU28 was stable on histori­ • I Northern Africa, on the other hand, markets weakened, particularly in Algeria. cally good levels while Renault Trucks regained market share to 8.7% (8.1). • The construction equipment market grew by 16%, mainly driven growth in major markets such as the UK, France and Italy. 83 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2017 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS SIGNIFICANT EVENTS Events published in quarterly reports during 2017 2017 was characterized by good or improving demand in many markets and improved profitability as an effect of improved volumes. Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo The Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo on April 4 approved the Board of Directors’ proposal that a dividend of SEK 3.25 per share was to be paid to the shareholders. Matti Alahuhta, Eckhard Cordes, James W. Griffith, Martin Lund­ stedt, Kathryn V. Marinello, Martina Merz, Hanne de Mora, Håkan Samuelsson, Helena Stjernholm, Carl-Henric Svanberg and Lars Westerberg were reelected as members of the Board. Carl-Henric Svanberg was reelected as Chairman of the Board. Bengt Kjell, rep­ resenting AB Industrivärden, Lars Förberg, representing Cevian Capital, Yngve Slyngstad, representing Norges Bank Investment Management, Pär Boman, representing Handelsbanken, SHB Pen­ sion Fund, SHB Employee Fund, SHB Pensionskassa and Oktogo­ nen, and the Chairman of the Board were elected members of the Election Committee. A remuneration policy for senior executives was adopted in accordance with the Board of Directors’ proposal. New heavy-duty and medium-duty trucks from UD with a fuel-efficient 11-liter engine and a new electronically con­ On March 1, UD Croner was launched. It is an all-new medium-­duty trolled automatic transmission. truck range, specifically for growth markets. UD Croner comes in up to 21 different basic configurations to suit the specific demands of New Volvo truck in North America various industries. On April 20, Volvo Trucks launched the new Volvo VNR regional haul On April 11, UD Trucks launched an all-new and broader heavytruck in North America, marking the first step in the renewal of the duty UD Quon range. The trucks are among other things equipped Volvo range in the North American market. V O LV O G R O U P P R E S S R E L E A S E S 2 017 THE FIRST QUARTER THE SECOND QUARTER 1/12/2017 Volvo CE announces headquarters move from Brussels, Belgium to Gothen­ 4/4/2017 Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo · 4/11/2017 Invitation to press and burg, Sweden · 1/18/2017 Invitation to press and analyst conference in Stockholm · analyst conference in Stockholm · 4/11/2017 UD Trucks launches the new Quon · 2/1/2017 Volvo Group – the fourth quarter and full year 2016 · 2/9/2017 Volvo Buses 4/12/2017 Volvo scholarship for research on air pollution · 4/21/2017 New Volvo VNR receives order for 90 electric buses from Belgium · 2/28/2017 Volvo Trucks tests a regional haul truck in North America · 4/25/2017 Volvo Group – the first quarter 2017 · hybrid vehicle for long haul · 3/1/2017 UD Trucks launches Croner to help customers 4/27/2017 Assar Gabrielsson award for effective treatment of cancer · 5/9/2017 maximize productivity · 3/1/2017 Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo · 3/13/2017 AB Volvo Group Innovation Summit to focus on transport in smart cities of the future · Volvo publishes 2016 Annual and Sustainability Report · 3/23/2017 Volvo Buses to 5/10/2017 Volvo Trucks Safety Report focuses on vulnerable road users · 5/17/2017 deliver 100 city buses to India · 3/30/2017 Invitation to Volvo Group Capital Markets Volvo pioneers autonomous, self-driving refuse truck in the urban environment · Day 2017 5/17/2017 Volvo CE unveils 100% electric compact excavator prototype · 5/19/2017 ElectriCity partnership wins UITP Awards 2017 · 5/23/2017 Volvo Group C ­ apital ­M arkets Day 84 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2017 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS Melker Jernberg appointed President of Volvo ­Construction Equipment On July 3, it was announced that Melker Jernberg had been appointed President of Volvo Construction Equipment and member of the Volvo Group Executive Board, with effect from January 1, 2018. Melker Jernberg replaced Martin Weissburg, who later in the year was appointed President of Mack Trucks. The Volvo Group sold its shares in Deutz AG On July 7, the Volvo Group sold its complete holding in the German listed engine manufacturer Deutz AG. Divestment proceeds amounted to SEK 1,897 M, which impacted the Group’s cash flow in the same amount. The sale resulted in a capital gain of SEK 400 M. New Volvo long-haul tractor in North America On July 11, Volvo Trucks revealed the new Volvo VNL series for North America. The Volvo VNL is a long-haul tractor with cut­ ting-edge innovations in efficiency, productivity, safety and uptime. The new truck is available in several configurations, including an all-new, 70-inch sleeper. New financial targets for the Volvo Group ciency by up to 3%. Mack Trucks also introduced updated voca­ On August 31, it was announced that the Board of Directors of AB tional and regional haul models with all-new interiors to improve Volvo in its annual review had decided to introduce new financial ergonomics, while maintaining functionality. targets for the Volvo Group. • The Group’s operating margin shall exceed 10% measured over Volvo Group discontinued the process to divest a business cycle. Governmental Sales • Financial Services’ target remains unchanged with a return on On October 17, it was announced that Volvo Group had decided to equity of 12–15% at an equity ratio above 8%. discontinue the process to divest the Governmental Sales business • The Industrial Operations shall under normal conditions have no area, since the offers received did not reflect its value. net financial indebtedness excluding pension liabilities. Martin Weissburg appointed President of Mack Trucks Mack Anthem introduced On December 8, it was announced that Martin Weissburg, at the On September 15, Mack Trucks introduced its new, next-generation time President of Volvo Construction Equipment, will become Presi­ highway truck, the Mack Anthem. The truck features an all-new dent of Mack Trucks effective June 1, 2018, in which capacity he will exterior design with optimized aerodynamics for improved fuel effi­ continue to be a member of the Executive Board for the Volvo Group. THE THIRD QUARTER THE FOURTH QUARTER 6/8/2017 Self-steering Volvo truck set to increase Brazil’s sugar-cane harvest · 9/4/2017 Focus on the future of transport at the Volvo Group Innovation Summit · 6/15/2017 ElectriCity readying for the next phase – expanding traffic with electric vehi­ 9/15/2017 Mack Anthem – the next-generation highway hero in US · 9/18/2017 Kina cles · 6/21/2017 Technology award for wave piston design that lowers fuel consumption Wileke appointed Executive Vice President Group Communications & Sustainability Affairs · 7/3/2017 Melker Jernberg appointed President of Volvo C ­ onstruction Equipment · at AB Volvo · 10/3/2017 New trucks from Volvo running on gas · 10/5/2017 Close 7/5/2017 Invitation to the Volvo Group report on the first six months 2017 · 7/7/2017 cooperation for future transport · 10/6/2017 Invitation to press and analyst conference in The Volvo Group has sold its shares in Deutz AG · 7/11/2017 Volvo Penta becomes Stockholm · 10/11/2017 Volvo Ocean Race – a platform for customer relationships · major owner of Seven Marine · 7/12/2017 Volvo Trucks unveils new VNL series · 10/16/2017 New Volvo 7900 Electric offers greater range and flexibility · 10/16/2017 7/19/2017 Volvo Group – the second ­quarter 2017 · 8/31/2017 New financial targets The protector of the oceans receives the Volvo Environment Prize · 10/17/2017 Volvo for Volvo Group. Group discontinues the process to divest Governmental Sales · 10/20/2017 Volvo Group – the third quarter 2017 · 11/9/2017 Smart societies of the future in focus at the next Volvo Group Innovation Summit · 11/16/2017 Volvo Group unveils new innovative transport solu­ tion to drive safety and productivity · 12/8/2017 Martin Weissburg appointed President of Mack Trucks 85 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Improved profitability For the Volvo Group 2017 was a year with improved profitability and high volumes. I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T S V O LV O G R O U P Industrial Operations Financial Services Eliminations Volvo Group SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Note Net sales 6, 7 323,809 291,459 11,812 11,242 –873 –787 334,748 301,914 Cost of sales –248,382 –225,797 –7,072 –6,591 873 787 –254,581 –231,602 Gross income 75,428 65,662 4,740 4,651 – – 80,167 70,312 Research and development expenses –16,098 –14,631 – – – – –16,098 –14,631 Selling expenses –26,495 –24,946 –2,086 –1,920 – – –28,582 –26,867 Administrative expenses –5,602 –5,081 –40 –40 – – –5,642 –5,121 Other operating income and expenses Note 8 –640 –2,531 –421 –605 – – –1,061 –3,135 Income from investments in joint ­ventures and associated companies Note 5, 6 1,407 156 – – – – 1,407 156 Income/loss from other investments 135 112 0 – – – 135 112 Operating income 28,135 18,740 2,193 2,086 – – 30,327 20,826 Interest income and similar credits 164 240 – – – – 164 240 Interest expenses and similar charges –1,852 –1,847 0 – – – –1,852 –1,847 Other financial income and expenses Note 9 –385 11 – – – – –385 11 Income after financial items 26,062 17,144 2,192 2,086 – – 28,254 19,230 Income taxes Note 10 –7,219 –5,377 248 –631 – – –6,971 –6,008 Income for the period 18,843 11,767 2,440 1,455 – – 21,283 13,223 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 20,981 13,147 Minority interests 302 75 21,283 13,223 Basic earnings per share, SEK Note 19 10.33 6.47 Diluted earnings per share, SEK Note 19 10.32 6.47 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME SEK M 2017 2016 Income for the period 21,283 13,223 Items that will not be reclassified to income statement: Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans –827 –304 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to income statement: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations –2,546 5,585 Share of OCI related to joint ventures and associated companies 25 –97 Accumulated translation difference reversed to income –56 –48 Available-for-sale investments Note 19 –10 –57 Change in cash flow hedge reserve Note 19 –20 68 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes –3,434 5,147 Total comprehensive income for the period 17,849 18,370 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 17,601 18,249 Minority interests 248 121 17,849 18,370 86 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE VOLVO GROUP Net sales ible in all regions with Asia as the main contributor driven by a strong Net sales increased with 11% to SEK 335 billion. This was primarily recovery for excavators and wheel loaders in China. Volvo Penta due to higher truck and construction equipment volumes and a pos­ increased sales through higher volumes, and Buses were slightly itive development of service sales. Also when adjusted for currency positive with North America offsetting decreases in other regions. movements and acquired and divested operations, net sales increased by 11%. Vehicle sales increased by 12% adjusted for cur­ Operating income rency movements and service sales increased by 5%. The adjusted operating income increased with SEK 8.8 billion to SEK Net sales in Trucks increased by 8% with all regions contributing. 29.9 billion (21.1), including a negative currency effect of SEK 0.4 bil­ The positive sales development for Construction Equipment was vis­ lion. The adjusted operating margin increased to 8.9% (7.0). The higher adjusted operating income was primarily an effect of signifi­ NET SALES BY OPERATING SEGMENT, SEK M 2017 2016 % cantly improved earnings in Construction Equipment due to higher volumes and increased capacity utilization, higher volumes in the truck Trucks 216,480 200,650 8 business and improved earnings in our joint ventures. Adjusted operat­ Construction Equipment 66,497 50,731 31 Buses 26,078 25,386 3 ing income was negatively impacted by increased expenses for selling, Volvo Penta 11,119 9,893 12 administration and research and development as well as higher costs Group Functions & Other 6,449 7,754 –17 related to the stretched situation in parts of the supply chain. Eliminations –2,814 –2,955 – Reported operating income in 2017 amounted to SEK 30.3 bil­ Industrial Operations1 323,809 291,459 11 lion and the difference compared to adjusted operating income is a Financial Services 11,812 11,242 5 Reclassifications and eliminations –873 –787 – Volvo Group 334,748 301,914 11 OPERATING MARGIN, % 2017 2016 1 A  djusted for changes in currency rates and acquired and divested units, Trucks 9.4 7.5 net sales increased by 11%. Construction Equipment 11.9 4.4 Buses 3.6 3.6 The Volvo Group’s sales of defense material, as defined in the Swed­ Volvo Penta 12.9 12.8 ish Military Equipment Ordinance (1992:1303) section A, amounted Industrial Operations 8.7 6.4 to 0.26% of net sales in 2017, which was the same as in 2016. Volvo Group 9.1 6.9 OPERATING INCOME/LOSS BY OPERATING ­S EGMENT, SEK M 2017 2016 CHANGE IN OPERATING INCOME, Change SEK BN (excluding Currency Trucks 20,383 15,020 currency) impact Total Construction Equipment 7,917 2,246 Operating income 2016 20.8 Buses 928 911 Change in gross income Industrial Volvo Penta 1,439 1,269 ­Operations 10.0 –0.2 9.8 Group Functions & Other –2,534 –679 Change in gross income Financial Services 0.1 0.1 Eliminations 2 –28 Lower credit losses 0.5 0.5 Industrial Operations 28,135 18,740 Gains on divestment of Group companies 0.3 0.3 Gain on sale of PPE and intangible assets 0.3 0.3 Financial Services 2,192 2,086 Lower capitalization of development cost –1.0 –1.0 Volvo Group 30,327 20,826 Higher research and development ­expenditures –0.5 –0.5 NET SALES, SEK BN O P E R AT I N G I N C O M E , S E K M Higher selling and administrative expenses –2.1 –0.1 –2.2 Sale of shares in Deutz AG 2017 0.4 0.4 Income from investments in Joint Ventures and associated companies 0.9 0.9 Damages and litigations 0.2 0.2 Provision related to EU antitrust ­investigation 2016 2.5 2.5 Gain on divestment of external IT operations 2016 –0.9 –0.9 Sale of properties in Gothenburg, Sweden 2016 –1.4 –1.4 13 14 15 16 17 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Restructuring and efficiency program 0.4 0.4 273 283 313 302 335 5,344 3,796 4,656 7,031 7,029 8,540 7,424 7,334 Other 0.2 0.2 Operating income 2017 9.9 –0.4 30.3 2016 2017 87 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE capital gain of SEK 0.4 billion from the sale of Volvo Group’s holding Income for the period and earnings per share in Deutz AG. Adjustments to operating income in 2016 were: divest­ In 2017 the income for the period amounted to SEK 21,283 M ment of external IT operation, SEK +0.9 billion, provision related to (13,223), corresponding to diluted earnings per share of SEK 10.32 EU antitrust investigation, SEK –2.5 billion, and sales of properties (6.47). The return on shareholders’ equity was 20.8% (14.9%). in Gothenburg, SEK +1.4 billion. Impact of exchange rates on operating income Net financial items Operating income for 2017 in Industrial Operations was negatively Net interest expense amounted to SEK 1.7 billion (1.6). Other financial impacted by approximately SEK 0.4 billion from changes in income and expense amounted to –0.4 billion (0.0). The change com­ exchange rates in foreign currency. The negative impact was mainly pared to 2016 was mainly related to a positive effect from unrealized related to net flows in foreign currency by SEK 0.4 billion. Revalua­ and realized result from derivatives of SEK 0.4 billion in 2016. tion of receivables and liabilities had a negative impact of SEK 0.2 billion, offset by a positive translation effect of SEK 0.2 billion. Read more in Note 9 Other financial income and expenses. The net flows in foreign currency were negatively impacted by the depreciation of GBP and USD, offset by a positive impact by appre­ Income taxes ciation from EUR and ZAR. The tax expense for the year amounted to SEK 7,0 billion (6,0) cor­ responding to an effective tax rate of 25% (31). The tax rate in 2017 was mainly impacted by a cost of SEK 354 M related to revaluation TR ANSACTION E XPOSURE FROM of deferred tax assets and liabilities due to the tax reform legislation O P E R AT I N G N E T F L O W S 1 in the USA which will lower the corporate tax rate for 2018. SEK bn 30 15 KEY OPERATING RATIOS, % 0 INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS 2017 2016 –15 Gross margin 23.3 22.5 –30 Research and development expenses as percentage of net sales 5.0 5.0 –45 Selling expenses as percentage of net sales 8.2 8.6 –60 Administrative expenses as percentage USD GBP EUR NOK ZAR CAD AUD KRW SEK Other of net sales 1.7 1.7 10 9 10 4 4 3 4 –5 –48 9 Operating margin 8.7 6.4 11 8 5 4 3 3 3 –6 –35 4 Currency flow 2017 Currency flow 2016 NET SALES BY MARKET AREA, SEK M 2017 2016 % Europe 138,557 127,352 9 1 T  he graph above represents the transaction exposure from commercial North America 79,903 76,500 4 operating net cash flows in foreign currency in Industrial Operations, expressed as net ­surpluses or deficits in key currencies. The deficit in SEK South America 15,919 13,628 17 and KRW is mainly an effect of expenses for manufacturing plants Asia 67,855 55,056 23 in ­Sweden and Korea, but limited external revenues in those currencies. Africa and Oceania 21,575 18,924 14 Total Industrial Operations 323,809 291,459 11 R  ead more in Note 4 Goals and policies in financial risk management regarding Industrial Operations transaction exposure from operating net Of which: flows as well as currency effects on sales and operating income. Vehicles 252,063 223,996 13 Services 71,747 67,463 6 RESE ARCH AND DE VELOPMENT E XPENSES IMPACT OF EXCHANGE RATES ON OPERATING INCOME Research and Compared with preceding year, SEK M development INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS expenses, SEK bn Net sales1 2,026 Research and Cost of sales –2,263 development expenses, Research and development expenses –7 % of Industrial Selling and administrative expenses –86 Operations’ net sales Other –32 13 14 15 16 17 Total effect of changes in exchange rates on operating income –362 15.1 16.7 15.4 14.6 16.1 5.7 6.0 5.1 5.0 5.0 1 The Volvo Group sales are reported at monthly average rates. 88 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL POSITION FINANCIAL POSITION Strengthened financial position Net financial position in the Volvo Group’s Industrial Operations improved by SEK 27.5 billion and was 26.9% of shareholders’ equity excluding provisions for post-emplyment benefits on December 31, 2017. N et financial position in the Industrial Opera­ Intangible assets amounted to SEK 35.9 billion (37.9) as of tions, excluding provisions for post-employment December 31, 2017. The reduction is primarily related to higher amor­ benefits, improved from a net financial debt of tization than capitalization of research and development expenses SEK 1.2 billion by the end of December 2016 to amounting to SEK 1.1 billion as well as a reduction of goodwill of SEK a net financial asset of SEK 26.3 billion by the 0.6 billion due to currency movements. end of December 2017. This equals 26.9% of shareholders’ equity. Read  more in Note 12 Intangible assets regarding the impairment Including provisions for post-employment benefits, the Industrial test on goodwill. Operations’ net financial assets amounted to SEK 12.2 billion which is equal to 12.5% of shareholders’ equity. The change during the year Tangible assets amounted to SEK 90.5 billion, which was the same was mainly explained by a positive operating cash flow of SEK 28.4 bil­ level as in 2016. lion, the disposal of shares in Deutz AG by SEK 1.9 billion and the divestment of Volvo Construction Equipment’s dealer business in the Read more in Note 13 Tangible assets. UK by SEK 0.9 billion, reduced by the dividend paid to AB Volvo share­ Inventories increased by SEK 4.4 billion (3.9) under 2017, mainly gen­ holders and remeasurements of the defined benefit pension obliga­ erated by the higher demand in Trucks and Construction Equipment. tions by SEK 0.1 billion. During 2017 currency fluctuations had a pos­ itive effect on net financial assets in an amount of SEK 1.3 billion. Read more in Note 17 Inventories. Read more in Note 3 Acquisitions and ­divestments of shares in Assets and liabilities held for sale decreased by SEK 0.3 billion dur­ ­subsidiaries. ing the year. The decrease is mainly due to the divestment of Volvo  Read more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated Construction Equipment’s dealer business in the UK which was ­companies and other shares and participations regarding the disposal completed during 2017. of shares in Deutz AG.  Read more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in sub­ Read more in Note 20 Provisions for post-­employment benefits. sidaries regarding assets and liabilities held for sale. Marketable Securities and Liquid funds amounted to SEK Investments in Joint Ventures and associated companies 36.3 billion on December 31, 2017, an increase of SEK 11.1 billion decreased by SEK 1.1 billion during the year, mainly driven by the as an effect of the positive operating cash flow. In addition to this, divestment of shares in Deutz AG. granted but unutilized credit facilities amounted to SEK 45.4 billion. Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2017 include SEK Read  more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated compa­ nies and other shares and participations. 1.3 (0.8) billion that is not available to use by the Volvo Group and SEK 5.0 (6.0) billion where other limitations exist. The net value of assets and liabilities related to pensions and similar Read more in Note 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds. obligations amounted to SEK 14.2 billion as of December 31, 2017, a decrease of SEK 0.4 billion compared to year-end 2016.  Read more in Note 22 Liabilities regarding the maturity structure on Volvo Group’s credit facilities. Read more in Note 20 Provisions for post-­employment benefits. Total assets in the Volvo Group amounted to SEK 412.5 billion as On December 31, 2017 the shareholders’ equity for the Volvo Group of December 31, 2017, an increase of SEK 13.6 billion since amounted to SEK 109.0 billion compared to SEK 97.8 billion at yearDecember 31, 2016. Currency effects had a negative impact of total end 2016. The equity ratio was 26.4% (24.5). On the same date the assets in an amount of SEK 12.9 billion equity ratio in the Industrial operations amounted to 32.5% (30.9). 89 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL POSITION BALANCE SHEET VOLVO GROUP – ASSETS Industrial Operations Financial Services Eliminations Volvo Group Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets Note 12 35,716 37,768 178 149 – – 35,893 37,916 Tangible assets Note 13 Property, plant and equipment 53,277 55,778 40 64 – – 53,317 55,841 Investment property 31 34 – – – – 31 34 Assets under operating leases 24,051 22,752 21,075 19,556 –7,959 –7,615 37,166 34,693 Financial assets Investments in joint ventures and ­associated companies Note 5 10,525 11,643 – – – – 10,525 11,643 Other shares and participations Note 5 690 766 10 11 – – 699 776 Non-current customerfinancing receivables Note 15 737 965 57,180 57,830 –744 –968 57,173 57,827 Prepaid pensions Note 20 252 79 – – – – 252 79 Non-current interest-bearing receivables Note 16 2,892 2,481 – – –557 –1,222 2,335 1,258 Other non-current receivables Note 16 4,186 4,083 238 211 –143 –147 4,281 4,148 Deferred tax assets Note 10 10,948 13,332 834 1,068 – – 11,782 14,399 Total non-current assets 143,304 149,679 79,554 78,888 –9,403 –9,953 213,455 218,615 Current assets Inventories Note 17 52,231 48,080 470 206 – – 52,701 48,287 Current receivables Customer-financing receivables Note 15 621 733 52,294 53,082 –711 –821 52,205 52,994 Tax assets 1,137 1,166 430 193 – – 1,567 1,359 Interest-bearing receivables Note 16 2,075 1,935 – 191 –908 –991 1,166 1,135 Internal funding1 15,927 7,503 – – –15,927 –7,503 – – Accounts receivable Note 16 39,705 33,593 1,069 826 – – 40,774 34,419 Other receivables Note 16 13,667 16,003 1,527 1,348 –889 –940 14,305 16,410 Non interest-bearing assets held for sale Note 3 51 525 – – – – 51 525 Marketable securities Note 18 178 1,223 – – – – 178 1,223 Cash and cash equivalents Note 18 32,269 19,653 4,892 5,175 –1,069 –879 36,092 23,949 Total current assets 157,861 130,414 60,682 61,021 –19,504 –11,134 199,039 180,301 Total assets 301,165 280,093 140,236 139,910 –28,907 –21,087 412,494 398,916 1 Internal funding is internal lending from Industrial Operations to Financial Services CHANGE IN NET FINANCIAL POSITION, ­INDUSTRIAL ­OPERATIONS, SEK BN 2017 2016 NET FINANCIAL POSITION, INDUSTRIAL Net financial position at ­O P E R AT I O N S , S E K B N beginning of period –15.7 –13.2 2016 2017 Cash flow from operating activities 35.8 9.9 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Investments in fixed assets –7.8 –9.6 –24.2 –26.6 –26.4 –15.7 –13.3 –7.5 –2.5 12.2 Disposals 0.4 3.2 Operating cash flow 28.4 3.5 Investments and divestments of shares, net 2.2 0.2 Acquired and divested operations, net 0.9 1.4 Capital injections to/from Financial Services 1.9 2.1 Currency effect 1.3 –2.7 Dividend paid to AB Volvo shareholders –6.6 –6.1 Dividend paid to minority shareholders 0.0 –0.2 Remeasurements of defined benefit ­pension plans –0.1 –0.4 Pension payments and costs, net 0.1 0.3 Other changes –0.1 –0.6 Total change 27.9 –2.4 Net financial position at end of period 12.2 –15.7 90 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL POSITION BALANCE SHEET VOLVO GROUP – SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Industrial Operations Financial Services Eliminations Volvo Group Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to the equity holder of the Parent Company Note 19 95,849 84,876 11,221 11,185 – – 107,069 96,061 Minority interests Note 11 1,941 1,703 – – – – 1,941 1,703 Total equity 97,790 86,579 11,221 11,185 – – 109,011 97,764 Non-current provisions Provisions for post-­ employment benefits Note 20 14,391 14,608 85 61 – – 14,476 14,669 Provisions for deferred taxes Note 10 3,025 1,842 2,328 3,429 – – 5,353 5,270 Other provisions Note 21 8,965 9,540 264 252 89 13 9,318 9,804 Total non-current provisions 26,380 25,989 2,677 3,742 89 13 29,147 29,744 Non-current liabilities Note 22 Bond loans 48,962 60,653 – – – – 48,962 60,653 Other loans 12,865 13,578 12,817 11,287 –740 –968 24,942 23,898 Internal funding1 –43,522 –52,487 49,934 48,071 –6,413 4,415 – – Other liabilities 26,232 24,631 1,285 934 –5,208 –5,243 22,309 20,322 Total non-current liabilities 44,538 46,376 64,037 60,293 –12,361 –1,795 96,213 104,873 Current provisions Note 21 10,690 11,164 71 82 45 87 10,806 11,333 Current liabilities Note 22 Loans 46,331 47,976 9,312 10,165 –1,872 –1,644 53,771 56,497 Internal funding1 –37,635 –35,777 48,527 49,964 –10,891 –14,187 – – Non interest-bearing liabilities held for sale Note 3 0 148 – – – – 0 148 Trade payables 64,900 54,790 445 474 – – 65,346 55,264 Tax liabilities 1,556 544 143 141 – – 1,699 685 Other liabilities Note 22 46,615 42,305 3,803 3,864 –3,917 –3,560 46,501 42,608 Total current liabilities 121,767 109,985 62,230 64,609 –16,680 –19,391 167,317 155,202 Total equity and liabilities 301,165 280,093 140,236 139,910 –28,907 –21,087 412,494 398,916 1 Internal funding is internal lending from Industrial Operations to Financial Services. NET FINANCIAL POSITION, SEK M Industrial Operations Volvo Group Dec 31 2017 Dec 31 2016 Dec 31 2017 Dec 31 2016 Non-current interest-bearing assets Non-current customer-financing receivables – – 57,173 57,827 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 2,892 2,481 2,335 1,258 Current interest-bearing assets Customer-financing receivables – – 52,205 52,994 Interest-bearing receivables 2,075 1,935 1,166 1,135 Internal funding 15,927 7,503 – – Marketable securities 178 1,223 178 1,223 Cash and cash equivalents 32,269 19,653 36,092 23,949 Total interest-bearing financial assets 53,340 32,793 149,149 138,386 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Bond loans –48,962 –60,653 –48,962 –60,653 Other loans –12,865 –13,578 –24,942 –23,898 Internal funding 43,522 52,487 – – Current interest-bearing liabilities Loans –46,331 –47,976 –53,771 –56,497 Internal funding 37,635 35,777 – – Total interest-bearing financial liabilities –27,001 –33,944 –127,676 –141,048 Net financial position excl. post-­employment benefits 26,339 –1,151 21,474 –2,662 Provision for post-employment ­benefits, net –14,139 –14,529 –14,224 –14,590 Net financial position incl. p ­ ost-­employment benefits 12,200 –15,679 7,250 –17,252 91 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 CASH FLOW STATEMENT C A S H F L O W S TAT E M E N T Strong operating cash flow During 2017 operating cash flow in the Industrial Operations amounted to SEK 28.4 billion (3.5). T he strong operating cash flow of SEK 28.4 billion The investment level for property, plant and equipment during within Industrial Operations is primarily related to 2017 was lower compared to 2016. During 2018, investments in operating income of SEK 28.1 billion combined with property, plant and equipment are expected to increase slightly an unchanged level of working capital. compared to 2017. The optimization of the industrial and logistic Compared with 2016, the working capital improved footprint, dealer investments and product related tooling will con­ mainly related to an increase in trade payables and a decrease in other tinue to be the main areas as well as the development of Campus working capital, offset by higher inventory levels. The increase in trade Lundby, Gothenburg, Sweden. payables is primarily due to the gradual increase in production vol­ umes during 2017 compared to more even production volumes in Investments and divestments of shares 2016. The increase in inventory is mainly an effect of the higher During the year the Volvo Group sold its complete ownership in the demand in Trucks and Construction Equipment compared to 2016. In German listed engine manufacturer Deutz AG. The sale resulted in 2016 operating cash flow was negatively impacted by the payment of a positive effect on cash flow of SEK 1.9 billion. SEK 6.5 billion related to the EU antitrust investigation, partly offset In total, investments and divestments of shares in 2017 had a by a positive impact of SEK 2.6 billion from the sale of real estate. positive impact on cash flow of SEK 2.2 billion (0.2). Financial items and taxes had a SEK 5.6 billion negative effect on Read  more in Note 5 Investments in joint venture, a­ ssociated the operating cash flow in Industrial Oper­ations, mainly through ­companies and other shares and participations. payments of interests and income tax. Operating cash flow within Financial Services was negative in Acquired and divested operations an amount of SEK 4.2 billion (2.8), mainly due to an increase in During the year the Volvo Group sold Volvo Construction Equipment’s customer-financing receivables as an effect of strong level of new dealer business in the UK. The divestment resulted in a positive business volume in the credit portfolio. effect on cash flow of SEK 0.9 billion. The Volvo Group has not made any other acquisitions or divestments during 2017, which solely or Read more in Note 10 Income taxes. jointly have had a significant impact on the Volvo Group’s financial Investments and disposals statements. The Industrial Operations’ investments in fixed assets and capital­ In total acquired and divested operations in 2017 had a positive ized research and development during 2017 amounted to SEK 7.7 impact on cash flow of SEK 0.9 billion (1.4). billion (9.5). Read more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in Group Trucks investments in fixed assets and capitalized ­subsidiaries. research and development amounted to SEK 5.3 billion (7.0). The major investments related to industrial efficiency measures in our Financing and dividend plants continued, with rationalizations and upgrades in our US Net borrowings decreased cash and cash equivalents by SEK 9.0 plants as well as replacement of the E-coat process in Umeå, Swe­ billion during 2017. In 2016 the corresponding item decreased cash den. Investments in Köping, Sweden have continued in order to and cash equivalents by SEK 2.2 billion. increase capacity for the Volvo Group’s automated transmission. Read more in Note 29 Cash flow regarding movements during the Capital expenditures were also related to the Mack and the Volvo year on the net borrowings. series recently introduced in North America with both product development activities and required adaptations in the plants. During the year dividend of SEK 6.6 billion, corresponding to SEK 3.25 The investments in dealer networks and workshops were mainly per share, was paid to the shareholders of AB Volvo. done in Europe and Japan, primarily for upgrades and replacements. Investments in Construction Equipment amounted to SEK 0.8 Change in cash and cash equivalents ­billion (0.9). The major investments in the plants were related to The Volvo Group’s cash and cash equivalents increased by SEK 12.1 product renewals and capacity increase mainly in Asia but also in billion during the year due to the strong operating cash flow and Europe. The product related investments during the year were mainly amounted to SEK 36.1 billion at December 31, 2017. related to continued investments in tooling and required adaptations  Read more in Note 29 Cash flow regarding principles for preparing in the plants for excavators and the new range of rigid haulers. the cash flow statement. The investments in Buses were SEK 0.3 billion (0.3), and in Volvo Read  more in Note 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds Penta SEK 0.3 billion (0.2). ­regarding the accounting policy. 92 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 CASH FLOW STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENTS Industrial Operations Financial Services Eliminations Volvo Group SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Operating activities Operating income 1 28,135 18,740 2,193 2,086 – – 30,327 20,826 Depreciation tangible assets Note 13 6,449 6,327 6 13 – – 6,456 6,339 Amortization intangible assets Note 12 3,212 3,398 34 33 – – 3,246 3,431 Depreciation leasing vehicles Note 13 2,936 2,907 4,231 4,087 0 0 7,167 6,994 Other non-cash items 2 3 Note 29 857 –1,116 563 733 –20 –47 1,400 –431 Total change in working capital whereof –177 –14,688 –4,144 892 –384 –97 –4,704 –13,893 Change in accounts receivable –6,925 –3,747 –245 –296 0 0 –7,171 –4,043 Change in customer-financing receivables 187 266 –3,922 1,003 –334 –207 –4,070 1,062 Change in inventories –7,378 –1,601 –159 33 – 0 –7,537 –1,568 Change in trade payables 11,141 –2,973 –28 50 – 0 11,113 –2,923 Other changes in working capital 1 2,799 –6,633 211 102 –49 111 2,960 –6,420 Interest and similar items received 273 300 – – 1 46 274 346 Interest and similar items paid –1,621 –1,586 – – 19 2 –1,602 –1,584 Other financial items –206 –253 – – – – –206 –253 Income taxes paid –4,083 –4,095 –675 –124 0 0 –4,758 –4,219 Cash flow from operating activities 35,775 9,934 2,208 7,720 –384 –97 37,599 17,559 Investing activities Investments in tangible assets –5,730 –6,619 –4 –24 – – –5,734 –6,643 Investments in intangible assets –1,951 –2,829 –55 –53 – – –2,006 –2,882 Investment in leasing vehicles –84 –125 –11,410 –10,692 0 0 –11,494 –10,817 Disposals of fixed assets and leasing vehicles 2 363 3,170 5,029 5,865 0 – 5,392 9,035 Operating cash flow 28,372 3,531 –4,231 2,816 –384 –97 23,757 6,251 Investments and divestments of shares, net Note 5, 29 2,182 224 Acquired and divested operations, net 3 Note 29 928 1,425 Interest-bearing receivables incl marketable securities 1,586 2,531 Cash flow after net investments 28,454 10,431 Financing activities Change in loans, net Note 29 –8,996 –2,245 Dividend to AB Volvo’s shareholders –6,603 –6,093 Dividend to minority shareholders –13 –206 Other –31 –9 Change in cash and cash equivalents excl. translation differences 12,811 1,878 Translation difference on cash and cash equivalents –667 1,023 Change in cash and cash equivalents 12,144 2,901 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year Note 18 23,949 21,048 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year Note 18 36,092 23,949 1 In 2016 the payment of the EU antitrust ­investigation 2 In 2016 the gain on sale of real estate of SEK 1.4 bn 3 In 2016 the gain on sale of IT operations of SEK 0.9 bn settle­ment impacted Operating income by SEK 2.6 bn. was reclassified from Other non-cash items to Disposals was reclassified from Other non-cash items to Acquired Other changes in working capital was impacted by of fixed assets and leasing vehicles. The total positive and divested operations, net. The total positive cash flow reversed ­provisions of SEK 3.9 bn recognized in 2014. ­o­perating cash flow impact from the sale amounted to impact from the sale amounted to SEK 1.1 bn. SEK 2.6 bn. O P E R AT I N G C A S H F LOW, C A P I TA L E X P E N D I T U R E S , SELF-FINANCING ­I N D U S T R I A L O P E R AT I O N S , S E K B N ­I N D U S T R I A L ­O P E R AT I O N S R AT I O , I N D U S T R I A L O P E R AT I O N S % Capitalized development costs, SEK Bn Property, plant and equipment, SEK Bn Capital expenditures, 13 14 15 16 17 % of net sales 112 180 316 155 483 13 14 15 16 17 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 3.7 1.4 2.2 2.8 2.0 Cash-flow from operating –10.4 6.9 2.1 4.8 1.5 11.9 0.6 14.4 8.5 7.2 6.5 6.6 5.7 activities divided by net 4.6 3.1 2.9 3.2 2.4 investments in fixed assets 2016 2017 and leasing assets. 93 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2017 TRUCKS TRUCKS Increased sales and improved profitability During 2017 total deliveries of trucks IN BRIEF SHARE OF increased by 6% compared to 2016. The truck operation’s product G RO U P S A L E S offer stretches from heavy-duty The truck operations continued to increase trucks for long-haulage and ­construction work to light-duty its profitability during the year. trucks for distribution. The offering also includes main­ tenance and repair services, financing and leasing. 65% Position on world market N E T S A L E S 2017, T Volvo Group is the world’s SEK BN he higher truck deliveries were mainly driven by con­ ­second largest manufacturer tinued good demand in Europe, Asia and South of heavy-duty trucks. America. The Brazilian market rebounded strongly from low levels and the Chinese truck market had high Number of regular 13 14 15 16 17 growth. In North America, demand picked up in the ­employees 178.5 190.9 214.0 200.7 216.5 55,026 (52,154). 216.5 SEK bn latter part of the year. Brands Strong or improving truck markets The truck market in Europe remained strong in 2017. High demand for transport resulted in high capacity utilization for truck fleets and A D J U S T E D O P E R AT I N G I N C O M E * A N D A D J U S T E D O P E R AT I N G M A R G I N good customer profitability. This led to continued renewal and expansion of fleets. In North America, good economic activity and high demand for freight combined with a tighter transport capacity led to improving 13 14 15 16 17 freight rates. Demand for construction trucks continued to be good, 3.8 2.9 7.6 8.7 9.4 % 6,798 5,558 16,170 17,472 20,383 SEK M while highway trucks saw the biggest increase in demand. 20,383 SEK M Demand for heavy-duty trucks in Brazil rebounded strongly in the second half of 2017 with high order activity, although from low ­levels. * For information on adjusted operating income, please see Alternative Performance Measures on page 211. STRONG POSITIONS G L O B A L LY 94 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2017 TRUCKS T he Volvo Group has strong positions globally with a very competitive product and services offer providing customers with increased uptime and supporting their profitability. 95 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2017 TRUCKS In India, demand improved as a result of good economic activity upgraded, fuel-efficient 11-liter engine and a new electronically and improving business confidence. controlled automatic transmission with anticipatory solutions that The Chinese heavy-duty truck market reached an all-time high use GPS. All models feature disc brakes as standard, a first for any level in 2017, driven by a good freight environment, higher construc­ Japanese manufacturer. tion activity and by new emission and weight legislation, which led to In April, Volvo Trucks launched the new Volvo VNR regional haul the need for early renewal and expansion of fleets. truck, marking the first step in the renewal of the Volvo range in the In Japan, demand remained good through 2017, with support North American market. Another very important step was taken in from some customers deciding to buy trucks ahead of new emission July with the announcement of the new Volvo VNL long haul series. regulations for rigid trucks, which came into effect in September. It is a ground-breaking tractor with cutting-edge innovations in fuel efficiency, driver productivity, safety and uptime. The new truck Orders and deliveries ­features a new cab with improved aerodynamics and interior, includ­ In 2017, a total of 202,402 trucks where delivered from the Group’s ing an all-new 70-inch sleeper. The new trucks were ramped-up in wholly-owned operations, an increase of 6% compared with 2016. production gradually during the second half of 2017. Deliveries increased in all markets with the exception of North Also in North America, Mack Trucks in September announced an America. The biggest increases were in South America, Asia ­ upgrade of its vocational and regional haul lineup as well as an and Europe. expansion into the long haul segment with the new Mack Anthem Order intake to the Group’s wholly-owned operations increased sleeper cab. The new trucks will be ramped-up in production grad­ by 23% to 232,439 (188,898) trucks. All markets showed improve­ ually during the first half of 2018. Together with the launches from ments with the strongest growth coming from South America and Volvo earlier in the year, these new products mark the Group’s big­ North America and with Europe increasing from already high levels. gest upgrade of the North American truck range in 20 years. In Europe, Volvo Trucks announced long haul trucks running on Improved profitability liquefied natural gas (LNG) or liquefied biogas (LBG). The new In 2017, net sales in the truck operations increased by 8% to SEK trucks have the same performance, drivability and fuel consumption 216,480 M (200,650). Adjusted for currency movements, net sales as the diesel-powered models, but their CO2 emissions are 20% increased by 7%, of which vehicle sales grew by 8% while service lower compared with diesel when running on LNG and 100% lower sales increased by 5%. when running on LBG. In 2017, both adjusted and reported operating income amounted Also in Europe, the Volvo FH Performance Edition truck was to SEK 20,383 M corresponding to an operating margin of 9.4%. announced winner of the “Young Professionals Truck Award 2017”, In 2016, adjusted operating income amounted to SEK 17,472 M, cor­ based on test driving by young truck drivers in Germany. The award responding to an adjusted operating margin of 8.7%. For information was part of the “Best Commercial Vehicles 2017” event. Renault on adjustments in 2016, please see Alternative Performance Meas­ Trucks T High Edition came in second place. ures on page 211. Reported operating income in 2016 amounted to At the Volvo Group Innovation Summit in Beijing on November 15, SEK 15,020 M. a self-driving truck, driving autonomously from one hub to another The increase in earnings was mainly a result of higher volumes was unveiled. The truck is part of a development project exploring and increased earnings in the joint ventures. This was partly offset how automation can contribute to increased productivity, enhanced by higher selling and R&D costs as well as costs related to a safety and lower environmental impact. stretched situation in parts of the supply chain. For more informa­ On January 23, 2018, it was announced that Volvo Trucks will tion on the Group’s joint ventures and associated companies, please start selling electric medium-duty trucks for city distribution in see Note 5. Currency movements had a negative impact of SEK Europe in 2019. The first of these trucks will be put into operation 15 M compared with 2016. together with selected customers in 2018. Renault Trucks will also start selling electric medium-duty trucks in 2019. The electric Important events trucks are based on the Group’s modular technology. In March, UD Croner, an all-new medium-duty truck range, was launched. It is tailored specifically to growth markets. UD Croner has 21 different basic configurations to suit specific demands of various industries. In April, UD Trucks launched its all-new heavyduty UD Quon truck range. The trucks are equipped with an 96 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2017 TRUCKS M A R K E T S H A R E S , H E AV Y D U T Y T R U C K S , % NORTH EUROPE 28 C H I N A* J A PA N AMERICA 9.9 8.3 7.8 7.3 16.9 16.8 8.1 8.7 12.8 13.0 15.2 11.3 17.0 19.0 VOLVO MACK VOLVO RENAULT Heavy Medium UD TRUCKS DONGFENG TRUCKS BR A ZIL SOUTH I N D I A* AUSTR ALIA AFRICA 2.0 3.3 18.9 18.4 14.0 15.3 8.7 10.3 4.8 4.9 33.0 32.2 16.1 15.4 9.4 8.5 VOLVO VOLVO UD Heavy Medium VOLVO MACK UD EICHER 2016 2017 * Volvo Group holds 45.6% in VECV, which produces Eicher trucks, and 45% in DFCV, which produces Dongfeng trucks. N E T S A L E S A N D O P E R AT I N G DE LIVE RIE S BY MARK E T 2017 2016 2017 2016 INCOME , SEK M Europe 99,642 91,468 Number of trucks North America 52,405 51,849 Europe 105,432 97,909 South America 12,789 10,613 North America 37,941 39,193 Asia 36,998 33,464 South America 11,073 9,442 Africa and Oceania 14,646 13,256 Asia 35,476 31,502 Total net sales 216,480 200,650 Africa and Oceania 12,480 12,378 Total deliveries 202,402 190,424 Of which Vehicles 163,895 150,911 Heavy duty (>16 tons) 171,963 158,025 Services 52,585 49,739 Medium duty (7–16 tons) 14,331 15,691 Light duty (<7 tons) 16,108 16,708 Adjusted operating income1 20,383 17,472 Total deliveries 202,402 190,424 Adjustments1 − −2,453 Operating income 20,383 15,020 Volvo 112,245 102,857 UD 20,583 20,738 Adjusted operating margin, % 9.4 8.7 Renault Trucks 49,930 47,983 Operating margin, % 9.4 7.5 Mack 19,644 18,846 ¹ For information on adjusted operating capital, please see Alternative Total deliveries 202,402 190,424 ­Performance Measures on page 211. Non-consolidated operations VE Commercial Vehicles (Eicher) 47,376 42,929 Dongfeng Commercial Vehicle Company (Dongfeng Trucks) 170,655 128,501 97 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT Strong earnings improvement After years of tough market conditions, the IN BRIEF SHARE OF global construction business grew in 2017. Founded in 1832 in Eskilstuna, G RO U P S A L E S Sweden Volvo C ­ onstruction Higher volumes linked with internal efficiency Equipment has grown to become one of the leaders in and a lower cost base helped deliver improved the development of products profitability. Sales rose by 31% and operating and services for the con­ struction, extraction, waste ­processing, forestry and mate­ 20% income by 252%. rials handling sectors. N E T S A L E S 2017, Position on world market SEK BN W Volvo CE is the world’s leading ­manufacturer of articulated ith a history dating back 185 years Volvo haulers and one of the world’s Construction Equipment (Volvo CE) is one leading manufacturers of wheel of the longest established global producers loaders and excavators. Volvo 13 14 15 16 17 CE also offers road construc­ 53.4 52.9 51.0 50.7 66.5 of products and services for the construc­ tion machines and compact 66.5 SEK bn tion, extraction, waste processing, forestry equipment. and materials handling sectors. Principal equipment includes ­excavators, wheel loaders and haulers, as well as road machinery. Number of regular A wide range of services is also offered. Marketed under the Volvo, ­employees 12,788 (13,397). A D J U S T E D O P E R AT I N G I N C O M E * SDLG and Terex Trucks brands, the company’s products and ser­ A N D A D J U S T E D O P E R AT I N G M A R G I N vices are sold and supported via a global network of dealers. Brands Recovery in construction and mining Demand for construction equipment improved worldwide in 2017, 13 14 15 16 17 driven by increased construction activity in many markets and also 4.9 2.3 4.1 4.4 11.9 % 2,592 1,232 2,090 2,246 7,917 SEK M a clear recovery in the mining segment. The European market was up 16% and North America 11%, while South America improved from low levels, rising 20%. Asia (excluding China) was up 13% while China recovered strongly, growing by 74% during the year. 7,917 SEK M * For information on adjusted operating income, please see Alternative Performance Measures on page 211. STRONG IMPROVEMENT IN P R O F I TA B I L I T Y 98 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT T he new L260H wheel loader from Volvo Construction Equipment is a true global two-pass loader that is purpose-built to take on the toughest jobs, ensuring optimum performance, profitability and a 10% fuel efficiency improvement. L260H 99 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT Real time support Volvo CE launched ActiveCare Direct in North America; a telematics N E T S A L E S A N D O P E R AT I N G 2017 2016 monitoring service that relieves customers from having to sort INCOME , SEK M through large quantities of data of machine operating parameters, Europe 22,977 19,739 North America 12,234 10,724 and instead delivers analysis and recommendations. Each month, South America 1,760 1,414 Volvo generates a comprehensive telematics report for the cus­ Asia 25,058 15,765 tomer, highlighting areas of opportunity to increase productivity and Africa and Oceania 4,468 3,088 reduce operating costs. Total net sales 66,497 50,731 The year also saw Volvo CE introduce Real Time Technical Support, Of which: a platform that allows technicians to video call Volvo CE’s product Construction Equipment 56,097 41,279 ­support team to show them complicated problems, and get advice on Services 10,400 9,452 how to fix them. Adjusted operating income¹ 7,917 2,246 Adjustments¹ – – Improved internal efficiency combined with higher Operating income 7,917 2,246 ­volumes deliver profitability Adjusted operating margin, % 11.9 4.4 Net sales rose by 31% to SEK 66,497 M (50,731). Adjusted for Operating margin, % 11.9 4.4 currency movements, net sales increased by 30%, of which machine ¹ For information on adjusted operating income, please see Alternative sales grew by 35% while service sales increased by 9%. ­Performance Measures on page 211. Volvo CE’s focus on core products, reduced breakeven and tight control over costs as volumes returned resulted in a significant improvement in profitability. Operating income was positively impacted by the higher volumes and by increased capacity utiliza­ DE LIVE RIE S BY MARK E T 2017 2016 tion in the industrial system. Both adjusted and reported operating Number of machines income rose to SEK 7,917 M (2,246), corresponding to an operating Europe 17,519 14,700 margin of 11.9% (4.4). No adjustments were made in 2016 or 2017. North America 5,685 5,105 Currency movements had a negative impact of SEK 219 M com­ South America 1,372 1,175 pared with 2016. Asia 36,254 21,072 Africa and Oceania 3,297 2,254 In 2017, Volvo CE also had an increase in order intake, which rose Total deliveries 64,127 44,306 by 45% to 66,795 machines. Order intake increased in all markets, Large and medium construction with a particularly strong development in Asia, Africa and Oceania equipment1 48,139 33,054 and South America. Order intake in China was particularly strong, Compact construction equipment2 15,988 11,252 rising by 108%, driven by increased demand for SDLG wheel load­ Total deliveries 64,127 44,306 ers and SDLG and Volvo excavators. Of which: Total deliveries were up 45% during the year and amounted to Volvo 37,876 30,473 64,127 machines. SDLG 26,046 13,681 Of which in China 21,698 10,744 Focus on technical innovation 1  xcavators >10 tons, wheel loaders engine power >120 hp, articulated E haulers, rigid haulers and road machinery products. More than half a century after inventing the concept, 2017 saw 2  xcavators <10 tons, wheel loaders engine power <120 hp, skid steer E Volvo CE celebrate the production of its 75,000th articulated ­loaders and backhoe loaders. hauler, a product segment where Volvo CE has more than a third of the world market. Having produced more than half of the articulated haulers ever made, 50,000 Volvo haulers are still in regular use Looking to the future, 2017 also saw Volvo CE unveil its latest around the world. concept machine – the EX2. The 100% electric compact excavator Showcasing a total of 28 machines, including the launch of its prototype delivers zero emissions, 10 times higher efficiency, 10 new flagship 50 ton class wheel loader – the L350H – Volvo offered times lower noise levels and reduced total cost of ownership, com­ a confident message at the CONEXPO/CON-AGG exhibition in pared to its conventional counterparts. Believed to be the world’s Las Vegas. first fully electric compact excavator prototype, the EX2 is part of a research project. 100 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 BUSES BUSES Higher sales with stable earnings Volvo Buses had a year of record sales IN BRIEF SHARE OF volumes. Profitability was supported by Volvo Buses is a leader in the G RO U P S A L E S development of sustainable internal efficiency improvements and public transport solutions and is one of the world’s largest increased service sales but hampered manufacturers of buses, by adverse currency movements. coaches and bus chassis. Product range The overall offer­ ing includes city buses, intercity 8% buses and coaches as well as N E T S A L E S 2017, T complete transport systems, SEK BN financial services and services for he strategic priorities are to enhance competitiveness vehicle and traffic information. and increase profitability by improving customer focus, quality and reducing product cost. Key drivers are Geographic reach Volvo Buses has sales in 85 increased operational excellence and improved cus­ countries and a global service 13 14 15 16 17 tomer service offering through expanding the service network, with more than 1,500 16.7 18.6 23.6 25.4 26.1 dealerships and workshops. 26.1 SEK bn network and increasing cooperation with Volvo Trucks. Improved qual­ ­Production facilities are found ity and service has led to new major orders of transit buses and in Europe, North America, coaches. Volvo Buses has also taken the next step in electromobility by South America and Asia. introducing a new version of the all-electric bus Volvo 7900 Electric. Position on world market A D J U S T E D O P E R AT I N G I N C O M E * Volvo Buses is one of the world’s A N D A D J U S T E D O P E R AT I N G M A R G I N Increasing order volumes of electric buses largest producers of buses and coaches in the premium segment. Volvo Buses continues to invest in end-to-end system solutions for electrified buses. The customer offering includes several electro­ Number of regular e ­ mployees mobility products, battery and charging infrastructure options, and 7,943 (7,353). 13 14 15 16 17 repair and maintenance services. The product range includes hybrid Brands –1.1 0.5 3.6 3.4 3.6 % –190 98 845 870 928 SEK M chassis, a range of electrified buses for the European markets, and 928 SEK M Nova Bus hybrid and electric buses for the North American mar­ kets. Charging station infrastructure is developed in cooperation with ABB and Siemens with the common interface OppCharge, which can be used independent of manufacturer. * For information on adjusted operating During 2017, the order volume accelerated and 780 orders for income, please see Alternative Performance Measures on page 211. Volvo branded hybrids and electric buses were received from opera­ tors in cities such as Singapore, Latrobe Valley; Australia, Barcelona; Spain, London and Harrogate; UK, Göttingen; Germany, Namur; ­Belgium, Trondheim; Norway, and Malmö and Värnamo; Sweden. Operational implementation is a success and has led to additional orders from the same customer in Differdange, Luxembourg. In total more than 3,800 Volvo branded electrified buses have been sold since the start 2010. With this progress, Volvo is the leader in Europe in electrified buses. 101 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 BUSES The Volvo Pedestrian and Cyclist Detection System, Dynamic With its complete and commercial range of buses and systems for Steering, and Zone Management System are good examples of electrified public transport, Volvo Buses has maintained its strong innovative technology in the areas of automation and connectivity. position in sustainable transport solutions. Volvo Buses has kept its These recently launched safety features minimize fatalities or other strong ­market position in Europe, and further improved its sales and injuries between human beings and heavy-duty vehicles. market presence in North America and Asia. The service business The ElectriCity partnership for electrified transportation in Gothen­ and offerings continue to grow significantly in all regions. burg, Sweden where Volvo is a major partner, won first prize in the Net sales increased by 3% to SEK 26,078 M (25,386). When “Operational and technical excellence” category when the prestig­ adjusted for currency movements the increase was 3%, of which ious UITP (Union Internationale des Transports Publics) Awards sales of buses increased by 2% and service sales increased by 6%. 2017 were announced in Montreal in May 2017. In 2017, both adjusted and reported operating income amounted As part of the Land and Transport Authority of Singapore’s drive to SEK 928 M corresponding to an operating margin of 3.6%. to create new solutions for tomorrow’s sustainable public transport, In 2016, adjusted operating income amounted to SEK 870 M and Volvo Buses and Nanyang Technological University in Singapore in the adjusted operating margin to 3.4%. For information on adjust­ January 2018 signed a cooperation agreement on a research and ments please see Alternative Performance Measures on page 211. development program for autonomous electrified 12-meter buses. ­E arnings were positively impacted by higher service sales and con­ tinued improvements from the efficiency program. At the same time, Product introductions earnings were negatively impacted by unfavorable currency move­ A new version of the all-electric Volvo 7900 Electric, offering both ment. Currency movements had a negative impact of SEK 233 M end stop fast-charging and plug-in depot charging was launched in compared to 2016. October. The battery capacity has been significantly extended com­ pared to earlier versions, and the new 7900 Electric is now available with a capacity of 150, 200 and with the new version of 250 kWh. In April Volvo Buses globally launched its latest chassis powered N E T S A L E S A N D O P E R AT I N G 2017 2016 by the 8-liter in-house Volvo diesel engine. The B8R and B8RLE INCOME , SEK M Europe 7,753 7,861 replaced the top-selling B7R and B7RLE. Higher power output, North America 12,512 11,345 lower fuel consumption, longer oil-change intervals and a high South America 1,148 1,363 safety level are some of the features of the new chassis models. Asia 3,135 3.067 The new B8L, a double deck chassis with a new fuel efficient Africa and Oceania 1,530 1,749 Euro 6 engine, was introduced to the Asia Pacific region in January, Total net sales 26,078 25,386 2018. Benefits include less fuel consumption and interior noise, Of which: more torque and free floor space, tighter turning circle and an Vehicles 21,712 21,295 enhanced departure angle. The B8L offers a solution to highly con­ Services 4,366 4,091 gested cities which need high capacity transport. Adjusted operating income¹ 928 870 Adjustments¹ – 41 Profitability improved despite adverse currency effects Operating income 928 911 Global demand for heavy-duty buses remained high during 2017, Adjusted operating margin, % 3.6 3.4 with the exception of South America which still was at low levels. Operating margin, % 3.6 3.6 In total, Volvo Buses delivered 9.393 buses and bus chassis (9,553). 1  or information on adjusted operating income, please see Alternative F ­Performance Measures on page 211. T H E N E W V O LV O 79 0 0 E L E C T R I C The new bus offers operators even greater range and flexibility. DE LIVE RIE S BY MARK E T 2017 2016 • All-electric propulsion, 2-axle 12-meter city bus with low floor Number of buses and three doors Europe 2,645 2,676 • Quiet and emission-free operation North America 2,973 2,659 • 80% lower energy consumption versus corresponding diesel bus South America 784 1,149 • Battery capacity 150, 200 or 250 kWh • Fast charged via OppCharge or overnight charged via CCS Asia 2,186 1,849 Combo 2 Other markets 805 1,220 • Operating range up to 200 km (250 kWh) depending on Total deliveries 9,393 9,553 topography and driving conditions • Volvo Dynamic Steering (VDS) Non-consolidated operations • Volvo Pedestrian and VE Commercial Vehicles 12,762 13,883 Cyclist Detection Dongfeng Commercial Vehicle Warning System Company 1,471 4,540 • Zone Management During 2106 the share of ownership in the joint venture Shanghai Sunwin System Bus Co d ­ ecreased to less than 20% and thus there deliveries are no longer reported. 102 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 VOLVO PENTA V O LV O P E N TA Increased sales and good profitability Volvo Penta’s engine deliveries increased IN BRIEF SHARE OF by 10% in 2017 and net sales grew by 12%. Volvo Penta aims to be the most G RO U P S A L E S forward thinking and customer Profitability continued to be good. focused supplier of sustainable power solutions. Volvo Penta provides engines and power solutions for leisure and com­ mercial boats, as well as for power generation and industrial, off-road applications. 3% N E T S A L E S 2017, V SEK BN Position on world market olvo Penta operates in two businesses: Marine Volvo Penta is the world’s ­(leisure and commercial) and Industrial (off-road ­largest producer of diesel and power generation). In the marine segments, engines for leisure boats and a leading, independent producer Volvo Penta aims to lead the industry, continuing 13 14 15 16 17 of industrial engines. to develop its own innovative products and solu­ 7.6 7.8 9.4 9.9 11.1 11.1 SEK bn tions. In the Industrial segments, Volvo Penta will seek maximum Number of regular e ­ mployees leverage of the Volvo Group’s engine range and other assets in its 1,622 (1,530). total offer, and add value for customers in its application and ­integration expertise. Brands A D J U S T E D O P E R AT I N G I N C O M E * A N D A D J U S T E D O P E R AT I N G M A R G I N Volvo Penta strategy Volvo Penta’s challenge is to grow profitably with the existing prod­ uct offer, delivering an excellent total customer experience, while transforming the total offer to include new technologies and busi­ 13 14 15 16 17 ness models. To succeed, it is essential to excel at the following 8.3 9.4 11.7 12.8 12.9 % 626 729 1,102 1,269 1,439 SEK M aspects of business, all of which work together. Customers: Volvo 1,439 SEK M Penta’s business is all about its customers and how well their needs are served. Total Solutions: Providing total solutions is about de­liver­ ing end-to-end solutions to enhance the entire customer experi­ ence. People: Engaged, motivated, and high-performing employees * For information on adjusted operating working together are keys to success. Growth: Secure growth ambi­ income, please see Alternative Performance Measures on page 211. tions, through new business opportunities by both segments and parts & service sales. Profitability: Ensure the business is run in an efficient and effective manner, minimizing wasted resources, while maintaining the ability to deliver innovative and competitive prod­ ucts and services. 103 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 VOLVO PENTA Market development and engine shipments During August, Volvo Penta successfully launched its most The market for marine leisure engines had a modest growth and power­ful marine leisure engine ever – a 13 liter, diesel engine with Volvo Penta continued to gain market share. The marine commer­ 1,000 horsepower. The new engine is perfectly matched with an cial market had a positive development in sub-segments, such as upgraded IPS pod drive, offering customers an even more powerful offshore energy and people transportation, as well increased inter­ option for yachts up to 120 feet. A number of yachts above 60 feet est for hybrid and electrified solutions. were revealed with the new D13-1000 hp engine during the second The market for industrial off-road engines continued to grow, half of the year, supporting the company’s ambitions to grow in the including increased demand in mining and material handling seg­ larger yacht segment. ments, as well as continued growth in construction and agriculture. Throughout the year, Volvo Penta secured increased business The market for industrial power generation engines was flat, with with new and existing customers, thanks to the wide range of new positive signs in construction and data centers. products. In the parts and services area, work continued with the In total, Volvo Penta’s engine deliveries increased by 10% to development of a competitive offer per segment, as well as to 40,997 engines. increase penetration of service agreements. Positive sales trend Volvo Penta’s net sales increased by 12% to SEK 11,119 M compared with SEK 9,893 M in 2016. Adjusted for currency movements, net sales increased by 11%, of which engine sales increased by 13% and service sales increased by 5%. Both adjusted and reported operating income amounted to SEK 1,439 M (1,269), corresponding to an operating margin of 12.9% (12.8). No adjustments were made during 2016 and 2017. Earnings N E T S A L E S A N D O P E R AT I N G 2017 2016 were positively impacted by higher sales volumes, which were partly INCOME , SEK M Europe 5,727 4,973 offset by higher costs for research and development. Changes in North America 2,456 2,191 currency movements had a positive impact in an amount of SEK 72 M. South America 289 291 Asia 2,082 1,891 Further strengthened customer offer Africa and Oceania 566 546 During 2017, a wide range of new products were launched in both Total net sales 11,119 9,893 the marine and industrial segments. In February, Volvo Penta Of which: unveiled its new 380 and 430 hp gasoline sterndrive engines and Engines 8,125 7,078 received an innovation award for its joystick for inboard solutions. Services 2,995 2,815 Volvo Penta also introduced its most powerful 16 liter power gener­ Adjusted operating income1 1,439 1,269 ation engine to date with the highest power density in its class. Adjustments¹ – – In March, Volvo Penta launched its concept to meet European Operating income 1,439 1,269 Stage V emissions legislation for the full engine range between 5 Adjusted operating margin, % 12.9 12.8 and 16 liters. Throughout the year, Volvo Penta revealed the engines Operating margin, % 12.9 12.8 in its EU Stage V range at international trade fairs in the construc­ 1 F  or information on adjusted operating income, please see Alternative tion, material handling, forestry, and agriculture segments. Volvo ­Performance Measures on page 211. Penta continues to see momentum in the industrial off-road engine segment, gaining new customers. In May, Volvo Penta revealed its concept to meet future marine emission standards, IMO Tier III, taking a step towards increased DELIVERIES PER SEGMENT 2017 2016 sustainability for the marine commercial segment. Number of units In July, Volvo Penta acquired a majority in the US-based, out­ Marine engines1 19,565 18,016 board motor manufacturer, Seven Marine, which produces the most Industrial engines 21,432 19,251 powerful outboard models in the world, running at 557 and 627 hp. Total deliveries 40,997 37,267 This deal broadens Volvo Penta’s marine leisure technology plat­ 1 Excluding outboard engines. form, securing an entry in the outboard motor market. 104 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL SERVICES FINANCIAL SERVICES Good profitability, portfolio performance and volume In 2017, Volvo Financial Services (VFS) IN BRIEF DISTRIBUTION OF continued to grow the credit portfolio and Volvo Financial Services offers C R E D I T ­P O R T F O L I O, % competitive financial solutions Volvo Trucks, 50 (49) increase profitability. which strengthen long-term Volvo CE, 21 (20) ­relationships with Volvo Group Renault Trucks, 10 (10) customers and dealers. As the Mack Trucks, 13 (14) Buses, 4 (5) number one provider of financial UD Trucks, 2 (2) solutions for Volvo Group ­products, VFS delivers value to customers and builds loyalty to the Volvo Group brands through RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ V ease of doing business, speed E Q U I T Y 1, % FS financial solutions support the sales of Group to market, and knowledge and expertise of the industry. vehicles and equipment, and are available with other services such as repair and main­ tenance Position on world market contracts, insurance, etc. at the point-of-sale at 13 14 15 16 17 VFS conducts customer financ­ the Group’s dealers. This integrated approach ing in 45 countries in the world 12.1 12.5 13.4 13.7 14.3 14.3% gives customers a convenient one stop-shopping experience. and manages a credit portfolio of SEK 130 billion with more than 200,000 customers. Strategic focus VFS’ mission is to be the best captive in industry, which is defined by Number of regular e ­ mployees three aspirations: To be the Employer of Choice and Provider of Choice 1,363 (1,328). O P E R AT I N G I N C O M E , SEK M in our industry, and to Deliver Shareholder Value. To reach these objec­ tives, VFS executed on activities that support each aspiration. Employer of Choice means to be the most attractive employer in the industry, a market position that is critical in order to attract, develop and retain the 13 14 15 16 17 right people. To achieve this goal, VFS continued to invest in employee 1,522 1,712 2,006 2,086 2,192 development and mobility programs, and in its certification process 2,192 SEK M with the Great Place to Work institute, gaining certifications in markets such as Canada, Italy, and the US. Provider of Choice means VFS is one of the main reasons a cus­ tomer decides to purchase a Group product. During the year, VFS 1  xcluding the positive impact of SEK 897 M E focused on five business aspects for which excellence is required to from the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities related to the year 2017 tax reform in the achieve this goal, and to build a strong position of relevance towards United States. Including the impact the return was 22.6%. our business partners: 1) increase integration with Group brand partners to optimize the total offer, 2) make it easy for customers to access Group products and services by selling them as a total offer, 3) drive loyalty through lifecycle management activities, 4) position VFS products in ways that grow service sales for the Group, and 5) lead through new technologies and business models to maintain a 105 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL SERVICES softened market, produced strong profitability and commercial P E N E T R AT I O N R AT E *, % results. Brazil began to stabilize and the recovery plan in place was executed to effectively manage the environment. China deliveries began to increase and penetration remained strong, while delin­ quencies decreased. Europe had continued good growth and port­ Volvo Volvo Mack Renault Buses UD ­ erformance. folio p CE Trucks Trucks Trucks Trucks 39 36 30 30 23 20 19 18 16 13 9 10 Good overall performance 2016 * Share of unit sales financed by Volvo Financial Services in 2017 relation to total n ­ umber of units sold by the Volvo Group in Higher levels of new business volume were recorded during the markets where ­financial services are offered. year. Total new financing volume in 2017 amounted to SEK 57.9 billion (54.6), an increase of 6% compared to 2016, adjusted for currency. competitive position and deliver products and services that help In total, 51,919 new Volvo Group vehicles and machines (49,809) customers be successful. To expand customer reach, a captive were financed during the year. In the markets where financing is finance operation was established in South Africa and financing offered, the average penetration rate was 25% (26). The net credit resources through alliances were devoted to such markets as the portfolio of SEK 130,334 M (130,241) increased by 4% on a curren­ Philippines, Indonesia and South Korea. VFS achieved the #1 posi­ cy-adjusted basis compared to 2016. The funding of the credit port­ tion in market share in almost every market in which we operate, and folio is matched in terms of maturity, interest rates and currencies in customer and dealer satisfaction indices during the year indicated accordance with Group policy. For further information, see Note 4. that customers are satisfied with our products, service levels and Operating income amounted to SEK 2,192 M (2,086) and the market competitiveness. return on shareholders’ equity was 14.3% (13.7) excluding a posi­ Delivering Shareholder Value means to drive sales, protect Group tive impact from the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities due to the assets, and manage risk while generating strong returns in every new tax reform legislation in the United States. Reported return on market where VFS does business. To deliver on this, VFS focused on shareholders’ equity amounted to 22.6% for the year. The equity managing and balancing price realization, risk appetite and volume. ratio at the end of the year was 8.0% (8.0). Pricing discipline, good portfolio performance and retail portfolio growth were the drivers of Portfolio performance the overall increase in profitability. Portfolio performance continued to be good, highlighted by histori­ During the year, credit provision expenses amounted to SEK 534 M cally low levels of overdues and credit losses in most markets. (677) while write-offs of SEK 483 M (627) were recorded. The writeRepossessions, inventories and write off levels remained low, sup­ off ratio for 2017 was 0.38% (0.49). At the end of December 31, 2017, porting good profitability. North America stabilized and, despite a credit reserves were 1.35% (1.43) of the credit ­portfolio. K E Y R AT I O S , F I N A N C I A L I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T 2017 2016 2017 2016 ­S E R V I C E S ­F I N A N C I A L S E R V I C E S , S E K M Number of financed units 51,919 49,809 Finance and lease income 11,812 11,242 Total penetration rate1, % 25 26 Finance and lease expenses –7,072 –6,591 New financing volume, SEK billion 57.9 54.6 Gross income 4 ,740 4,651 Credit portfolio net, SEK billion 130 130 Selling and administrative Credit provision expenses, SEK M 534 677 expenses –2,126 –1,960 Operating income, SEK M 2,192 2,086 Credit provision expenses –534 –677 Credit reserves, % of credit Other operating income and portfolio 1.35 1.43 expenses 113 72 Return on shareholders’ equity, Operating income 2,192 2,086 rolling 12 months2, % 22.6 13.7 Income taxes 248 –631 1  hare of unit sales financed by Volvo Financial Services in relation to the S total number of units sold by the Volvo Group in markets where financial Income for the period 2,440 1,455 services are offered. Return on Equity, % 22.6 13.7 2 Including the positive impact of SEK 897 M from the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities related to the year 2017 tax reform in the US. Excluding the impact the return was 14.3%. 106 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT Balancing the requirements of different stakeholders The objectives of the financial management VOLVO GROUP LIQUIDIT Y POSITION, DECEMBER 31, 2017 in the Volvo Group is to assure shareholders SEK bn long-term attractive and stable total return 80 81.7 and debt providers the financial strength and 60 45.4 flexibility to secure proceeds and repayment. 40 20 36.3 A long-term competitive business requires access to 0 Cash and cash equivalents Revolving credit capital to be able to invest. Financial management and marketable securities facilities ensures that the capital is used in the best possible way through well-defined ratios and objectives for the Industrial Operations as well as for the customer finance operations in Financial Services. The objective on Group oper­ G EOG R A PH I C A L LY DI V ERSIF IED M A RK E T PROG R A MS ating margin and return on equity for Financial Services are intended to secure the return requirements from shareholders. The restrictions on CAD SEK net debt to equity for the Industrial Operations and the equity ratio for CNY USD EUR JPY Financial Services are there to secure fi­­nancial stability and flexibility INR for debt providers. CNH Steering principles to ensure financial flexibility AUD BRL over the business cycle To ensure financial stability and flexibility throughout the business cycle the Volvo Group holds a strong liquidity position. Besides cash and mar­ ketable securities the liquidity position is built up of committed credit facilities. The funding and lending is in local currency and the Financial C R E D I T R AT I N G , M A R C H 6 , 2 0 18 Services portfolio is matched both from an interest and a liquidity risk Short-term Long-term perspective, in accordance with the Volvo Group policy. For further infor­ Moody’s (Corporate Rating) P-2 Baa1, stable mation, please see Note 4 to the Consolidated financial statements. S&P (Corporate Rating) A2 BBB+, stable BBB, (high) Diversified funding sources give flexibility and DBRS (Canada) – positive support the global presence R&I (Japan) a-1 A, stable The Volvo Group has centralized the portfolio man­­agement of all financial assets and liabilities, funding operations and cash man­ agement through the internal bank, Volvo Treasury. The liability A strong and stable credit rating is important portfolio is separated into two portfolios, one for Industrial Opera­ Being a large issuer with a growing customer financing business, it tions and one for Financial Services, to correspond to the needs of is critical to have a strong and stable credit rating. The level of the the different operations. credit rating is not only important for debt investors but also for a Volvo Treasury is increasing the possibility to access capital mar­ number of other stakeholders when it comes to creating long-term kets at all times through diversified funding sources. Furthermore, relationships. A strong credit rating has a positive effect on the ability the Volvo Group’s global presence is supported by bond programs to attract and finance customers’ purchases of the Group’s prod­ on all major debt capital markets in the world. Besides the access to ucts and on the trust from suppliers. It also gives access to more capital markets around the world, the Volvo Group uses different funding sources and lower cost of funds. instruments, such as bilateral bank funding, corpor­ate bonds and The Volvo Group has contractual relations with two global Credit certificates, hybrid bonds, agency funding as well as securitization Rating Agencies for solicited credit ratings; Standard & Poors’ Rating of assets in Financial Services’ credit portfolio. An increasingly Services (S&P) and Moody’s Investors S ­ ervice (Moody’s). In 2017, import­ant part of the treasury work is also to manage increased Moody’s upgraded its rating from Baa2, stable to Baa1, stable. S&P funding needs in new growth markets for the Group. upgraded its rating from BBB, positive to BBB+, stable. 107 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 CHANGES IN CONSOLIDATED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY C H A N G E S I N C O N S O L I DAT E D S H A R E H O L D E R S ’ E Q U I T Y Shareholders’ equity attributable to equity holders of the Parent Company Share Other Translation Retained Minority Total SEK M capital reserves 1 reserve earnings Total interests equity Balance at December 31, 2015 2,554 259 –933 81,930 83,810 1,801 85,610 Income for the period – – – 13,147 13,147 75 13,223 Other comprehensive income Translation differences on foreign ­operations – – 5,540 – 5,540 45 5,585 Share of Other comprehensive income related to Joint Ventures and associated companies – – – –97 –97 – –97 Accumulated translation differences reversed to income – – –48 – –48 – –48 Available-for-sale investments: Note 5, 19 Gains/losses at valuation to fair value – –57 – – –57 – –57 Change in cash flow hedge reserve Note 19 – 68 – – 68 – 68 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Note 20 – – – –304 –304 – –304 Other comprehensive income for the period – 11 5,492 –401 5,102 45 5,147 Total income for the period – 11 5,492 12,746 18,250 120 18,370 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to shareholders – – – –6,093 –6,093 –206 –6,299 Transactions with minority interests – – – – – – – Share based payments Note 27 – – – 58 58 – 58 Changes in minority interests – – – – – – – Other changes – – – 37 37 –12 25 Transactions with shareholders – – – –5,998 –5,998 -218 –6,216 Balance at December 31, 2016 2,554 270 4,559 88,678 96,061 1,703 97,764 Income for the period – – – 20,981 20,981 302 21,283 Other comprehensive income Translation differences on foreign ­operations – – –2,493 – –2,493 –54 –2,546 Share of Other comprehensive income related to Joint Ventures and associated companies – – – 25 25 – 25 Accumulated translation differences reversed to income – – –56 – –56 – –56 Available-for-sale investments: Note 5, 19 – – – – – – – Gains/losses at valuation to fair value – –10 – – –10 – –10 Change in cash flow hedge reserve Note 19 – –20 – – –20 – –20 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Note 20 – – – –827 –827 – –827 Other comprehensive income for the period – –30 –2,549 –802 –3,381 –54 –3,434 Total income for the period – –30 –2,549 20,179 17,601 248 17,849 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to shareholders – – – –6,603 –6,603 –13 –6,616 Transactions with minority interests – – – – – – – Share based payments Note 27 – – – 38 38 – 38 Changes in minority interests – – – – – – – Other changes – – – –27 –27 3 –24 Transactions with shareholders – – – –6,592 –6,592 –10 –6,602 Balance at December 31, 2017 2,554 240 2,010 102,265 107,069 1,941 109,011 1 Read more in Note 19 Equity and number of shares regarding specification of other reserves. 108 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2017 THE SHARE THE SHARE Sharp rise in the share price in 2017 Most of the world’s leading stock markets had a positive development during 2017. The price of the Volvo B share increased by 44% during the year. T he Volvo share is listed on the stock exchange ­ Nasdaq Stockholm, Sweden. One A share carries W H Y I N V E S T I N V O LV O ? one vote at Annual General Meetings and one B • Competitive products and services share carries one tenth of a vote. Dividends are the • Strong market positions globally same for both classes of shares. The Volvo share is • Well-invested included in a large number of indices that are compiled by Dow • Lowered structural cost-level after restructuring program Jones, FTSE, S&P and Nasdaq Nordic. • Improved profitability and cash flow in recent years • Improved financial position The Volvo share price increased In general, the leading stock exchanges rose during 2017. On Nasdaq Stockholm, the broad OMXSPI index rose by 6% (9). On Nasdaq Stockholm the share price for the Volvo A share rose E ARNINGS AND DIVIDEND PER SHARE, by 43%, and at year-end the price for the Volvo A share was SEK DIVIDEND YIELD 153.10 (107.20). The lowest closing price was SEK 107.40 on Jan­ uary 3, and the highest closing price was SEK 169.80 on November 3. The share price for the Volvo B share rose by 44% and at year1 Proposed by the end the price was SEK 152.70 (106.40). The lowest closing price Board of Directors was SEK 106.60 on January 2, and the highest closing price was 13 14 15 16 17 SEK 169.40 on November 3. 1.76 1.03 7.41 6.47 10.32 In 2017, a total of 1.4 billion (1.7) Volvo shares at a value of SEK 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.25 4.251 3.6 3.5 3.8 3.1 2.8 195 billion (158) were traded on Nasdaq Stockholm, corresponding Diluted earnings Dividend Dividend to a daily average of 5.5 million shares (6.9). The Volvo share was per share, SEK per share, SEK yield, % the third most traded share on Nasdaq Stockholm in 2017. At yearend, Volvo’s market capitalization totalled SEK 325 billion (227). According to Fidessa, the trading on Nasdaq Stockholm accounted Ownership changes for 36% of all the trading in the Volvo B share. CBOE Global Markets During the year Norges Bank Investment Management decreased (BATS) accounted for 37%, LSE Group for 16% and BOAT for 3%. its holding from 4.8% of the outstanding capital to 2.7%. At year end Industrivärden was the largest owner followed by Cevian Capi­ Share conversion option tal, Norges Bank Investment Management, SHB and Alecta, when In accordance with a resolution on the AGM on April 6, 2011, the measured as share of voting rights. According to a press release on Articles of Association have been amended to include a conversion December 27, Cevian Capital had reached an agreement to sell its clause, stipulating that series A shares may be converted into series entire holding to Geely Holding. The sale, however, was not visible in B shares, after a request sent to the Board. During 2017 a total of the share register on December 31, 2017. 12,549,713 A shares were converted to B shares, representing 2.6% of the A shares that were outstanding at the end of 2016. Dividend Further information on the procedure is available on the Volvo The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 4.25 per share for the finan­ Group’s web site: www.volvogroup.com cial year of 2017, which would mean that a total of SEK 8,636 M would be transferred to AB Volvo’s shareholders. For the preceding year a dividend of SEK 3.25 per share was paid out. 109 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2017 THE SHARE Communication with shareholders On volvogroup.com it is possible to access financial reports, Dialogue with the shareholders is important for Volvo. In addition search for information concerning the share and statistics for truck to the Annual General Meeting and a number of larger activities deliveries. It is also possible to access information concerning the aimed at professional investors, private shareholders and stock Group’s governance, including information about the Annual market analysts, the relationship between Volvo and the stock ­General Meeting, the Board of Directors, Group Management and market is maintained through such events as press and telephone other areas that are regulated in the “Swedish Code of Corporate conferences in conjunction with the publication of interim reports, Governance.” The website also offers the possibility to subscribe to meetings with retail shareholders’ associations, investor meetings information from Volvo. and visits, as well as road shows in Europe and North America. P R I C E T R E N D , V O LV O S E R I E S B S H A R E S , 2 013 –2 017, S E K The shareholders with the largest voting rights in AB Volvo, December 31, 20171 180 Voting Capital, rights, % % 160 Industrivärden 23.1 7.0 Cevian Capital 15.9 8.7 140 Norges Bank Investment 120 ­Management 5.4 2.7 SHB 5.1 1.5 100 Alecta 4.8 4.4 1 Adjusted for shares owned by AB Volvo, which 80 carry no voting rights at the AGM. AB Volvo held Source: SIX 20,728,135 class A shares and 75,837,801 class B shares comprising in total 4.5% of the number 60 13 14 15 16 17 of registered shares on December 31, 2017. Volvo B OMX Stockholm PI Index OMX Stockholm Industrial Goods & Services Share capital, December 31, 2017 Registered number of shares1 2,128,420,220 of which, Series A P R I C E T R E N D , V O LV O S E R I E S B S H A R E S , 2 017, S E K shares2 479,975,508 170 of which, Series B shares3 1,648,444,712 160 Quota value, SEK 1.20 150 Share capital, SEK M 2,554 140 Number of s­ hareholders 240,521 Private persons 227,492 130 Legal entities 13,029 120 For further details on the Volvo share, see Note 19. 110 Source: SIX 1 The number of outstanding shares was 100 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2,031,854,284 on December 31, 2017. 2 Series A shares carry one vote each. Volvo B OMX Stockholm PI Index OMX Stockholm Industrial Goods & Services 3 Series B shares carry one tenth of a vote each. O W N E R S H I P B Y C O U N T R Y1 O W N E R S H I P B Y C AT E G O R I E S 1  ore details on the M Volvo share and Sweden 56% Non-Swedish owners 44% Volvo’s holding of The UK 17% Other Swedish institutions 31% treasury shares are The US 14% Swedish mutual funds 15% provided in Note 19 Luxembourg 4% Swedish private shareholders 10% to the financial Switzerland 2% statements and in The Netherlands 1% the Eleven-year Others 6% summary. 1 Share of capital, registered shares. 1 Share of capital, registered shares. The employees’ ownership of shares in Volvo through pension foundations is insignificant. 110 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTOR'S REPORT 2017 THE SHARE FTSE GROUP CONFIRMS that Volvo Group has been inde­ pendently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE­ 4Good Index Series. Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible ­business practice. S H A R E H O L D E R VA L U E – L O N G -T E R M SEK 1,000 invested in Volvo B shares on ­December 30, 1982, VA L U E C R E AT I O N was worth SEK 114,540 at the end of 2017. The Volvo Group strives to create long-term value for its shareholders. The Volvo Group’s origins can be traced to 1927, when the first SEK 1,000 serial produced Volvo car rolled out of the factory in Göteborg, Swe­ den. The first serial produced truck saw the light of day in 1928 and 19 8 2 was an immediate success. In 1935, AB Volvo was listed on the SEK 114,540 Stockholm Stock Exchange. The graph shows the total return for the Volvo B share, measured as the share price development with all dividends re-­invested, since December 30, 1982, which is as far back as the comparison index, SIX Return Index, stretches. SIX Return Index measures the total 2 017 return for the Stockholm Stock Exchange as whole. The graph shows that SEK 1,000 invested in the Volvo B-share in 1982 had grown to SEK 114,540 at the end of 2017, under the con­ dition that all dividends have been reinvested in Volvo B shares. A C C U M U L AT E D T O TA L R E T U R N O F T H E V O LV O B S H A R E % +11,354% 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 0 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2017 Volvo B Total return (including reinvested dividends) SIX Return Index (including reinvested dividends) Source: SIX 111 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES R I S K S A N D U N C E R TA I N T I E S Managed risk-taking All business operations involve risks – managed risk-taking is a ­condition of maintaining a sustained favorable profitability. U ncertainties may be due to events in the world and The Volvo Group’s risk management can affect industries and markets and thus have Volvo Group is working with enterprise risk management (ERM), an impact on the Volvo Group’s aspirations, vision a systematic and structured process to assess, report, analyze, and mission. These uncertainties may provide ­miti­gate and follow-up the risks that might impact the Group’s busi­ opportunities that the Volvo Group tries to capture ness. The objective of the ERM process is to improve business in its strategy. In some cases, the Group can influence the likelihood perform­ance and optimize the cost of managing risks; i.e. creating, that a risk-related event will occur. In other cases, when such events enhancing and protecting the Group’s enterprise value as well as are beyond the Group’s control, the Group strives to minimize the enhancing and protecting the Group’s assets. impact. A number of the risks that the Volvo Group is facing are presented on the following pages. DEFINITIONS MANAGE ME NT STRATEGIC Strategic risks may affect our ability to create Strategic risks are managed through strategies Long-term RISKS value, the long-term development of the business and strategic plans set by executive management Create value and the possibility to reach our vision and and management teams throughout Volvo Group. aspirations. OPERATIONAL Operational risks may affect our ability to Operational risks are managed through tactical RISKS enhance value and are important for the daily and operational business decisions as well as Enhance value business while delivering our mission and in operations in all business throughout Volvo living up to our aspirations. Group on all levels, by all employees. COMPLIANCE Compliance risks may affect our ability to protect Risks related to compliance rules and regulations RISKS value through threats posed on our financial, are managed in tactical and operational business Shortand Protect value organizational, or reputational standing. They are decisions and operations through all business mediumimportant to Volvo Group in order to follow our in Volvo Group on all levels, by all employees. term values. The guiding directive is the Volvo Group Code of Conduct. FINANCIAL Financial risks may affect our ability to enhance Financial risks are managed in tactical and RISKS and protect values from potential effects on the ­operational business decisions in all business Enhance & Group’s financial position. They are important throughout Volvo Group on all levels , by all protect value to Volvo Group in order to fulfill our aspirations employees. All following the financial framework, through our values. Volvo Group Financial Policies and Procedures. 112 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THE ERM C YC L E Assess & Report Integrated in the ERM process there are several risk manage­ ment processes active within Volvo Group to cover specific topics Follow-up Analyze such as projects, suppliers, environment and business continuity. These processes report on a materiality level to the ERM function via the Business Areas, Truck Divisions and Group Functions. The ERM function compiles all relevant data and analyzes where there Mitigate are systematic risks or gaps in risk mitigation. Ownership of risk ERM responsibility mitigation resides within the business while the ERM function Business responsibility ­follows up on the progress of the mitigation activities. RISK MANAGEMENT I N V O LV O G R O U P AB Volvo Board of Directors ­G O V E R N A N C E M O D E L Audit Committee Executive Board Corporate Audit Internal Control Quality & Environment Audit Risk analysis ERM Committee and follow-up Mitigate certain risks on • Volume planning • Product Board Group Trucks • Quality Board • Sourcing board level Mitigate risks Truck Divisions Volvo Group Functions on Truck Division/ Business Area Business Review Meetings Management Teams Management Team Business Area/ Group Function level Assess, manage, Volvo Group Trucks ­Technology Volvo Trucks Renault Trucks Mack Trucks mitigate and Group Functions report risks Group Trucks Volvo Construction Group Trucks ­Operations UD Trucks Asia & JVs ­Equipment Group Trucks Purchasing Volvo Penta Volvo Buses Governmental Sales Volvo Financial Services Strategic risks Operational risks Compliance risks Financial risks 113 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES S T R AT E G I C R I S K S can occur if there is a lack of demand, potentially leading to increased price pressure. Proactive risk management is important For a large global company such as Volvo Group, navigating through to anticipate and protect Volvo Group’s brands’ market positions. political, economic and social trends is important and crucial to define Key aspect: 7 our place in the global context of markets and competitors. From a Volvo Group perspective, there are a number of trends and chal­ Extensive government regulation lenges driving our work to develop and deliver transport and infra­ Regulations regarding exhaust emission levels, noise, safety and structure solutions today and tomorrow. Strategic risks may affect ­levels of pollutants from production plants for our products are our ability to create value, long-term development of the business extensive within for the industry. Most of the regulatory challenges and our possibility to reach our mission, vision and aspirations. regarding products relate to reduced emissions. The product devel­ opment capacity within the Volvo Group is coordinated to be able to Cyclical commercial vehicles industry focus resources for research and development to meet the tougher The Volvo Group’s customers operate all over the world, some within emission regulations. Local protectionism leading to changes to a single state, and others across borders. A multitude of global and local content requirements can put the Volvo Group at a disadvan­ regional economic, regulatory, digital, technological and environ­ tage compared to local competitors, cause increased sourcing costs mental factors create strategic as well as operational challenges for or require Volvo to make significant investments not necessary from the industry. Like many capital industries, the commercial vehicle an operational point of view. Read more about product development industry generally has been cyclical, with a strong correlation to and emissions regulations on page 34–41. Key aspects: 1, 2, 3, 5, 9 GDP, the need to replace aging vehicles and machines, as well as laws and regulations. Although there is a continued shift in focus in Change in technology the commercial vehicle industry from product to service, the cycli­ As part of the global automotive and logistics industry the Volvo cality in sales and profitability remains. The changing business land­ Group is driving prosperity for society and for our customers. While scape as well as the divergence between emerging and developed shaping offerings to improve our customers’ productivity and profit­ markets, influences demand for our customers’ services and our ability we are taking changes which emerge through new techno­ customers’ success. The fluctuating demand for the Group’s prod­ logical breakthroughs and legislatory changes into account. As any ucts and services makes the financial result of the operations company the Volvo Group has limited resources and we must at all dependent on the Group’s ability to react quickly to market changes. times select and invest into the new technologies we believe pro­ In particular, the Volvo Group strives to continually balance produc­ vide the best prosperity for society and for our customers. The Volvo tion levels and operating expenses, as well as enhance business Group’s approach to prevent the associated risks is to continuously agility in fulfilling demands for new services. Key aspect: 7 scan and assess new technologies and only bring those new tech­ nologies to product development and commercialization that have Geopolitical instability proven levels of desired customer benefit, quality, safety and environ­ The Volvo Group is active in more than 190 countries and political mental impact. Read more on future technologies on page 34–41 instability, armed conflicts and civil unrest may impact the Group’s and 62–67. Key aspects: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 ­ability to trade in affected areas. Rapid change in inflation, devalua­ tions or regulations can sustain Volvo significant losses, impairment O P E R AT I O N A L R I S K S of assets or costs due to underutilized assets. Key aspect: 7 For Volvo Group, steering the tactical and operational work is ­crucial Intense competition to reach our aspirations in terms of customer satisfaction, admired Continued consolidation in the industry is expected to create fewer employer and leading profitability. To enhance business value, all but stronger competitors. The major global competitors are Daimler, decisions and operations are based on knowledge regarding short Volkswagen (Scania and MAN), Paccar (Kenworth, DAF and and medium term operational risks. These risks are actively managed ­Peterbuilt), Caterpillar and Komatsu. There are also strong local throughout the Volvo Group in accordance with our governance brands, for example in China, India and Russia, active in their model. Operational risks may affect our ability to create value, which domestic ­markets, which are expected to increase their presence in means knowledge of these risks are important for the daily business. other parts of the world. Further, overcapacity within the industry Definitions of key aspects from a materiality standpoint in alphabetical order 1) Admired employer. 2) Business ethics and integrity. 3) Legal compliance. 4) Customer success. 5) Emissions (products). 6) Energy efficiency (products). 7) Financial health. 8) Intelligent technology. 9) Product safety and security. More information on material issues is available on page 222. 114 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Customer satisfaction Operation of plants Top priority for Volvo Group is to support the customers’ businesses For Volvo Group the industrial system is crucial in providing and profitability in order for them to succeed, regardless of segment, ­customers with the right products at the right time. It is a large oper­ brand, product or service. Customer satisfaction is reliant on the ation with machines and human beings interacting in an efficient total offer of products, services or features on new or used ­vehicles. and timely manner in relation to volatility in production volumes. The satisfaction is at risk if a product or service is not at the Interruptions or inefficiencies in the system can have a negative expected level or price point. An aspect is also how the customer is impact. Risk management is crucial to foresee and prevent possible met in interactions with the brands in the Volvo Group, from per­ stops in production, injuries on personnel as well as ensuring the sonal interactions at retailer or workshop level, to searching for correct execution of activities with potential impact on the environ­ information on a web page or in calling an assistance service. ment. There is a large number of instructions on how to perform To prevent possible risks, staff at retailers and workshops are con­ different tasks to avoid implications, as well as audits and assess­ tinuously trained and provided with instructions or guidelines on ments performed to ensure that the instructions are followed. Read how to interact with their customers. Web pages are aligned, posi­ more on how we manage risk in our production and logistics opera­ tioned and developed towards the brand’s targeted customers. tion on page 48–51. Key aspects: 1, 4, 7 Read more on page 54–55. Key aspects: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 Human capital Product development Employees and other stakeholder expectations are changing For Volvo Group our products are a key part of the total offer to our quickly, which requires a stronger focus on several different aspects: customers. The Group could be at risk of losing customers and mar­ leadership, empowerment, engagement, and human rights and com­ ket shares if not developing products to new legislations on time or pany values. A potential failure in doing the right things according to not providing products fulfilling customer expectations. Each devel­ basic human rights and company’s values can negatively impact our opment project monitors risks regarding project and product quality, image as an employer, Volvo Group’s reputation, and the ability of our cost, project lead time and product features. To ensure that product employees to develop the knowledge and skills necessary to satisfy development is executed in an efficient way the Group has imple­ market demands. Risk management incorporates the monitoring of mented a project gate model, governance model as well as global changing legislation and securing the availability of properly skilled processes and instructions to monitor project execution and b ­ alance and engaged employees. Our diversity is a basis upon which our project and product portfolio. Key aspects: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 strength depends to be a successful multinational company. By exe­ cuting the Volvo Group Attitude Survey and d ­ riving employee dia­ Reliance on suppliers and scarce materials logues, we build an inclusive leadership. The human resource strat­ The Volvo Group purchases raw materials and components from egy embraces a flexible workforce and agile organization in order to numerous external suppliers. Our suppliers and business partners constantly adapt to an increasingly dynamic, complex and uncertain come from all around the world with different cultures. Sustainable environment. Read more on how we manage risks related to human solutions and close collaboration with our suppliers are key for the capital on page: 68–74, 76–77. Key aspects: 1, 2, 3, 7 success of our customers. The purchase cost can vary significantly over a business cycle due to changes in world market prices for raw Human rights materials and currency impact. Times of sales and order growth in People are at the core of what we do. We currently believe the most major markets at the same time, which is positive from an overall essential risks for our operations and/or through our business rela­ Group standpoint, can create extraordinary capacity constraints in tionships, are connected to the areas highlighted in our new Code the supply chain. High demand as well as suppliers’ financial insta­ of Conduct, including but not limited to; harassments, non-discrimi­ bility could also result in delivery disturbances. Possible effects of nation, safe and healthy workplace, freedom of association and col­ delivery disturbances vary depending on the components’ lead time lective bargaining, as well as working hours and compensation. and complexity as well as on the availability of alternative suppliers. These risks may potentially materialize not only in our own organiza­ Some components are standard throughout the industry, other are tion, but also through our business relationships and in our value Volvo Group unique. Proactive efforts are put forth in establishing a chain. We are aware that conducting business in certain parts of the robust and flexible supply chain. To manage the high volatility in the world constitutes higher risks for potential human rights violation, commercial vehicle market, this work will continue by an even more and we have identified 17 countries where the Volvo Group has a professionalized capacity management in close cooperation with substantial number of employees and/or close business partners our suppliers and business partners. Read more about how we work which we consider high risk countries in this respect. We are also with our suppliers on page 46–47, and reuse on page 60–61. Key aware that potential linkage through our supply chain, products and aspects: 4, 7 services to segments such as the electronics industry, mining industry and heavy infrastructure projects constitutes higher risks for human rights violations. The consequences of these risks for the Group depend on if the Volvo Group is seen as causing, contributing 115 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES to or having a linkage to the harm done, and could be anything from s­ ervices that the Group manufactures and markets. These rights legal liability to reputational and brand damage, depending also on have been developed or acquired over a number of years and are the severity of its nature. Read more on how we manage human valuable to the operations of the Volvo Group. Further, in order to rights on page 76–77. Key aspects: 1, 2, 3, 7 safeguard investments in R&D, the Volvo Group has an intellectual property plan defining the creation and use of its intellectual prop­ Residual value commitments erty rights. AB Volvo and Volvo Car Corporation jointly own the Volvo When selling products the Volvo Group at times enters into resi­dual brand and trademarks through Volvo Trademark Holding AB. AB value commitments. Predicting future development of used vehicle Volvo has the exclusive right to use the Volvo name and trademark prices can be challenging, for example when introducing new models for its products and services. Similarly, Volvo Car Corporation has or when large swings in demand occur. At the time of the sale the the exclusive right to use the Volvo name and trademark for its prod­ future evolution of the used commercial vehicle m ­ arket and equip­ ucts and services. The Volvo Group’s rights to use the Renault brand ment market may be uncertain, potentially leading to too high com­ and trademarks are related to the truck operations only and are mitments, impacting the future profitability. In order to mitigate regulated by a license from Renault s.a.s., which owns the Renault these risks, diligent analysis is performed prior to entering into brand and trademarks. In addition, the Volvo Group owns several residual value commitments. Key aspect: 7 other trademarks relating to its business. Brand usage in conflict with third-party intellectual property rights may have significant Malicious intents business impact on the Group. Therefore, the Volvo Group is con­ On-going malicious acts in the world cause for example an tinu­ally assessing intellectual property rights of third parties as well increased frequency of cyber-attacks and a general perceived risk as p­ ossible infringements by third parties of the Group’s intellectual of insecurity. The Volvo Group monitors and implements preventive property rights. Key aspects: 2, 3, 7, 8 and mitigating actions to create a safe environment for employees, associates, partners and operations. Key aspects: 3, 4, 8 Contractual conditions related to takeover bids Provisions stipulating that an agreement can be changed or termi­ Corruption nated if the control of the company is changed are included in some Corruption risks are primarily linked to the activities of our business of the agreements whereby Renault Trucks has been given the right partners (distributors and agents), for which we may be responsible to sell Renault s.a.s.’ and Nissan Motor Co. Ltd’s light-duty trucks as well as to the behaviors of our employees in sales situations in as well as in some of the Group’s purchasing agreements. relation to public officials. The overall risk level is also affected by Key aspects: 2, 7 the fact that Volvo pursues business operations in many high-risk markets from a corruption perspective. Corruption related risks are Complaints and legal actions managed via our Anti-Corruption Compliance Program under which The Volvo Group may be the target of complaints and legal actions we make anti-corruption due diligence of business partners. This is initiated by customers, employees and other third parties alleging to ensure that we select the right business partners to prevent health, environmental, safety or business related issues, or failure to ­corrupt practices in connection with the sale of our products and comply with applicable legislation and regulations. Information about services. As regards employees and contractors, it is clearly stated legal proceedings involving entities within the Volvo Group are found in our Code of Conduct that Volvo employees and contractors may in Note 21 Other Provisions and in Note 24 Contingent Liabilities. not participate in or endorse any corrupt practices. Corruption may Even if such disputes are resolved successfully, without having involve severe negative impacts for our business operations, includ­ adverse consequences financially or on our values, they could nega­ ing reputational damage, fines and imprisonment of employees. tively impact the Group’s reputation and take up resources that could Read more about our anti-corruption program on page 74–75. be used for other purposes. Key aspects: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 Key aspects: 1, 2, 3, 4 Environmental regulations COMPLIANCE RISKS The Volvo Group could be at risk for complaints and legal actions initiated by customers, employees and other third parties alleging In our operations we are obliged to follow a number of laws and regu­ environmental related issues. Environmental legislation is fast lations and has made the conscious decision to comply with global changing and there are increased demands in many areas, for standards. Compliance risks may affect our ability to protect value instance chemical management as well as on emission standards for through threats posed to the Group’s reputation or financial position. the vehicles themselves. The Group invests a great deal of resources to adhere to different legislation throughout the entire value chain. Intangible assets Recent developments in international standards in environmental The Volvo Group owns or otherwise has rights to patents, trade­ and quality management are further emphasizing the need for risk marks, designs and copyrights that relate to the products and management in these areas. Even if potential problems in these 116 GROUP PERFORMANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2017 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES areas are resolved and handled without adverse impact financially or to expectations. The Volvo Group ensures sound financial prepared­ on our values, they could have a negative impact on Group reputation ness by always keeping a certain percent of its sales in liquid assets. and divert resources that would have been brought to better use in A sound balance between short and long term debt maturities as the Group’s development. Read more on how we manage Environ­ well as long-term committed credit facilities and cash, are intended mental risks in the section Value Chain page 34–61. Key aspects: to secure liquidity preparedness and thus the Volvo Group’s ­payment 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 capability. Key aspect: 7 FINANCIAL RISKS Credit risk There are three main areas of credit risk for the Volvo Group. Firstly, For the Volvo Group, steering and monitoring financial risk is impor­ within its Industrial Operations the Group sells products with open tant, both from an operational and compliance perspective. Groupcredits to customers and issues credit guarantees for customers’ wide p ­ olicies, Volvo Group Financial Policies and Procedures, are commercial vehicles and equipment. The majority of the outstand­ updated and decided upon annually, and form the basis for each ing credit guarantees at year-end relates to Chinese retail customers Group company’s management of these risks. The financial risks within Construction Equipment. Secondly, the customer-­financing may affect our ability to enhance and protect value from potential activity in Volvo Financial Services manages a significant credit effects on the Group’s financial position. They may affect the Volvo portfolio, equivalent to SEK 130 billion at year-end 2017. The port­ Group’s ability to live by our values or to fulfill our aspirations. folio is largely secured by the title to the financed commercial ­vehicles and equipment. However, in the case of customer default, Interest rate risk the value of the repossessed commercial vehicles and equipment Volvo Group’s debt structure is connected to the aspiration to have may not necessarily cover the outstanding financed amount. Lastly, industry-leading profitability. Movements in interest-rate l­evels may a part of the Group’s credit risk is related to the investment of the impact the Group’s net income and cash flow or the value of finan­ financial assets of the Group. The majority has been deposited with cial assets and liabilities. Financial Services funding and lending the banks the Group is working with. Key aspect: 4 shall be matched to mitigate undesired volatility in profitability due to interest-rate risk. The Industrial Operations’ interest-rate fixing is Market risk from investments in shares kept short, to leverage on the countercyclical relationship of inter­ or similar instruments est-rate movements. Key aspect: 7 The Volvo Group has invested in listed shares with a direct ­exposure to the capital markets. The majority of this exposure relates to the Currency risk investment in Inner Mongolia North Hauler Joint Stock Co., Ltd. The Volvo Group’s global presence means that business is con­ Please see Note 5 for further information. Furthermore, the Volvo ducted in many different regions. More than 95% of the net sales of Group is indirectly exposed to market risks from shares and other the Volvo Group are generated in countries other than Sweden. similar instruments as a result of assets being managed in inde­ A majority of the Group’s costs also stem from countries other than pendent pension plans with exposure to these types of instruments. Sweden. As such the Volvo Group’s cash flow and profitability is Please see Note 20 for further information. Key aspect: 7 impacted by uncertainties in foreign exchange rates which impact the Volvo Group’s operating income, balance sheet and cash flow, Impairment as well as an indirect impact over time on Volvo’s competitiveness. The Volvo Group verifies annually, or more frequently if necessary, The Volvo Group strives to have manufacturing located in the major the goodwill value and other intangible assets. The size of the markets which offsets structural currency exposures, and actively ­surplus value differs between the business areas and they are, to a manages currency flows and translation risk to reduce the impact varying degree, sensitive to changes in the business environment. on profitability and cash flow. Key aspects: 4, 7 Instability in the business recovery and volatility in interest and ­currency rates may lead to indications of impairment. For further Liquidity risk information on intangible assets, see Note 12. Key aspects: 3, 7 The Volvo Group needs to ensure that it has adequate payment capabilities over time, in order to capture both business opportuni­ Change of control clauses ties and expectations from external stakeholders. Sudden changes Some of Volvo Group’s long-term loan agreements contain condi­ in the business cycle, or unforeseen events within the financial tions stipulating the right for a bondholder to request repayment in ­markets can affect the Volvo Group both in a direct or indirect way. advance under certain conditions following a change of the control Our customers can experience difficulties in financing products of the company. These clauses are not unusual in loan agreements. bought from the Volvo Group, our suppliers can face challenges in In AB Volvo’s opinion it has been necessary to accept those condi­ assuring their delivery of components to the Volvo Group produc­ tions in order to receive financing on otherwise acceptable terms. tion, and the Volvo Group can face challenges in delivering ­according Key aspect: 7 117 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Group performance 2017 Notes F I N A N C I A L S TAT E M E N T S N OT E S PAGE Notes to financial ­s tatements 119 Parent Company AB Volvo 178 Proposed policy for remuneration 206 to senior executives Proposed disposition of 207 unappropriated earnings Audit report for AB Volvo 208 Alternative Performance Measure 211 Eleven-year summary 214 Income statements Balance sheet Page 86 Page 89 NOTE THE VOLVO GROUP PAGE NOTE PARENT COMPANY PAGE 1 Accounting policies 119 1 Accounting policies 182 2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty 121 2 Intra-Group transactions 182 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in 122 3 Administrative expenses 182 subsidiaries 4 Other operating income 182 4 Goals and policies in financial 124 and expenses risk ­management 5 Income from investments 183 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated com130 in Group companies panies and other shares and ­participations 6 Income from investments 183 6 Segment reporting 133 in joint ventures and associated ­c ompanies 7 Revenue 134 7 Income from other investments 183 8 Other operating income and expenses 135 8 Interest expenses 183 9 Other financial income and expenses 135 9 Other financial income 183 Cash flow statement Changes in consolidated 10 Income taxes 136 and expenses Page 92 shareholders’ equity 11 Minority interests 137 10 Allocations 183 Page 108 12 Intangible assets 138 11 Income taxes 183 13 Tangible assets 140 12 Intangible and tangible assets 184 14 Leasing 142 13 Investments in shares 184 and ­participations 15 Customer-financing receivables 143 14 Other receivables 186 16 Receivables 144 15 Untaxed reserves 186 17 Inventories 145 16 Provisions for post-­ 186 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds 146 employment benefits 19 Equity and number of shares 146 17 Other provisions 187 20 Provisions for post-employment ­benefits 147 18 Non-current liabilities 187 21 Other provisions 152 19 Other liabilities 187 22 Liabilities 154 20 Contingent liabilities 187 23 Assets pledged 155 21 Cash flow 187 24 Contingent liabilities 156 25 Transactions with related parties 157 26 Government grants 157 27 Personnel 158 28 Fees to the auditors 161 29 Cash flow 161 30 Financial instruments 162 Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise 31 Changes in Volvo Group Financial 166 ­specified. The amounts within parentheses Reporting 2018 refer to the preceding year, 2016. 118 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Notes to the Financial Statements Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise specified. The amounts within parentheses refer to the preceding year, 2016. NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The consolidated financial statements for AB Volvo and its subsidiaries How should the Volvo Group’s accounting policies be read? have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The Volvo Group describes the accounting policies in conjunction Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board with each note in the aim of providing enhanced understanding of each (IASB), as adopted by the European Union, EU. This Annual Report is accounting area. The Volvo Group focuses on describing the accounting prepared in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements choices made within the framework of the prevailing IFRS policy and avoids and with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. In addition, RFR 1 Supple­ repeating the actual text of the standard, unless the Volvo Group considers mentary Rules for Groups, has been applied, which is issued by the Swe­ it particularly important to the understanding of the note’s content. The fol­ dish Financial Reporting Board. lowing symbols I/S and B/S show which amounts in the notes that can be found in the income statement or balance sheet. The total amount in tables and statements might not always summarize as there are rounding differences. The aim is to have each line item corresponding to the source and it might therefore be rounding differences in the total. Refer to the table below to see the note in which each accounting policy is listed and for the relevant and material IFRS standard. Accounting policies Note IFRS-standard Non-current assets held for sale and 3, Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries IFRS 5, IFRS 13 discontinued ­operations Business combinations 3, Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries IFRS 3 Joint ventures 5, Investments in joint ventures, associated companies and other shares and participations IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS 28 Associated companies 5, Investments in joint ventures, associated companies and other shares and participations IFRS 12, IAS 28 Operating segments 6, Segment reporting IFRS 8 Revenue 7, Revenue IAS 17, IAS 18 Shares and participations 5, Investments in joint ventures, associated companies IFRS 7, IFRS 13, IAS 28, IAS 32, IAS 36, IAS 39 and other shares and participations Financial income and expenses 9, Other financial income and expenses IAS 39 Income taxes 10, Income taxes IAS 12 Minority interests 11, Minority interests IFRS 10, IFRS 12 Research and development expenses 12, Intangible assets IAS 23, IAS 36, IAS 38 Goodwill 12, Intangible assets IAS 36, IAS 38 Tangible assets 13, Tangible assets IFRS 13, IAS 16, IAS 23, IAS 36, IAS 40 Leasing 14, Leasing IAS 17 Customer-financing receivables 15, Customer-financing receivables IFRS 7, IFRS 13, IAS 17, IAS 18, IAS 32, IAS 39 Inventories 17, Inventories IAS 2 Earnings per share 19, Equity and number of shares IAS 33 Pensions and similar obligations 20, Provisions for post-employment benefits IAS 19 Provisions for residual value risks 21, Other provisions IAS 17, IAS 18, IAS 37 Warranty expenses 21, Other provisions IAS 37 Restructuring costs 21, Other provisions IAS 19, IAS 37 Liabilities 22, Liabilities IFRS 7, IFRS 13, IAS 32, IAS 37, IAS 39 Contingent liabilities 24, Contingent liabilities IAS 37 Transactions with related parties 25, Transactions with related parties IAS 24 Government grants 26, Government grants IAS 20 Share-based payments 27, Personnel IFRS 2 Cash-flow statement 29, Cash flow IAS 7 Financial instruments 4, Goals and policies in financial risk management IFRS 7, IFRS 13, IAS 32, IAS 39 16, Receivables 18, Marketable securities and liquid funds 30, Financial instruments 119 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Consolidated financial statements The most important exchange rates applied in the consolidated financial statements are shown in the table. Principles for consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the parent company, sub­ sidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies. Intra-group transac­ Exchange rates Closing rate Average rate as of Dec 31 tions as well as gains on transactions with joint ventures and associated Cur­ companies are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Country rency 2017 2016 2017 2016  ead more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated companies R Australia AUD 6.5434 6.3743 6.4235 6.5688 and other shares and participations about definitions of subsidiaries, joint ven­ tures and associated companies. Brazil BRL 2.6768 2.4777 2.4853 2.7950 Euro Zone EUR 9.6395 9.4801 9.8497 9.5762 Translation to Swedish kronor when consolidating companies have other Japan JPY 0.0761 0.0791 0.0731 0.0778 functional currencies Canada CAD 6.5814 6.4697 6.5642 6.7472 The functional currency of each Volvo Group company is determined China CNY 1.2631 1.2878 1.2642 1.3091 based on the currency in which the company primarily generates and Norway NOK 1.0337 1.0212 1.0011 1.0550 expends cash, normally the currency of the country where the company is Great Britain GBP 10.9943 11.5680 11.1045 11.1850 located. AB Volvo’s and the Volvo Group’s presentation currency is SEK. In South Africa ZAR 0.6415 0.5859 0.6696 0.6675 preparing the consolidated financial statements, items in the income sta­ South Korea KRW 0.0076 0.0074 0.0077 0.0076 tements of foreign subsidiaries (except for subsidiaries in hyperinflationary United States USD 8.5390 8.5630 8.2322 9.0984 economies) are translated to SEK using monthly average exchange rates. Balance sheet items are translated into SEK using exchange rates at year New accounting policies for 2017 end (closing rate). Exchange differences are recognized in other compre­ There are no new accounting standards and interpretations that came hensive income and accumulated in equity. into effect as of January 1, 2017 that significantly effects the Volvo The accumulated translation differences related to a certain subsidiary, Group’s financial statements. joint venture or associated company are reversed to the income statement as a part of the gain/loss arising from disposal of such a company or New accounting policies for 2018 and later repayment of capital contribution from such a company. A number of accounting standards and interpretations have been published, but have not yet become effective. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency Receivables and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currency IFRS 9 Financial instruments of the reporting entity (foreign currencies) are translated to the functional IFRS 9 represents a new framework for financial instruments and will currency using the closing rate. Exchange rate gains and losses arising become effective from January 1, 2018. The major impact of the new stan­ from operating assets and liabilities in foreign currency, both on payments dard for the Volvo Group and the effect of implementation are disclosed in during the year and on measurements at year end, impact operating Note 31. income in the year in which they are incurred, while exchange rate gains and losses arising from financial assets and liabilities impact financial IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers income and expenses. Interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities are IFRS 15 represents a new framework for recognizing revenue from external defined as items included in the net financial position of the Volvo Group customers and will become effective from January 1, 2018. The major (see section Alternative Performance Measure). Exchange rate differen­ impact of the new standard for the Volvo Group and the effect of implemen­ ces on loans and other financial instruments in foreign currency, which are tation are disclosed in Note 31. used to hedge net assets in foreign subsidiaries and associated companies, are offset against translation differences in the shareholders’ IFRS 16 Leases equity of the respective companies. IFRS 16 Leases was published in January 2016 and is replacing the ­former IAS 17 Leases and the related interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and  ead more in Note 4 Goals and policies in financial risk management about R SIC-27. IFRS 16 will not imply any significant changes to lessor accounting currency exposure and currency risk management. but lessee accounting will change. For a lessee, lease contracts will be 120 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES recognized on the balance sheet. For the Volvo Group this means that Applying the new lease accounting for lessees will increase the balance rental contracts for real estate, company cars and other major items will be sheet but will also have a positive impact on operating income compared to recognized on the balance sheet. The model reflects that, at the start of a today, as a part of the lease payments will be r­ecognized as interest lease, the lessee obtains the right to use an asset for a period of time and expense within the finance net. Implementing IFRS 16 will also lead to an has an obligation to pay for that right. The right-of-use asset and the lease increase in interest-bearing liabilities. liability will be recognized at the present value of future lease payments. The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after Costs related to the leased asset will consist of depreciation of the asset ­January 1, 2019. The new standard will be applied retrospectively, but and interest on the lease liability. There is however exceptions from the prior period reported numbers will not be adjusted. Hence, the opening lessee accounting model to consider. If a contract includes a low value balance for 2019 will be adjusted in accordance with the new standard asset or has a lease term of less than 12 months, the lease payments can and the effect of implementation recognized in equity. IFRS 16 Leases still be recognized as an operating expense. Furthermore, it is only the has been endorsed by the EU. lease component of a contract that needs to be recognized on the balance Other new or revised accounting standards are not considered to have sheet, thus the service components can continue to be recognized as an a material impact on the Volvo Group’s financial statements. operating expense. The future focus for the Volvo Group will be on analyzing the effect related to these exceptions and how they will be applied. NOTE 2 KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The Volvo Group’s most significant accounting policies are described Source of estimation uncertainty Note together with the applicable note, read more in Note 1, Accounting Poli­ cies for a specification. The preparation of AB Volvo’s Consolidated Finan­ Buy-back agreements and residual value cial Statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that may guarantees 7, Revenue affect the recognized amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Deferred taxes 10, Income taxes financial statements. In addition, the recognized amounts of net sales and Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 12, Intangible assets expenses during the periods presented are affected. In preparing these financial statements, management has made its best judgments of cer­ Impairment of tangible assets 13, Tangible assets tain amounts included in the financial statements, materiality taken into Credit loss reserves 15, Customer-financing ­receivables account. Actual results may differ from previously made estimates. In 16, Receivables accordance with IAS 1, the company is required to disclose the assump­ Inventory obsolescence 17, Inventories tions and other major sources of estimation uncertainties that, if actual Assumptions when calculating pensions and 20, Provisions for post-­ results differ, may have a material impact on the financial statements. other post-employment benefits employment benefits Provision for product warranty 21, Other provisions Provisions for extended coverage and ! The sources of uncertainty which have been identified by the Volvo Group and which are considered to fulfill these criteria are service contracts Legal proceedings 21, Other provisions 21, Other provisions presented in connection to the items considered to be affected. The table Residual value risks 21, Other provisions discloses where to find these descriptions. 121 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 3 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENTS OF SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES ACCOUNTING POLICY Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations In a global group like the Volvo Group, processes are continuously ongoing Recognition of business combinations regarding the sale of assets or groups of assets at minor values. When the All business combinations are recognized in accordance with the purchase criteria for being classified as a non-current asset held for sale are fulfilled method. Volvo Group measures acquired identifiable assets, tangible and and the asset or group of assets are of significant value, the asset or group intangible, and liabilities at fair value. Any surplus amount from the of assets, both current and non-current, and the related liabilities are ­purchase price, possible minority interests and fair value of previously recognized on a separate line in the balance sheet. The asset or group of held equity interests at the acquisition date compared to the Volvo Group’s assets are measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value after share of acquired net assets is recognized as goodwill. Any deficit amount, deductions for selling expenses. The balance sheet items and the potential known as negative goodwill, is recognized in the income statement. income effect resulting from the revaluation to fair value less selling In step acquisitions, a business combination occurs only on the date expenses are normally recognized in the segment Group functions & control is achieved, which is also the time when goodwill is calculated. Other, until the sale is completed and the result is distributed to the rele­ Transactions with the minority are recognized as equity as long as control vant segments. of the subsidiary is retained. For each business combination, the Volvo Group decides whether the minority interest shall be valued at fair value or at the minority interest’s proportionate share of the net assets of the acquiree. All AB Volvo’s holding of shares in subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017 acquisition-related costs are expensed. Companies acquired during the is disclosed in Note 13 for the Parent Company. Significant acquisitions, year are consolidated as of the date of acquisition. Companies that have formations and divestments within the Group are listed below. been divested are included in the consolidated financial statements up to and including the date of the divestment. Business combinations during the period The Volvo Group has not made any acquisitions of subsidiaries during 2016 and 2017, which solely or jointly have had a significant impact on the Volvo Group’s financial statements. 122 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Divestments Assets and liabilities held for sale Volvo Construction Equipment’s British dealership As of December 31, 2017, the Volvo Group recognized assets amounting Volvo Group completed the sale of Volvo Construction Equipment’s Bri­ to SEK 51 M as assets held for sale. No translation differences on foreign tish dealership during 2017 with a positive effect on operating income of operations were recognized in other comprehensive income related to the SEK 253 M. reclassified assets and liabilities held for sale. The Volvo Group has not made any other divestments during 2017, For the comparative year 2016, the Volvo Group recognized assets which solely or jointly have had a significant impact on the Volvo Group’s amounting to SEK 525 M and liabilities amounting to SEK 148 M as assets financial statements. Divestment of operations with the main purpose to and liabilities held for sale. Those mainly pertained to planned dealer dispose fixed assets is treated as disposal of fixed assets. For clarification divestments which have been completed during 2017. No translation dif­ of effect in the cash flow read more in Note 29 Cash flow. ferences on foreign operations were recognized in other comprehensive Comparative figures for 2016 include the divestment of the external IT income related to the reclassified assets and liabilities held for sale. operation and outsourcing of the IT infrastructure. The Volvo Group has not made any other divestments during 2016, which solely or jointly have Assets and liabilities held for sale Dec 31, Dec 31, had a significant impact on the Volvo Group’s financial statements. 2017 2016 The impact on the Volvo Group’s balance sheet and cash flow statement Tangible assets 51 300 in connection with the divestment of subsidiaries and other business units Inventories – 98 are specified in the following table: Other current receivables 0 76 Other assets 0 51 Divestments 2017 2016 B/S Total assets 51 525 Intangible assets – –8 Trade payables 0 0 Property, plant and equipment –84 –353 Provisions 0 0 Assets under operating lease –413 –180 Other current liabilities 0 148 Inventories –516 –115 Other liabilities – – Other receivables –244 –143 B/S Total liabilities 0 148 Cash and cash equivalents –35 –3 Other provisions 64 4 Acquisitions and divestments after the end of the period Other liabilities 579 262 Volvo Group has not made any acquisitions or divestments after the end Divested net assets –649 –536 of the period that have had any significant impact on the Volvo Group. Goodwill –169 –9 Total –818 –545 Additional purchase price – – Cash and cash equivalents received 1,137 1,483 Cash and cash equivalents, divested c­ ompanies –34 –3 Effect on Volvo Group cash and cash equivalents 1,103 1,480 Effect on Volvo Group net financial position 1,167 1,557 123 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 4 GOALS AND POLICIES IN FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Volvo Group’s global operations expose the Group to financial risks in the form of interest rate risks, currency risks, credit risks, liquidity risks and other price risks. The Volvo Group manages financial risk as an integrated element of the business/operations. The Volvo Group strive to minimize these risks by optimizing the Group’s capital costs by utilizing economies of scale, minimize negative effects on income as a result of changes in cur­ rency or interest rates and to minimize risk exposure. All risks are managed pursuant to the Volvo Group’s established policies in these areas. R  ead more in Note 30 Financial Instruments about accounting policies for financial instruments. Read more in section Financial Management about financial risk management, page 107. USD 12.9 FINANCIAL RISKS INTEREST RATE RISKS CURRENCY RISKS CREDIT RISKS LIQUIDITY RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS COMMERCIAL CURRENCY COMMERCIAL CASH FLOW RISKS COMMODITY RISKS EXPOSURE CREDIT RISK FINANCIAL CURRENCY PRICE RISKS FINANCIAL CREDIT RISK EXPOSURE CURRENCY EXPOSURE FINANCIAL OF EQUITY COUNTERPARTY RISK BRL 7.1 INTEREST RATE RISKS ing interest rate fixing on borrowing and lending. The calculation of the INTEREST RATE RISKS A matching degree excludes equity, which amounted to 8% in Financial Services. At year end 2017, the degree of such matching ratio was 99% Interest rate risk refers to the risk that changed interest rate will affect the (98) in Financial Services which is according to the Group policy. In addi­ Volvo Group’s net income and cash flow (cash flow risks) or the fair value tion to the financial assets in Financial Services, the Volvo Group’s inte­ of financial assets and liabilities (price risks). rest-bearing assets consisted primarily of cash and cash equivalents. On December 31, 2017, the average interest on Industrial Operations finan­ cial assets was 0.3% (0.6). The Industrial Operations results and profita­ bility are closely aligned to the business cycle. Therefore in order to mini­ POLICY mize the interest rate risks, outstanding loans had interest terms corresponding to an interest rate fixing of between one to three months. Matching the interest fixing terms of financial assets and liabilities reduces The average interest on Industrial Operations financial liabilities at year the exposure. Interest rate swaps are used to change/influence the inte­ end amounted to 4.3% (4.2), including the Volvo Group’s credit costs. rest fixing term for the Volvo Group’s financial assets and liabilities. Cur­ The following table 4:1 shows the effect on earnings before taxes in rency interest rate swaps enable borrowing in foreign currencies from Industrial Operations net financial position, excluding pensions and similar different markets without introducing currency risk. The Volvo Group may obligations, if interest rates were to increase by 1 percentage point, (100 from time to time use other types of forward contracts (futures) and for­ basis points) assuming an average interest rate fixed term of three months ward rate agreements (FRAs). Most of these contracts are used to hedge on the liability side.* The impact on equity is earnings after tax. interest rate levels for short-term borrowing or investments. Price risks C Exposure to price risks as a result of changed interest rate refers to financial Cash flow risks assets and liabilities with a longer interest rate fixing term (fixed interest). This The effect of changed interest rate levels on future currency and interest­ is not a risk for Industrial Operations since all outstanding loans are taken up rate flows primarily pertains to Financial Services and Industrial Opera­ with a short interest rate fixing. tions net financial items. Financial Services measure the degree of match­ * The sensitivity analysis on interest rate risks is based on simplified assumptions. It is  ead more in Note 20 Provisions for post-employment benefits regarding R not unlikely for market interest rates to change by one percentage point (100 basis ­sensitivity analysis on the defined benefit obligations when changes in the points) on an annual basis. However, in reality, these rates often rise or decline at ­applied assumptions for discount rate and inflations are made. ­different points in time. The sensitivity analysis also assumes a parallel deferment of the return curve, and that the interest rates on assets and liabilities will be equally impacted by changes in market interest rates. Accordingly, the impact of real interest­ rate changes may differ from the analysis presented in table 4:1. 124 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES THE VOLVO GROUP’S NET ASSETS IN DIFFERENT CURRENCIES (SEK BN) = Risk net finanNet financial Impact on Income after Impact on Net financial cial position ­position excl. financial items if position if SEK a­ ppreciates Dec 31, 2017 ­pensions interest rate rises 1% against other ­currencies 10% A (Interest rate risks) B (Currency risks) SEK M SEK 25,045 274 – JPY –14,935 –131 1,494 RUB –1,713 –15 171 EUR 10,022 89 –1,002 USD 5,627 51 –563 CNY 1,880 21 –188 SEK Other 413 8 –41 32.9 Total C 26,339 297 –129 GBP 3.6 Read more about the Industrial Operations net financial position on page 89. 4:1 EUR 23.4 JPY 4.5 KRW 2.9 CNY 12.1 INR 1.5 OTHER 6.2 CURRENCY RISKS CURRENCY RISKS B POLICY The balance sheet may be affected by changes in different exchange The aim of the Volvo Group’s currency risk management is to secure cash rates. Currency risks in the Volvo Group’s operations are related to chan­ flow from firm flows through currency hedges pursuant to the established ges in the value of contracted and expected future payment flows (com­ Financial risk policy, and to minimize the exposure of financial items in the mercial currency exposure), changes in the value of loans and investments Volvo Group’s balance sheet. Below is a presentation on how this work is (financial currency exposure) and changes in the value of assets and lia­ conducted for commercial and financial currency exposure, and for cur­ bilities in foreign subsidiaries (currency exposure of equity). rency exposure of equity. VOLVO GROUP’S OUTSTANDING DERIVATIVES HEDGING COMMERCIAL CURRENCY RISKS DECEMBER 31, 2017 Millions EUR/RUB EUR/USD GBP/SEK USD/KRW USD/SEK Due date 2018 –32 21 86 204 197 Due date 2019 – – – – – Total local currency –32 21 86 204 197 Average contract rate 71.57 1.10 10.86 1,096.70 8.19 Market value of outstanding forward contracts, SEK M –4 –19 –18 48 0 4:2 125 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Goals and policies in financial risk management (cont.) Translation exposure from the consolidation of operating income in SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS* ­foreign subsidiaries In conjunction with the translation of operating income in foreign subsidiaries, the Volvo Group’s earnings are impacted if currency rates change. The Volvo Risk currency Transaction exposure Impact on operating ­exposure 2017 from operating income if currency Group does not hedge this risk. Graph 4:7 shows the translation effect in net flows rate appreciates key currencies when consolidating operating income for 2017 in foreign against all other subsidiaries in Industrial Operations. currencies by 10% Read more in section Currency exposure of equity. SEK bn B (Currency risks) SEK –48 –4.8 Sensitivity analysis for transaction exposure* KRW –5 –0.5 The table 4:3 illustrates the impact on operating income if key currencies EUR 10 1.0 for Industrial Operations appreciate by 10% against all other currencies. GBP 9 0.9 Hedge accounting is not applied on derivatives hedging cash flows in USD 10 1.0 foreign currency. As a consequence the impact on equity equals the impact on operating income before tax. The deficit in transaction exposure in SEK is mainly generated from flows in USD, GBP, EUR, NOK and ZAR against SEK. Industrial Operations currency review 4:3 The tables and graphs 4:4 4:5 4:6 4:7 and 4:8 on the next page Commercial currency exposure illustrate the currency impact on sales and operating income in key Transaction exposure from commercial flows ­currencies. The effect arises from translation during the consolidation of The Volvo Group conducts manufacturing in 18 countries around the foreign currencies and from commercial net flows in foreign currency. globe and more than 95% of net sales are generated in countries other R  ead more about Industrial Operations transaction exposure in section than Sweden. Transaction exposure from commercial flows in foreign ­C ommercial currency exposure above. ­currency is generated from internal purchases and sales between manu­ facturing units and market companies and external sales and purchases Financial currency exposure in foreign currency around the globe. As the predominant parts of the Loans and investments in the Volvo Group’s subsidiaries are performed operations in the Volvo Group are situated outside Sweden, the fluctu­ mainly in local currencies through Volvo Group Treasury, which minimizes ations in currency rates affecting the transaction flows in foreign currency individual companies’ financial currency exposure. Volvo Group Treasury are in many cases not against SEK. Industrial Operations’ transaction uses various derivatives to facilitate lending and borrowing in different exposure in key currencies is presented in graph 4:5. The graph repre­ currencies without increasing the risk for the Volvo Group. The net finan­ sents the transaction exposure from commercial operating net cash flows cial position of the Volvo Group is affected by currency fluctuations since in foreign currency, expressed as net surpluses or deficits in key curren­ financial assets and liabilities are distributed among the Volvo Group com­ cies. The deficit in SEK and KRW is mainly an effect of manufacturing panies that conduct their operations using different currencies. costs in the plants in Sweden and Korea, but limited external revenues in Table 4:1 discloses the impact on earnings before tax on Industrial those currencies. The surplus in EUR on the other hand, is the net of sig­ Operations net financial position, excluding pensions and similar net obliga­ nificant gross volumes of sales and purchases made by many entities tions, if SEK were to strengthen by 10%. around the globe in EUR. The surplus in USD is mainly generated from external sales to entities in the USA and emerging markets. The surplus Currency exposure of equity in GBP is generated from external sales to the UK. The carrying amount of assets and liabilities in foreign ­subsidiaries are The hedging of the Volvo Group’s commercial currency exposure is affected by current exchange rates in conjunction with the translation of executed centrally. The Volvo Group’s consolidated currency portfolio assets and liabilities to SEK. To minimize currency exposure of equity, the exposure is the value of forecasted flows in foreign ­currency. The Volvo size of equity in foreign subsidiaries is continuously optimized with respect Group only hedge the part of the forecasted portfolio that is considered to commercial and legal conditions. Currency hedging of equity may occur highly probable to occur, i.e. firm flows, where the main parts will be reali­ in cases where a foreign subsidiary is considered overcapitalized. Net zed within six months. The Volvo Group uses forward contracts and cur­ assets in foreign subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures rency options to hedge the portion of the value of forecasted future pay­ amounted at year end 2017 to SEK 74 billion (71). The need to undertake ment flows in foreign currency. The hedged amount of firm flows for all currency hedging relating to investments in associated companies, joint periods fall within the framework of the Volvo Group’s Financial risk policy. ventures and other companies is assessed on a case-by-case basis. Table 4:2 shows outstanding forward and option contracts for the hed­ On the map on the previous pages the Volvo Group’s net assets in dif­ ging of c­ ommercial currency risks. ferent currencies (SEK bn) are displayed.  ead more in Note 30 Financial Instruments about Volvo Group’s policy R choice on hedge accounting. * The sensitivity analysis on currency rate risks is based on simplified assumptions. any given time, so the actual effect of exchange rate changes may differ from the It is not unlikely for a currency to appreciate by 10% in relation to other c­ urrencies. sensitivity analysis. Please refer to tables 4:1 4:3 In reality however, all currencies usually do not change in the same direction at 126 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES THE VOLVO GROUP’S CURRENCY REVIEW When the Volvo Group communicates the currency impact on operating income for Industrial Operations, the following factors are included: Currency impact on operating income, Industrial Operations, SEK billion 2017 2016 Change Net flows in foreign currency –0.4 Realized and unrealized gains and losses on hedging contracts –0.0 0.0 –0.1 Unrealized gains and losses on receivables and liabilities in foreign currency –0.1 0.0 –0.2 Translation effect on operating income in foreign subsidiaries 0.2 Total currency impact on operating income Industrial Operations –0.4 Currency impact on net flows in foreign currency is detailed in graph 4:6 and Translation effect on operating income in foreign subsidiaries is detailed in graph 4:7 in key currencies. 4:4 TRANSACTION EXPOSURE FROM OPERATING CURRENCY EFFECT FROM NET FLOWS IN FOREIGN NET FLOWS IN 2017 AND 2016 CURRENCY 2017 VERSUS 2016 SEK bn SEK bn 20 1.0 0.8 10 0.6 0 0.4 0.2 –10 0.0 –20 –0.2 –0.4 –30 –0.6 –40 –0.8 USD GBP EUR NOK ZAR CAD AUD KRW SEK Other –1.0 10 9 10 4 4 3 4 –5 –48 9 ZAR EUR AUD NOK BRL KRW Other USD GBP 11 8 5 4 3 3 3 –6 –35 4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 –0.1 –0.1 –0.2 –0.2 –0.4 Currency flow 2017 Currency flow 2016 Changes in currency rates compared to 2016 (Total SEK –0.4 bn). T  he graph above represents the transaction exposure from commercial Currency effect on operating income from net flows in foreign currency in ­operating net cash flows in foreign currency, expressed as net surpluses or Industrial Operations is presented in the graph above. deficits in key currencies. 4:6 Read more in section Commercial currency exposure. 4:5 TRANSLATION EFFECT ON OPERATING INCOME IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EFFECT ON NET SALES IN 2017 VERSUS 2016 SUBSIDIARIES IN 2017 VERSUS 2016 SEK M SEK M 150 3 125 2 100 75 1 50 0 25 0 –1 –25 –2 –50 –75 –3 EUR Other RUB ZAR BRL USD CNY JPY GBP –100 1.525 1.069 733 489 439 –291 –305 –679 –954 KRW EUR ZAR BRL AUD USD RUB Other CNY PLN 66 56 48 45 33 27 22 –8 –22 –37 Changes in currency rates compared to 2016 (Total SEK 2.026 M). Changes in currency rates compared to 2016 (Total SEK 231 M). Currency effect on Net sales from inflows in foreign currency and Translation effect when consolidating operating income in foreign translation effect when consolidating Net sales in foreign subsidiaries ­subsidiaries for Industrial Operations is presented in the graph above. for Industrial Operations is presented in the graph above. 4:7 4:8 127 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Goals and policies in financial risk management (cont.) CREDIT RISKS Financial credit risk CREDIT RISKS The Volvo Group’s financial assets are to large extent managed by Volvo Group Treasury and invested in the money market and capital markets. All Credit risks are defined as the risk that the Volvo Group does not receive investments must meet the requirements of low credit risk and high liquid­ payment for recognized accounts receivable and customer-financing ity. According to the Volvo Group’s financial risk policy, counterparties for receivables (commercial credit risk), that the Volvo Group’s investments investments and derivative transactions should have a rating better or are unable to be realized (financial credit risk) and that potential profit is equivalent to A– from one of the well-established credit rating institutions not realized due to the counterparty not fulfilling its part of the contract or similar. when using derivative instruments (financial counterparty risk). Liquid funds and marketable securities amounted as of December 31, 2017 to approximately SEK 36 billion (25). Read more in Note 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds. POLICY Financial counterparty risk The use of derivatives involves a counterparty risk, in that a potential loss The objective of the Volvo Group’s credit risk management is to define and may not be possible to offset (in full or in part) against a potential gain if measure the credit exposure and control the risk of losses deriving from the counterparty fails to fulfil its part of the contract. To reduce the expos­ credits to customers, credits to suppliers, financial credit risk, counter­ ure, the Volvo Group enters into master netting agreements, so ­c alled party risk and customer finance activities within Financial Services. ISDA agreements, with all counterparts eligible for derivative transactions. The netting agreements provide the possibility for assets and liabilities to be set off under certain circumstances, such as in the case of the Commercial credit risk counterpart’s insolvency. A Credit Support Annex (CSA) often accompa­ The Volvo Group’s credit granting is steered by group policies and nies the ISDA agreement. The CSA stipulates the terms and conditions ­customer-classification rules. The credit portfolio should contain a distri­ under which the two parties are required to make cash transfers to each bution among different customer categories and industries. The credit other to further reduce the exposure from the net open positions. The risks are managed through active credit monitoring, follow-up routines netting agreements have no effect on profit, loss or the position of the and, where applicable, product repossession. Moreover, regular monitoring Volvo Group, since derivative transactions are accounted for on a gross ensures that the necessary allowances are made for incurred losses on basis. The Volvo Group’s gross exposure from positive derivatives, amount­ doubtful receivables. In Notes 15 and 16, ageing analysis are presented ing to SEK 3,890 M (3,026) is reduced by 82% (65) to SEK 706 M of customer-financing receivables overdue and accounts receivables (1,049) by netting agreements and cash deposits. The Volvo Group is overdue in relation to the reserves made. actively working with limits per counterpart in order to reduce risk for high The customer-financing receivables in Financial Services amounted at net amounts towards individual counterparts. December 31, 2017 to approximately net SEK 109 billion (111). The credit risk of this portfolio is distributed over a large number of retail customers R  ead more in Note 30 Financial instruments about the Volvo Group’s gross and dealers. Collaterals are provided in the form of the financed products. exposure from positive derivatives per type of instrument. In the credit granting the Volvo Group strives for a balance between risk exposure and expected return. R  ead more in Note 15 Customer-financing receivables about Volvo’s credit risk in Financial Services. The Volvo Group’s accounts receivables as of December 31, 2017 amounted to approximately net SEK 41 billion (34). 128 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES LIQUIDITY RISKS des equity, which amounted to 8% in Financial Services. At year-end LIQUIDITY RISKS 2017, the degree of such matching was 99% (98) for the segment Finan­ cial Services, which was in line with the Volvo Group’s policy. Volvo Group Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Volvo Group would be unable Treasury has, for practical as well as business reasons, the mandate to to finance or refinance its assets or fulfill its payment obligations. mismatch the portfolio for Financial Services between a matching ratio of 80–120%. At year-end 2017, the matching ratio was 88% (92). Any gains or losses from the mismatch impact the segment Group functions & other within industrial Operations. POLICY The hybrid bond in Volvo Treasury amounting to EUR 1.5 billion was issued in 2014 in order to further strengthen the Volvo Group’s balance The Volvo Group ensures sound financial preparedness by always keep­ sheet and prolong the maturity structure of the debt portfolio. The hybrid ing a certain percentage of its sales in liquid assets. A sound balance bond is classified as a loan with duration of 61.6 years, subordinated to all between short and long-term debt maturities, as well as long-term com­ other financial liabilities currently outstanding. mitted credit facilities, are intended to secure liquidity preparedness, and R  ead more in Note 14 Leasing about contractual term analysis of the Volvo thus the Volvo Group’s payment capability. Group’s future ­payments from non-cancellable financial and operational lease contracts. The Volvo Group’s liquid funds, i.e. cash and cash equivalents and market­ able securities combined, amounted to SEK 36.3 billion (25.2) on Decem­ FUTURE CASH FLOW INCLUDING DERIVATIVES RELATED TO ber 31, 2017. In addition to this, granted but unutilized credit facilities ­NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES amounted to SEK 45.4 billion (42.5). The adjacent graph 4:9 discloses expected future cash flows including derivatives related to financial liabili­ SEK bn ties. Capital flow refers to expected payments of loans and derivatives, see 0 Note 22. Expected interest flow refers to the future interest payments on –10 loans and derivatives based on interest rates expected by the market. The –20 interest flow is recognized within cash flow from operating activities. –30 In addition to derivatives included in capital flow in the adjacent graph 4:9 there are also derivatives related to financial liabilities with a positive –40 fair value recognized as assets, which are expected to give a future capital –50 flow of SEK 2.9 billion (1.3) and a future interest flow of SEK 0.1 billion (1.5). –60 The predominant part of expected future cash flows that expires within –70 2018 and 2019 is an effect of the Volvo Group’s normal business cycle, 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 or later with shorter duration in the portfolio within Financial Services compared –53.8 –37.6 –13.2 –2.2 –3.4 –0.1 –17.4 to Industrial Operations. –2.4 –1.8 –1.3 –0.5 –0.4 –0.4 –0.2 Financial Services measure the degree to which the duration of borrow­ Capital flow Interest flow ing and lending matches. The calculation of the matching degree exclu­ 4:9 OTHER PRICE RISKS OTHER PRICE RISKS POLICY Commodity risks Changes in commodity prices are included in the product cost calculation. Commodity risks refer to the risk that changed commodity prices will Increased commodity prices are therefore reflected in the sales price of affect the consolidated earnings within the Volvo Group. Procurement of the Volvo Group’s final products. Purchasing agreements with commodity commodities such as steel, precious metals and electricity are made on a suppliers may also be long-term in nature or structured in a way that regular basis where prices are set in the global markets. short-term volatility in commodity prices have less direct effect on Volvo Group’s cost base. 129 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES, ASSOCIATED COMPANIES NOTE 5 AND OTHER SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS ACCOUNTING POLICY one quarter. Dividends from joint ventures and associated companies are not included in the consolidated income. In the consolidated balance Subsidiaries sheet, investments in joint ventures and associated companies are affected The Volvo Group has production facilities in 18 countries and sales of by the Volvo Group’s share of the company’s net income, less depreciation products in more than 190 markets which means that the Volvo Group of surplus values and dividends received. Investments in joint ventures has subsidiaries in many parts of the world. A subsidiary is defined as an and associated companies are also affected by the Volvo Group’s share entity that is controlled by the Volvo Group. A subsidiary is controlled by a of the company’s other comprehensive income and by the translation parent company when it has power over the investee, exposure, or rights, difference from translating the company’s equity in the Volvo Group. to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and the ability to When applying the equity method, including recognizing the associate’s use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor’s or joint venture’s losses, additional impairment losses might be recog­ return. Most of the Volvo Group’s subsidiaries are owned to 100% by the nized given any indication of impairment. A significant or prolonged Volvo Group and are therefore considered to be controlled by the Volvo decline in the fair value of the shares is an indication of impairment. Group. For some subsidiaries there are restrictions on the Volvo Group’s Investments accounted for in accordance with the equity method cannot ability to access or use cash from these subsidiaries. be of a negative carrying value and therefore losses are not provided for if the holding is of a negative amount. Additional losses are provided for R  ead more in Note 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds about cash to the extent that the Volvo Group has incurred legal or constructive that is not available for use, or where other limitations exists. ­ obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or the Read more in Note 11 ­Minority interests. associated company. R  ead more in Note 13 Investments in shares and participations in the Other shares and participations ­Parent company about the composition of the Volvo Group. Holding of shares that do not provide the Volvo Group with significant ­in­fluence, which generally means that Volvo Group’s holding of shares Joint ventures corresponds to less than 20% of the votes, are recognized as other Joint ventures are companies over which the Volvo Group has controlling shares and participations. For listed shares, the carrying amount is equiva­ influence together with one or more external parties. Joint ventures are lent to the market value. Unlisted shares and participations, for which a fair recognized by applying equity method accounting. The investment in VE value cannot reasonably be determined, are measured at acquisition cost Commercial Vehicles, Ltd., (VECV) is of a business related nature and less any impairment. aims at strengthening the Volvo Group’s position in India. VECV is included Any change in value is recognized directly in Other comprehensive in the Trucks segment. income, unless the decline is significant or prolonged. Then the impair­ ment is recognized in the income statement. The cumulative gain or loss Associated companies recognized in Other comprehensive income is recycled in the income Associated companies are companies in which the Volvo Group has a statement at the time of sale of the asset. significant influence. A strong indication of such influence is when the Earned or paid interest attributable to these assets is recognized in the Group’s holdings equal at least 20% but less than 50% of the voting income statement as part of net financial items in accordance with the rights. Holdings in associated companies are recognized in accordance effective interest method. Dividends received attributable to these assets with the equity method. The ownership in the Chinese automotive manu­ are recognized in the income statement as Income from other investments. facturer Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co., Ltd (DFCV) is classified as an associated company and is included in the Trucks segment. Joint ventures Equity method The Volvo Group’s investments in joint ventures are listed below. The Volvo Group’s share of income in companies recognized according to the equity method is included in the consolidated income statement under Shares in joint ventures Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Income/loss from investments in joint ventures and associated compa­ Holding Holding nies, less, where appropriate, depreciation of surplus values and the effect percentage percentage of applying different accounting policies. Income from companies recog­ VE Commercial Vehicles, Ltd., India1 45.6 45.6 nized in accordance with the equity method is included in operating income since the Volvo Group’s investments are of business related nature. For 1 V E Commercial Vehicles, Ltd., is considered to be a joint venture as the Volvo Group and Eicher Motors Ltd. have signed an agreement which states that common agree­ practical reasons, some of the associated companies are included in the ment is needed for important matters related to the governance of VECV. consolidated financial statements with a certain time lag, normally up to 130 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES The following tables present summarized financial information for the Volvo Group’s joint ventures: Summarized income statements 2017 2016 VE Commercial Other joint VE Commercial Other joint Vehicles, Ltd. ventures Total Vehicles, Ltd. ventures Total Net sales 12,370 – 12,370 10,204 77 10,281 Operating income 1 668 – 668 424 –97 327 Interest income and similar credits 68 – 68 43 0 43 Interest expense and similar charges –19 – –19 –18 –22 –40 Other financial income and expenses 0 – 0 5 0 5 Income taxes –199 – –199 –131 0 –131 Income for the period2 518 – 518 323 –118 205 Other comprehensive income3 5 – 5 4 – 4 Total comprehensive income 523 – 523 327 –118 209 1 Depreciation and amortization of SEK 363 M (356) are included within operating income whereof SEK 363 M (337) is related to VECV. 2 Income for the period in joint ventures includes depreciation of surplus values. 3 Including the Volvo Group’s share of OCI related to joint ventures. Translation differences from translating joint ventures’ equity in the Volvo Group are excluded. Summarized balance sheets Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 VE Commercial Other joint VE Commercial Other joint Vehicles, Ltd. ventures Total Vehicles, Ltd. ventures Total Non-current assets 4,880 – 4,880 4,980 114 5,094 Marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents 1,695 – 1,695 749 40 789 Other current assets 4,691 – 4,691 3,432 28 3,460 Total assets 11,266 – 11,266 9,161 182 9,343 Equity1 5,492 – 5,492 5,358 –115 5,243 Non-current financial liabilities 12 – 12 8 0 8 Other non-current liabilities 309 – 309 320 7 327 Current financial liabilities 3,530 – 3,530 1,853 284 2,137 Other current liabilities 1,923 – 1,923 1,622 6 1,628 Total equity and liabilities 11,266 – 11,266 9,161 182 9,343 1 Including the translation differences from translating joint ventures’ equity in the Volvo Group. Investments in joint ventures Percentage Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 holding Carrying value Carrying value VE Commercial Vehicles, Ltd., India 45.6 2,504 2,389 Other holdings in joint ventures – 0 0 Investments in joint ventures 2,504 2,389 Net financial position for the joint ventures (excluding post-employment benefits) amounted to SEK 1,352 M (73) as of December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, the Volvo Group’s share of contingent liabilities in its joint ventures amounted to SEK 146 M (152). Dividend received from VECV amounted to SEK 59 M (67). 131 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Associated companies The following tables present summarized financial information for the Volvo Group’s associated companies: Summarized income 2017 2016 ­statements Other associated Other associated DFCV Deutz AG companies Total DFCV Deutz AG companies Total Net sales 49,641 9,937 4,056 63,634 37,086 11,888 4,551 53,525 Operating income 1,575 234 110 1,919 –248 76 –108 –280 Income for the period1 1,600 113 267 1,980 –64 106 –267 –226 Other comprehensive income2 –27 –3 – –30 62 31 – 93 Total comprehensive income 1,573 110 267 1,950 –2 137 –267 –133 1 Income for the period in associated companies includes depreciation of surplus values and internal transactions. 2 Including the Volvo Group’s share of Other comprehensive income related to associated companies. Translation differences from translating the associated companies’ equity in the Volvo Group are excluded. Summarized balance sheets Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Other associated Other associated DFCV1 Deutz AG2 companies Total DFCV1 Deutz AG2 companies Total Non-current assets 17,709 – 1,645 19,354 18,216 7,055 2,095 27,366 Current assets 37,407 – 3,213 40,620 29,414 4,695 3,525 37,634 Total assets 55,116 – 4,858 59,974 47,630 11,750 5,620 65,000 Equity 16,313 – 2,009 18,322 15,363 6,062 2,359 23,784 Non-current liabilities 2,554 – 603 3,157 2,601 2,834 584 6,019 Current liabilities 36,249 – 2,246 38,495 29,666 2,854 2,677 35,197 Total equity and liabilities 55,116 – 4,858 59,974 47,630 11,750 5,620 65,000 1 No dividend was received during financial year 2017 from DFCV (–). 2 Dividends of SEK 20 M (19) was received from Deutz AG. Investments in associated companies Percentage Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 holding Carrying value Carrying value Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co., Ltd (DFCV) China 45.0 7,341 6,946 Deutz AG, Germany 1 – – 1,515 Other holdings in associated companies 2 680 793 Investments in associated companies 8,021 9,254 1D  uring the year the Volvo Group divested the share of ownership in the associated company Deutz AG. 2 Other holdings include the investment in Inner Mongolia North Hauler Joint Stock Co., Ltd., China., two dealers in Japan and Blue Chip Jet. Income/loss from investments in joint Other shares and participations ventures and associated companies 2017 2016 The carrying amount of the Volvo Group’s holding of shares and participa­ tions in other companies as of December 31, 2017, is disclosed in the Income/loss joint ventures table below. VECV 236 147 Other joint ventures – 0 Read  more in Note 30 Financial Instruments regarding financial assets classified as a­ vailable for sale. Subtotal 236 147 Income/loss associated companies Holding of shares Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 DFCV1 720 –29 in listed companies Carrying value Carrying value Deutz AG 28 27 Other companies 24 –41 Holdings in Japanese companies 461 409 Subtotal 771 –43 Holdings in other listed companies 1 82 Holding of shares in listed companies 462 491 Revaluation, write-down and gain on divestment of shares associated companies Holding of shares in non-listed companies 237 285 Deutz AG2 400 – B/S Other shares and participations 699 777 Other companies 0 52 Subtotal 400 52 I/S Income/loss from investments in joint ventures and associated companies 3 1,407 156 1 Income/loss includes an internal profit elimination of net SEK 15 M (195). 2 Income/loss includes gain from divestment of the Volvo Group’s share of owner­ ship in Deutz AG in an amount of SEK 400 M. 3 Income/loss from investments in joint ventures include the Volvo Group’s share of depreciation of ­surplus values of SEK 20 M (24) and associated companies include depreciation of surplus values of SEK 46 M (48). 132 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 6 SEGMENT REPORTING Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal The Volvo Group has shared operations in both the Trucks segment and reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief oper­ in the segment Group functions & Other. Shared operations for produc­ ating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and tion, development and logistics for powertrain and parts are included in assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Trucks segment. Volvo IT and Volvo Real Estate are seen as business the Group Executive Board that makes strategic decisions. support functions and are part of Group functions & Other. The cost of The Volvo Group comprises ten business areas: Volvo Trucks, UD Trucks, these operations is shared between the different business areas based Mack Trucks, Renault Trucks, Group Trucks Asia & JVs, Volvo Construction on utilization according to principles set by the Volvo Group. Equipment, Volvo Buses, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and Volvo Finan­ cial ­Services. Each business area, except for the truck brands and Governmental Sales, is seen as a separate segment. Governmental Sales is part of the segment Group functions & Other. The truck brands are seen as one seg­ ment since the operations are highly integrated and the assessment of the performance is done for the truck brands in total. Group functions Con­struction & Other Industrial Financial 2017 Trucks Equipment Buses Volvo Penta incl. elim. Operations Services Eliminations Volvo Group Net sales, external customers 215,795 66,298 25,295 10,743 5,267 323,398 11,351 – 334,748 Net sales, internal 685 199 783 376 –1,632 412 461 –873 – I/S Net sales 216,480 66,497 26,078 11,119 3,635 323,809 11,812 –873 334,748 Expenses –197,058 –58,591 –25,155 –9,682 –6,596 –297,082 –9,619 873 –305,828 I/S Income from i­nvestments in joint ventures and associated companies 961 10 5 2 430 1,407 – – 1,407 I/S Operating income 20,383 7,917 928 1,439 –2,532 28,135 2,193 – 30,327 I/S Interest income and similar credits 164 – – 164 I/S Interest expense and similar charges –1,852 0 – –1,852 I/S Other financial income and expense –385 – – –385 I/S Income after financial items 26,062 2,192 – 28,254 Other segment information Depreciation, amortization and impairment –10,802 –2,081 –402 –243 931 –12,597 –4,272 – –16,869 Restructuring costs 41 –105 – 0 38 –26 – – –26 Gains/losses from d ­ ivestments 66 250 – – 4 320 0 – 320 Investments in fixed assets 5,490 811 327 348 956 7,932 11,469 – 19,401 B/S Investments in joint ­ventures and associated ­companies (the equity method) 10,098 255 64 31 78 10,525 – – 10,525 B/S Assets held for sale 51 – – 51 B/S Liabilities held for sale 0 – – 0 133 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Group functions Con­struction & Other Industrial Financial 2016 Trucks Equipment Buses Volvo Penta incl. elim. Operations Services Eliminations Volvo Group Net sales, external customers 200,118 50,490 24,397 9,575 6,567 291,147 10,767 – 301,914 Net sales, internal 532 241 989 318 –1,769 312 475 –787 – I/S Net sales 200,650 50,731 25,386 9,893 4,799 291,459 11,242 –787 301,914 Expenses –185,764 –48,447 –24,543 –8,623 –5,499 –272,875 –9,155 787 –281,243 I/S Income from i­nvestments in joint ventures and associated companies 134 –38 68 –1 –8 156 – – 156 I/S Operating income 15,020 2,246 911 1,269 –707 18,740 2,086 – 20,826 I/S Interest income and similar credits 240 – – 240 I/S Interest expense and similar charges –1,847 – – –1,847 I/S Other financial income and expense 11 – – 11 I/S Income after financial items 17,144 2,086 – 19,230 Other segment information Depreciation, amortization and impairment –10,769 –2,162 –398 –218 915 –12,633 –4,133 – –16,766 Restructuring costs –19 –18 1 –4 – –40 – – –40 Gains/losses from d ­ ivestments 40 18 – – 877 936 – – 936 Investments in fixed assets 7,270 981 302 232 1,243 10,026 10,770 – 20,796 B/S Investments in joint v­ entures and associated ­companies (the equity method) 9,595 254 74 29 1,691 11,643 – – 11,643 B/S Assets held for sale 525 – – 525 B/S Liabilities held for sale –148 – – –148 Reporting by market Net sales Non-current assets1 NOTE 7 REVENUE 2017 2016 2017 2016 Europe 143,236 131,712 62,007 60,672 of which Sweden 9,023 9,177 13,402 14,499 ACCOUNTING POLICY of which France 26,899 24,887 14,634 14,856 North America 84,047 80,701 18,946 20,452 The Volvo Group’s recognized net sales pertain mainly to revenues from of which USA 66,625 65,738 17,413 18,829 sales of goods and services. Net sales are, if the occasion arises, reduced South America 17,257 14,863 2,798 2,837 by the value of rebates granted and by returns. of which Brazil 8,862 7,471 2,395 2,440 Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when significant risks Asia 68,398 55,501 18,415 19,902 and rewards of ownership have been transferred to external parties, of which China 17,663 9,346 1,845 1,999 ­normally when the goods are delivered to the customer. of which Japan 17,278 17,159 11,816 12,835 However, if the sale of goods is combined with a buy-back agreement Other markets 21,811 19,137 1,461 1,255 or a residual value guarantee, the transaction is recognized as an operat­ ing lease transaction if significant risks in regard to the goods are retained I/S B/S Total 334,748 301,914 103,627 105,118 in Volvo Group. Revenue is then recognized over the period of the residual 1 Non-current assets include tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill. value commitment. If the residual value risk commitment is not significant or the sale was made to an independent party before Volvo Group is The reporting of net sales by market is based on where the delivery of the ­committed to the residual value risk the revenue is recognized at the time goods or services took place. of sale and a provision is made to reflect the estimated residual value risk. If sale is in combination with a commitment from the customer to buy a new product in connection to a buy-back option, revenue is recognized at the time of the sale. Revenue from the sale of workshop services is recognized when the ­service is provided. Interest income in conjunction with finance leasing or instalment credit ­contracts are recognized as net sales within Financial Services during the underlying contract period. 134 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Revenue for maintenance contracts are recognized in line with the 5 Including SEK 29 M (–72) for C ­ onstruction Equipment in China due to lower ­allocation of associated costs over the contract period. credit losses. 6 In 2016 the gain on sale of properties in Gothenburg, Sweden of SEK 1,371 M Interest income is recognized on a continuous basis and dividend was included. income when the right to receive dividend is obtained. Read more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries about gains/losses on divestment of Group companies. Read  more in Note 4 Goals and policies in financial risk management SOURCE OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY ­regarding the company’s management of credit risk and credit reserves. Buy-back agreements and residual value guarantees Read more in Note 15 Customer finance receivables. In certain cases, Volvo Group enters into a buy-back agreement or Read more in Note 16 Receivables. ­residual value guarantee after having sold the product to an independent party or in combination with an undertaking from the customer to Read more in Note 21 Other provisions and Note 24 Contingent liabilities ­purchase a new product in the event of a buy-back. In such cases, there about damages and litigations. may be a question of judgement regarding whether or not significant risks Read more in Note 24 Contingent liabilities about credit losses in China. and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. If it is determined that such an assessment is incorrect, the Volvo Group’s ­recognized revenue and income for the period will decline and instead be distributed over several reporting periods. OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME NOTE 9 AND EXPENSES Read more in Note 21 Other provisions, for a description of residual value risks. ACCOUNTING POLICY Vehicles and Services The Volvo Group’s product range is divided into Vehicles and Services. Unrealized revaluation on derivatives used to hedge interest rate ­exposure The sale of new vehicles, machinery and engines comprise Vehicles as and realized result and unrealized revaluation on derivatives used to well as the sale of used vehicles and machines, trailers, superstructures hedge future cash flow exposure in foreign currency are recognized in and special vehicles. Services are defined as the sale of spare parts, other financial income and expenses. Hedge accounting is not applied on maintenance service and other aftermarket products. those derivatives. The unrealized revaluation on derivatives used to hedge During 2017, Services represented approximately 22% (23) of the net interest rate exposure was mainly related to the debt portfolio within sales in Industrial Operations. ­Industrial ­Operations and customer-financing portfolio within Financial Services. R  ead more in Note 6 Segment reporting regarding net sales by segment and market. Read  more in Note 1 Accounting ­policies about receivables and ­liabilities in foreign currency.  Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments regarding the accounting OTHER OPERATING INCOME ­policy for financial assets at fair value through the income statement. NOTE 8 AND EXPENSES Other financial income and expense 2017 2016 Changes in provisions for doubtful accounts receivables and customer-­ financing receivables are among other things recognized in Other operating Unrealized revaluation on derivatives used to hedge income and expenses. ­interest rate exposure –182 386 Realized result and unrealized revaluation on deriva­ Other operating income and expense 2017 2016 tives used to hedge future cash flow exposure in foreign currency 226 11 Gains/losses on divestment of Group companies1 320 936 Financial instruments at fair value Change in allowances and write-offs for doubtful through income statement 45 397 customer-financing receivables –534 –677 Exchange rate gains and losses on financial assets Change in allowances and write-offs for other and liabilities –215 –5 doubtful receivables2 –24 –397 Financial income and expenses related to taxes 57 –23 Damages and litigations3 –234 –2,912 Costs for Treasury function, credit facilities, etc1 –271 –357 Restructuring costs4 –26 –460 I/S Total2 –385 11 Volvo profit sharing program –430 –498 Other income and expenses5, 6 –133 873 1 In 2016 a write-down of an entrustment loan was included of SEK –97 M. I/S Total –1,061 –3,135 2 O ther financial income and expense attributable to financial instruments amounted to –170 M (392) and is included in the table presenting gains, 1 In 2016 the capital gain from the sale of external IT-operations of SEK 885 M losses interest income and expenses related to financial instruments was included. in note 30 Financial Instruments. 2 Including SEK 13 M (–247) for Construction Equipment in China. 3 In 2016 cost of SEK 2,524 M related to the EU antitrust i­nvestigation was included. 4 In 2016 costs mainly related to outsourcing of IT infrastructure ­operations were included. 135 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2017, % 2016, % NOTE 10 INCOME TAXES Swedish corporate income tax rate 22 22 Difference between corporate tax rate in Sweden and other countries 3 3 ACCOUNTING POLICY Non-taxable income –3 –5 Income tax for the period includes current and deferred taxes. Current Non-deductible expenses 1 5 taxes are calculated on the basis of the tax regulations prevailing in the Current taxes related to prior years 0 0 countries where the Group companies have operations. Remeasurement of deferred tax assets 0 5 Deferred taxes are recognized on differences that arise between the Other differences 1 2 taxable value and carrying value of assets and liabilities as well as on taxEffective tax rate for the Volvo Group 25 31 loss carryforwards. Furthermore deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent it is probable that they will be utilized against future taxable income. The effective tax rate for the Volvo Group, as of December 31 2017, was Deferred tax liabilities on temporary differences on participations in sub­ mainly impacted by a cost of SEK 354 M related to revaluation of deferred sidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies are recognized in the tax assets and liabilities due to the tax reform legislation in the USA which balance sheet except when the Volvo Group control the timing of the reversal will lower the corporate tax rate for 2018. of the temporary difference related to accumulated undistributed earnings and it is probable that a reversal will not be done in the foreseeable future. Specification of deferred tax assets Dec 31, Dec 31, Tax laws in Sweden and certain other countries allow companies to defer and liabilities 2017 2016 payment of taxes through allocations to untaxed reserves. In the consoli­ Deferred tax assets: dated financial statements untaxed reserves are recognized as temporary Unused tax-loss carryforwards 2,938 3,596 differences, which are partly recognized as deferred tax liability and partly as equity. In the consolidated income statements changes of untaxed Other unused tax credits 183 167 reserves are split between deferred taxes and net income for the year. Intercompany profit in inventories 1,524 1,302 Provisions have been made for estimated tax charges that are probable Allowance for inventory obsolescence 535 740 as a result of identified tax risks. Volvo Group evaluates tax processes on Valuation allowance for doubtful ­receivables 971 1,329 a regular basis and provisions are made for the estimated outcome when Provisions for warranties 2,690 4,317 a reasonable assessment can be made. Tax claims, for which no provision Provisions for residual value risks 345 250 is ­considered required, are generally recognized as contingent liabilities. Provisions for post-employment benefits 3,780 4,535 Provisions for restructuring measures 35 130 Read more in Note 24 Contingent Liabilities. Land 1,141 1,218 Other deductible temporary differences 4,732 5,442 Deferred tax assets before d ­ eduction for valuation allowance 18,875 23,025 SOURCE OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Valuation allowance –1,011 –1,348 Deferred taxes Deferred tax assets after deduction for valuation allowance 17,864 21,677 The Volvo Group recognizes valuation allowances for deferred tax assets where management does not expect such assets to be realized based Netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities –6,082 –7,277 upon current forecasts. In the event that actual results differ from these B/S Deferred tax assets, net 11,782 14,399 estimates or adjustments are made to future periods in these estimates, changes in the valuation allowance may be required. This could have Deferred tax liabilities: ­significant impact on the financial position and the income for the period. Accelerated depreciation on property, plant and equipment 2,073 2,496 The Volvo Group recognizes deferred tax assets related to substantial Accelerated depreciation on leasing assets 2,449 3,547 tax-loss carryforwards that are assessed as being probable to be utilized LIFO valuation of inventories 365 591 due to sufficient income generated in the coming years. The base for this Capitalized product and software development 2,278 2,576 assessment is possibilities to offset tax assets and tax liabilities and that Adjustment to fair value at corporate a significant part of tax-loss carryforwards is related to countries with ­acquisitions/divestments 45 35 long or indefinite periods of utilization. In order to determine the probabil­ Untaxed reserves 1,397 643 ity of utilization of such tax-loss carryforwards business plans are used. Provisions for post-employment benefits 84 66 Other taxable temporary differences 2,744 2,593 Deferred tax liabilities 11,435 12,547 Distribution of Income taxes 2017 2016 Netting of deferred tax assets and liabilities –6,082 –7,277 Current taxes relating to the period –5,592 –3,831 B/S Deferred tax liabilities, net 5,353 5,270 Adjustment of current taxes for prior ­periods –42 –113 Deferred taxes originated or reversed during the Deferred tax assets and liabilities, net1 6,429 9,129 period –1,587 –1,749 1 The deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet par­ Remeasurements of deferred tax assets 251 –315 tially on a net basis after taking into account offsetting possibilities. Deferred tax I/S Total income taxes –6,971 –6,008 assets and liabilities have been measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied during the period when the asset is realized or the l­iability is settled, according to the tax rates and tax regulations that have been resolved or The Swedish corporate income tax rate amounted to 22% in 2017. Next enacted at the balance sheet date. table explains the major reasons for the difference between the Swedish corporate income tax rate and the Volvo Group’s effective tax rate, based on income after financial items. 136 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES The total valuation allowance for deferred tax assets amounted to SEK 1,011 M (1,348) as of December 31, 2017. Most of the reserve, SEK NOTE 11 MINORITY INTERESTS 953 M (1,224), consisted of valuation allowance for unused tax-loss carry­forwards, mainly related to Japan. As of December 31, 2017, the Volvo Group’s gross unused tax-loss ACCOUNTING POLICY carryforwards amounted to SEK 10,418 M (12,394) pertaining to deferred tax assets of SEK 2,938 M (3,596) recognized in the balance sheet. Minority interests are interest attributable to non-controlling sharehold­ After deduction for valuation allowance, deferred tax assets attributable ers. Minority interests are presented in equity, separately from equity of to unused tax-loss carry­forwards amounted to SEK 1,985 M (2,372) of the owners of the parent company. At business combinations minority which SEK 978 M (1,122) pertains to France and SEK 433 M (448) interests are valued either at fair value or at the minority’s proportionate to Japan. share of the acquiree’s net assets. Minority interests are assigned the The gross unused tax-loss carryforwards expire according to the minority shareholder’s portion of the equity of the subsidiary. Changes in ­following table: a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. Due date, unused tax-loss ­ Dec 31, Dec 31, carryforwards gross 2017 2016 The Volvo Group has a few non-wholly owned subsidiaries of which one of after 1 year 875 534 the subsidiaries is considered to have a significant minority interest. after 2 years 328 931 Shandong Lingong Construction Machinery Co. (Lingong), in China has a after 3 years 1,900 375 minority interest holding amounting to 30% share and voting rights in the after 4 years 617 1,621 company. During the year, the profit allocated to the minority interest of after 5 years 337 1,469 Lingong amounted to 294 (61) and the accumulated minority interest at after 6 years or more 1 6,360 7,463 the end of December 31, 2017, amounted to 1,884 (1,648). Total 10,418 12,394 The following table presents summarized financial information for Shandong Lingong Construction Machinery Co.: 1T ax-loss carryforwards with long or indefinite periods of utilization were mainly related to France. Tax-loss carryforwards with indefinite periods of utilization amounted to SEK 5,633 M (6,169) which corresponds to 54% (50) of the total Summarized income statement 2017 2016 unused tax-losses carryforward. Net sales 10,539 5,384 Changes in deferred tax assets Operating income 1,116 160 and liabilities, net 2017 2016 Income for the period 981 202 Deferred tax assets and liabilities, net, Other comprehensive income1 –193 117 opening balance 9,129 9,955 Total comprehensive income1 788 319 Recognized in Income statement –1,337 –2,064 Dividends paid to minority interest – 200 Recognized in Other comprehensive income, whereof: Summarized balance sheet Dec 31, Dec 31, Remeasurements of defined-benefit pension 2017 2016 plans1 –678 76 Cash flow hedge reserve 6 –19 Non-current assets 2,129 1,734 Available-for-sale reserve –16 –5 Marketable securities, cash and cash equivalents 2,603 2,116 Translation differences and other changes –675 1,186 Current assets 8,692 5,646 Deferred tax assets and liabilities, net, Total assets 13,424 9,496 as of December 31 6,429 9,129 Non-current liabilities 144 188 1 Due to the new tax reform legislation in the USA deferred tax assets related to Current liabilities 6,999 3,815 provisions for post-employment benefits were revaluated for 2017. The revalua­ Total liabilities 7,143 4,003 tion was mainly recognized in Other comprehensive income, SEK 449 M. Equity attributable to the Volvo Group’s shareholders 4,397 3,845 The cumulative amount of undistributed earnings in foreign subsidiaries, Minority interests1 1,884 1,648 which the Volvo Group currently intends to indefinitely reinvest outside 1 Includes translation differences from translating equity in foreign subsidiaries of Sweden and which no deferred income tax have been accounted for, in the Volvo Group. amounted to SEK 27 billion (23) at year end. Undistributed earnings ­pertaining to countries where the dividends are not taxable are excluded.  Read more in Note 4 Goals and policies in financial risk management about how the Volvo Group handles equity currency risk. 137 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS ACCOUNTING POLICY test. The operating parameters applied in the valuation are based on man­ agement’s strategy and could indicate higher value than historical perfor­ Volvo Group applies the cost method for recognition of intangible assets. mance for each operating segment. ­Furthermore the Volvo Group is oper­ Borrowing costs are included in the cost of assets that are expected to ating in a cyclical industry why p ­ erformance could vary over time. take more than twelve months to complete for their intended use or sale. The surplus values differ between the operating segments why they are When participating in industrial projects in partnership with other com­ sensitive to changes in the assumptions described above to a varying panies the Volvo Group in certain cases pays an entrance fee to partici­ degree. Therefore, the Volvo Group continuously follows the performance pate. These entrance fees are capitalized as intangible assets. of the operating segments whose surplus value is dependent on the ful­ fillment of the Volvo Group’s assessments. Instability in the recovery of the Research and development expenses market and volatility in interest and currency rates may lead to indications Expenditures for the development of new products and software are rec­ of a need for impairment. The most important factors for the future oper­ ognized as intangible assets if such expenditures, with a high degree of ations of the Volvo Group are described in the Volvo Group operating certainty, will result in future financial benefits for the company. The cost segment section, as well as in the Risk management section. for such intangible assets is amortized over the estimated useful life of the assets. Amortization and impairment The rules require stringent criteria to be met for these development Amortization is made on a straight line basis based on the cost of the expenditures to be recognized as assets. For example, it must be possible assets, adjusted in appropriate cases by impairments, and estimated use­ to prove the technical functionality of a new product or software prior to ful lives. Amortization is recognized in the respective function to which it its development expenditure being recognized as an asset. In normal belongs, meaning that amortization of product development is part of the cases, this means that expenditures are capitalized only during the indus­ research and development expenses in the income statement. Impair­ trialization phase of a product development project. Other research and ment tests for amortizable assets are performed if there are indications of development expenses are recognized in the income statement as impairment at the balance sheet date. incurred. The Volvo Group has developed a process for conducting product Amortization periods development projects, which has six phases focused on separate parts of the project. Every phase starts and ends with a reconciliation point, known Trademarks 20 years as a gate, for which the criteria must be met for the project’s decision Distribution networks 10 years making committee to open the gate and allow the project to progress to Product and software development 3 to 8 years the next phase. During the industrialization phase, the industrial system is prepared for serial production and the product is launched. A correspond­ ing process is developed for software development. Goodwill SOURCE OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Goodwill is recognized as an intangible asset with indefinite useful life. For non-depreciable assets such as goodwill, impairment tests are performed Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets annually, as well as if there are indications of impairments during the year, Intangible assets other than goodwill are amortized and depreciated over by calculating the asset’s recovery value. If the calculated recovery value is their useful lives. Useful lives are based on estimates of the period in which less than the carrying value, the asset is written down to its recovery value. the assets will generate revenue. If, at the date of the financial statements, The Volvo Group’s valuation model is based on a discounted cash flow any indication exists that an intangible non-current asset has been impaired, model, with a forecast period of four years. Valuation is performed on cash the recoverable amount of the asset is calculated. The recoverable amount generating units, identified as the Volvo Group’s operating segments. is the higher of the asset’s net selling price and its value in use, estimated Each operating segment is fully integrated ensuring maximum synergy, with reference to management’s projections of future cash flows. If the hence no independent cash flows exists on a lower level. recoverable amount of the asset is less than the carrying amount, an impair­ Goodwill is allocated to these cash generating units based on expected ment is recognized and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to the future benefit. The valuation is based on a business plan which is an inte­ recoverable amount. Determination of the recoverable amount is based gral part of the Volvo Group’s financial planning ­process and represents upon management’s projections of future cash flows, which are generally management’s best estimate of the development of the Group’s opera­ based on internal business plans or forecasts. While management believes tions. Assumption of 2% (2) long-term market growth beyond the forecast that estimates of future cash flows are reasonable, different assumptions period and the Group’s expected performance in this environment is a regarding such cash flows could materially affect valuations. The need for basis for the valuation. In the model, the Volvo Group is expected to main­ impairment of goodwill is determined on an annual basis, or more ­frequently tain stable capital efficiency over time. Other parameters considered in if re­­quired through calculation of the value of the asset. Such an impairment the calculation are operating income, mix of products and services, review will require management to determine the fair value of the Volvo expenses and level of capital expenditures. Measurements are based on Group’s cash generating units, on the basis of projected cash flows and nominal values and a general rate of inflation applicable for the main mar­ internal business plans and forecasts. Surplus values differ between the kets where the Volvo Group operates. The Volvo Group uses a discount operating segments and they are, to a varying degree, s­ ensitive to changes rate at 12% (12) before tax for 2017. in assumptions and the business environment. The Volvo Group has In 2017, the estimated/calculated value of Volvo Group’s operations ­performed ­similar impairment reviews since 2002. No impairment was exceeded the carrying amount of goodwill for all operating segments, ­recognized for the period 2002 until 2017. The goodwill related to planned thus no impairment was recognized. The Volvo Group has also analyzed divestments has been revaluated in accordance with IFRS 5. whether a negative adjustment of one percentage point to the aforemen­  Read  more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries, tioned parameters would result in impairment for any goodwill value, how­ for further information. ever none of the operating segments would be impaired as a result of this 138 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Intangible assets, acquisition costs Capitalized product and Other intangible Total intangible Goodwill software development assets1 assets Opening balance 2016 22,088 40,133 7,531 69,752 Investments – 2,937 11 2,947 Sales/scrapping – –545 –49 –594 Acquired and divested operations 28 –2 44 69 Translation differences 1,338 1,829 409 3,576 Reclassification at divestment – – 47 47 Reclassifications and other –16 29 188 202 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2016 23,438 44,382 8,180 75,999 Investments2 – 2,017 19 2,036 Sales/scrapping – –29 –12 –41 Acquired and divested operations –33 – 63 30 Translation differences –568 –1,072 –185 –1,826 Reclassification at divestment 17 3 1 20 Reclassifications and other 0 –34 44 10 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2017 22,853 45,266 8,109 76,228 Intangible assets, accumulated amortization Capitalized product and Other intangible Total intangible and impairment Goodwill software development assets1 assets Opening balance 2016 – 28,431 4,905 33,336 Amortization – 2,836 372 3,208 Impairment – 20 132 152 Revaluation 71 – – 71 Sales/scrapping – –503 –49 –552 Acquired and divested operations – –2 –7 –10 Translation differences – 1,426 208 1,634 Reclassification at divestment – – 46 46 Reclassifications and other – 8 189 198 Accumulated amortization and impairment as of Dec 31, 2016 71 32,217 5,794 38,083 Amortization – 2,840 320 3,160 Impairment – – 86 86 Sales/scrapping – –21 –12 –33 Acquired and divested operations – 0 1 1 Translation differences – –851 –100 –951 Reclassification at divestment – 0 0 0 Reclassifications and other – –35 24 –11 Accumulated amortization and impairment as of Dec 31, 2017 71 34,150 6,113 40,334 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of December 31, 2016 3 23,366 12,164 2,386 37,916 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of December 31, 20173 22,781 11,116 1,996 35,893 1 Other intangible assets mainly consist of entrance fees in industrial programs, trademarks and distribution networks. 2 Including capitalized borrowing costs of SEK 30 M (65). 3 Acquisition costs less accumulated amortization and impairments. Read more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries, for a description of acquired and divested operations. Goodwill per Operating Segment Dec 31, Dec 31, 2017 2016 Trucks 12,496 12,865 Construction Equipment 8,514 8,873 Buses 1,042 1,059 Other operating segments 729 570 Total goodwill value 22,781 23,366 139 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 13 TANGIBLE ASSETS ACCOUNTING POLICY Depreciation periods The Volvo Group applies the cost method for measurement of tangible Type-specific tools 3 to 8 years assets. Borrowing costs are included in the acquisition value of assets Operating leases, Rental fleet 3 to 5 years that are expected to take more than 12 months to complete for their Sales with residual value commitments 3 to 5 years intended use or sale. Machinery 5 to 20 years Investment properties are properties owned for the purpose of obtain­ Buildings and investment properties 20 to 50 years ing rental income and appreciation in value. Investment properties are Land improvements 20 years recognized at cost. For disclosure purposes, information regarding the estimated fair value of investment properties is based on an internal ­discounted cash flow projection. The required return is based on current property market conditions for comparable properties in comparable locations. The applied valuation method is classified as level 3 as per the SOURCE OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY fair value hierarchy in IFRS 13 and there have not been any changes in valuation method during the year. Impairment of tangible assets Investment properties are classified as buildings. Land contains land If, at the balance-sheet date, there is any indication that a tangible asset and land improvements. Machinery is machinery, type-bound tools and has been impaired, the recoverable amount of the asset should be esti­ other equipment. Ongoing projects are assets under construction and mated. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s net selling advanced payments. Operating leases are assets owned by the Group, price and its value in use, estimated with reference to management’s pro­ which are subject of operating lease agreements with customers. Rental jections of future cash flows. If the recoverable amount of the asset is less fleet is assets used in a fleet for rental business. Sales with residual value than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized and the carry­ commitment are sales where the operating lease model is applied. ing amount of the asset is reduced to the recoverable amount. To deter­ mine the recoverable amount, management’s projections of future cash Depreciation and impairment flows are used, which are generally based upon internal business plans or Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over their useful lives. forecasts. While management believes that estimates of future cash flows Useful lives are based on estimates of the period over which the assets are reasonable, different assumptions regarding such cash flows could will generate revenue. Land is not depreciated. materially affect valuations. Depreciation is recognized on a straight-line basis based on the cost of the assets, adjusted in appropriate cases by impairments, and estimated useful lives. Depreciation is recognized in the respective function to which it belongs. Impairment tests for depreciable non-current assets are per­ formed if there are indications of impairment at the balance-sheet date. Tangible assets, Sales w. Acquisition cost residual Total Ongoing Operating value com­ ­tangible Buildings Land Machinery3 projects leases Rental fleet mitments5 assets Opening balance 2016 34,835 11,522 74,795 4,303 26,578 3,545 14,917 170,494 Investments 944 152 1,803 4,134 10,720 – – 17,752 Sales/scrapping –2,539 –866 –2,621 –61 –9,998 – – –16,085 Acquired and divested operations –163 –53 –979 – – –315 – –1,510 Translation differences 2,095 905 3,583 350 953 121 721 8,729 Reclassified at divestment 365 306 976 36 – –52 – 1,632 Reclassifications and other 1,115 95 2,511 –3,859 –126 900 398 1,035 Acquisition costs as of Dec 31, 2016 36,652 12,062 80,068 4,902 28,127 4,198 16,036 182,046 Investments1 316 78 1,643 3,831 11,496 – – 17,364 Sales/scrapping –390 –62 –2,268 –15 –8,547 – – –11,281 Acquired and divested operations –80 –8 –78 0 0 –9 –108 –283 Translation differences –916 –338 –1,526 –239 –672 –56 28 –3,719 Reclassified at divestment 46 –13 5 0 – 343 – 382 Reclassifications and other 1,329 53 2,827 –4,399 –316 794 1,242 1,530 Acquisition costs as of Dec 31, 2017 36,957 11,772 80,672 4,081 30,087 5,271 17,199 186,040 140 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Tangible assets, Sales w. Accumulated depreciation residual Total Ongoing Operating value com­ ­tangible and impairments Buildings Land Machinery 3 projects leases Rental fleet mitments5 assets Opening balance 2016 17,347 1,198 53,281 11 7,884 821 3,802 84,345 Depreciation 1,325 85 4,888 – 4,164 657 2,016 13,135 Impairment 22 22 –3 – – –88 245 199 Sales/scrapping –1,558 –176 –2,367 – –4,091 – – –8,192 Acquired and divested operations –113 –7 –721 – – –138 – –979 Translation differences 1,023 72 2,609 – 256 28 213 4,201 Reclassified at divestment 256 29 728 – – 51 – 1,065 Reclassifications and other –76 –2 –64 – 4 –247 –1,911 –2,296 Accumulated depreciation and ­impairments as of Dec 31, 2016 18,227 1,221 58,351 11 8,217 1,085 4,366 91,477 Depreciation 1,313 88 5,063 – 4,311 759 1,972 13,507 Impairment 0 0 –13 4 – 0 125 116 Sales/scrapping –304 –37 –2,133 – –3,419 – – –5,893 Acquired and divested operations –43 –1 –53 – – –1 –36 –135 Translation differences –478 –19 –1,114 – –181 –5 –35 –1,832 Reclassified at divestment 36 16 4 – – 81 – 138 Reclassifications and other 8 –3 –8 – –164 –448 –1,238 –1,853 Accumulated depreciation and ­impairments as of Dec 31, 2017 18,759 1,265 60,097 15 8,765 1,471 5,154 95,526 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20162, 4 18,425 10,842 21,717 4,891 19,910 3,113 11,670 90,568 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20172, 4 18,198 10,507 20,575 4,066 21,322 3,800 12,045 90,514 1 Including capitalized borrowing costs of SEK 0 M (33). 2 Acquisition costs less accumulated depreciation and impairments. 3 Machinery and equipment pertains mainly to production related assets. 4 Of which investment property SEK 31 M (34) and property, plant and equipment as well as ongoing projects SEK 53,317 M (55,841). 5 Read more in Note 7 Revenue about sales with residual value commitments. Read more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries, for a description of acquired and divested operations. Reclassifications and other presented in the table above mainly consist of Investment properties assets within sales with residual value commitments related to legal sales The acquisition value of investment properties at year-end amounted to transactions, where ­revenue is deferred and accounted for as operating SEK 72 M (73). Capital expenditures during 2017 amounted to SEK 0 M lease revenue. Assets classified as inventory will, when the operating (1) and reclassifications amounted to SEK –1 M (0). Accumulated depre­ lease model is applied for revenue recognition, be reclassified from inven­ ciation amounted to SEK 41 M (38) at year-end, of which SEK 2 M (24) tory to sales with residual value commitments, when the legal sales trans­ refers to 2017. The estimated fair value of investment properties amounted action occurs. If the p ­ roduct is returned after the lease period, there will to SEK 62 M (61) at year-end and 98% (98) of the area available for lease be a reclassification from sales with residual value commitments back was leased out during the year. Operating income was affected by rental to inventory. When a buy-back agreement has expired, but the related income from investment properties that amounted to SEK 6 M (88) and product is not returned, the cost and the accumulated depreciation are direct costs that amounted to SEK 1 M (22). The change compared with reversed in reclassifications and other, within the line item sales with the previous year was mainly due to divestment of properties in Gothen­ ­residual value commitments. Most reclassifications within tangible assets burg in 2016. relate to construction in p ­ rogress, which are reclassified to the respective category within property, plant and equipment. Most reclassifications within rental fleet relate to assets moved from inventory to rental fleet during the time the product is used in the rental business. When the ­product is de-fleeted it is reclassified back to inventory from rental fleet on the line reclassifications and other. 141 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 14 LEASING ACCOUNTING POLICY Volvo Group as a lessee As of December 31, 2017, future rental payments (minimum leasing fees) Volvo Group as the lessor related to non-cancellable leases amounted to SEK 6,736 M (6,534). Leasing contracts are defined in two categories, operating and finance leases, depending on the contract’s financial implications. Operating lease Future rental payments Finance Operating leases leases contracts are recognized as non-current assets in Assets under operating leases. Income from operating lease is recognized equally distributed over 2018 206 1,619 the leasing period. Straight-line depreciation is applied to these assets in 2019–2022 586 2,838 accordance with the terms of the undertaking and the depreciation 2023 or later 400 1,087 amount is adjusted to correspond to the estimated realizable value when Total 1,192 5,544 the undertaking expires. Assessed impairments are charged to the income statement. The product’s assessed realizable value at expir­ation of the undertaking is reviewed continuously on an individual basis. Rental expenses 2017 2016 Finance lease contracts are recognized as either non-current or current receivables in Financial Services. Payments from finance lease contracts Finance leases: are distributed between interest income and amortization of the receivable Contingent rents –7 –6 in Financial Services. Operating leases: Contingent rents –33 –37 Volvo Group as the lessee Rental payments –1,840 –1,638 As for lessors, leases are divided into operating and finance lease. Sublease payments 14 7 Finance lease are those cases when risks and rewards related to owner­ Total –1,866 –1,674 ship are substantially held by the Volvo Group. Volvo Group recognizes the asset and related obligation in the balance sheet at the lower of the leased asset’s fair value or the present value of minimum lease payments. Future Carrying amount of assets subject Dec 31, Dec 31, lease fee commitments are recognized as obligations. The lease asset is to financial leases 2017 2016 depreciated in accordance with the Volvo Group’s policy for the respective tangible asset. The lease payments made are allocated between amorti­ Acquisition value: zation and interest expenses. If the lease contract is considered to be an Buildings 732 670 operating lease, lease payments are recognized as operating expenses in Land 81 80 profit or loss over the lease contract period. Machinery 811 661 Assets under operating lease and rental fleet1 370 538 Total 1,995 1,948 Volvo Group as the lessor Accumulated depreciation: As of December 31, 2017, future rental income from non-cancellable Buildings –174 –117 finance and operating leases (minimum lease fees excluding sales with Land –7 –5 residual value commitments) amounted to SEK 66,210 M (61,517). Machinery –475 –340 Future rental income Finance Operating Assets under operating lease and rental fleet1 –148 –177 leases leases Total –805 –640 2018 16,812 7,053 Carrying amount in the balance sheet: 2019–2022 26,379 14,227 Buildings 557 552 2023 or later 1,065 674 Land 74 74 Total 44,256 21,954 Machinery 336 321 Assets under operating lease and rental fleet1 222 361 Allowance for uncollectible future rental income –651 Total 1,189 1,309 Unearned rental income –2,741 Present value of future rental income related to 1R efer to assets leased by the Volvo Group as finance lease which are later non-cancellable leases 40,863 leased to customers as operating lease. Read more in Note 15 Customer-financing r­ eceivables about finance leases. 142 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 15 CUSTOMER-FINANCING RECEIVABLES ACCOUNTING POLICY NON-CURRENT CUSTOMER-­FINANCING Installment credits, dealer financing and other receivables are valued at RECEIVABLES MATURITIES, SEK M amortized cost in accordance with the effective interest method. For information on recognition and classification on financial leasing see Note 14 Leasing. Changes to the credit loss reserves are recognized in Other operating income and expense. SOURCE OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 or later 25,641 16,716 9,426 4,092 1,298 Credit loss reserves The assessment of credit loss reserves on customer-financing receiv­ 15:2 ables is dependent on estimates including assumptions regarding past dues, repossession rates and the recovery rate on the underlying collat­ erals. The impairment requirement is primarily evaluated for each respec­ Current customer-financing Dec 31, Dec 31, tive asset. If, based on objective grounds, it cannot be determined that receivables 2017 2016 one or more assets are subject to an impairment loss, the assets are grouped in units based, for example, on similar credit risks to evaluate the Installment credits 18,227 18,926 impairment loss requirement collectively. This is in order to cover credit Financial leasing 14,825 13,649 losses incurred but not yet individually identified in a larger population. Dealer financing 17,777 18,996 Individually impaired assets or assets impaired during previous periods Other receivables 1,375 1,424 are not included when grouping assets for collective assessment. If the B/S Current customer-financing conditions that gave rise to the recognition of an impairment loss later receivables 52,205 52,994 prove to no longer be valid the impairment loss is reversed in the income statement as long as the carrying amount does not exceed the amortized The effective interest rate for current customer-financing receiv­ cost at the time of the reversal. ables amounted to 4.84% (4.83) as of December 31, 2017. As of December 31, 2017, the total credit loss reserves in Financial 15:3 Services amounted to 1.35% (1.43) of the total credit portfolio in Finan­ cial Services. This reserve ratio, which is used as an important measure for Financial Services, includes operating leases and inventory, whereas this note specifies the balance sheet item customer-financing receivables Credit risk in customer-financing Dec 31, Dec 31, for the Volvo Group and thereby excludes operating leases and inventory receivables 2017 2016 as they are recognized elsewhere in the balance sheet. Customer-financing receivables gross 110,954 112,510  Read more in Note 4 Goals and policies in financial risk management for Valuation allowance for doubtful a description of the credit risk, interest and currency risks. ­customer-financing receivables –1,576 –1,689 Whereof specific reserve –348 –413  Read more in Note 30 Financial instruments for further information Whereof other reserve –1,228 –1,276 ­regarding customer-financing receivables. Customer-financing receivables, net of allowance 109,378 110,821 15:4 Non-current customer-financing Dec 31, Dec 31, Change of valuation allowance for doubtful receivables 2017 2016 customer-financing receivables 2017 2016 Installment credits 30,237 32,752 Opening balance 1,689 1,514 Financial leasing 26,038 24,011 New valuation allowance charged to income 568 751 Other receivables 898 1,064 Reversal of valuation allowance charged to income –98 –46 B/S Non-current customerUtilization of valuation allowance related to financing receivables 57,173 57,827 actual losses –503 –679 Translation differences –79 148 The effective interest rate for non-current customer-financing Valuation allowance for doubtful customer-­ receivables amounted to 4.78% (4.80) as of December 31, 2017. financing receivables as of December 31 1,576 1,689 15:1 15:5 143 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Overdues in relation to specific reserves Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 for customer-financing receivables Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Overdue amount 0 842 167 59 1,068 0 556 176 50 782 Valuation allowance for doubtful customer-financing receivables, specific reserve –142 –34 –88 –84 –348 –107 –65 –85 –155 –412 Customer-financing receivables after deduction of specific reserve –142 808 79 –25 720 –107 491 91 –105 370 15:6 The table above presents overdue payments within Financial Services in below. In order to provide for occurred but not yet identified customer-­ relation to specific reserves. It is not unusual for a receivable to be settled financing receivables overdue, there were additional reserves of 1,228 a couple of days after its due date, which impacts the age interval of 1–30 (1,276), included in table 15:4. The remaining exposure was secured by days. Valuation allowance presented within the interval not due and the liens on the financed equipment and, in certain circumstances, other higher valuation allowance compared to the overdue amount presented in credit enhancements such as personal guarantees, credit insurance, liens the interval > 90 days, is mainly an effect of recognition of allowance on on other property owned by the borrower etc. portions of contracts that have not yet been invoiced. The total contractual Collaterals taken in possession that meet the criteria for recognition in the amount to which the overdue payments pertain are presented in the table Balance sheet amounted to SEK 230 M (135) as of December 31, 2017. Customer-financing receivables Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 total exposure Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Not due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Customer financing receivables 96,545 12,770 1,458 181 110,954 101,478 9,003 1,739 290 112,510 15:7 Concentration of credit risk GEOGRAPHIC MARKET, PERCENTAGE Customer concentration OF CUSTOMER-FINANCING PORTFOLIO (%). The ten largest customers within Financial Services account for 6.3% (7.3) of the total asset portfolio. The rest of the portfolio is pertinent to a large number of customers. Hence the credit risk is spread across many markets Europe, 44.5% and customers. North America, 38.8% Concentration by geographical market Asia, 8.0% The adjacent table discloses the concentration of Financial Services port­ South America, 8.8% folio divided into geographical markets.  Read more in Note 4 Goals and policies in financial risk management about credit risks. 15:8 Read  more about Financial Services’ development during the year in the Board of Directors’ Report. NOTE 16 RECEIVABLES ACCOUNTING POLICY SOURCE OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Receivables are recognized at amortized cost. Changes to the credit loss Credit loss reserves reserves as well as any interest and gain or loss upon divestment of An allowance for account receivables is recognized as soon as it is receivables are recognized in Other operating income and expense. ­probable that a credit loss has incurred, that is when there has been an event that has triggered the customer’s inability to pay. As of December  Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments in section Derecognition of 31, 2017, the total credit loss reserves for account receivables amounted financial assets, for receivables subject to cash enhancement activities. to 2.76% (4.02) of total account receivables.  Read more in Note 4 Goals and policies in financial risk management regarding credit risk. 144 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Non-current receivables Dec 31, Dec 31, Credit risks in accounts receivable 2017 2016 Change of valuation allowance Other interest-bearing loans to external parties 1 383 700 for doubtful accounts receivable 2017 2016 Other receivables 3,465 3,046 Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives 2 2,769 1,648 Opening balance 1,443 1,219 Outstanding raw materials derivatives – 11 New valuation allowance charged to income 260 655 Non-current receivables 6,616 5,406 Reversal of valuation allowance charged to income –254 –275 Utilization of valuation allowance related to actual losses –252 –221 1T  he amount is the non-current part of Other interest-bearing receivables in table 30:1 in Note 30. Acquired and divested operations –2 –1 2T  he amount is the non-current part of Outstanding interest and currency risk Translation differences –40 43 derivatives in table 30:1 in Note 30. Reclassifications, etc 1 23 Valuation allowance for doubtful accounts Current receivables Dec 31, Dec 31, ­receivables as of December 31 1,156 1,443 2017 2016  Read more in Note 8 Other operating income and expenses for information Other interest-bearing receivables 1 205 405 regarding credit provisions for Construction Equipment in China. Other interest-bearing financial receivables – 27 Read  more in Note 15 Customer-financing receivables for information Accounts receivable 40,774 34,419 regarding credit risk. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 2,888 3,120 Read more in Note 30 Financial instruments. VAT receivables 3,656 4,025 Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives 2 1,122 1,378 Other receivables 7,601 8,570 Outstanding raw materials derivatives – 21 Current receivables, after deduction of v­ aluation allowances for doubtful accounts receivable 56,245 51,964 1T  he amount is the current part of Other interest-bearing receivables in table 30:1 in Note 30. 2T  he amount is the current part of Outstanding interest and currency risk ­derivatives in table 30:1 in Note 30. Age analysis of portfolio value Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 – Accounts receivable Not Due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Not Due 1–30 31–90 >90 Total Accounts receivable gross 38,387 1,402 617 1,523 41,930 32,094 1,317 521 1,929 35,862 Provision for doubtful accounts receivable –407 –13 –15 –721 –1,156 –414 –19 –17 –992 –1,443 B/S Accounts receivable net 37,981 1,389 602 801 40,774 31,679 1,298 504 937 34,419 NOTE 17 INVENTORIES ACCOUNTING POLICY Inventory Dec 31, Dec 31, 2017 2016 Inventories are recognized at the lower of cost and net realizable value. The cost is established using the first-in, first-out principle (FIFO) and is Finished products 32,304 31,012 based on the standard cost method, including costs for all direct manu­ Production materials, etc. 20,397 17,275 facturing expenses and the attributable share of capacity and other B/S Inventory 52,701 48,287 manu­facturing-related costs. The standard costs are tested regularly and adjustments are made based on current conditions. Costs for research Inventories recognized as cost of sold products during the period amounted and development, selling, administration and financial expenses are not to SEK 235,620 M (212,398). in­cluded. Net realizable value is calculated as the selling price less costs attribut­ Increase (decrease) in allowance able to the sale. for inventory obsolescence 2017 2016 Opening balance 3,683 3,624 Change in allowance for inventory o ­ bsolescence SOURCE OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY charged to income 304 480 Scrapping –391 –576 Inventory obsolescence Translation differences –116 177 If the net realizable value is lower than cost, a valuation allowance is Reclassifications etc. 8 –23 established for inventory obsolescence. The total inventory value, net of Allowance for inventory obsolescence inventory obsolescence allowance, was SEK 52,701 M (48,287) as of as of December 31 3,489 3,683 December 31, 2017. 145 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 18 MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND LIQUID FUNDS ACCOUNTING POLICY Cash and cash equivalents Dec 31, Dec 31, 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid interest-bearing securi­ Cash in banks 27,336 22,226 ties that are considered easily convertible to cash. This includes market­ able securities, with a date of maturity within three months at the time of Bank certificates 747 531 investment. Interest-bearing securities that fail to meet this definition are Time deposits in banks 8,009 1,192 recognized as marketable securities. B/S Cash and cash equivalents 36,092 23,949 Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2017, include SEK 1.3 ­billion (0.8) that is not available for use by the Volvo Group and SEK 5.0 billion Marketable securities Dec 31, Dec 31, 2017 2016 (6.0) where other limitations exist, mainly liquid funds in countries where exchange controls or other legal restrictions apply. Therefore it is not Government securities 178 201 ­ possible to immediately use these liquid funds in other parts of the Banks and financial institutions – 1,000 Volvo Group, however there is normally no limitation to use them for the Real estate financial institutions – 21 Volvo Group’s operation in the respective country. B/S Marketable securities 178 1,223 NOTE 19 EQUITY AND NUMBER OF SHARES ACCOUNTING POLICY Information regarding Dec 31, Dec 31, number of shares 2017 2016 Earnings per share before dilution is calculated as income for the period, attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders, divided by the Parent Own Series A shares 20,728,135 20,728,135 Company’s average number of shares outstanding for the fiscal year. Own Series B shares 75,837,801 76,250,400 Diluted earnings per share is calculated as income for the period attribut­ Total own shares 96,565,936 96,978,535 able to the Parent Company’s shareholders divided by the average ­number Own shares in % of total of shares outstanding plus the average number of shares that would be ­registered shares 4.54 4.77 issued as an effect of ongoing share-based incentive programs. If during the year there were potential shares redeemed or expired during the Outstanding Series A shares 459,247,373 471,797,086 period, these are also included in the average number of shares used to Outstanding Series B shares 1,572,606,911 1,559,644,599 calculate the earnings per share after dilution. Total outstanding shares 2,031,854,284 2,031,441,685 Total registered Series A shares 479,975,508 492,525,221 Total registered Series B shares 1,648,444,712 1,635,894,999 The shares of the Parent Company is divided into two series of shares, Total registered shares 2,128,420,220 2,128,420,220 A and B. Both series carry the same rights, except that each Series A share carries the right to one vote and each Series B share carries the Average number of right to one tenth of a vote. The shares’ quota value is SEK 1.20. outstanding shares 2,031,651,288 2,031,173,306 Cash dividend 2017, decided by the Annual General Meeting 2016, was SEK 3.25 (3.00) per share or totally SEK 6,603 M (6,093). During 2017 AB Volvo transferred, free of consideration, 412,599 treasury B-shares, with a total quota value of 495,118 SEK, to participants in the long-term share-based incentive program for Group and s­enior executives in the Volvo Group, as accelerated allotment. The transferred treasury shares represent an insignificant portion of the share capital of AB Volvo. During 2017 AB Volvo converted a total of 12,549,713 Series A shares to Series B shares. Unrestricted equity in the Parent Company as of December 31, 2017 amounted to SEK 45,643 M (33,207). Read more in Note 27 Personnel about the Volvo Group share-based ­incentive program. 146 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Information regarding shares 2017 2016 Change in other reserves AvailableHedge for-sale Number of outstanding shares, December 31, in millions 2,032 2,031 reserve reserve Total Average number of shares before dilution in millions 2,032 2,031 Opening balance 2017 20 251 271 Shares that would be issued as an effect of Other changes –20 –20 ongoing shared-based incentive programs, in millions 2 2 Fair value adjustments regarding Average number of shares after dilution in ­millions 2,033 2,033 ­holdings in Japanese companies 65 65 Average share price, SEK 140.93 91.19 Fair value adjustments regarding Net income attributable to Parent C ­ ompany shareholders 20,981 13,147 other companies –76 –76 Basic earnings per share, SEK 10.33 6.47 Balance as of December 31, 2017 0 240 240 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 10.32 6.47 NOTE 20 PROVISIONS FOR POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Volvo Group’s post-employment benefits, such as pensions, health­ SOURCE OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY care and other benefits are mainly settled by means of regular payments to independent authorities or bodies that assume pension obligations and Assumptions when calculating pensions and other administer pensions through defined contribution plans. post-employment benefits The remaining post-employment benefits are defined benefit plans; Provisions and costs for post-employment benefits, mainly pensions and that is, the obligations remain within the Volvo Group or are secured by health care benefits, are dependent on assumptions used by actuaries proprietary pension foundations. The Volvo Group’s defined benefit plans when calculating these amounts. The appropriate assumptions and actu­ relate mainly to subsidiaries in the USA and comprise both pensions and arial calculations are made separately for the respective countries of the other benefits, such as healthcare. Other large-scale defined benefit Volvo Group’s operations which result in obligations for post-employment plans apply to white collar employees in Sweden (mainly through the ITP benefits. The assumptions include discount rates, health care cost trends pension plan) and employees in France and Great Britain. rates, inflation, salary increase, retirement rates, mortality rates and other factors. Healthcare cost trend assumptions are based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends. ACCOUNTING POLICY Inflation assumptions are based on an evaluation of external market ­indicators. The salary increase assumptions reflect the historical trend, Actuarial calculations are made for all defined benefit plans in order to the near-term outlook and assumed inflation. Retirement and mortality determine the present value of obligation for benefits vested by its current rates are based primarily on officially available mortality statistics. The and former employees. The actuarial calculations are prepared annually actuarial assumptions are reviewed annually by the Volvo Group and and are based upon actuarial assumptions that are determined at the ­modified when deemed appropriate. balance sheet date each year. Changes in the present value of obligations due to revised actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments consti­ tute remeasurements. The following tables disclose information about defined benefit plans. The Provisions for post-employment benefits in the Volvo Group’s balance Volvo Group recognizes the difference between the obligations and the sheet correspond to the present value of obligations at year-end, less fair plan assets in the balance sheet. The disclosures refer to assumptions value of plan assets. Discount rate is used when calculating the net applied for actuarial calculations, recognized costs during the financial ­interest income or expense on the net defined benefit liability (asset). year and the value of obligations and plan assets at year-end. The tables All changes in the net defined liability (asset) are recognized when they also include a reconciliation of obligations and plan assets during the year. occur. Service cost and net interest income or expense are recognized in the income statement, while remeasurements such as actuarial gains and Summary of provision for Dec 31, Dec 31, losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. Special payroll tax ­post–employment benefits 2017 2016 is included in the p­ ension liability in pension plans in Sweden and B ­ elgium. For defined contribution plans, premiums are recognized in the income Obligations –54,976 –53,508 statement as incurred, split by function. Fair value of plan assets 40,753 38,917 Net provision for post-employment benefits –14,224 –14,590 147 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Sweden There are five funded defined benefit plans, whereof one is closed, one is The main defined benefit plan in Sweden is the ITP2 plan and it is based partially closed and three are open to new entrants. All plans are open for on final salary. The plan is semi-closed, meaning that only new employees future accruals. The Volvo Group’s subsidiaries in the USA mainly secure born before 1979 have the possibility to choose the ITP2 solution. The their pension obligations through transfer of funds to pension plans. The Volvo Group’s pension foundation in Sweden was formed in 1996 to US Retirement Trust manages the assets related to the five funded plans. secure obligations relating to retirement pensions for white collar workers The strategic allocation of plan assets must comply with the investment in Sweden in accordance with the ITP plan. Plan assets amounting to SEK policy as decided by the Board of Directors of the Trust. All members of 2,456 M were contributed to the foundation at its formation, correspond­ the board are nominated by the company although each member is sub­ ing to the value of the pension obligations at that time. Since its formation, ject to strict regulatory requirements on fiduciary responsibility. At the end net contributions of SEK 3,414 M have been made to the foundation. No of 2017, the total value of pension obligations secured by pension plans of contributions were made during 2017, instead a reimbursement of SEK 5 this type amounted to SEK 17,536 M (19,071). At the same point in time, M was paid out from the foundation. The plan assets in the Volvo Group’s the total value of the plan assets in these plans amounted to SEK 17,488 ­Swedish pension foundation are invested in Swedish and foreign stocks M (17,481), of which 48% (45) was invested in equity instruments. The and mutual funds, and in interest-bearing securities, in accordance with a regulations for securing pension obligations s­ tipulate certain minimum distribution that is determined by the foundation’s Board of Directors. As levels concerning the ratio between the value of the plan assets and the of December 31, 2017, the fair value of the foundation’s plan assets value of the obligations. During 2017, the Volvo Group contributed SEK amounted to SEK 12,187 M (11,354), of which 44% (47) was invested in 515 M (399) to the American pension plans. equity instruments. At the same date, retirement pension obligations attributable to the ITP plan amounted to SEK 16,940 M (14,437). France Swedish companies can secure new pension obligations through In France, the Volvo Group has two types of defined benefit plans, ­balance sheet provisions or pension fund contributions. Furthermore, a ­Indemnité de Fin de Carrière (IFC) and jubilee award plan. The plans are credit insurance policy must be taken out for the value of the obligations. unfunded. The retirement indemnities plan is compulsory in France. The In addition to benefits relating to retirement pensions, the ITP plan also benefits are based on the Collective Bargaining Agreement applicable in includes, for example, a collective family pension, which the Volvo Group the company, on the employee’s seniority at retirement date and on the finances through an insurance policy with the Alecta insurance company. final pay. The benefit payment is due only if employees are working for the According to an interpretation from the Swedish Financial Reporting company when they retire. The jubilee awards plan is an internal agree­ Board, this is a multi-employer defined benefit plan. For fiscal year 2017, ment. The benefit is based on the employee’s seniority career at 20, 30, the Volvo Group did not have access to information from Alecta that would 35 and 40 years. As of December 31, 2017 the total value of pension have enabled this plan to be recognized as a defined benefit plan. Accord­ obligations amounted to SEK 2,947 M (2,992). ingly, the plan has been recognized as a defined contribution plan. The Volvo Group estimates it will pay premiums of about SEK 278 M to Alecta Great Britain in 2018. The collective consolidation level measures the apportionable In Great Britain the Volvo Group has five defined benefit pension plans, assets in relation to the insurance commitment. According to Alecta’s which are all funded. The defined benefit pension plans provides benefits consolidation policy for defined benefit pension insurance, the collective which are linked to each member’s final pay at the earlier of their date of consolidation level is normally allowed to vary between 125% and 155%. leaving or retirement. The pension funds are set up as separate legal Alecta’s consolidation ratio amounts to 154% (149). If the consolidation entities, which are governed by a trustee board common for all schemes, level falls short or exceeds the normal interval one measure may be to which is responsible for the governance. The common trustee board is increase the contract price for new subscription and expanding existing composed of representatives from the employees and an independent benefits or introduce premium reductions. professional trustee. All plans are closed to new entrants and two of the The Volvo Group’s share of the total saving premiums for ITP2 in Alecta plans are closed to future accrual. Members of the plans also have the as of December 31, 2017 amounted to 0.33% (0.33) and the share of the option to commute an amount of their pension benefit as cash at retire­ total number of active policy holders amounted to 1.69% (1.67). ment as permitted by UK legislation. All employees in Sweden benefit from a jubilee awards plan according The strategic allocation of plan assets must comply with the investment to which they receive a certain number of shares after they have rendered guidelines agreed between the common trustee board and the company. 25, 35 and 45 years of services. This plan is accounted for as a shareIf a net surplus is recognized in the balance sheet when the pension based payment program. scheme runs-off the Volvo Goup has an unconditional right to the surplus of that plan or plans. Read more in Note 27 Personnel about accounting policy on share-based payments. At the end of 2017, the total value of pension obligations secured by pension plans amounted to SEK 6,994 M (7,114). The total value of the USA plan assets in these plans amounted to SEK 7,241 M (7,186). In the USA, the Volvo Group has tax qualified pension plans, post-retire­ During 2017, the Volvo Group has made extra contributions to the ment medical plans and non qualified pension plans. The tax qualified ­pension plans in Great Britain in the amount of SEK 81 M (104). pension plans are funded while the other plans are generally unfunded. 148 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Assumptions applied for actuarial Dec 31, Dec 31, Pension costs 2017 2016 ­c alculations, % 2017 2016 Current year service costs 1,423 1,447 Sweden Interest costs 1,475 1,557 Discount rate1 2.70 3.00 Interest income –1,219 –1,284 Expected salary increase 2.90 2.90 Past service costs –35 –3 Inflation 1.75 1.50 Gain/loss on settlements –73 –2 USA Pension costs for the period, defined benefit plans 1,571 1,715 Discount rate1,2 2.58–3.83 2.50–4.29 Expected salary increase 2.60–3.50 2.60–3.50 Pension costs for defined contribution plans 2,293 2,169 Inflation 2.20 2.20 Total pension costs for the period 3,864 3,884 France Discount rate1 1.10–1.90 1.10–1.80 Costs for the period, post–employment Expected salary increase 3.00 3.00 benefits other than pensions 2017 2016 Inflation 1.50 1.50 Current year service costs 112 77 Great Britain Interest costs 139 151 Discount rate1 2.70 2.80–2.95 Interest income –2 –4 Expected salary increases 2.65 3.25–3.80 Past service costs 56 – Inflation 3.15 3.25–3.30 Gain/loss on settlements – –1 Remeasurements 96 20 1T  he discount rate for each country is determined by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds. In countries where there is no functioning Total costs for the period 400 243 ­market in such bonds, the market yields on government bonds are used. The d­ iscount rate for the Swedish pension obligation is determined by extra­ polating current market rates along the yield curve of mortgage bonds. 2F  or all plans except three the discount rate used is within the range 3.43–3.83% (3.67–4.29). Sweden USA France Great Britain USA Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions Other benefits Average duration of the obligation, years 22.0 10.9 15.4 18.8 10.0 The analysis below presents the sensitivity of the defined benefit this is not probable, and changes in some of the assumptions may be ­obligations when changes in the applied assumptions for discount rate correlated. Depending on local regulations, facts and circumstances in and inflation are made. The sensitivity analysis is based on a change in the separate countries the sensitivity effect on the obligation differs for an assump­tion while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, the respective assumptions. − SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 2017 EFFECT ON OBLIGATION, SEK M + IF DISCOUNT RATE INCREASES 0.5% IF DISCOUNT RATE DECREASES 0.5% Sweden Pensions –1,816 2,020 USA Pensions –925 1,021 France Pensions –218 240 Great Britain Pensions –616 704 USA Other benefits –165 180 Other plans –346 398 IF INFLATION DECREASES 0.5% IF INFLATION INCREASES 0.5% Sweden Pensions –1,816 2,020 USA Pensions 0 0 France Pensions –5 5 Great Britain Pensions –391 434 USA Other benefits –16 18 Other plans –211 238 149 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Obligations in defined benefit plans Great USA Sweden USA France Britain Other Other Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions benefits plans Total Obligations opening balance 2016 13,302 18,048 2,574 6,820 3,673 4,621 49,038 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes – 2 –5 –10 –2 –84 –98 Current year service costs 592 370 89 59 56 357 1,524 Interest costs 458 715 57 233 140 106 1,709 Past service costs 67 60 – – – –93 35 Settlements 20 – –2 – – –2 15 Employee contributions – – – 12 – 7 19 Remeasurements: – Effect of changes in demographic assumptions – –68 –7 – –122 –3 –200 – Effect of changes in financial assumptions 1,523 219 382 1,059 43 284 3,510 – Effect of experience adjustments –717 104 –103 –100 –33 –45 –894 Exchange rate translation – 1,692 118 –690 326 307 1,753 Benefits paid –449 –1,358 –110 –269 –398 –317 –2,902 Obligations as of December 31, 2016 14,796 19,786 2,992 7,114 3,683 5,137 53,508 of which Funded defined benefit plans 14,460 19,071 12 7,114 10 3,595 44,263 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes 0 –11 0 – – 379 368 Current year service costs 535 386 105 43 85 382 1,535 Interest costs 437 705 53 199 126 95 1,614 Past service costs 33 – 2 –51 53 –19 18 Settlements –54 –220 –30 0 – – –305 Employee contributions 0 – – 9 – 3 12 Remeasurements: – Effect of changes in demographic assumptions – –88 –25 –213 10 8 –308 – Effect of changes in financial assumptions 1,804 654 –45 83 104 –112 2,488 – Effect of experience adjustments 172 13 –34 226 126 453 956 Exchange rate translation – –1,903 86 –45 –349 42 –2,169 Benefits paid –463 –1,110 –157 –370 –359 –283 –2,741 Obligations as of December 31, 2017 17,260 18,211 2,947 6,994 3,478 6,085 54,976 of which Funded defined benefit plans 16,963 17,536 11 6,994 – 4,640 46,145 Fair value of plan assets in funded plans Great Sweden USA France Britain USA Other Other Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions benefits plans Total Plan assets opening balance 2016 10,270 15,774 9 6,847 23 2,477 35,400 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes 0 –1 – –9 – –50 –59 Interest income 359 630 – 236 1 61 1,287 Settlements – – – – – – – Remeasurements 494 519 –1 960 –1 43 2,014 Employer contributions 252 399 3 104 – 332 1,090 Employee contributions – – – 12 – 3 15 Exchange rate translation – 1,481 – –695 2 143 931 Benefits paid –1 –1,321 – –269 –15 –154 –1,761 Plan assets as of December 31, 2016 11,374 17,481 11 7,186 9 2,855 38,917 Acquisitions, divestments and other changes 0 –13 – – – 365 352 Interest income 341 619 0 203 0 58 1,222 Settlements – –177 – – – 0 –177 Remeasurements 497 1,850 –1 179 0 368 2,893 Employer contributions –5 515 – 81 – 234 826 Employee contributions – – – 9 – 3 11 Exchange rate translation – –1,716 0 –47 0 48 –1,716 Benefits paid –1 –1,070 0 –370 –9 –125 –1,575 Plan assets as of December 31, 2017 12,207 17,488 10 7,241 – 3,806 40,753 150 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Net provisions for post-employment benefits Great USA Sweden USA France Britain Other Other Pensions Pensions Pensions Pensions benefits plans Total Net provisions for post-employment benefits as of December 31, 2016 –3,422 –2,305 –2,981 72 –3,674 –2,283 –14,590 of which reported as: B/S Prepaid pensions – – – 72 – 7 79 B/S Provisions for post-employment benefits –3,422 –2,305 –2,981 – –3,674 –2,289 –14,669 Net provisions for post-employment benefits as of December 31, 2017 –5,054 –723 –2,936 247 –3,478 –2,279 –14,224 of which reported as: B/S Prepaid pensions – – – 247 – 5 252 B/S Provisions for post-employment benefits –5,054 –723 –2,936 – –3,478 –2,284 –14,476 Investment strategy and risk management The Volvo Group manages the allocation and investment of pension plan PLAN ASSETS BY CATEGORY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 assets with the purpose of meeting the long term objectives. The main objectives are to meet present and future benefit obligations, provide Cash and cash equivalents, 1,075 (3%) ­sufficient liquidity to meet such payment requirements and to provide a Equity instruments, Volvo, 0 (0%) total return that maximizes the ratio of the plan assets in relation to the Equity instruments, other, 14,458 (37%) plan liabilities by maximizing return on the assets at an appropriate level Debt instruments, 13,677 (35%) of risk. The final investment decision often resides with the local trustee, Real estate, 2,908 (8%) but the investment policy for all plans ensures that the risks in the invest­ Investments funds, 3,970 (10%) ment portfolios are well diversified. The primary risk mitigating activity in Assets held by insurance company, 802 (2%) the long run is to close defined benefit plans to new entrants or to future Other assets, 2,027 (5%) accruals for existing members and replace with defined contribution plans when and where possible. The risks related to already accrued pension obligations, e.g. longevity and inflation, as well as buy out premiums and PLAN ASSETS BY CATEGORY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 matching strategies are also monitored on an ongoing basis in order to further limit the Volvo Group’s exposure where and when possible. Cash and cash equivalents, 911 (2%) In the last couple of years, some of the defined benefit plans have been Equity instruments, 15,215 (37%) closed to new entrants and replaced by defined contribution plans in order Debt instruments, 13,507 (33%) to reduce risk for the Volvo Group. Real estate, 2,739 (7%) In Sweden the minimum funding target is decided by PRI Pensions­ Investments funds, 5,139 (13%) garanti, this is mandatory in order to stay in the system and get insurance Assets held by insurance company, 1,076 (3%) for the pension liability. The contributions usually represents one year’s new Other assets, 2,165 (5%) accrued benefits plus any shortfall towards the minimum funding target, unless there is a surplus according to local scheme valuation principles. In the USA the minimum funding target is decided by the ­company in order to avoid penalties, keep flexibility and avoid extensive filing with the IRS and participants. The contributions usually represent one year’s accrued benefits plus a seventh of any deficit, unless a scheme is showing Actual return on plan assets amounted to SEK 4,115 M (3,301). a surplus according to local scheme valuation principles. In Great Britain there is no minimum funding ratio. There is a regulatory Fair value of plan assets Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 requirement for each scheme to perform triennial valuations whereby With a quoted market price any scheme showing a deficit must develop a recovery plan that returns Cash and cash equivalents 911 1,075 the scheme to a fully funded basis within a reasonable timeframe. The Equity instruments 15,215 14,458 ­recovery plan shall be agreed with the company and submitted to the Debt instruments 13,507 13,486 regulator for approval. Real estate 2,043 2,236 In 2018 the Volvo Group estimates to transfer an amount of SEK 0.5–1.5 Derivatives –9 –29 billion to pension plans. Investments funds 3,143 2,810 Other 2,100 1,952 With an unquoted market price Other 3,842 2,928 Total 40,753 38,917 151 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 21 OTHER PROVISIONS ACCOUNTING POLICY In cases where significant risks pertaining to the product remain with the Volvo Group, the products, primarily trucks, are generally recognized Provisions are recognized when a legal or constructive obligation exists in the balance sheet as assets under operating leases. Depreciation of as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources these products is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably commitment and the depreciable amount is adjusted to correspond to estimated. estimated net realizable value at the end of the commitment. The esti­ mated net realizable value of the products at the end of the commitment Provisions for residual value risks is monitored individually on a continuing basis. A decline in prices for used Residual value risks are attributable to operating lease contracts or sales trucks and construction equipments may negatively affect the Volvo transactions combined with buy-back agreements or residual value guar­ Group’s operating in­­­come. High inventories in the truck industry and the antees. Residual value risks are the risks that the Volvo Group in the construction equipment industry and low demand may have a negative future would have to dispose used products at a loss if the price develop­ impact on the prices of new and used trucks and construction equip­ ment of these products is worse than what was expected when the ments. In monitoring estimated net realizable value of each product under ­contracts were entered. Provisions for residual value risks are made on a a residual value commitment, management makes considerations of continuing basis based upon estimations of the used products’ future net ­current price-level of the used product model, value of options, mileage, realizable values. The estimations of future net realizable values are made condition, future price deterioration due to expected change of market with consideration to current prices, expected future price development, conditions, alternative distribution channels, inventory lead-time, repair expected inventory lead-time and expected direct and indirect s­elling and reconditioning costs, handling costs and indirect costs associated expenses. If the residual value risks pertain to products that are recog­ with the sale of used products. Additional depreciations and estimated nized as tangible assets in the Volvo Group’s balance sheet, these risks impairment losses are immediately recognized in the income statement. are reflected by depreciation or write-down of the carrying value of these In cases where the products have been recognized as assets under assets. If the residual value risks pertain to products, which are not recog­ operating leases, the residual value commitment agreed with the cus­ nized as assets in the Volvo Group’s balance sheet, these risks are tomer is recognized as current and non-current residual value liabilities. reflected under provisions. For contracts which have been financed by Financial Services the residual value liability is being eliminated on Group level and instead recognized as Read more in Note 7 Revenue. finance liability both in the Financial Services and Group Balance Sheet. Provision for product warranty Read more in Note 22 Liabilities about residual value liabilities. Estimated provision for product warranties are recognized when the prod­ ucts are sold. The provision includes both expected contractual warran­ If the residual value risk commitment is not significant, independent from ties and so called technical goodwill warranties and is determined based the sale transaction or in combination with a commitment from the cus­ on historical statistics considering known quality improvements, costs for tomer to buy a new product in connection to a buy-back option, the asset remedy of defaults etc. Provision for campaigns in connection with spe­ is not recognized on the balance sheet. Instead, the risk that the Volvo cific quality problems are recognized when the campaign is decided. Group would have to dispose the used products at a loss is reported as a residual value provision. Provision for restructuring costs To the extent the residual value exposure does not meet the definition A provision for decided restructuring measures is recognized when a of a provision, the gross exposure is reported as a contingent liability. For detailed plan for the implementation of the measures is complete and contracts which have been financed by Financial Services the residual when this plan is communicated to those who are affected. A provision value commitment is recognized as finance liability, hence no contingent and costs for termination benefits as a result of a voluntary termination liabilities are recognized for these contracts. program is recognized when the employee accepts the offer. Normally restructuring costs are included in other operating income and expenses. Read more in Note 24 Contingent liabilities. Provision for product warranty Warranty provisions are estimated with consideration of historical claims SOURCE OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY statistics, the warranty period, the average time-lag between faults occur­ ring and claims to the company and anticipated changes in quality indexes. The uncertainties about the amount or timing of outflows vary for different Estimated costs for product warranties are recognized as cost of sales kind of provisions. Regarding provisions for warranty, extended coverage, when the products are sold. Estimated warranty costs include contractual residual value risks and service contracts, the provisions are based on warranty and goodwill warranty (warranty cover in excess of contractual historical statistics and estimated future costs, why the provided amount warranty or campaigns which is accepted as a matter of policy or normal has a higher correlation with the outflow of resources. Regarding provi­ practice in order to maintain a good business relation with the customer). sions for disputes, like tax and legal disputes, the uncertainty is higher. Differences between actual warranty claims and the estimated final claims cost affect the recognized expense and provisions in future periods. Re­ Residual value risks funds from suppliers, that decrease the Volvo Group’s warranty costs, are In the course of its operations, the Volvo Group is exposed to residual recognized to the extent these are considered to be certain. value risks through operating lease agreements and sales combined with repurchase agreements. Residual value commitments amounted to SEK Provisions for extended coverage 28,282 M (25,822) as of December 31, 2017. Residual value risks are An extended coverage is a product insurance sold to a customer to cover reflected in different ways in the Volvo Group’s consolidated financial a product according to specific conditions for an agreed period and/or statements depending on the extent to which the risk remains with the content in addition to the factory contractual warranty. The provision is Volvo Group. intended to cover the risk that the expected cost of providing services under the contract exceed the expected revenue. 152 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Provision for service contracts Provisions in insurance operations Service contracts offer the customer preventive maintenance according Volvo Group has a captive insurance company and the provisions in insur­ to an agreed service plan. The provision is intended to cover the risk that ance operations consist of the claims reserve related to third party claims the expected cost of providing services and repairs under the contract addressed to companies within the Volvo Group. The claims reserve also exceeds the expected revenue. includes a provision for unreported losses based on past experience. The unearned premium reserve is reported as an accrued expense within Legal proceedings other current liabilities. Provisions for legal disputes are included within Other provisions in the table below. Other provisions The Volvo Group recognizes obligations as provisions or other liabilities Other provisions mainly includes provisions for tax disputes, p ­ rovisions for only in cases where the Volvo Group has a present obligation from a past legal disputes, provisions for externally issued credit guarantees and other event, where a financial responsibility is probable and the Volvo Group can provisions, unless separately specified and commented in the table and text. make a reliable estimate of the amount. When these criteria are not met, a contingent liability may be recognized. The Volvo Group regularly reviews the development of significant out­ standing legal disputes in which the Volvo Group companies are parties, both regarding civil law and tax disputes, in order to assess the need for provisions and contingent liabilities in the financial statements. Among the factors that the Volvo Group considers in making decisions on provi­ sions and contingent liabilities are the nature of the dispute, the amount claimed, the progress of the case, the opinions of legal and other advisers, experience in similar cases, and any decision of the Volvo Group’s man­ agement as to how the Volvo Group intends to handle the dispute. The actual outcome of a legal dispute may deviate from the expected outcome of the dispute. The difference between actual and expected outcome of a dispute might materially affect future financial statements, with an adverse impact upon the Volvo Group’s operating income, financial posi­ tion and liquidity. Read more in Note 24 Contingent liabilities. Carrying Acquired and Translation Other Carrying Of which Of which value as of divested differ­ reclassi­ value as of due within due after Dec 31, 2016 Provisions Reversals Utilizations companies ences fications Dec 31, 2017 12 months 12 months Warranties 12,821 8,423 –1,912 –6,859 –54 –624 10 11,804 6,915 4,889 Provisions for extended coverage 1,005 455 –212 –362 – –20 –9 858 306 553 Provisions in insurance operations 654 102 –19 –87 – –45 – 606 – 606 Restructuring ­measures 586 147 –176 –440 – –3 –5 109 109 – Provisions for residual value risks 1,135 965 –275 –413 – –25 –6 1,380 518 862 Provisions for service ­contracts 344 398 –150 –126 – 2 –9 459 323 136 Other provisions 4,592 3,253 –991 –1,752 0 –215 22 4,908 2,636 2,273 B/S Total 21,137 13,743 –3,735 –10,040 –54 –930 3 20,124 10,806 9,318 Long-term provisions as above are expected to be settled within 2 to 3 years. Read more in Note 8 Other operating income and expenses about restructuring costs. Read more in Note 24 Contingent liabilities about provisions for residual value risks. 153 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 22 LIABILITIES ACCOUNTING POLICY Non-current liabilities The tables below disclose the Volvo Group’s non-current liabilities with Loans are valued at amortized cost using the effective interest rate the largest loans listed by currency. Loans in the Volvo Group’s subsidiaries method. A hybrid bond issued by AB Volvo is classified as debt in the are mainly in local currencies through Volvo Group Treasury which mini­ Volvo Group’s accounts as it constitutes a contractual obligation to make mizes the currency exposure in the individual companies. Volvo Group interest payments to the holder of the instrument. Treasury uses various derivatives to facilitate lending and borrowing in different currencies without increasing the risk for the Volvo Group. Read more in Note 4 Goals and policies in financial risk management. Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments. Non-current liabilities Actual interest rate Effective interest rate Dec 31, Dec 31, Currency/start year/maturity Dec 31, 2017, % Dec 31, 2017, % 2017 2016 Bond loans EUR 2012–2017/2019–20781 0.00–4.86 0.00–4.86 36,896 48,215 SEK 2014–2017/2019–2020 0.02–2.71 0.02–2.71 12,066 12,438 B/S Total Bond loans2 48,962 60,653 Other loans USD 2014–2017/2019–2024 1.54–3.00 1.73–3.00 8,268 6,157 EUR 2008–2017/2019–2027 0.04–6.50 0.04–6.50 4,400 1,817 CAD 2016–2017/2019–2020 2.49–2.54 2.52–2.56 788 472 MXN 2015–2017/2020–2021 8.38–8.96 8.70–8.96 1,212 747 JPY 2009–2017/2019–2026 0.26–0.85 0.26–0.85 3,521 6,688 BRL 2010–2017/2019–2026 3.00–6.53 3.00–6.78 3,720 5,659 AUD 2015–2017/2019–2021 2.71–2.86 2.74–2.90 702 597 CNY 2016–2017/2019–2020 4.33–5.46 4.33–5.46 831 518 Other loans 1,378 837 Revaluation of outstanding derivatives to SEK3 123 406 B/S Total Other loans2 24,942 23,898 Total Bond loans and Other loans 4 73,904 84,551 Other liabilities Deferred leasing income 2,501 2,709 Residual value liabilities 6,884 5,942 Deferred service revenue 9,882 9,285 Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives3 86 176 Other non-current liabilities 2,955 2,210 Outstanding raw material derivatives – 0 B/S Total Other liabilities 22,309 20,322 Total non-current liabilities 96,213 104,873 1 Including the hybrid bond of EUR 1,5 bn. This bond consists of two tranches, EUR 0.9 bn with a first call in 2020 and final maturity in 2075 and EUR 0.6 bn with a first call in 2023 and final maturity in 2078. 2 O f which loans raised to finance the credit portfolio of Financial Services amounted to SEK 33,755 M (44,669) in Bond loans and SEK 22,054 M (19,003) in Other loans. 3  Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments, regarding non-current part of ­Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives included in table 30:1. 4 O f the above non-current loans, SEK 7,831 M (5,213) were secured by assets pledged. Read more in Note 23 Assets pledged. 154 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Maturity Not utilized Bank loans include current maturities of non-current loans SEK 4,652 M Bond loans and non-current credit (4,805). Other loans include current maturities of non-current loans, Year other loans facilities1 SEK 37,399 M (30,004), and commercial papers, SEK 1,249 M (8,213). 2019 37,590 6,992 Non-interest-bearing current liabilities amounted to SEK 113,546 M 2020 13,183 1,000 (98,705), or 68% (64) of the Volvo Group’s total current liabilities. 2021 2,201 19,699 The table below presents the Volvo Group’s other current liabilities. In addi­ 2022 3,370 14,775 tion to this non-interest-bearing current liabilities also include trade payables 2023 125 – of SEK 65,346 M (55,264), current tax liabilities of SEK 1,699 M (685) and 2024 or later 17,436 – non-interest-­bearing liabilities held for sale of SEK 0 M (148). Total 73,904 42,466 Other current liabilities Dec 31, Dec 31, 1 Not utilized current credit facilities amounted to SEK 2,955 M (958). 2017 2016 R  ead more in Note 15 Customer-financing receivables, table 15:2 for maturi­ Advances from customers 4,986 4,356 ties of non-current receivables in the Financial Services operations. Wages, salaries and withholding taxes 11,088 8,558 VAT liabilities 2,373 2,301 AB Volvo issued a hybrid bond in 2014, amounting to EUR 1.5 bn with a Accrued expenses for dealer bonuses and rebates1 5,686 5,129 maturity of 61.6 years, in order to further strengthen the Volvo Group’s Other accrued expenses and deferred income 13,801 12,945 balance sheet and prolong the maturity structure of the debt portfolio. Deferred leasing income 1,944 2,026 The predominant part of non-current loans that mature in 2019 is an Residual value liability 2,677 2,590 effect of the Volvo Group’s normal business cycle, with shorter duration in Other financial liabilities 183 485 the Financial Services portfolio compared to Industrial Operations. Other liabilities 3,616 3,971 Granted but not utilized credit facilities consist of stand-by facilities for Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives2 147 241 loans. A fee is charged for granted credit facilities, this is recognized in Outstanding raw material derivatives – 7 profit or loss within other financial income and expenses. B/S Other current liabilities 46,501 42,608 Read more in Note 9 Other financial income and expenses. 1 R  ead more in Note 21 Other provisions. 2 Read more in Note 30 Financial Instruments, regarding current part of Current liabilities ­Outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives included in table 30:1. Loans Dec 31, Dec 31, 2017 2016  ead more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries, R table Assets and liabilities held for sale. Bank loans 9,950 13,309 Other loans 43,821 43,187 Read more in Note 23 Assets pledged. B/S Loans1, 2 53,771 56,497 1O f which loans raised to finance the credit portfolio of Financial Services amounted to SEK 46,638 M (45,876) and outstanding derivatives, at fair value, amounted to SEK 329 M (717). 2C urrent loans amounting to SEK 3,744 M (5,027) were secured by assets pledged. NOTE 23 ASSETS PLEDGED Assets pledged Dec 31, Dec 31, Non-current and current loans of SEK 11,575 M (10,240) were secured by 2017 2016 assets pledged to an amount of SEK 12,791 M (10,592). Under the terms of asset-backed securitizations, SEK 11,421 M (10,031) Property, plant and equipment – mortgages 75 85 of securities have been issued tied to US-based loans, secured by Assets under operating leases 158 228 ­customer-financing receivables, SEK 12,557 M (10,259), recognized on Customer-financing receivables 12,557 10,259 the balance sheet with trucks and construction equipment assets as Cash, loans and marketable securities 0 20 ­collaterals, whereof SEK 8,430 M (6,031) were signed in 2017. Total 12,791 10,592 Read more in Note 22 Liabilities. 155 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 24 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES ACCOUNTING POLICY Tax claims amounted to SEK 5,159 M (5,090) and pertained to charges against the Volvo Group for which the criteria for recognizing a provision Contingent liabilities were not met. Global companies such as the Volvo Group are occasionally A contingent liability is recognized for a possible obligation, for which it is involved in tax processes of varying scope and in various stages. Volvo not yet confirmed that a present obligation exists that could lead to an Group regularly assesses these tax processes. When it is probable that outflow of resources. Alternatively a present obligation that does not meet additional taxes must be paid and the outcome can be reasonably esti­ the definitions of a provision or a liability as it is not probable that an out­ mated, the required provision is made. Out of total tax claims, SEK 2.1 bil­ flow of resources will be required to settle the obligation or when a suffi­ lion (2.2) is related to a transfer price audit in Brazil and SEK 1.1 billion ciently reliable estimate of the amount cannot be made. (1.1) to a custom duties audit in India. Residual value commitments amounted to SEK 4,355 M (4,014) and were Contingent liabilities Dec 31, Dec 31, attributable to sales transactions combined with buy back agreements or 2017 2016 residual value guarantees for which assets are not recognized in the bal­ ance sheet. The recognized amount corresponds to the gross exposure Credit guarantees issued for customers and others 1,352 1,406 and has not been reduced by the estimated net selling price of used prod­ Tax claims 5,159 5,090 ucts taken as collaterals. To the extent the used products pertaining to Residual value commitments 4,355 4,014 those transactions are expected to be disposed at a loss, a provision for Other contingent liabilities 4,376 5,546 residual value risk is recognized. Total contingent liabilities 15,242 16,056 Read more in Note 21 Other p­ rovisions about provisions for residual value risks. Total contingent liabilities at December 31, 2017, amounted to net SEK 15,242 M (16,056) and included no contingent assets. Other contingent liabilities amounted to SEK 4,376 M (5,546) and included for example bid and performance clauses and legal proceedings. Credit guarantees issued amounted to SEK 1,352 M (1,406). The recog­ nized amount for credit guarantees corresponds to the gross exposure Legal proceedings and has not been reduced by the value of counter guarantees received or In January 2011, the Volvo Group and a number of other companies in the other collaterals such as the right to repossess the products in cases truck industry became part of an investigation by the European Commis­ where a legal offsetting right does not exist. The value of counter guaran­ sion regarding a possible violation of EU antitrust rules. The Volvo Group tees and other collaterals reducing the exposure is dependent on the co-operated fully with the European Commission in the investigation. In development of used products prices and on the possibility to repossess July 2016, the Volvo Group reached a settlement with the European Com­ the products. mission in the investigation. Following the adoption of the European Com­ A major part of the credit guarantees still pertains to the credit guaran­ mission’s settlement decision, the Volvo Group has received and will be tees related to Chinese dealers and retail customers within Construction dealing with numerous private damages claims from customers and other Equipment. The credit guarantees are primarily related to the period prior third parties alleging that they suffered loss by reason of the conduct to 2016 and are on the same level compared to December 31, 2016. covered in the decision. At this stage it is not possible to make a reliable The improved market and financial situation in China is reflected by a estimate of the amount of any liability that could arise from any such pro­ lower credit risk. The provisions for externally issued credit guarantees ceedings. decreased during 2017 and amounted to SEK 11 M (94) at December 31, The Volvo Group is also involved in a number of legal proceedings other 2017 affecting other operating income and expenses positively. This was than those described above. The Volvo Group’s assessment is that such partly offset by additional provisions for credit losses for receivables with a other legal proceedings in aggregate are not likely to entail any risk of negative effect on other operating income and expenses. The net effect on having a material effect on the Volvo Group’s financial position. other operating income and expenses was SEK 42 M (–319) during 2017. 156 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 25 TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES Transactions between AB Volvo and its subsidiaries, which are related par­ Transactions with joint ventures 2017 2016 ties to AB Volvo, have been eliminated in the Group and are not disclosed in this note. Sales to joint ventures 2,059 1,756 Purchase from joint ventures 901 801 Receivables from joint ventures, Dec 31 419 182 Transactions with associated companies 2017 2016 Liabilities to joint ventures, Dec 31 63 169 Sales to associated companies 1,426 1,771 Purchase from associated companies 1,354 2,062 The Volvo Group engages in transactions with its joint ventures. The trans­ Receivables from associated companies, Dec 31 369 352 actions consist mainly of sales of vehicles and parts and purchase of engine Liabilities to associated companies, Dec 31 93 438 long blocks and services. Commercial terms and market prices apply for the supply of goods and services to/from joint ventures. The Volvo Group engages in transactions with some of its associated R  ead more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated companies companies. The transactions consist mainly of sales of vehicles and parts and other shares and participations to dealers and importers. As an effect from the divestment of shares in Deutz AG, transactions with associated companies have decreased. Commercial terms and market prices apply for the supply of goods and services to/from associated companies. NOTE 26 GOVERNMENT GRANTS ACCOUNTING POLICY In 2017, government grants of SEK 661 M (687) were received, and SEK 706 M (592) were recognized in the income statement. The amount Government grants are financial grants from governmental or supra­ includes tax credits of SEK 313 M (290) related to product development, national bodies received by the Volvo Group in exchange for fulfillment of which were primarily received in France and in the United States. Other certain conditions. grants were mainly received from Swedish, Chinese and US governmental Governmental grants related to assets are presented in the balance sheet organizations and from the European Commission. by deducting the grants in arriving at the carrying amount of the asset. ­Governmental grants related to income are reported as a deferred income and recognized in the income statement over the periods necessary to match the related costs. If the costs incur before the grants have been received, but there is an agreement that grants will be received, grants are recognized in the income statement to compensate the relevant costs. 157 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 27 PERSONNEL ACCOUNTING POLICY Fee paid to the Board of Directors According to a resolution adopted at the Annual General Meeting 2017, Incentive programs the fee to the Board of Directors appointed at the Annual General Meet­ The Volvo Group has a long-term incentive program in accordance with ing for the period until the close of the Annual General Meeting 2018 shall IAS19 Employee benefits. During the vesting period, it is recognized as an be paid as follows: The Chairman of the Board should be awarded SEK expense and as a short-term liability. 3,400,000 and each of the other members SEK 1,000,000 with excep­ The Volvo Group also has share-based incentive programs for the year tion of the President and Chief Executive Officer of AB Volvo, who does 2013 and for the years 2014 to 2015. The fair value of the equity-settled not receive a director’s fee. In addition, SEK 350,000 should be awarded payments is determined at the grant date, recognized as an expense during to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and SEK 160,000 to each of the the vesting period and offset in equity. The fair value is based on the share other members of the Audit Committee, and SEK 140,000 to the Chair­ price reduced by dividends connected with the share during the vesting man of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 105,000 to each of the period. members of the Remuneration Committee. Finally, SEK 175,000 should The cash-settled payment is revalued at each balance sheet date and be awared to the Chairman of the Volvo CE Committee and the other is recognized as an expense during the vesting period and as a short-term members of the Volvo CE Committee SEK 150,000 each. liability. Terms of employment and remuneration to the CEO Fixed salary, short-term and long-term incentives Remuneration policy decided at the Annual General The President and CEO is entitled to a remuneration consisting of a fixed Meeting in 2017 annual salary and short-term and long-term incentives. During the financial The Annual General Meeting of 2017 decided upon a policy on remuner­ year 2017, the short-term and long-term incentives are based on EBIT and ation and other employment terms for the members of the Volvo Group cash flow for the Volvo Group. The short-term and long-term incentives, Executive Board. The decided principles are summarized as follows: each, amounts to a maximum of 100% of the annual base salary. The remuneration and the other terms of employment of the Executives For the financial year 2017, Martin Lundstedt received a fixed salary shall be competitive so that the Volvo Group can attract and retain com­ including vacation payment of SEK 13,109,085 and a short-term incentive petent Executives. The total remuneration to Executives consists of fixed of SEK 12,928,092. The short-term incentive is 100% of the base salary. salary, short-term and long-term incentives, pension and other benefits. Other benefits, mainly pertaining to car and housing, amounted to SEK Short-term and long-term incentives shall be linked to predetermined and 364,959 in 2017. Martin Lundstedt was also participating in the longmeasurable criteria relating to EBIT and cash flow targets for the Volvo term incentive program decided by the Board of Directors. During the Group, devised to promote the long-term value creation of the Volvo financial year the outcome of the long-term incentive program amounted Group and strengthen the link between achieved performance targets to SEK 12,928,092, which is 100% of the base salary. The full net amount and rewards. The criteria for short-term and long-term incentives shall be shall be invested in Volvo B shares. There is to be no pay-out of the determined by the Board annually. amount if the Annual Meeting held in 2018 decides not to distribute any Short-term incentive may, as regards the President and CEO, amount to dividends to the shareholders for 2017. a maximum of 100% of the fixed salary and, as regards other Executives, a maximum of 80% of the fixed salary. Pensions Long-term incentive may, as regards the President and CEO, amount to The President and CEO is covered both by pension benefits provided under a maximum of 100% of the fixed salary and, as regards other Executives, collective bargain agreements and by the Volvo Management P ­ ension a maximum of 80% of the fixed salary. The long-term incentive program (VMP) and Volvo Executive Pension (VEP) plans. The retirement benefit for the Volvo Group’s top executives, including the Executives, is cashunder the Volvo executive pension plans is a defined contribution plan. The based. Awards under the program, based on how well the performance pensionable salary consists of the annual salary and a calculated shorttargets are achieved, are disbursed in cash to the participants on the term variable pay. The premium for the VMP is SEK 30,000 plus 20% of the condition that they invest the net award in AB Volvo shares and that they pensionable salary over 30 income base amounts and the premium for VEP retain the shares for at least three years. is 10% of pensionable salary. There are no commitments other than the Any new share-based incentive program, will, where applicable, be payment of the premiums. In addition to the collective bargain agreement resolved by the General Meeting, but no such program is currently proposed. the disability pension is 40% of pensionable salary between 30–50 For Executives resident in Sweden, the notice period upon termination income base amounts. The right to disability pension is conditional to by the company shall not exceed 12 months and the notice period upon employment and will cease upon termination of employment. termination by the Executive shall not exceed 6 months. In addition, in the The President and CEO is also covered by Volvo Företags­pension, a defined event of termination by the company, the Executive may be entitled to a contribution plan for additional retirement benefit. The premium is negotiated maximum of 12 months’ severance pay. each year. For 2017, the premium amounted to SEK 7,734 for the full year. Executives resident outside Sweden or resident in Sweden but having Total pension premiums 2017 amounted to SEK 4,575,562 for Martin a material connection to or having been resident in a country other than Lundstedt. Sweden may be offered notice periods for termination and severance pay­ ment that are competitive in the country where the Executives are or have Severance payments been resident or to which the Executives have a material connection, Martin Lundstedt has a 6 months notice of termination on his own initia­ prefer­ably solutions comparable to the solutions applied to Executives tive and 12 months notice of termination from AB Volvo. If terminated by resident in Sweden. the company, Martin Lundstedt is entitled to a severance payment equiva­ The Board of Directors may deviate from this policy if there are special lent to 12 months’ salary. In the event he gains employment during the reasons to do so in an individual case. severance period, severance pay is reduced with an amount equal to 100% of the income from the new employment. 158 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Remuneration to the Group Executive Board Volvo Group’s total costs for remuneration and benefits to the Fixed salary, short-term and long-term incentives Group Executive Board Members of the Group Executive Board receive short-term and long-term The total costs for remuneration and benefits to the Group Executive incentives in addition to fixed salaries. During the financial year 2017, the Board amounted to SEK 333 M (175) and pertained to fixed salary, shortshort-term and long-term incentives are based on EBIT and cash flow for term and long-term incentives, other benefits and pensions. It also the Volvo Group. In 2017, short-term and long-term incentives, for Group included social fees on salaries and benefits, special pension tax and Executive Board members excluding the CEO, could each amount to a additional costs for other benefits. The cost related to the long-term maximum of 80% of the annual base salary. share-based incentive program is reflected over the vesting period and For the financial year 2017, fixed salaries amounted to SEK 76,425,965 amounted to SEK 13 M (18) for 2017. The remuneration model of the and short-term incentive amounted to SEK 55,913,489 for Group Execu­ Volvo Group is to a main part designed to follow changes in the profit­ tive Board members excluding the CEO. The short-term incentive is in ability of the Volvo Group. average 78,1% of the base salary. The Group Executive Board comprised, excluding the CEO, of 12 members at the beginning and 12 at the end of Long-term incentive programs the year. Other benefits, mainly pertaining to car and housing, amounted Long-term share-based incentive program 2013 to SEK 10,353,525 in 2017. The Annual General Meeting held in 2011 approved a long-term shareGroup Executive Board members, also participate in the long-term based incentive program for up to 300 Volvo Group and senior executives share-based incentive programs decided by the Annual General Meeting and comprising the years 2011 to 2013. During 2017, a part of the shares 2014. During 2017, 48,652 shares granted under the 2013, 2014 and granted under the program during 2013 has been allotted to the par­ 2015 programs corresponding to a taxable value of SEK 6,564,546 have ticipants (see further information in the table Long-term share-based been allotted to Group Executive Board members. incentive program on the next page). The Group Executive Board was also participating in the long-term incentive program decided by the Board of Directors in 2017. During the Long-term share-based incentive program 2014–2015 financial year the outcome of the long-term incentive program, for the The Annual General Meeting held in 2014 approved a long-term shareExecutive Board members, excluding the CEO, amounted to SEK based incentive program for up to 300 Group and senior executives and 57,242,908 of which the full net amount shall be invested in Volvo B comprising the years 2014 to 2016. The Board of Director’s has in 2016 shares. There is to be no pay-out of the amount if the Annual Meeting held approved this program to be replaced by a new program as from 2016 in 2018 decides not to declare any dividends to the shareholders for 2017. with the effect of terminating current program one year in advance. During 2017, a part of the shares granted under the programs during 2014 and Pensions 2015 have been allotted to the participants (see further information in the Group Executive Board members enrolled in Swedish pension plan are table Long-term share-based incentive program on the next page). also covered by a defined contribution plan, Volvo Executive Pension plan with pension premium payments at the longest to the age of 65 years. Long-term incentive program valid from 2016 The premium constitutes 10% of the pensionable salary. As complement The Board of Director’s has in 2016 approved a long-term cash-based to the collective bargain agreement regarding occupational pension, incentive program comprising the top 300 executives in the Volvo Group. ­members of the Group Executive Board born before 1979 are covered by This program replaces the previous long-term share-based incentive a defined contribution pension plan, Volvo Management Pension. The ­program approved in 2014. A prerequisite for participation in the program ­premium constitutes of SEK 30,000 plus 20% of the pensionable salary is that the participants shall undertake to invest the annual net (after tax) over 30 income base amounts. The pensionable salary consists of the payout amounts under the plan in Volvo B-shares and to hold those annual salary and a calculated short-term variable pay. Pension premiums shares for at least three years. for the Group Executive Board excluding the CEO amounted to SEK Long-term incentive may, as regards the President & CEO, amount to a 31,260,917 in 2017. maximum of 100% of the fixed salary and, as regards other Executives, a maximum of 80% of the fixed salary. There will however be no payout Severance payments under the long-term incentive program if the Annual General Meeting The employment contracts for Group Executive Board members contain to be held in the year following the performance year, decides not to rules governing severance payments when the company terminates the ­distribute any dividend to the shareholders. employment. For Executives resident in Sweden, the notice period upon termination by the company shall not exceed 12 months and the notice period upon termination by the Executive shall not exceed 6 months. In addition, in the event of termination by the company, the Executive may be entitled to a maximum of 12 months’ severance pay. Executives resident outside Sweden or resident in Sweden but having a material connection to or having resident in a country other than Sweden may be offered notice periods for termination and severance payment that are competitive in the country where the Executives are or have been resi­ dent or to which the Executives have a material connection, preferably solu­ tions comparable to the solutions applied to Executives resident in Sweden. 159 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Long-term share-based Shares granted conditional under the plan but not yet allotted (in thousand shares) incentive ­program Beginning Cancelled/ Allotments End of Cost 2017 ­(equity-settled version) Vesting year of the year Adjustment forfeited 2017 during 2017 the year (SEK M) 1 Year 2013 incentive program 2016/2017 121 – –10 –111 – –0.4 Year 2014 Incentive program 2017/2018 372 – –13 –229 130 11.4 Year 2015 incentive program 2018/2019 1,630 – –51 –66 1,512 59.2 Total 2,122 – –74 –406 1,642 70.2 1 The fair value of the payments is determined based on the share price at the grant date reduced by the discounted value of expected dividends connected with the share during the vesting period. The cost for the program is recognized over the vesting period. The cost includes social security cost. The cost for the cash-settled version of the incentive program amounted for the equity-settled plan, a total of 405,901 shares (725,210) have been to SEK 16 M (14) including social security cost during 2017, and the total allotted to participants. For the cash-settled plan, a total of SEK – M (2) has liability amounted to SEK 31 M (14) as of December 31, 2017. been allotted during 2017. The allotment during the year 2017 mainly pertained to the shares granted under the program during the years 2013 and 2014. During 2017, Average number 2017 2016 Board members1 2017 2016 of employees Number of of which Number of of which and other senior Number at of which Number at of which employees women, % employees women, % executives year-end women, % year-end women, % AB Volvo AB Volvo Sweden 305 50 314 50 Board members1 11 36 11 36 CEO and other Subsidiaries senior executives 13 31 12 17 Sweden 18,669 21 18,606 21 Western Europe Volvo Group (excl. Sweden) 20,956 16 21,022 15 Board members1 477 23 483 22 Eastern Europe 6,253 22 5,566 21 Presidents and other North America 14,868 19 14,150 19 senior executives 595 25 613 24 South America 4,894 16 5,279 15 1 Excluding deputy Board members. Asia 17,069 13 17,279 13 Other countries 2,389 16 2,437 16 Group total 85,403 18 84,653 17 Wages, salaries and other ­remunerations 2017 2016 Board and of which Other Board and of which Other SEK M Presidents1 variable salaries employees Presidents1 variable salaries employees AB Volvo 53.7 26.3 429.0 30.2 5.1 350.4 Subsidiaries 618.6 117.2 40,594.4 578.9 63.8 38,109.9 Group total 672.3 143.5 41,023.4 609.1 68.9 38,460.3 Wages, salaries and other remunerations and social costs 2017 2016 Wages, salaries Pension Wages, salaries SEK M remuneration Social costs costs remuneration Social costs Pension costs AB Volvo2 482.7 156.4 128.0 380.6 106.8 114.2 Subsidiaries 41,213.0 8,876.6 3,735.6 38,688.9 8,121.3 3,769.6 Group total3 41,695.7 9,033.0 3,863.6 39,069.4 8,228.1 3,883.8 1 Including current and former Board members, Presidents and Executive 3 O f the Volvo Group’s pension costs, SEK 76 M (93) pertain to Board members Vice Presidents. and Presidents, including current and former Board members, Presidents and 2 The Parent Company’s pension costs, pertaining to Board members and Executive Vice Presidents. The Volvo Group’s outstanding p ­ ension obligations ­Presidents are disclosed in Note 3 Administrative expenses in the annual report to these individuals amount to SEK 676 M (687). The cost for non-monetary of the Parent Company. benefits in the Volvo Group amounted to SEK 2,845 M (2,472) of which SEK 41 M (150) to Board members and Presidents. The cost for non-monetary benefits in the Parent Company amounted to SEK 13.2 M (11.6) of which SEK 0.6 M (0.5) to Board members and ­Presidents. 160 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 28 FEES TO THE AUDITORS Fees to the auditors 2017 2016 The audit assignment involves review of the Annual report and financial accounting and the administration by the Board and the President. PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit-related assignments mean quality assurance services required by – Audit fees 103 104 enactment, articles of association, regulations or agreement. The amount whereof to PricewaterhouseCoopers AB* 34 includes the fee for reviewing the half-year report. Tax services include – Audit-related fees 4 4 both tax consultancy and tax compliance services. All other tasks are whereof to PricewaterhouseCoopers AB* 2 defined as other. – Tax advisory services 8 9 whereof to PricewaterhouseCoopers AB* 0 – Other fees 2 4 whereof to PricewaterhouseCoopers AB* 1 Total 117 121 Audit fees to others 3 3 Volvo Group Total 120 124 * A s from financial year 2017, the audit fee concerning the audit firm in Sweden elected by the Annual General Meeting are disclosed NOTE 29 CASH FLOW ACCOUNTING POLICY  ead more in Note 8 Other operating income and expenses about expected R credit losses in Construction Equipment in China. Cash flow analysis The cash flow statement is prepared in accordance with the indirect method. The cash flow statements of foreign group companies are trans­ Investments and divestments of shares, lated at the average rate. Changes in group structure, acquisitions and net 2017 2016 divestments, are recognized net, excluding cash and cash equivalents, in New issue of shares –1 –3 the item Acquired and divested operations and are included in cash flow Capital contribution 92 –1 from investing activities. Acquisitions –18 –10 Read more in Note 18 Marketable securities and liquid funds. Divestments 2,102 265 Other 7 –27 Total cash flow from investments and divestments of shares, net 2,182 224 Other non-cash items 2017 2016 Risk provisions and losses related to doubtful In 2017 Volvo Group divested shares in Deutz AG which generated a pos­ accounts receivable/customer-financing receivables1 567 1,084 itive cash flow of SEK 1.9 billion. Capital gains/losses on divested operations2 –320 –937 Read  more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated companies Unrealized exchange rate gains/losses on accounts and other shares and participations about divested shares in Deutz AG. receivable and payable 156 –156 Unrealized exchange rate gains/losses on other operating assets and liabilities –25 122 Acquired and divested operations, net 2017 2016 Provision for profit sharing program 486 350 Acquired subsidiaries and other Provision for incentive program 1,603 484 business units –175 –56 Gains/losses on sale of tangible and intangible assets 3 8 –1,083 Divested subsidiaries and other Gains/losses on sale of shares and participations4 –515 –131 business units 1,103 1,480 Provision for expected credit losses in Construction Total cash flow from acquired and divested Equipment1 0 –32 ­operations, net 928 1,425 Income from investments in JV –1,014 –106 Anticipated contract loss in Governmental Sales In 2017 Volvo Group divested Volvo Construction Equipment’s dealer busi­ in the USA 308 ness in the UK. The sale generated a positive cash flow of SEK 0.9 billion. Other changes 146 –26 Total Other non-cash items 1,400 –431 R  ead more in Note 3 Acquisitions and divestments of shares in subsidiaries about the effect on net financial position from the acquisitions and divestments. 1 SEK 13 M (-247) is included in risk provisions and losses related to doubtful accounts receivables in China. 2 In 2016 Volvo Group divested the external IT operation with a capital gain of SEK 885 M. 3 In 2016 Volvo Group divested real estate with a capital gain of SEK 1.371 M. 4 In 2017 Volvo Group divested shares in Deutz AG with a capital gain of SEK 400 M. 161 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Non-cash items December 31, Unrealized cur­ Currency December 31, Changes in loans, net 2016 Cash flows rency effects translation 2017 Current loans 56,497 –785 –388 –1,551 53,771 Non-current loans 84,551 –8,790 –283 –1,573 73,904 Interest and currency risk derivatives –1,247 – –1,711 – –2,957 Other – 579 – – – Total –8,996 In 2017, the Volvo Group decreased its borrowings as a consequence of Read more in Note 22 Liabilities regarding Current loans and Non-current loans. the strong operating cash flow, the disposal of shares in Deutz AG and the R  ead more in Group performance about Cash flow statement and Financial divestment of Volvo Construction Equipment’s dealer business in the UK, position. reduced by the dividend paid to AB Volvo shareholders. Syndications were performed in Financial Services to an amount of SEK 6.2 billion (5.6). All syndications impacted cash flow this year. NOTE 30 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ACCOUNTING POLICY Industrial Operations are included in this category. Unrealized gains and losses from fluctuations in the fair values of the financial instruments are Purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities are recognized on recognized in Other financial income and expenses. The Volvo Group intends the transaction date. Transaction expenses are included in the assets’ fair to hold these derivatives to maturity, which is why, over time, the market valua­ value, except in cases in which the change in value is recognized in the tion will be offset by the interest-rate fixing on borrowing and lending in Finan­ income statement. The transaction costs that arise in conjunction with the cial Services, and thus not affect Net income or cash flow. admission of financial liabilities are amortized over the term of the loan as Financial instruments used for hedging currency risks arising from future financial cost. firm commercial cash flows are also recognized under this category. Realized A financial asset is derecognized from the balance sheet when all result and unrealized revaluation of derivatives are recognized in Other finan­ ­significant risks and benefits related to the asset have been transferred to cial income and expenses to be able to net all internal flows before entering a third party. into external derivatives to hedge future currency risk. When hedging future The fair value of assets is determined based on valid market prices, cash flows for specific orders the classification in the income statement is when available. If market prices are unavailable, the fair value is deter­ decided on a case by case basis, according to the Volvo Group financial risk mined for each asset through the use of various measurement techniques. policy. In 2017 gains and losses from derivatives hedging currency risks for Financial instruments are classified based on the degree that market specific orders of SEK -9 (51) M have been recognized in Operating income values have been utilized when measuring fair value. The majority of finan­ and SEK 27 (61) M in Other financial income and expenses. cial instruments measured at fair value held by Volvo Group are classified Read more in Note 9 Other financial income and expenses. as level 2. The valuation of level 2 instruments is based on market condi­ tions using quoted market data existing at each balance sheet date. The Hedge Accounting is not applied by the Volvo Group. In previous years basis for the interest is the zero-coupon-curve in each currency which is hedging of certain net investments in foreign operations was performed. used to calculate the present value of all the estimated future cash flows. The result of such hedges was recognized as a separate item in Other For forward exchange contracts the basis is the forward premium based on comprehensive income (OCI). In the event of a divestment, the accumu­ current spot rate for each currency and future date. The fair value is then lated result from the hedge will be recognized in the income statement. discounted based on the forward rates as per the balance sheet date. Shares and participations are classified as level 1 for listed shares and Loan receivables and other receivables level 3 for not listed shares. Call options are classified as level 3 and are Included in this category are accounts receivables, customer-finance based on the Black & Scholes option pricing formula. receivables and other interest-bearing receivables. R  ead more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated companies and Read more in Note 15 Customer-financing receivables. other shares and participations. Read more in Note 16 Receivables. Financial assets at fair value through the income statement All of the Volvo Group’s financial assets that are recognized at fair value Assets available for sale through the income statement are classified as held for trading. As This category includes assets available for sale and assets that have not ­presented in the table on the next page, these instruments are derivatives, been classified in any of the other categories. For the Volvo Group this used for hedging interest and currency risks, and marketable securities category contains holding of shares in listed and non-listed companies. (further presented in note 18). Derivatives used for hedging interest rate exposure in the customerR  ead more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated companies and other shares and participations. financing portfolio within Financial Services as well as the debt portfolio in 162 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Information regarding carrying amounts and fair values In the table below, carrying amounts are compared with fair values for all of the Volvo Group’s financial instruments. Carrying amounts and fair values on Financial Instruments Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair SEK M value value value value Assets Financial assets at fair value through the income statement The Volvo Group’s outstanding interest and currency risk derivatives1 Note 16 3,890 3,890 3,026 3,026 The Volvo Group's outstanding raw material derivatives Note 16 – – 33 33 Other derivatives2 564 564 564 564 B/S Marketable securities Note 18 178 178 1,223 1,223 4,632 4,632 4,845 4,845 Loans and receivables B/S Accounts receivable Note 16 40,774 – 34,419 – Customer financing receivables3 Note 15 109,378 – 110,821 – Other interest-bearing receivables Note 16 587 – 1,105 – 150,739 – 146,345 – Financial assets available for sale Holding of shares in listed companies Note 5 462 462 491 491 Holding of shares in non-listed companies Note 5 237 – 285 – 699 462 777 491 B/S Cash and cash equivalents Note 18 36,092 36,092 23,949 23,949 Liabilities Note 22 Financial liabilities at fair value through the income statement The Volvo Group’s outstanding interest and currency risks derivatives 685 685 1,540 1,540 The Volvo Group’s outstanding raw material derivatives – – 6 6 685 685 1,546 1,546 Financial liabilities valued at amortized cost4 Long term bond loans and other loans 73,781 76,338 84,145 86,926 Short term bank loans and other loans 53,422 53,452 55,780 55,720 127,224 129,790 139,925 142,646 B/S Trade Payables 65,346 – 55,264 – 30:1 1 The Volvo Group’s gross exposure from derivatives reported as assets is reduced by 82% (65) by netting agreements and cash deposits to SEK 706 M (1,049). 2 The input data used in the valuation model for calculating the fair value has not changed during 2017. 3 The Volvo Group does not estimate the risk premium for customer-financing receivables and therefore chooses not to disclose fair value for this category. 4 In the Volvo Group balance sheet, financial liabilities include loan-related deriva­ tives amounting to SEK –452 M (–1,122). The credit risk is included in the fair value of loans. Read more in Note 4 Goals and policies in financial risk management. 163 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Derecognition of financial assets The Volvo Group’s maximum exposure to loss is considered being the total The Volvo Group is involved in cash enhancement activities such as dis­ recourse relating to transferred assets that are part of the recognized credit counting. Financial assets that have been transferred are included in full guarantees, i.e. the total amount Volvo Group would have to pay in case of or in part in the recognized assets of the Volvo Group dependent on the default of the customers. The likelihood for all customers going into default risk and rewards related to the asset that have been transferred to the at the same time is considered to be low. The gross exposure for the Volvo recipient. An evaluation is performed to establish whether, substantially, Group amounted to SEK 1.4 bn (1.4) related to credit guarantees issued for all the risks and rewards have been transferred to an external party. customers and others and is part of the Volvo Group’s contingent liabilities. Where the Volvo Group concludes that this is not the case, the portion of This amount has not been reduced by the value of counter guarantees the financial assets corresponding to the Volvo Group’s continuous received or other collaterals such as the right to repossess the product. involvement is recognized. When all the risk and rewards are considered Read more in Note 21 Other provisions. not to be transferred the amount is kept on the balance sheet in full. Transferred financial assets that do not fulfill the requirements for Read more in Note 24 Contingent Liabilities. derecognition amounted to SEK 1.4 bn (0.5). Financial assets for which substantially all risks and rewards have been Gains, losses, interest income and expenses from transferred are derecognized from the Volvo Group’s balance sheet. financial instruments Involvement in these assets is reflected in the Volvo Group’s ­balance sheet The table below shows how gains and losses, as well as interest income as part of the external credit guarantees, which are recognized at fair value and expenses, have affected income after financial items in the Volvo as provisions in the balance sheet and amount to SEK 0.2 bn (0.2). Group divided by the different categories of financial instruments. Recognized in operating income1 2017 2016 Interest Interest Interest Interest SEK M Gain/loss income expense Gain/loss income expense Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement2 Currency risk derivatives3 –9 – – 51 – – Loans receivable and other receivables Accounts receivables/trade payables 1 46 – – –757 – – Customer financing receivables Financial Services 1 67 5,419 – 62 5,235 – Financial assets available for sale Shares and participations for which a market value can be calculated 37 – – 37 – – Shares and participations for which a market value cannot be calculated 175 – – 114 – – Financial liabilities valued at amortized cost4 – – –2,001 – – –1,845 Impact on operating income 316 5,419 –2,001 –494 5,235 –1,845 Recognized in net financial items5,6 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement Marketable securities – 1 – – 7 – Interest and currency rate risk derivatives2, 3 4,404 –6 –623 –952 3 –235 Loans receivable and other receivables Cash and Cash equivalents – 169 – – 229 – Financial liabilities valued at amortized cost –4,753 – –845 1,344 – –1,200 Impact on net financial items5 , 6 –170 164 –1,468 392 240 –1,435 30:2 1 Information is provided regarding changes in customer-financing and provisions 5 In gain, loss, interest income and expenses related to financial instruments for doubtful receivables in Notes 15 Customer-financing receivables and Note ­recognized in Net financial items, SEK -170 M (392) was recognized under 16 Accounts receivables, as well as in Note 8 Other operating income and Other financial income and expenses. expenses. 6 Interest expenses reported in net financial items attributable to pensions, 2 Accrued and realized interest is included in gains and losses related to Financial SEK 384 M (411) are not included in this table. assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement. 3 The Volvo Group uses forward contracts and currency options to hedge the Read more in Note 4 Goals and policies in financial risk management. value of future cash flows in foreign currency. Both unrealized and realized result of currency risk contracts are included in the table. Read more in Note 9 Other financial income and expenses. 4 Interest expenses attributable to financial liabilities valued at amortized cost ­recognized in operating income include interest expenses for financing  ead more in Note 5 Investments in joint ventures, associated companies R ­operating lease activities, which are not classified as Financial Instruments. and other shares and participations. 164 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES In the table below outstanding derivatives hedging currency and interest rate risks is presented. Outstanding derivative instruments Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 SEK M Nominal amount Carrying value Nominal amount Carrying value Interest-rate swaps – receivable position 116,645 3,431 88,715 2,413 – payable position 77,016 –274 74,249 –1,072 Forwards and futures – receivable position – – 2,000 – Foreign exchange derivatives – receivable position 33,375 452 25,136 593 – payable position 21,526 –409 18,776 –452 Options purchased – receivable position 1,381 7 1,518 20 – payable position 41 – 48 – Options written – receivable position – – 48 0 – payable position 715 –1 1,413 –16 Subtotal 3,206 1,486 Raw material derivatives – receivable position – – 180 33 – payable position – – 259 –6 Total 3,206 1,512 30:3 165 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES NOTE 31 CHANGES IN VOLVO GROUP FINANCIAL REPORTING 2018 Implementation of new accounting standards IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers As from January 1, 2018 Volvo Group applies IFRS 9 Financial instru­ IFRS 15 replaces IAS 11 Construction contracts, IAS 18 Revenue and the ments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. These related interpretations IFRIC 13, 15, 18 and SIC-31. IFRS 15 represents a standards are applied retrospectively but with the difference in relation to new framework for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers presenting comparative financial information for 2017. and with additional disclosure requirements. The major impact of implementation of IFRS 15 is related to sales Opening balance 2017 transactions of vehicles with various residual value commitments, e.g. For IFRS 15, the opening balance for 2017 is adjusted in accordance with buybacks and tradebacks, and the assessment if control has been trans­ the new standard and the transition effect is recognized as a decrease in ferred from Volvo Group to the customer. equity with SEK 712 M. The reported financial information for 2017 is The criterion of transferring control is based on if the customer has a restated accordingly for comparison purposes. For IFRS 9, the opening significant economic incentive to exercise the residual value commitment balance for 2017 has not been affected. or not. If the customer is considered to have a significant economic incen­ tive to exercise the residual value commitment to return the vehicle, reve­ IFRS 9 Financial instruments nue is recognized over the residual value commitment period as an oper­ IFRS 9 is divided in three parts: Classification and Measurement, Impair­ ating lease transaction in accordance with IAS 17. ment and Hedge Accounting, and replaces the current IAS 39 Financial Various factors are assessed when considering if significant economic Instruments: recognition and measurement. All financial instruments incentives exist, such as repurchase price in relation to the expected mar­ within the Volvo Group are classified and valued at amortized cost, except ket value at the date of the repurchase and historical return rates. These marketable securities, derivatives and holding of shares, which are classi­ are new criteria compared with the former revenue recognition model, fied and valued at fair value through the income statement. The new rules where the residual value was compared with the sales price. The account­ regarding classification and valuation have no impact on the Volvo Group. ing model has not change, however the criteria for when to apply the The new hedge accounting rules are not affecting the Volvo Group as no model are different. hedge accounting is applied. If the customer is not considered to have a significant economic incen­ The impact of the new standard is related to impairment and the new tive to exercise the residual value commitment to return the vehicle, the expected credit loss model. Volvo Group applies the simplified approach revenue is recognized in accordance with the right of return model. Hence, to measure lifetime expected credit losses. Compared with the former a major portion of revenue and margin is recognized at inception of the applied incurred loss model, the new requirements imply an earlier recog­ contract. A refund liability and an asset related to the right to recover the nition of credit losses. Historical information is used regarding credit loss vehicle from the customer on settling the refund liability are recognized experience to forecast future credit losses. In addition, current and for­ in the balance sheet. If the vehicle is not returned the refund liability ward-looking information is used to reflect current and future conditions. is recognized as revenue and the asset is expensed. This is a change The new model increased loss allowance by SEK 500 M mainly affecting compared to the former model, where full revenue is recognized at the customer-financing receivables negatively within ­Financial S ­ ervices with inception of the contract with a contingent liability. a corresponding decrease in equity amounting to SEK 371 M (net of tax) The effect of the two new models is a later recognition of revenue with as of January 1, 2018. an increase of assets with SEK 6,516 M mainly related to assets under operating lease and right of return assets and an increase of liabilities  Read more in Note 30 Financial instruments regarding accounting policy for 2017. with SEK 7,725 M mainly related to deferred leasing income and residual value liabilities as of December 31, 2017. The corresponding effect is a The effect from the transition to IFRS 9 is presented on page 176–177 in net decrease in equity with SEK 1,209 M (net of tax) consisting of ­opening the restated balance sheet and net financial position as of January 1, 2018. balance effect of SEK 712 M and a decrease of Income for the period for 2017 with SEK 497 M, whereof SEK 650 M affecting Operating income for 2017. Read more in Note 7 Revenue regarding accounting policy for 2017. The effect from the transition to IFRS 15 is presented on page 168–176 with restatements on net sales, operating income and operating margin divided by segment and quarter. Further is a presentation of income state­ ment per quarter and full year for 2017, the opening balance sheet for 2017 and balance sheet per quarter and year to date. 166 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Accounting policy for customer-financing receivables Accounting policy for revenue as from January 1, 2018 and receivables as from January 1, 2018 Revenue (Note 7) Customer-financing receivables (Note 15) ACCOUNTING POLICY ACCOUNTING POLICY The Volvo Group’s recognized net sales pertain mainly to revenues from Installment credits, dealer financing and other receivables within custom­ sales of vehicles and services. Revenue from vehicles and services are er-finance receivables have contractual cash flows that are solely pay­ recognized when control has been transferred from Volvo Group to the ments of principal and interest and are held as part of a business model customer. Control refers to the customers’ ability to use vehicles or s­ ervices whose objective is to collect contractual cash flows. They are valued at in its operations and to obtain the associated cash flow. Vehicles and amortized cost in accordance with the effective interest method. For services may be sold separately or as a combined offer. In combined information on recognition and classification on financial leasing see offers where the vehicle and services are separable from each other and Note 14 Leasing. Volvo Group is applying the simplified expected credit the customer can benefit from the vehicle and the service independently, loss model for customer finance receivables, under which the loss allow­ the received payment is allocated between the different vehicles and ance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses ­services. and is recorded at initial recognition. Changes to credit loss reserves are Interest income related to finance leasing and installment credit con­ recognized in Other operating income and expense. tracts are recognized as net sales within Financial Services during the underlying contract period. The below table includes a description of vehicles and services in terms Receivables (Note 16) of nature, timing of recognizing revenue and payment terms. ACCOUNTING POLICY Receivables are classified and measured at amortized cost. Volvo Group is applying the simplified expected credit loss model on accounts receiv­ ables, under which the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses and is recorded at initial recognition. Changes to credit loss reserves are recognized in Other operating income and expense. VEHICLES SERVICES Vehicles include sales of new vehicles, machinery and engines as well as Services include sale of spare parts, maintenance services and other sales of used vehicles, machines, trailers, superstructures and special ­aftermarket products. ­vehicles. A standard contractual warranty is included as part of the sales. Revenue is recognized when the control of the service has been Read more in note 21 Other p ­ rovisions. ­transferred to the customer, normally over time which is when the customer Revenue is recognized when the control of the vehicle has been can benefit from the use of the delivered services. The services are ­transferred to the customer, normally at one point in time which is when ­considered to be delivered at the same time as Volvo Group incurs the the ­vehicle has been delivered to the customer. associated cost to deliver the service. Revenue is reduced by the value of rebates, returns and v­ ariable When payments for maintenance contracts are received in advance from con­sideration. The variable consideration is assessed at contract inception the customers, the payments are r­ ecognized as contract liabilities. with continuous reassessment at each reporting period. However, if the sale of the vehicle is combined with residual value ­commitment and there is a significant economic incentive for the customer to exercise the option, the control has not been transferred to the customer and the transaction is accounted for as an operating lease transaction in accordance with IAS 17. Revenue, in these transactions, is recognized over the residual value commitment period. If the customer is not considered to have a significant economic incentive to exercise the residual value commitment to return the vehicle, the r­ evenue will be recognized in accordance with the right of return model. The customer can pay for the vehicle at the point of sale or defer the payment by entering into agreements such as installment credits, financial leasing or operating leasing. 31:1 167 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES SEGMENT REPORTING Net sales First quarter Second quarter Previously Restatement After Previously Restatement After SEK M reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement Trucks 49,467 –366 49,101 56,366 –432 55,934 Construction Equipment 16,163 –61 16,101 18,511 –72 18,439 Buses 5,548 –7 5,540 6,971 –51 6,920 Volvo Penta 2,701 – 2,701 3,081 – 3,081 Group Functions & Other incl. eliminations 773 – 773 738 – 738 Industrial Operations 74,652 –435 74,217 85,668 –555 85,113 Financial Services 2,892 – 2,892 2,946 – 2,946 Eliminations –179 – –179 –205 – –205 Volvo Group 77,365 –435 76,930 88,409 –555 87,854 Operating income First quarter Second quarter Previously Restatement After Previously Restatement After SEK M reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement Trucks 4,910 –182 4,728 5,417 –134 5,282 Construction Equipment 1,617 –2 1,615 2,460 –1 2,460 Buses 101 –11 90 320 –4 317 Volvo Penta 419 – 419 479 – 479 Group Functions & Other incl. eliminations –549 – –549 –658 – –658 Industrial Operations 6,499 –195 6,304 8,019 –139 7,881 Financial Services 531 – 531 521 – 521 Volvo Group 7,029 –195 6,834 8,540 –139 8,402 Operating margin First quarter Second quarter Previously After Previously After % reported 2017 restatement reported 2017 restatement Trucks 9.9 9.6 9.6 9.4 Construction Equipment 10.0 10.0 13.3 13.3 Buses 1.8 1.6 4.6 4.6 Volvo Penta 15.5 15.5 15.5 15.5 Industrial Operations 8.7 8.5 9.4 9.3 Volvo Group 9.1 8.9 9.7 9.6 168 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Third quarter Fourth quarter Year 2017 Previously Restatement After Previously Restatement After Previously Restatement After reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement 49,798 –602 49,196 60,849 –226 60,622 216,480 –1,626 214,854 15,091 –48 15,042 16,733 –3 16,730 66,497 –184 66,313 6,539 –176 6,363 7,020 34 7,055 26,078 –200 25,878 2,662 – 2,662 2,676 – 2,676 11,119 – 11,119 432 – 432 1,690 – 1,690 3,634 – 3,634 74,522 –826 73,696 88,968 –195 88,773 323,809 –2,010 321,799 2,896 – 2,896 3,078 – 3,078 11,812 – 11,812 –193 – –193 –296 – –296 –873 – –873 77,225 –826 76,400 91,749 –195 91,554 334,748 –2,010 332,738 Third quarter Fourth quarter Year 2017 Previously Restatement After Previously Restatement After Previously Restatement After reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement 4,261 –76 4,184 5,796 –206 5,590 20,383 –599 19,785 2,024 –1 2,023 1,816 4 1,820 7,917 0 7,917 218 –10 208 288 –27 261 928 –51 876 353 – 353 187 – 187 1,439 – 1,439 16 – 16 –1,342 – –1,342 –2,532 – –2,532 6,871 –87 6,785 6,746 –229 6,516 28,135 –650 27,485 553 – 553 588 – 588 2,192 – 2,192 7,424 –87 7,337 7,334 –229 7,105 30,327 –650 29,678 Third quarter Fourth quarter Year 2017 Previously After Previously After Previously After reported 2017 restatement reported 2017 restatement reported 2017 restatement 8.6 8.5 9.5 9.2 9.4 9.2 13.4 13.4 10.9 10.9 11.9 11.9 3.3 3.3 4.1 3.7 3.6 3.4 13.3 13.3 7.0 7.0 12.9 12.9 9.2 9.2 7.6 7.3 8.7 8.5 9.6 9.6 8.0 7.8 9.1 8.9 169 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT First quarter Second quarter Previously Restatement After Previously Restatement After SEK M reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement Net sales 77,365 –435 76,930 88,409 –555 87,854 Cost of sales –57,835 239 –57,596 –67,017 416 –66,601 Gross income 19,530 –195 19,335 21,392 –139 21,254 Research and development expenses –3,994 – –3,994 –4,126 – –4,126 Selling expenses –6,942 – –6,942 –7,247 – –7,247 Administrative expenses –1,286 – –1,286 –1,443 – –1,443 Other operating income and expenses –616 – –616 –395 – –395 Income/loss from investments in Joint Ventures and associated companies 340 – 340 268 – 268 Income from other investments –2 – –2 91 – 91 Operating income 7,029 –195 6,834 8,540 –139 8,402 Interest income and similar credits 50 – 50 30 – 30 Interest expenses and similar charges –463 – –463 –487 – –487 Other financial income and expenses –177 – –177 –59 – –59 Income after financial items 6,440 –195 6,245 8,023 –139 7,885 Income taxes –1,624 45 –1,579 –2,019 35 –1,984 Income for the period 4,816 –150 4,666 6,004 –103 5,901 * Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent company 4,730 –150 4,580 5,916 –103 5,813 Minority interests 85 – 85 88 – 88 4,816 –150 4,666 6,004 –103 5,901 Basic earnings per share, SEK 2.33 –0.08 2.25 2.91 –0.05 2.86 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 2.33 –0.08 2.25 2.91 –0.05 2.86 The restatement of IFRS 15 has not impacted the content of Other Comprehensive Income, whereby no restated financial information is presented. 170 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES Third quarter Fourth quarter Year 2017 Previously Restatement After Previously Restatement After Previously Restatement After reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement reported 2017 IFRS 15 restatement 77,225 –826 76,400 91,749 –195 91,554 334,748 –2,010 332,738 –58,978 739 –58,239 –70,751 –34 –70,785 –254,581 1,361 –253,220 18,247 –87 18,161 20,998 –229 20,769 80,167 –650 79,518 –3,445 – –3,445 –4,533 – –4,533 –16,098 – –16,098 –6,791 – –6,791 –7,602 – –7,602 –28,582 – –28,582 –1,273 – –1,273 –1,640 – –1,640 –5,642 – –5,642 –5 – –5 –45 – –45 –1,061 – –1,062 634 – 634 166 – 166 1,407 – 1,407 56 – 56 –10 – –10 135 – 135 7,424 –87 7,337 7,334 –229 7,105 30,327 –650 29,678 44 – 44 39 – 39 164 – 164 –417 – –417 –484 – –484 –1,852 – –1,852 –17 – –17 –132 – –132 –385 – –385 7,034 –87 6,947 6,757 –229 6,528 28,254 –650 27,605 –1,519 25 –1,495 –1,809 48 –1,761 –6,971 153 –6,818 5,515 –62 5,453 4,948 –181 4,767 21,283 –497 20,786 5,467 –62 5,405 4,867 –181 4,686 20,981 –497 20,484 48 – 48 81 – 81 302 – 302 5,515 –62 5,453 4,948 –181 4,767 21,283 –497 20,786 2.69 –0.03 2.66 2.40 –0.09 2.31 10.33 –0.25 10.08 2.69 –0.03 2.66 2.39 –0.09 2.30 10.32 –0.25 10.07 171 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Volvo Group Previously reported Restatement After restatement SEK M Jan 1, 2017 IFRS 15 Jan 1, 2017 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 37,916 – 37,916 Tangible assets Property, plant and equipment 55,875 – 55,875 Assets under operating leases 34,693 3,997 38,690 Financial assets Investments in Joint Ventures and associated companies 11,643 – 11,643 Other shares and participations 776 – 776 Non-current customer-financing receivables 57,827 – 57,827 Prepaid pensions 79 – 79 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 1,258 – 1,258 Other non-current receivables 4,148 2,867 7,015 Deferred tax assets 14,399 195 14,594 Total non-current assets 218,615 7,059 225,674 Current assets Inventories 48,287 – 48,287 Current receivables Customer-financing receivables 52,994 – 52,994 Tax assets 1,359 – 1,359 Interest-bearing receivables 1,135 – 1,135 Internal funding – – – Accounts receivable 34,419 –2,042 32,377 Other receivables 16,410 1,069 17,479 Non interest-bearing assets held for sale 525 – 525 Interest-bearing assets held for sale – – – Marketable securities 1,223 – 1,223 Cash and cash equivalents 23,949 – 23,949 Total current assets 180,301 –973 179,328 Total assets 398,916 6,086 405,002 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent company 96,061 –712 95,349 Minority interests 1,703 – 1,703 Total equity 97,764 –712 97,052 Non-current provisions Provisions for post-employment benefits 14,669 – 14,669 Provisions for deferred taxes 5,270 1 5,271 Other provisions 9,804 –721 9,083 Non-current liabilities Bond loans 60,653 – 60,653 Other loans 23,898 – 23,898 Internal funding – – – Other liabilities 20,322 6,230 26,552 Current provisions 11,333 –256 11,077 Current liabilities Loans 56,497 – 56,497 Internal funding – – – Non interest-bearing liabilities held for sale 148 – 148 Interest-bearing liabilities held for sale – – – Trade payables 55,264 – 55,264 Tax liabilities 685 – 685 Other liabilities 42,608 1,544 44,153 Total equity and liabilities 398,916 6,086 405,002 172 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Volvo Group Previously reported Restatement After restatement SEK M Mar 31, 2017 IFRS 15 Mar 31, 2017 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 37,140 – 37,140 Tangible assets Property, plant and equipment 55,397 – 55,397 Assets under operating leases 34,720 3,973 38,693 Financial assets Investments in Joint Ventures and associated companies 11,943 – 11,943 Other shares and participations 817 – 817 Non-current customer-financing receivables 55,817 – 55,817 Prepaid pensions 89 – 89 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 990 – 990 Other non-current receivables 4,105 3,074 7,179 Deferred tax assets 14,539 240 14,779 Total non-current assets 215,558 7,287 222,844 Current assets Inventories 51,546 – 51,546 Current receivables Customer-financing receivables 50,915 – 50,915 Tax assets 1,450 – 1,450 Interest-bearing receivables 522 – 522 Internal funding – – – Accounts receivable 34,056 –2,167 31,888 Other receivables 15,972 1,051 17,023 Non interest-bearing assets held for sale 5,972 – 5,972 Interest-bearing assets held for sale – – – Marketable securities 246 – 246 Cash and cash equivalents 32,042 – 32,042 Total current assets 192,720 –1,116 191,603 Total assets 408,277 6,170 414,447 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent company 101,397 –863 100,535 Minority interests 1,774 – 1,774 Total equity 103,171 –863 102,308 Non-current provisions Provisions for post-employment benefits 13,744 – 13,744 Provisions for deferred taxes 5,444 – 5,445 Other provisions 9,324 –758 8,566 Non-current liabilities Bond loans 56,134 – 56,134 Other loans 27,699 – 27,699 Internal funding – – – Other liabilities 20,638 6,151 26,788 Current provisions 11,286 –246 11,041 Current liabilities Loans 57,828 – 57,828 Internal funding – – – Non interest-bearing liabilities held for sale 3,724 – 3,724 Interest-bearing liabilities held for sale 285 – 285 Trade payables 56,963 – 56,963 Tax liabilities 1,353 – 1,353 Other liabilities 40,685 1,886 42,571 Total equity and liabilities 408,277 6,170 414,447 173 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Volvo Group Previously reported Restatement After restatement SEK M Jun 30, 2017 IFRS 15 Jun 30, 2017 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 35,882 – 35,882 Tangible assets Property, plant and equipment 53,299 – 53,299 Assets under operating leases 34,484 4,304 38,788 Financial assets Investments in Joint Ventures and associated companies 11,706 – 11,706 Other shares and participations 797 – 797 Non-current customer-financing receivables 55,487 – 55,487 Prepaid pensions 87 – 87 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 1,765 – 1,765 Other non-current receivables 3,995 3,345 7,340 Deferred tax assets 13,826 275 14,101 Total non-current assets 211,327 7,925 219,252 Current assets Inventories 51,369 – 51,369 Current receivables Customer-financing receivables 50,532 – 50,532 Tax assets 2,118 – 2,118 Interest-bearing receivables 1,101 – 1,101 Internal funding – – – Accounts receivable 34,453 –2,046 32,407 Other receivables 14,902 698 15,599 Non interest-bearing assets held for sale 7,295 – 7,295 Interest-bearing assets held for sale 6 – 6 Marketable securities 193 – 193 Cash and cash equivalents 26,205 – 26,205 Total current assets 188,173 –1,348 186,825 Total assets 399,501 6,577 406,078 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent company 98,462 –966 97,495 Minority interests 1,788 – 1,788 Total equity 100,250 –966 99,283 Non-current provisions Provisions for post-employment benefits 12,677 – 12,677 Provisions for deferred taxes 5,475 1 5,475 Other provisions 9,075 –793 8,282 Non-current liabilities Bond loans 54,329 – 54,329 Other loans 28,333 – 28,333 Internal funding – – – Other liabilities 20,959 6,157 27,116 Current provisions 11,086 –263 10,823 Current liabilities Loans 48,690 – 48,690 Internal funding – – – Non interest-bearing liabilities held for sale 4,554 – 4,554 Interest-bearing liabilities held for sale 301 – 301 Trade payables 61,370 – 61,370 Tax liabilities 2,854 – 2,854 Other liabilities 39,549 2,441 41,990 Total equity and liabilities 399,501 6,577 406,078 174 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Volvo Group Previously reported Restatement After restatement SEK M Sep 30, 2017 IFRS 15 Sep 30, 2017 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 35,195 – 35,195 Tangible assets Property, plant and equipment 51,955 – 51,955 Assets under operating leases 35,001 4,675 39,677 Financial assets Investments in Joint Ventures and associated companies 10,071 – 10,071 Other shares and participations 695 – 695 Non-current customer-financing receivables 54,590 – 54,590 Prepaid pensions 92 – 92 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 1,925 – 1,925 Other non-current receivables 3,976 3,545 7,521 Deferred tax assets 13,254 301 13,555 Total non-current assets 206,755 8,521 215,277 Current assets Inventories 50,753 – 50,753 Current receivables Customer-financing receivables 50,517 – 50,517 Tax assets 2,529 – 2,529 Interest-bearing receivables 638 – 638 Internal funding – – – Accounts receivable 33,868 –2,160 31,708 Other receivables 13,814 627 14,441 Non interest-bearing assets held for sale 6,266 – 6,266 Interest-bearing assets held for sale 6 – 6 Marketable securities 164 – 164 Cash and cash equivalents 27,917 – 27,917 Total current assets 186,471 –1,533 184,938 Total assets 393,226 6,988 400,214 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent company 101,007 –1,028 99,979 Minority interests 1,798 – 1,798 Total equity 102,805 –1,028 101,777 Non-current provisions Provisions for post-employment benefits 13,556 – 13,556 Provisions for deferred taxes 4,906 2 4,908 Other provisions 8,619 –854 7,765 Non-current liabilities Bond loans 46,527 – 46,527 Other loans 24,175 – 24,175 Internal funding – – – Other liabilities 20,912 6,346 27,258 Current provisions 10,654 –313 10,341 Current liabilities Loans 57,164 – 57,164 Internal funding – – – Non interest-bearing liabilities held for sale 4,180 – 4,180 Interest-bearing liabilities held for sale 287 – 287 Trade payables 56,531 – 56,531 Tax liabilities 3,747 – 3,747 Other liabilities 39,162 2,836 41,999 Total equity and liabilities 393,226 6,988 400,214 175 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Volvo Group Volvo Group After IFRS 15 After Previously reported Restatement restatement Restatement restatement SEK M Dec 31, 2017 IFRS 15 Dec 31, 2017 IFRS 9 Jan 1, 2018 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 35,893 – 35,893 – 35,893 Tangible assets Property, plant and equipment 53,348 – 53,348 – 53,348 Assets under operating leases 37,166 4,424 41,590 –77 41,513 Financial assets Investments in Joint Ventures and associated companies 10,525 – 10,525 – 10,525 Other shares and participations 699 – 699 – 699 Non-current customer-financing receivables 57,173 – 57,173 –254 56,919 Prepaid pensions 252 – 252 – 252 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 2,335 – 2,335 – 2,335 Other non-current receivables 4,281 3,813 8,094 – 8,094 Deferred tax assets 11,782 111 11,893 129 12,022 Total non-current assets 213,455 8,348 221,803 –202 221,601 Current assets Inventories 52,701 – 52,701 – 52,701 Current receivables Customer-financing receivables 52,205 – 52,205 –142 52,062 Tax assets 1,567 – 1,567 – 1,567 Interest-bearing receivables 1,166 – 1,166 – 1,166 Internal funding – – – – – Accounts receivable 40,774 –2,585 38,189 –26 38,163 Other receivables 14,305 753 15,058 – 15,058 Non interest-bearing assets held for sale 51 – 51 – 51 Interest-bearing assets held for sale – – – – – Marketable securities 178 – 178 – 178 Cash and cash equivalents 36,092 – 36,092 – 36,092 Total current assets 199,039 –1,832 197,207 –169 197,038 Total assets 412,494 6,516 419,010 –371 418,639 Equity and liabilities Equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent com­ pany 107,069 –1,209 105,861 –371 105,490 Minority interests 1,941 – 1,941 – 1,941 Total equity 109,011 –1,209 107,802 –371 107,431 Non-current provisions Provisions for post-employment benefits 14,476 – 14,476 – 14,476 Provisions for deferred taxes 5,353 –237 5,116 – 5,116 Other provisions 9,318 –835 8,484 – 8,484 Non-current liabilities Bond loans 48,962 – 48,962 – 48,962 Other loans 24,942 – 24,942 – 24,942 Internal funding – – – – – Other liabilities 22,309 6,421 28,730 – 28,730 Current provisions 10,806 –391 10,416 – 10,416 Current liabilities Loans 53,771 – 53,771 – 53,771 Internal funding – – – – – Non interest-bearing liabilities held for sale 0 – – – 0 Interest-bearing liabilities held for sale – – – – – Trade payables 65,346 – 65,346 – 65,346 Tax liabilities 1,699 – 1,699 – 1,699 Other liabilities 46,501 2,766 49,267 – 49,267 Total equity and liabilities 412,494 6,516 419,010 –371 418,639 176 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 NOTES CONSOLIDATED NET FINANCIAL POSITION Volvo Group Previously reported Restatement After restatement SEK bn Dec 31, 2017 IFRS 9 Jan 1, 2018 Non-current interest-bearing assets Non-current customer-financing receivables 57.2 –0.3 56.9 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 2.3 – 2.3 Current interest-bearing assets Customer-financing receivables 52.2 –0.1 52.1 Interest-bearing receivables 1.2 – 1.2 Internal funding – – – Marketable securities 0.2 – 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 36.1 – 36.1 Total interest-bearing financial assets 149.1 –0.4 148.8 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Bond loans –49.0 – –49.0 Other loans –24.9 – –24.9 Internal funding – – – Current interest-bearing liabilities Loans –53.8 – –53.8 Internal funding – – – Interest-bearing liabilities held for sale – – – Total interest-bearing financial liabilities –127.7 – –127.7 Net financial position excl. post-employment benefits 21.5 –0.4 21.1 Provisions for post-employment benefits, net –14.2 – –14.2 Net financial position incl. post-employment benefits 7.3 –0.4 6.9 177 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 PARENT COMPANY Parent Company AB Volvo Corporate registration number 556012-5790. Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise specified. Amounts within parentheses refer to the preceding year, 2016 Board of Directors’ report Total investments at year end in joint ventures and associated compa­ AB Volvo is the Parent Company of the Volvo Group and its operations nies, recognized in accordance with the equity method in the consolidated comprise of the Group’s head office with staff together with some cor­porate accounts, amounted to 8,890 (10,348). The portion of shareholders’ functions. equity in joint ventures and associated companies pertaining to AB Volvo Income from investments in Group companies include dividends amounted to 6,750 (8,487). amounting to 7,442 (1,473) and transfer price adjustments and royalties Financial net debt amounted to 33,413 (38,890). amounting to an expense of 566 (331). AB Volvo’s risk capital (shareholders’ equity plus untaxed reserves) The carrying value of shares and participations in Group companies amounted to 61,535 (45,600) corresponding to 59% (48%) of total assets. amounted to 69,244 (60,816), of which 68,122 (59,694) pertained to shares in wholly owned subsidiaries. The corresponding shareholders’ equity in the subsidiaries (including equity in untaxed reserves but exclud­ ing minority interests) amounted to 115,998 (111,678). I N C O M E S TAT E M E N T SEK M 2017 2016 Net sales Note 2 491 625 Cost of sales Note 2 –491 –625 Gross income 0 0 Administrative expenses Note 2, 3 –1,708 –1,401 Other operating income and expenses Note 4 –22 –44 Income from investments in Group companies Note 5 8,936 774 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies Note 6 585 27 Income from other investments Note 7 –1 18 Operating income 7,790 –626 Interest income and similar credits 0 0 Interest expenses and similar charges Note 8 –788 –902 Other financial income and expenses Note 9 –10 26 Income after financial items 6,992 –1,502 Allocations Note 10 14,425 11,265 Income taxes Note 11 –2,416 –1,636 Income for the period 19,001 8,127 OT H E R C O M P R E H E N S I V E I N C O M E Income for the period 19,001 8,127 Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes – – Total comprehensive income for the period 19,001 8,127 178 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 PARENT COMPANY BAL ANCE SHEET SEK M Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Assets Non-current assets Tangible assets Note 12 8 11 Financial assets Shares and participations in Group companies Note 13 69,244 60,816 Receivables from Group companies 19 48 Investments in joint ventures and associated companies Note 13 8,895 10,353 Other shares and participations Note 13 7 7 Deferred tax assets Note 11 195 168 Other non-current receivables – 0 Total non-current assets 78,368 71,403 Current assets Current receivables Receivables Group companies 25,826 23,332 Tax assets 23 2 Other receivables Note 14 96 235 Total current assets 25,945 23,569 Total assets 104,313 94,972 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Shareholders’ equity Restricted equity Share capital 2,554 2,554 Statutory reserve 7,337 7,337 Unrestricted equity Non-restricted reserves 338 327 Retained earnings 26,304 24,753 Income for the period 19,001 8,127 Total shareholders’ equity 55,534 43,098 Untaxed reserves Note 15 6,001 2,502 Provisions Provisions for post-employment benefits Note 16 103 112 Other provisions Note 17 6 Total provisions 103 118 Non-current liabilities Note 18 Liabilities to Group companies 13,973 13,973 Other liabilities 8 5 Total non-current liabilities 13,981 13,978 Current liabilities Trade payables 200 193 Other liabilities to Group companies 27,459 34,504 Tax liabilities 474 176 Other liabilities Note 19 561 403 Total current liabilities 28,694 35,276 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 104,313 94,972 179 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 PARENT COMPANY C A S H F LOW S TAT E M E N T SEK M 2017 2016 Operating activities Operating income 7,790 –626 Depreciation and amortization 1 10 Other non-cash items Note 21 –2,338 460 Total change in working capital whereof 66 447 Change in accounts receivable 7 –179 Change in trade payables –46 –8 Other changes in working capital 105 634 Interest and similar items received 0 0 Interest and similar items paid –786 –910 Other financial items –11 6 Group contributions received 13,763 12,566 Income taxes paid –2,046 –1,517 Cash-flow from operating activities 16,439 10,436 Investing activities Investments in fixed assets 1 –1 Disposals of fixed assets 0 32 Investments and divestments of shares in group companies, net Note 21 –6,368 –418 Investments and divestments of shares in non-group companies, net Note 21 1,976 24 Cash-flow after net investments 12,048 10,073 Financing activities Change in loans, net Note 21 –5,466 –4,018 Dividends to AB Volvo shareholders –6,603 –6,093 Other 21 38 Change in liquid funds 0 0 Liquid funds, beginning of year – – Liquid funds, end of year – – 180 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 PARENT COMPANY C H A N G E S I N S H A R E H O L D E R S ’ EQ U I T Y Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Total Statutory Share premium Retained ­shareholders’ SEK M Share capital reserve reserve earnings Total equity Balance at December 31, 2015 2,554 7,337 302 30,813 31,115 41,006 Income for the period – – – 8,127 8,127 8,127 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income for the period – – – – – – Total income for the period – – – 8,127 8,127 8,127 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to AB Volvo shareholders – – – –6,093 –6,093 –6,093 Share based payments – – 25 33 58 58 Transactions with shareholders – – 25 –6,060 –6,035 –6,035 Balance at December 31, 2016 2,554 7,337 327 32,880 33,207 43,098 Income for the period – – – 19,001 19,001 19,001 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income for the period – – – – – – Total income for the period – – – 19,001 19,001 19,001 Transactions with shareholders Dividends to AB Volvo shareholders – – – –6,603 –6,603 –6,603 Share based payments – – 11 27 38 38 Transactions with shareholders – – 11 –6,576 –6,565 –6,565 Balance at December 31, 2017 2,554 7,337 338 45,305 45,643 55,534 Read more in Note 19 Equity and number of shares in the consolidated financial statements about the share capital of the Parent Company. 181 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 PARENT COMPANY NOTES Notes to financial statements Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise specified. The amounts within ­parentheses refer to the preceding year, 2016. shall be applied for supplementary disclosures when applicable. RFR 2 NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES refers to the Swedish law on safeguarding of pension commitments (“tryggandelagen”) related to recognition of provisions for post-employment benefits in the balance sheet and of plan assets in pension foundations. The Parent Company has prepared its financial statements in accordance The Parent Company recognizes the difference between depreciation with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and RFR 2, Accounting according to plan and tax depreciation as accumulated additional depre­ for Legal entities. According to RFR 2, the Parent Company shall apply all ciation, included in untaxed reserves. the International Financial Reporting Standards endorsed by the EU as far Reporting of group contributions is recognized in accordance with the as this is possible within the framework of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. alternative rule in RFR 2. Group contributions are reported as allocations. The changes in RFR 2 applicable to the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2017, have had no material impact on the financial statements of the Parent Company. The changes in RFR 2 applicable to the fiscal year beginning January NOTE 2 INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS 1, 2018 or later concerns IFRS 9 Financial instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers and IFRS 16 Leases. IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective as from January 1, 2018. The The Parent Company’s net sales amounted to 491 (625), of which 452 exception in RFR 2 regarding financial contracts of guarantee in favour of (528) pertained to Group companies. Purchases from Group companies subsidiaries and associated companies will still apply. The changes in amounted to 588 (583). IFRS 9 compared to IAS 39 Financial instruments relates to classification, measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. The implementation of IFRS 9 will have no effect in regards to classification, measurement and hedge accounting. The impact of the new standard mainly relates to the NOTE 3 ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES change of impairment model from an incurred loss model to an expected credit loss model for financial instruments. The major part of financial instruments in the Parent Company consists of internal financial assets Depreciation within the Volvo Group and there is no expectation on credit losses for Administrative expenses include depreciation of 1 (10) of which 1 (1) per­ these assets. This is based on no historical credit losses and with no tains to machinery and equipment, – (0) to buildings and – (8) to other expectation on future losses since the credit risk is low. The implementa­ intangible assets. tion of IFRS 9 will not have any major impact on the Parent Company. IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is effective as from January 1, 2018. RFR 2 includes no exception applicable to the Parent Fees to the auditors 2017 2016 Company. The changes in IFRS 15 compared to IAS 11 Construction con­ PricewaterhouseCoopers AB tracts, IAS 18 Revenue and the related interpretations IFRIC 13, 15, 18 and – Audit fees 23 23 SIC-31, relates to a new framework for recognizing revenue with additional – Audit-related fees 3 1 disclosure requirements. The framework establishes principles about the – Other fees 0 – amount and timing for recognizing revenue considering variable amounts Total 26 24 and the timing for transferring control. The implementation of IFRS15 will not have any major impact on revenue recognition for the Parent Company. Read more in Note 28 Fees to the Auditors in the consolidated financial IFRS 16 Leases is effective as from January 1, 2019. RFR 2 will con­ statements for a description of the different categories of fees. tinue to include an exception allowing all lease contracts to be accounted for as operational lease contracts when the Parent Company is a lessee. Personnel The changes in IFRS 16 compared to IAS 17 Leases will not have any Wages, salaries and other remunerations amounted to 483 (381), social major impact on the Parent Company. costs to 156 (107) and pension costs to 116 (108). Pension cost of 6 (5) The accounting policies applied by the Volvo Group are described in the pertained to Board Members and the President. The Parent Company has respective Notes in the consolidated financial statements. The main devi­ outstanding pension obligations of 1 (0) to these individuals. ations between the accounting policies applied by the Volvo Group and The number of employees at year end was 305 (309). the Parent Company are described below. Read  more in Note 27 Personnel in the consolidated financial statements Shares and participations in Group companies and investments in joint about the average number of employees, wages, salaries and other remunera­ ventures and associated companies are recognized at cost in the Parent tions including incentive program as well as Board members and senior Company and test for impairment is performed annually. In accordance ­executives by gender. with RFR 2, the Parent Company includes expenses related to acquisition of a business in the acquisition value. Dividend is recognized in the income statement. All shares and participations are related to business opera­ OTHER OPERATING INCOME tions and profit or loss are recognized within operating income. NOTE 4 AND EXPENSES The Parent Company applies the exception in the application of IAS 39 which concerns accounting and measurement of financial contracts of guar­ antee in favour of subsidiaries and associated companies. The Parent Com­ Other operating income and expenses include restructuring costs, dona­ pany recognizes the financial contracts of guarantee as contingent liabilities. tions and grants and Volvo profit sharing program costs by 5 (3). According to RFR 2, application of the regulations in IAS 19 regarding defined-benefit plans is not mandatory for legal entities. However, IAS 19 182 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 PARENT COMPANY NOTES INCOME FROM INVESTMENTS NOTE 5 NOTE 8 INTEREST EXPENSES IN GROUP COMPANIES Income from investments in Interest expenses and similar charges totalling 788 (902) included Group Companies 2017 2016 ­interest of 787 (901) to subsidiaries. Dividends received Volvo Construction Equipment N.V., The Netherlands 5,940 – OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME Volvo Financial Services AB, Sweden 1,400 – NOTE 9 Volvo Danmark A/S, Denmark 65 69 AND EXPENSES Volvo Norge AS, Norway 37 65 Volvo Holding Sverige AB, Sweden – 747 Other financial income and expenses include exchange rate gains and Volvo Korea Holding AB, Sweden – 561 losses, costs for credit rating and stock exchange listing cost. Volvo Group UK Ltd., Great Britain – 31 Subtotal 7,442 1,473 Impairment of shares NOTE 10 ALLOCATIONS ZAO Volvo Vostok, Russia –142 – UD Trucks Corporation, Japan – –417 Subtotal –142 –417 Allocations include a net of group contributions of 17,924 (13,763), tax alloca­ Reversal impairment of shares tion reserve of –3,500 (–2,500) and reversal of additional depreciation of 1 (2). Volvo Bussar AB, Sweden 63 – VNA Holding Inc., USA 410 – Volvo Group Venture Capital AB, Sweden 8 – Volvo Group Mexico SA, Mexico 11 – NOTE 11 INCOME TAXES Volvo China Investment Co Ltd., China 107 – Volvo Information Technology AB, Sweden 103 – Sotrof AB, Sweden 1,500 – Income taxes were distributed as follow: Volvo Parts AB, Sweden – 50 2017 2016 Subtotal 2,202 50 Current taxes relating to the period –2,526 –1,809 Income from divestment of shares Adjustment of current taxes for prior period 83 162 Part of Volvo Norge AS after fission – 0 Deferred taxes 27 11 Adjustment of divestment Volvo Aero AB – –1 I/S Total income taxes –2,416 –1,636 Subtotal – –1 Deferred taxes relate to estimated tax on the change in tax-loss carry­ Income from investments in Group Companies 9,502 1,105 forwards and temporary differences. The table below discloses the principal reasons for the difference Transfer price adjustments and royalties amount to an expense of 566 (331). between the corporate income tax of 22% and the tax for the period: 2017 2016 INCOME FROM INVESTMENTS IN JOINT NOTE 6 VENTURES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES Income before taxes 21,417 9,763 Income tax according to applicable tax rate –4,712 –2,148 Capital gains/losses 115 0 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies Non-taxable dividends 1,652 340 include gain from divestment of Deutz AG of 524. Dividend has been Non-taxable revaluations of shareholdings 452 –412 recevied from Deutz AG of 20 (20), and from VE Commercial Vehicles, Other non-deductible expenses 15 309 Ltd. of 45 (51). Impairment of participation in Blue Chip Jet HB has been Other non-taxable income –20 109 made by 5. Adjustment of current taxes for prior period 83 162 In 2016 impairment of participation in Blue Chip Jet HB was made by 2 Adjustment of deferred taxes for prior periods 1 4 and in Blue Chip Jet II HB by 42. Current tax on standardized method –2 – Income taxes for the period –2,416 –1,636 NOTE 7 INCOME FROM OTHER INVESTMENTS Specification of deferred tax assets Dec 31, Dec 31, 2017 2016 Provisions for post-employment benefits 195 166 Income from other investments 2017 include impairment of shares in Provisions for restructuring measures – 2 Johanneberg Science Park AB and Lindholmen Science Park AB by 1 (1). B/S Deferred tax assets 195 168 In 2016 gain from divestment of participation in Brf Falken was included by 19. 183 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 PARENT COMPANY NOTES NOTE 12 INTANGIBLE AND TANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets, acquisition costs Rights Other intangible assets Total intangible assets Opening balance 2016 52 116 168 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2016 52 116 168 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2017 52 116 168 Intangible assets, accumulated amortization Rights Other intangible assets Total intangible assets Opening balance 2016 52 108 160 Amortization – 8 8 Accumulated amortization as of Dec 31, 2016 52 116 168 Accumulated amortization as of Dec 31, 2017 52 116 168 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20161 – – – B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20171 – – – Tangible assets, acquisition costs Construction in Land and Machinery progress, including Buildings improvements and equipment advance payments Total tangible assets Opening balance 2016 21 11 47 0 79 Capital Expenditures – – – 1 1 Sales/scrapping –21 –11 –25 – –57 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2016 – – 22 1 23 Sales/scrapping – – –1 –1 –2 Acquisition cost as of Dec 31, 2017 – – 21 – 21 Tangible assets, accumulated Construction in depreciation Land and Machinery progress, including Buildings improvements and equipment advance payments Total tangible assets Opening balance 2016 4 0 34 – 38 Depreciation – 0 1 – 1 Sales/scrapping –4 0 –23 – –27 Accumulated depreciation as of Dec 31, 2016 – – 12 – 12 Depreciation – – 1 – 1 Accumulated depreciation as of Dec 31, 2017 – – 13 – 13 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20161 – – 10 1 11 B/S Net value in balance sheet as of Dec 31, 20171 – – 8 – 8 1 Acquisition value, less accumulated depreciation, amortization and impairment. NOTE 13 INVESTMENTS IN SHARES AND PARTICIPATIONS AB Volvo owns, directly or indirectly, 261 (260) legal entities. The legal restrictions which limit the Group’s ability to transfer assets between the structure is designed to effectively manage legal requirements, adminis­ Group’s legal entities. Read more in Note 18 Marketable securities and tration and taxes, as well as the operations conducted by the Group in liquid funds in the consolidated financial statements for a description of each country it operates. Legal entities may have different characters and restrictions related to cash and cash equivalents. include different types of operations, such as production, development Volvo Group’s operational structure gives a better overview of how the and sales. The character of a legal entity may change over time. Further­ Volvo Group has chosen to organize its business. Read more about Volvo more legal entities could include different type of the Group’s operations Group’s operational structure in Note 6 Segment Reporting in the consoli­ and this could also change over time. In some countries there are legal dated financial statements. 184 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 PARENT COMPANY NOTES Changes in AB Volvo’s holding of shares and participations are disclosed below: Joint ventures Group companies and associated companies Non–Group companies 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening balance as of January 1 60,816 60,766 10,353 10,397 7 13 Acquisitions/New issue of shares 5,725 – – – – – Divestments – – –1,359 – – –6 Shareholder’s contribution 642 417 – – 1 1 Repayment of equity – – –94 – – – Impairment of shares and participations –142 –417 –5 –44 –1 –1 Reversal impairment of shares and participations 2,203 50 – – – – B/S Balance sheet, December 31 69,244 60,816 8,895 10,353 7 7 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Shares and participations in Group companies Registration Percentage Carrying Carrying During 2017 shares in Volvo Construction Equip­ Holding of shares in Group c ­ ompanies number holding1 value2 value2 ment AB has been transferred from Volvo Construc­ Volvo Lastvagnar AB, Sweden 556013-9700 100 8,711 8,711 tion Equipment N.V. in form of dividend by 5,725. Volvo Holding Sverige AB, Sweden 556539-9853 100 7,634 7,634 Shareholder’s contribution has been paid to Volvo UD Trucks Corporation, Japan – 100 8,928 8,928 Construction Equipment N.V. by 500 and to ZAO Volvo Bussar AB, Sweden 556197-3826 100 1,980 1,917 Volvo Vostok by 142. Impairment has been made in Volvo Construction Equipment AB, Sweden 556021-9338 100 5,725 – ZAO Volvo Vostok by 142. Reversal of impairment in Volvo Construction Equipment N.V., The Netherlands – 100 3,082 2,582 Volvo Bussar AB has been made by 63, in VNA AB Volvo Penta, Sweden 556034-1330 100 438 438 Holding Inc by 410, in Volvo Group Venture Capital by 8, in Volvo Group Mexico SA by 12, in Volvo China VNA Holding Inc., USA – 100 3,688 3,278 Investment Co Ltd. by 107, in Volvo Information Tech­ Volvo Financial Services AB, Sweden 556000-5406 100 1,945 1,945 nology AB by 103 and in Sotrof AB by 1,500. Volvo Treasury AB, Sweden 556135-4449 100 13,044 13,044 During 2016 shareholder’s contribution was paid to Sotrof AB, Sweden 556519-4494 100 2,888 1,388 UD Trucks Corporation, Japan by 417. Impairment of Volvo Korea Holding AB, Sweden 556531-8572 100 2,655 2,655 the holding was made with the same amount. Rever­ Volvo China Investment Co Ltd., China – 100 1,203 1,096 sal of impairment in Volvo Parts AB was made by 50. Volvo Automotive Finance (China) Ltd., China – 100 491 491 AB Volvo’s holding in Group companies is Volvo Group UK Ltd., Great Britain3 – 55 561 561 ­presented in the adjoining table. Volvo Group Mexico SA, Mexico – 100 543 531 Investments in associated companies Volvo Group Venture Capital AB, Sweden 556542-4370 100 369 361 and joint ventures Volvo Powertrain AB, Sweden 556000-0753 100 898 898 Divestment of Deutz AG has reduced the carrying Volvo Information Technology AB, Sweden 556103-2698 100 1,366 1,263 value by 1,359. Repayment of capital from Blue Chip Volvo Parts AB, Sweden 556365-9746 100 200 200 Jet II HB has decreased the carrying value by 94. Volvo Group Insurance Försäkrings AB, Sweden 516401-8037 100 182 182 Impairment of participation in Blue Chip Jet HB has Volvo Business Services AB, Sweden 556029-5197 100 – – been made by 5. Volvo Danmark A/S, Denmark – 100 157 157 During 2016 impairment of participation in Blue VFS Servizi Financiari Spa, Italy4 – 25 79 79 Chip Jet HB was made by 2 and in Blue Chip Jet II Kommersiella Fordon Europa AB, Sweden 556049-3388 100 1,890 1,890 HB by 42. Volvo Norge AS, Norway – 100 43 43 Shares and participations in Volvo Malaysia Sdn Bhd., Malaysia – 100 48 48 non-Group companies ZAO Volvo Vostok, Russia5 – 75 34 34 Shareholders’ contribution has been paid to Volvo Italia Spa, Italy 6 – 65 447 447 Johanneberg Science Park AB and Lindholmen Volvo Logistics AB, Sweden 556197-9732 100 – – Sciende Park AB by 1 (1). Impairment of shares in Alviva AB, Sweden 556622-8820 100 – – Johanneberg Science Partk AB and Lindholmen Volvo East Asia (Pte) Ltd., Singapore – 100 – – Science Park AB has been made by 1 (1). Volvo Information Technology GB Ltd., Great Britain – 100 3 3 During 2016 divestment of participation in Brf VFS Latvia SIA, Latvia – 100 9 9 Falken was made by 6. VFS Int Romania Leasing Operational, Romania – 100 2 2 1 The percentage holding refers to the Parent Other holdings – – 1 1 Company AB Volvo’s holding. Total carrying value Group companies 7 69,244 60,816 2 Refers to AB Volvo’s carrying value of its holding. 3 Total holding by Volvo Lastvagnar AB and AB Volvo is 100%. Holding of shares in Joint Ventures, Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 4 Total holding by Volvo Italia Spa and AB Volvo associated companies and Registration Percentage Carrying Carrying is 100%. non-Group companies number holding1 value2 value2 5 Total holding by AB Volvo and Volvo Trucks Region Central Europe GmbH is 100%. Dongfeng Commercial Vehicles Co. Ltd., China – 45.0 7,197 7,197 6 Total holding by Renault Trucks (SAS), Volvo VE Commercial Vehicles Ltd., India8 – 45.6 1,616 1,616 Lastvagnar AB and AB Volvo is 100%. Deutz AG, Germany – 0 – 1,359 7 A B Volvo’s share of shareholders’ equity in Blue Chip Jet HB, Sweden 969639-1011 50.0 – 5 ­subsidiaries (including equity in untaxed reserves) was 115,998 (111,678). Blue Chip Jet II HB, Sweden 969717-2105 50.0 77 170 8 In Volvo Group the company is reported as a Other investments – 12 13 joint venture, consolidated according to equity Total carrying value, joint ventures, ­associated method. companies and non-Group companies 8,902 10,360 185 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 PARENT COMPANY NOTES Obligations in NOTE 14 OTHER RECEIVABLES defined-benefit plans Funded Unfunded Total Obligations opening balance 2016 593 117 710 Service costs 15 10 25 Dec 31, Dec 31, 2017 2016 Interest costs 23 1 24 Pensions paid –19 –16 –35 Accounts receivable 10 20 Obligations as of December 31, 2016 612 112 724 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 60 57 Other receivables 26 158 Service costs 16 6 22 Interest costs 24 1 25 B/S Total other receivables 96 235 Pensions paid –19 –16 –35 Obligations as of December 31, 2017 633 103 736 The valuation allowance for doubtful receivables amounted to – (1) at the end of the year. Fair value is not considered to differ from carrying value. Fair value of plan assets in funded plans Plan assets opening balance 2016 692 NOTE 15 UNTAXED RESERVES Actual return on plan assets 55 Contributions and compensation to/from the fund – Plan assets as of December 31, 2016 747 Dec 31, Dec 31, Actual return on plan assets 53 2017 2016 Contributions and compensation to/from the fund – Plan assets as of December 31, 2017 800 Tax allocation reserve 6,000 2,500 Accumulated additional depreciation: Machinery and equipment 1 2 Provisions for post-employment benefits Dec 31, Dec 31, 2017 2016 B/S Total untaxed reserves 6,001 2,502 Obligations1 –736 –724 Fair value of plan assets 800 747 PROVISIONS FOR Funded status 64 23 NOTE 16 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Limitation on assets in accordance with RFR2 (when plan assets exceed corresponding obligations) –167 –135 B/S Net provisions for The Parent Company has two types of pension plans: post-employment ­benefits2 –103 –112 Defined-contribution plans: post-employment benefit plans where the 1 The ITP2 obligations amount to –615 (–593). Company makes regular payments to separate entities and has no legal 2 ITP2 obligations, net, amount to 0 (0). or constructive obligation to pay further contributions. The expenses for defined contribution plans are recognized during the period when the Pension costs 2017 2016 employee provides service. Service costs 22 25 Defined-benefit plans: post-employment benefit plans where the Company’s Interest costs3 25 24 undertaking is to provide predetermined benefits that the employee will Interest income3 –21 –19 receive on or after retirement. These benefit plans are secured through Pension costs for defined-benefit plans 26 30 balance-sheet provisions or pension-fund contributions. Furthermore, a Pension costs for defined-contribution plans 55 49 credit insurance policy has been taken out for the value of the obligations. The main defined-benefit plan is the ITP2 plan which is based on final Special payroll tax/yield tax4 34 28 salary. The plan is semi-closed, meaning that only new employees born Cost for credit insurance FPG 1 1 before 1979 have the possibility to choose the ITP2 solution. The ITP2 Total costs for the period 116 108 plan for the Company is funded in Volvo Pension Foundation. Pension 3 Interest cost, net of 1 (1) is included in financial items. obligations are calculated annually, on the balance sheet date, based on 4S pecial payroll tax/yield tax are calculated according to Swedish Tax law and actuarial assumptions. accrued for in current liabilities. The defined-benefit obligations are calculated based on the actual ­salary levels at year-end and based on a discount rate of 3.84% (3.84) for Volvo Group applies IAS 19 Employee Benefits in the consolidated finan­ the ITP2 plan and 0.7% (0.8) for other pension obligations. Assumptions cial statements. This implies differences, which may be significant, in the for discount rates and mortality rates are determined annually by PRI Pen­ accounting of defined-benefit pension plans as well as in the accounting sionsgaranti for ITP2 and Finansinspektionen for other pension obliga­ of plan assets invested in the Volvo Pension Foundation. tions, respectively. The Volvo Pension Foundation was formed in 1996 to secure obliga­ tions relating to retirement pensions in accordance with the ITP plan. Since its formation, net contributions of 250 have been made to the foun­ dation by the Parent Company. Provisions for post-employment benefits in the Parent Company’s ­balance sheet correspond to the present value of obligations at year end, less value of plan assets. 186 GROUP PERFORMANCE 2017 PARENT COMPANY NOTES The accounting principles for defined-benefit plans differ from IAS19 mainly relating to: NOTE 21 CASH-FLOW • Pension liability calculated according to Swedish accounting principles does not take into account future salary increases. • The discount rate used in the calculations is set by PRI Pensions­garanti Other non-cash items 2017 2016 and Finansinspektionen, respectively. Revaluation of shareholdings -2,054 412 • Changes in the discount rate, actual return on plan assets and other Gains on sale of shares –524 –18 actuarial assumptions are recognized directly in the income statement Transfer price adjustments, net 28 –24 and in the balance sheet. Other changes 212 90 • Deficit must be either immediately settled in cash or recognized as a Total Other items not affecting cash flow –2,338 460 liability in the balance sheet. • Surplus cannot be recognized as an asset, but may in some cases be Further information is provided in Note 5 Income from investments in refunded to the Company to offset pension costs. Group companies, Note 6 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated companies and Note 7 Income from other investments. Acquired and divested shares in NOTE 17 OTHER PROVISIONS Group companies, net 2017 2016 Acquisitions –6,368 –417 Divestments – –1 Other provisions include provisions for restructuring measures of – (6). Total cash flow from acquired and divested shares in Group companies, net –6,368 –418 Acquisitions and divestments of participations in Group companies are NOTE 18 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES shown in Note 13 Investments in shares and participations. Acquired and divested shares in Non-current debt matures as follows: non-Group companies, net 2017 2016 Acquisitions –1 –1 Divestments 1,977 25 2019–2023 13,977 Total cash flow from acquired and divested 2024 or later 4 shares in non-Group companies, net 1,976 24 B/S Total non-current liabilities 13,981 Acquisitions and divestments of participations in non-Group companies are presented in Note 13 Investments in shares and participations. NOTE 19 OTHER LIABILITIES Change in loans, net Dec 31, Cash Dec 31, 2016 flows Other 2017 Non-current liabilities to Dec 31, Dec 31, Group ­companies 13,973 – – 13,973 2017 2016 Current liabilities to Wages, salaries and withholding taxes 320 183 Group companies VAT liabilities – 5 Liability in group account at Volvo Treasury AB 24,806 –5,466 –3 19,337 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 237 212 Total –5,466 Other liabilities 4 3 B/S Total other liabilities 561 403 No collateral is provided for current liabilities. NOTE 20 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2017, amounted to 274,646 (298,384) of which 274,445 (298,363) pertained to Group companies. Credit guarantees are included to an amount corresponding to the credit limits. Credit guarantees amounted to 260,355 (277,696). The total amount pertained to Group companies. The utilized portion at year end amounted to 117,863 (133,041), of which 117,842 (133,020) pertained to Group companies. 187 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E Corporate governance report 2017 The Volvo Group appreciates the value of sound corporate governance as a fundamental base in achieving a trusting relation with shareholders and other key parties. The Swedish Corporate Governance Code, which is applied by the Volvo Group, aims at creating a sound balance of power between shareholders, the board of directors and the senior management. Sound corporate governance, characterized by high standards when it comes to transparency, reliability and ethical values, has always been a well-established guiding principle within the Volvo Group’s operations. T H E S W E D I S H C O R P O R AT E G ­ OVERNANCE CODE C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E M O D E L AB Volvo’s shares are admitted to trading on the stock exchange Nasdaq At the General Meetings of AB Volvo, which is the Parent Company of the Stockholm’s main market. As a listed company, Volvo applies the Swedish Volvo Group, the shareholders exercise their voting rights with regard to Corporate Governance Code (the Code), which is available at for example the composition of the Board of Directors of AB Volvo and the www.corporategovernanceboard.se. election of auditors. This Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in accordance An Election Committee, appointed by the Annual General Meeting of with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Code, and is separate AB Volvo, submits proposals to the upcoming Annual General Meeting from the Annual Report. The report has been reviewed by Volvo’s auditors concerning the election of Board members and Board Chairman as well as and includes a report from the auditors. proposals for resolutions concerning remuneration of the Board. When applicable, the Election Committee also submits proposals for the election of external auditors and for resolutions concerning fees to the auditors. The Board is ultimately responsible for Volvo’s organization and the management of its operations. In addition, the Board appoints the President and CEO of AB Volvo. The CEO is in charge of the daily management of the Group in accordance with the guidelines provided by the Board. AB Volvo’s Annual General Meeting 2017 was held on April 4 in Konserthuset, Göteborg, Sweden. 188 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 1 Shareholders Vote at the General Meetings AB VOLVO 2 Elects Auditor General Meeting Appoints Submits proposals concerning election of Board 5 Election members, auditors and Election Committee for Audit Committee Committee the upcoming Annual General Meeting. 8 Auditor Remuneration 3 Election Committee 6 Committee 7 Volvo CE Committee Elects Board Prepare part of the Board’s work. 4 Board of Directors The auditors review the interim report for the period January 1 Appoints President/CEO to June 30 and audit the annual 10 report and ­consolidated financial 11 ­statements. President/CEO 9 Corporate Audit 12 Internal Control over Financial Reporting 11 Group Executive Board BUSINESS AREAS/ Operations DIVISIONS 189 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 1 SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS 2 GENERAL MEETING AB Volvo is a CSD company, which means that the share register is main­ General tained by Euroclear Sweden AB. On December 31, 2017, Volvo had The General Meeting is Volvo’s highest decision-making body. The Annual 240,521 shareholders according to the share register. The largest share­ General Meeting is held within six months of the end of the fiscal year, holder, in terms of votes on that date was AB Industrivärden, with 23.1 normally in Göteborg. percent of the votes based on the number of shares. Cevian Capital held In addition to what follows from applicable law regarding shareholders’ 15.9 percent of the votes, Norges Bank Investment Management held 5.4 right to participate at General Meetings, under Volvo’s Articles of Associa­ percent of the votes and Svenska Handels­banken together with SHB tion shareholders must give notice of their attendance (within the time Pension Fund, SHB Employee Fund, SHB Pensionskassa and Oktogonen stated in the convening notice) and notify the company of any intention to 5.1 percent of the votes, based on the number of shares outstanding¹. bring assistants. Volvo has issued two classes of shares: series A and series B. At a A shareholder who wants the Meeting to consider a special matter General Meeting, series A shares carry one vote and series B shares must submit a request to the Board in sufficient time prior to the Meeting ­one-tenth of a vote. The two share classes carry equal rights to a share in to the address provided on Volvo’s website, www.volvogroup.com. the assets and earnings of the company. According to a special share conversion clause in the Articles of Association, holders of series A Annual General Meeting 2018 shares are entitled to request that their series A shares be converted to Volvo’s Annual General Meeting for 2018 will be held on Thursday, series B shares. Implementation of such conversions would entail that the April 5, 2018 in Konserthuset, Göteborg. For further information about total number of votes in the company decreased. the Annual General Meeting 2018, please refer to the fold-out at For more information about the Volvo share and its shareholders, refer to the end of the Annual and Sustainability Report and Volvo’s website, the Board of Director’s Report on pages 109–111 of the Annual Report. www.volvogroup.com. ¹ According to a press release on December 27, 2017, Cevian Capital and Zheijiang Geely Holding Group (“Geely”) have entered into an agreement regarding Geely’s acquisition of Cevian’s shares in AB Volvo. Geely has not yet entered the shares when this Corporate Governance Report was prepared. AB Volvo’s Annual General Meeting 2017. 190 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 3 ELECTION COMMIT TEE 4 B OA R D O F D I R E C TO R S Duties Duties The Election Committee shall perform the tasks that are incumbent upon The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for Volvo’s organization the Election Committee according to the Code. The main task is to prepare and management of the company’s operations. The Board is responsible and present proposals to the Annual General Meeting on behalf of the for the Group’s long-term development and strategy, for regularly control­ shareholders for the election of Board members, the Chairman and Board ling and evaluating the Group’s operations and for the other duties set remuneration and, when applicable, proposals for auditors and fees to forth in the Swedish Companies Act. the auditors. In addition, the Election Committee, in accordance with prevailing Composition instructions for Volvo’s Election Committee, presents proposals for ­members During the period January 1, 2017 to April 4, 2017, AB Volvo’s Board of the Election Committee for the following year. consisted of eleven members elected by the Annual General Meeting and three members and two deputy members appointed by employee organi­ Composition zations. According to the Articles of Association, the Board shall consist In accordance with the instructions for Volvo’s Election Committee of not less than six and not more than twelve members elected by the adopted by the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the Annual General Meet­ General Meeting. ing shall elect five members to serve on the Election Committee, of whom The Annual General Meeting 2017 re-elected Matti Alahuhta, Eckhard four shall represent the largest shareholders in the company, in terms of Cordes, James W. Griffith, Martin Lundstedt, Kathryn V. Marinello, Martina votes who have expressed their willingness to participate on the Election Merz, Hanne de Mora, Håkan Samuelsson, Helena Stjernholm, Carl-­Henric Committee. In addition, one of the members shall be the Chairman of the Svanberg and Lars Westerberg as Board members and Carl-Henric Svan­ AB Volvo Board. Additionally, the Election Committee can offer other berg as Chairman of the Board. An account of each Board member’s age, major shareholders to appoint one representative as a member of the principal education, professional experience, assignments in the company, Election Committee. If such an offer is made, it should be directed in other significant assignments, their own and related parties’ ownership turn to the largest shareholder in terms of votes not already represented of shares in Volvo as of March 6, 2018, and the year they were elected on the Election Committee. The number of members on the Election to the Volvo Board, is presented in the “Board of Directors” section on ­Committee may however not exceed seven. pages 196-197. In accordance with its instructions, Volvo’s Annual General Meeting Prior to the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the Election Committee 2017 resolved to appoint the following individuals as members of the announced that it had applied the provisions of rule 4.1 of the Code as Election Committee: board diversity policy. The aim is that the Board as a collective should • Carl-Henric Svanberg, Chairman of the Board, possess the required mix in terms of background and knowledge, whereby • Bengt Kjell, representing AB Industrivärden, an even gender distribution is taken into particular account. The result of • Lars Förberg, representing Cevian Capital, the Election Committee’s application of the diversity policy is a Board that • Yngve Slyngstad, representing Norges Bank Investment Management, represents a mix of both professional experience and knowledge as well and as geographical and cultural backgrounds. With the exception of the CEO, • Pär Boman, representing Svenska Handelsbanken, SHB Pension Fund, 40 percent of the Board members elected at the Annual General Meeting SHB Employee Fund, SHB Pensionskassa and Oktogonen. are women. The Election Committee appointed Bengt Kjell as Chairman of the Com­ Independence requirements mittee. The Board of Directors of AB Volvo is subject to the independence Due to Cevian Capital’s divestment of its entire shareholding in AB requirements prescribed in the Code. Volvo, the Election Committee member Lars Förberg left the Election Prior to the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the Nomination Committee Committee in February 2018. presented the following assessment of the independence of Board members elected at the 2017 Annual General Meeting. Matti Alahuhta, James W. Griffith, Kathryn V. Marinello, Martina Merz, Hanne de Mora, Håkan Samuelsson, Carl-Henric Svanberg and Lars Westerberg were all considered independent of the company and company management, as well as the company’s major shareholders. Martin Lundstedt, as President of AB Volvo and CEO of the Volvo Group, was considered independent of the company’s major shareholders but not of the company and company management. Eckhard Cordes and Helena Stjernholm were considered independent of the company and company management. Since Cevian Capital Partners, prior to the Annual General Meeting 2017, controlled more than 10 percent of the votes in the company, ­Eckhard Cordes, due to his capacity as partner in Cevian Capital Partners, was not considered independent in relation to one of the company’s major shareholders. Since AB Industrivärden, prior to the Annual General Meeting 2017, controlled more than 10 percent of the votes in the company, Helena 191 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 Stjernholm, due to her capacity as President and CEO of AB Industri­ Evaluation of the Board’s work värden, was not considered independent in relation to one of the In 2017, the Board performed its yearly evaluation of the Board’s work. ­company’s major shareholders. The purpose of the evaluation is to further develop the Board’s efficiency and working procedures and to determine the main focus of the Board’s Work procedures coming work. In addition, the evaluation serves as a tool for determining Every year, the Board adopts work procedures for the Board’s work. the competence required by the Board and for analyzing the competence The work procedures outline how the Board’s duties should be distrib­ that already exists in the current Board. By that, the evaluation also serves uted, including the specific role and duties of the Chairman, instructions as input for the Election Committee’s work with proposing Board ­members. for the division of duties between the Board and the President and for the As part of the yearly evaluation, Board members were asked to com­ reporting of financial information to the Board. The Board has also plete a questionnaire and assess various areas related to the Board’s adopted specific instructions for the Board’s committees, which are linked work from their own perspective. The areas evaluated for 2017 included to the work procedures. the Board’s composition, the management and focus of Board meetings, Board support and how the Board addresses issues related to strategy, The Board’s work in 2017 potential risks and succession planning. The areas covered by the evalu­ The Board’s work is mainly performed within the framework of formal ation may differ from one year to another to reflect the development of the Board meetings and through meetings in the respective committees of Board’s work and the Volvo Group. the Board. In addition, regular contact is maintained between the Chair­ Separate evaluations were conducted of the Board as a collective, of man of the Board and the CEO in order to discuss ongoing business and the Chairman of the Board, the Audit Committee, Remuneration Commit­ to ensure that the Board’s decisions are executed. tee and Volvo CE Committee. The results of the evaluations of the Board In 2017, there were nine regular Board meetings, one extraordinary as a collective and of the Chairman were discussed by the Board. meeting and one statutory Board meeting. The attendance of Board The results of the evaluations of the committees were, or will be, d ­ iscussed members at these meetings is presented in the table on page 195. by the relevant committee. In addition, the results of the evaluations of In 2017, the Board continued to focus on measures to increase the the Board as a collective and of the Chairman are shared with the Group’s profitability and to strengthen the balance sheet. In August 2017, ­Election Committee. as part of this process and within the framework of its annual review, the Board decided to introduce new financial targets for the Volvo Group and Remuneration of Board Members in July, the Volvo Group sold its entire holding in the German listed engine The Annual General Meeting resolves on fees to be paid to the Board manufacturer Deutz AG, with a capital gain of approximately SEK 400 M. members elected by the Annual General Meeting. For information about The Board also decided on an overall financial plan and investment Board remuneration, as adopted by the Annual General ­Meeting 2017, framework for the Group’s operations, and to regularly monitor the Group’s please refer to Note 27 in the Group’s notes in the Annual Report. earnings and financial position. In addition, the Board focused on riskrelated issues such as overall risk management and ongoing legal Remuneration of Board members, 2017 ­disputes and investigations. (from AGM on April 4, 2017) SEK The Board remains continuously up-to-date on the status and develop­ ment of the Group’s operations by devoting considerable time to business Chairman of the Board 3,400,000 reviews of the Group’s various truck divisions and business areas. In 2017, Board member 1,000,000 through a newly established Volvo CE Committee, the Board focused Chairman of the Audit Committee 350,000 ­specifically on monitoring and evaluating the Volvo CE operations, which Member of the Audit Committee 160,000 also included a specific follow-up of the profitability improvement program Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 140,000 launched in 2016. Member of the Remuneration Committee 105,000 The Board also paid particular attention to the Group’s strategic focus Chairman of the Volvo CE Committee 175,000 on disruptive technology trends, such as digitalization, electrification and Member of the Volvo CE Committee 150,000 automation. As an additional element of the Board’s strategic focus, the Board visited the Group’s operations in China and Thailand in October 2017, which contributed to a greater understanding of the Group’s opera­ tions and joint ventures in Asia. Finally, the Board decided to cancel the process initiated by the com­ pany in November 2016 to divest the Governmental Sales business area, since none of the offers received were considered to reflect the value of the business. 192 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 The Board’s committees 5 AUDIT COMMIT TEE Duties Composition and work in 2017 The Board has an Audit Committee primarily for the purpose of supervis­ At the statutory Board meeting following the Annual General Meeting ing the accounting and financial reporting processes and the audit of the 2017, the following Board members were appointed members of the annual financial statements. Audit Committee: The Audit Committee’s duties include preparing the Board’s work to • L ars Westerberg assure the quality of the Group’s financial reporting by reviewing interim • Hanne de Mora reports, Annual Report and the consolidated accounts. The Audit Com­ • Helena Stjernholm mittee also has the task of reviewing and overseeing the Group’s legal and taxation matters as well as compliance with laws and regulations that Lars Westerberg was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee. may have a material impact on financial reporting. Furthermore, the Audit The Audit Committee met with the external auditors without the pres­ Committee has the task of reviewing and overseeing the impartiality and ence of management on four occasions in 2017 in connection with Audit independence of the company’s auditors. The Audit Committee is also Committee meetings. The Audit Committee also met with the Head of responsible for evaluating both internal and external auditors’ work and, Corporate Audit in connection with Audit Committee meetings. when applicable, handling the tender process for audit services. In addi­ The Audit Committee and the external auditors, among other tasks, tion, it is the Audit Committee’s task to preapprove what other services, discussed the external audit plan and the view of risk management. The beyond auditing, the company may procure from the auditors. The Audit Audit Committee held nine regular meetings during 2017. The attendance Committee also adopts guidelines for transactions with companies of Board members at the Committee meetings is presented in the table and persons closely associated with Volvo. Finally, the Audit Committee on page 195. The Audit Committee reports the outcome of its work to all evaluates the quality, relevance and effectiveness of the Group’s system members of the Board on a regular basis, and the minutes of the Audit for internal control over financial reporting, as well as with respect to the Committee meetings are distributed to Board members. internal audit and risk management, and discharge any other duties of an audit committee. In October 2017, the Board visited the Group’s facilities in Thailand. 193 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 Board of Directors (cont.) 6 R E M U N E R AT I O N C O M M I T T E E 7 VO LVO C E C O M M I T T E E Duties Duties The Board has a Remuneration Committee for the purpose of preparing In connection with the Annual General Meeting 2017, the Board estab­ and deciding on issues relating to the remuneration of senior executives lished a Volvo CE committee. The main duties of the Committee are to in the Group. The duties of the Committee include making recommenda­ review and evaluate the development of the Volvo CE business and to tions to the Board on the Board’s decisions regarding terms of employ­ monitor implementation of the performance improvement plan launched ment and remuneration of the CEO and Deputy CEO of AB Volvo, policies to increase the efficiency of Volvo CE. for the remuneration, including pensions and severance payments, of other members of the Group Executive Team and the policies for variable Composition and work in 2017 salary, share-based incentive programs, pensions and severance payment At the statutory Board meeting following the Annual General Meeting for other senior executives in the Group. 2017, the following Board members were appointed members of the Volvo The Remuneration Committee shall monitor and evaluate ongoing CE Committee: ­programs and programs concluded during the year for the variable remune­ • C arl-Henric Svanberg ration of senior executives, application of the guidelines for the remunera­ • Matti Alahuhta tion of senior executives on which the Annual General Meeting shall decide, • Eckhard Cordes and the current remuneration structures and levels in the Group. • James W. Griffith The Board shall, no later than three weeks prior to the Annual General • Helena Stjernholm Meeting, present the results of the Remuneration Committee’s evaluation • L ars Ask on the company’s website. • Mari Larsson Composition and work in 2017 Carl-Henric Svanberg was appointed Chairman of the Volvo CE committee. At the statutory Board meeting following the Annual General Meeting The Volvo CE Committee held six meetings in 2017. The attendance of 2017, the following Board members were appointed members of the Board members at Committee meetings is presented in the table on Remuneration Committee: page 195. The Volvo CE Committee reports the outcome of its work to all • C arl-Henric Svanberg members of the Board on a regular basis. • Matti Alahuhta • James W. Griffith Carl-Henric Svanberg was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. The Code sets the requirement that members of the Remuneration Committee, with the exception of the Board Chairman if being a member of the Remuneration Committee, shall be independent of the company and company management. The Election Committee’s assessment of independence prior to the Annual General Meeting 2017 is presented under “Independence requirements” on page 191. The Remuneration Committee held four meetings in 2017. The attend­ ance of Board members at Committee meetings is presented in the table on page 195. The Remuneration Committee reports the outcome of its work to all members of the Board on a regular basis. 194 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 The Board’s composition and attendance at meetings January 1, 2017 – December 31, 2017 Board (11 incl. Audit Remuneration Volvo CE Member statutory) Committee (9) Committee (4) Committee (6) Carl-Henric Svanberg 11 4 6 Martin Lundstedt 11 Matti Alahuhta 11 4 6 Eckhard Cordes 10 5 Hanne de Mora 11 9 James Griffith 11 4 6 Kathryn Marinello 10 Martina Merz 11 Håkan Samuelsson 10 Helena Stjernholm 11 9 6 Lars Westerberg 11 9 Lars Ask, employee representative 11 6 Mats Henning, employee representative 11 Camilla Johansson, employee representative 11 Mari Larsson, employee representative 11 6 Mikael Sällström, employee representative 11 Total number of meetings 11 9 4 6 195 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 Board of Directors BOARD ­MEMBERS ELECTED BY THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Carl-Henric Svanberg Matti Alahuhta Eckhard Cordes James W. Griffith Martin Lundstedt Chairman of the Board, Member of the Remuneration Member of the Volvo Member of the Remuneration President and CEO ­Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Member of the CE Committee Committee, Member of the Committee, Chairman of the Volvo CE Committee Volvo CE Committee Volvo CE Committee Education MSc in Applied Physics, MSc, Dr Sc. MBA and PhD, University of BSc Industrial Engineering, MSc. BSc Business Administration. Doctor of Science. Hamburg. MBA from Stanford University. Born 1952 1952 1950 1954 1967 Member of the Chairman of the Volvo Board Since April 2, 2014. Since April 1, 2015. Since April 2, 2014. Since April 6, 2016. Volvo Board since April 4, 2012. Position and Board Board Chairman: BP plc. Board Chairman: DevCo Partner in Cevian Capital and Board member: Illinois Tool President and CEO of AB Volvo. ­memberships Chairman of the Academy: ­Partners Oy and Outotec EMERAM Capital Partners. Works Inc. Board Chairman: Partex The Royal Swedish Academy ­Corporation. Member of the Executive Marking Systems AB and of Engineering Sciencees (IVA). Board member: Kone Corpora­ ­Committee of Eastern Euro­ Permobil AB. tion, ABB Ltd. pean Economic Relations of Board Member: ACEA Com­ German Industry. mercial Vehicle and Concentric Board Chairman: Bilfinger SE. AB. Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering ­Sciences (IVA). Advisory Member of the Swed­ ish National Innovation Council. Principal Has held various positions at Has held several management Started with Daimler Benz AG, Began his career at The Timken President and CEO of Scania work experience Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) and positions in the Nokia Group – where he has held several Company in 1984, where he 2012–2015. Prior to that, Securitas AB, President and President of Nokia Telecommanage­ment positions, such as has held several management ­various managerial positions at CEO of Assa Abloy AB, Presi­ munications, President of Nokia Head of the trucks and buses positions, such as responsible Scania since 1992. Co-chair­ dent and CEO of Telefonaktie­ Mobile Phones and Chief Strat­ business, Head of Group Con­ for Timken’s bearing business man of the UN Secretary-­ bolaget LM Ericsson, member egy Officer of the Nokia Group, trolling, Corporate Development activities in Asia, the Pacific General’s High-Level Advisory of the External Advisory Board President of Kone Corporation and M&A in AEG AG and and Latin America and for the Group on Sustainable Transport of the Earth Institute at Colum­ between 2005–2014 and CEO of Mercedes Car Group. ­company’s automotive business 2015–2016. bia University and the Advisory between 2006–2014 also CEO. Previously CEO of Metro AG, in North America. Until 2014 Board of Harvard Kennedy senior advisor at EQT and Board President and CEO at Timken School. ­member of Air Berlin, SKF, Company. Carl Zeiss and Rheinmetall AG. Since 2012 partner in Cevian Capital and EMERAM Capital Partners respectively. Holdings in Volvo, 700,000 Series B shares. 64,100 Series B shares. None. 20,000 Series B shares. 75,624 Series B shares. own and related p ­ arties BOARD MEMBERS APPOINTED BY THE EMPLOYEE ORGANISATIONS Lars Ask Mats Henning Mikael Sällström Employee representative, ordinary member Employee representative, ordinary member Employee representative, ordinary member Member of the Volvo CE Committee Born 1959 1961 1959 Member of the Deputy member from June 16, 2009–2016. Since May 9, 2014. Since September 7, 2009. Volvo Board Ordinary member since April 6, 2016. Background within Volvo With Volvo since 1982. With Volvo since 1982. With Volvo 1980–1999 and since 2009. Holdings in Volvo, 293 Series A shares, 250 Series B shares. 293 Series A shares, 500 Series B Shares. 293 Series A shares. own and related parties 196 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 Kathryn V. Marinello Martina Merz Hanne de Mora Håkan Samuelsson Helena Stjernholm Lars Westerberg Member of the Audit Member of the Audit Chairman of the Audit ­C ommittee ­C ommittee, Member of the ­C ommittee Volvo CE Committee BA from State University of BS from University of Coopera­ BA in Economics from HEC MSc. MSc Business Administration. MSc Engineering, Bachelor New York at Albany, MBA from tive Education, Stuttgart. in Lausanne, MBA from IESE Business Administration. Hofstra ­University. in Barcelona. 1956 1963 1960 1951 1970 1948 Since April 2, 2014. Since April 1, 2015. Since April 14, 2010. Since April 6, 2016. Since April 6, 2016. Since April 4, 2007. President and CEO Hertz Board Chairperson: SAF Board Chairperson: a-connect President and CEO of Volvo President and CEO of Board Member: SSAB AB, Global Holdings. ­Holland SA. (group) ag. Car Group. AB Industri­värden. Sandvik AB and Stena AB. Board Member: Deutsche Board Member: IMD Super­ Board Member: Volvo Car AB, Board Member: AB Industri­ ­Lufthansa AG (supervisory visory Board. China-Euro Vehicle Technology värden, Sandvik AB and board) , NV Bekaert S.A and AB (CEVT), ­Zenuity AB, Telefon­­aktie­bolaget LM Imerys SA. Teknik­arbets­givarna i Sverige ­Ericsson. and Teknikföretagen (Engineer­ ing companies). Has held several management Until January 2015, CEO for Credit Analyst Den Norske Began his career in 1977 at Between 1998–2015, Has held various positions positions at Citibank, Chemical Chassis Brakes International. Credit­bank in Luxemburg 1984. Scania where he stayed for employed by the private equity within ASEA 1972–1984. Bank New York (now JP Morgan Has, during almost 25 years Various positions within brand more than 20 years. He held firm IK Investment Partners Served several executive posi­ Chase), First Bank Systems and held various management posi­ management and controlling leading positions within (former Industri Kapital) where tions at Esab AB 1984–1994 First Data Corporation, Division tions in Robert Bosch GmbH, within Procter & Gamble ­Scania’s technical division she held various positions. including CEO and President. President General Electric most recently as Executive Vice 1986–1989, Partner McKinsey before he joined the executive She was a Partner with respon­ CEO and President of Gränges Financial Assurance Partner­ President Sales and Marketing & Company, Inc. 1989–2002, board in 1996. He brought his sibility for the Stockholm office. AB 1994–1999. CEO and ship Marketing and Division in the Chassis System Brakes one of the founders and owners, vast truck experience from She was also a member of IK’s ­President of Autoliv Inc. President General Electric Fleet division combined with respon­ also Board Chairperson of the ­Scania to MAN in 2000 when Executive Committee. Prior to 1999–2007 and Chairman Services, President and CEO of sibility for regions China and global consulting firm and talent he became Chairman & CEO that she worked as a consultant of Autoliv Inc. 2007–2011. Ceridian Corporation and sub­ Brazil and previously CEO of pool a-connect (group) ag of MAN Nutzfahrzeuge AG. for Bain & C ­ ompany. Previous­ly Chairman of sequently also Chairman, Board the subsidiary Bosch Closure since 2002. Chairman & CEO of MAN AG ­Husqvarna AB, Vattenfall AB Chairman, President and CEO Systems, also member of the from 2005–2009. and Ahlsell AB. of Stream Global Services, Inc. Board of Management of Brose Senior Advisor, Ares Manage­ Fahrzeugteile GmbH & Co. ment, LLC. Board Member of Nielsen and RealPage. None. 4,500 Series B shares. 3,000 Series B shares. 106,000 Series B shares. 8,000 Series B shares. 30,000 Series A shares, 168,000 Series B shares. DEPUTIES APPOINTED BY THE EMPLOYEE ORGANISATIONS SECRETARY TO THE BOARD Camilla Johansson Mari Larsson Sofia Frändberg Employee representative, deputy member Employee representative, deputy member Secretary to the Board Member of the Volvo CE Committee Master of Laws 1966 1978 1964 Deputy member since April 6, 2016. Deputy member since May 22, 2015. Secretary to the Board since April 1, 2013. With Volvo since 1997. With Volvo since 2004. Executive Vice President Group Legal & Compliance and General Counsel. 643 Series A shares. 605 Series A shares. 1,738 Series A shares, 50,774 Series B shares. 197 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 8 E X TERNAL AUDITING 9 C O R P O R AT E A U D I T Volvo’s auditors are elected by the Annual General Meeting. The auditors Volvo’s internal audit function, Corporate Audit, supports Volvo in enhanc­ perform a review of the interim financial information and audit the annual ing and protecting organizational value by providing risk-based, independ­ financial statements and consolidated accounts. The auditors report the ent and objective assurance, advice and insight. Corporate Audit helps results of their audit of the annual financial statements and consolidated the organization to accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, accounts and their review of the Corporate Governance Report in the disciplined approach to evaluate and to improve the effectiveness of risk Audit Report and in an opinion on the Corporate Governance Report, management, control and governance processes. which they present to the Annual General Meeting. Corporate Audit performs internal audits in selected focus areas, iden­ The current auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers AB (PwC), was elected tified through an independent risk assessment process and approved by at the Annual General Meeting 2014 for a period of four years. Two part­ the Audit Committee. In addition, special assignments requested by man­ ners of PwC, Peter Clemedtson and Johan Palmgren, are responsible for agement and the Audit Committee are performed. The audits cover, the audit of Volvo. Peter Clemedtson is Auditor-in-Charge. among other things, assessments on the adequacy and effectiveness of In 2016 Volvo decided to start procurement of audit services to prepare the organization’s processes for controlling its activities and managing its for the election of external auditors at the 2018 Annual General Meeting. risks and evaluation of compliance with policies and directives. For information about Volvo’s remuneration of the auditors, refer to Corporate Audit also assists in investigations of suspected breaches of Note 28 “Fees to the auditors” in the Group’s notes in the Annual Report. the Code of Conduct and of suspected fraudulent activities within the organization and coordinates and provides oversight of other control and monitoring functions. The head of Corporate Audit reports directly to the CEO, the Group’s General Counsel and the Board’s Audit Committee. For additional information on internal control over financial reporting, see pages 204–205. 198 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 10 G O V E R N A N C E P R I N C I P L E S A N D O R G A N I Z AT I O N A L S T R U C T U R E Volvo’s strategy Governance documents The Volvo Group’s mission is to “Drive prosperity through transport solu­ Another key component of the Group’s governance is its policies and tions”. The Group’s products and services are continuously developed to directives, such as the Code of Conduct and policies pertaining to invest­ support sustainable societies and the well-being and safety of people. ments, financial risks, accounting, financial control and internal audit, With this mission in mind, the Volvo Group strives to achieve its vision to be which contain Group-wide operating and financial rules for the opera­ the most desirable and successful transport solution provider in the world. tions, as well as responsibility and authority structures. The Volvo Group’s aspirations are to have leading customer satisfaction for all of its brands in each segment; to be the most admired employer in Organizational structure the industry and to have industry leading profitability. The Group’s values The business of the Volvo Group is organized into ten Business Areas. – Customer Success, Trust, Passion, Change and Performance – are the Of these, five represent brand-specific Business Areas for trucks: Volvo cornerstone of the Group’s company culture. In 2017, the Volvo Group Trucks, UD Trucks, Renault Trucks, Mack Trucks and Group Trucks Asia & launched a new Code of Conduct that clearly defines expectations on the JVs, each with profit and loss responsibility for their respective business. way the Group runs its business – not just in a few places, but wherever The other Business Areas are Volvo Construction Equipment, Volvo Buses, the Group operates. The Code of Conduct summarizes what the Volvo Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and Volvo Financial Services (VFS). Group stands for and what Volvo expects from its employees. Seven ­strategic priorities set the direction for the Group. They describe the key funda­mentals of the Volvo Group strategy such as customer focus, decentralization, empowerment and P&L responsibility for its brand organizations, continuous improvements as well as the importance of utiliz­ing the Group strengths to increase synergies, profitability and to take leadership in key technologies. MIS S ION Based on the Group’s strategic priorities, each Business Area defines it’s own operational plans. The long-term plans, such as the Group’s VIS ION industrial and technology plans, are also crucial parts of the Group’s ­strategic direction. The follow-up of the Volvo Group strategy is managed AS PIRATIONS by the annual Group Strategy Cycle. VALUES CODE OF CONDUCT VOLVO GROUP ORGANIZATION Group CEO Group Finance Group Human Resources (Deputy CEO & CFO) Group Communication Group Legal & Compliance & Sustainability Affairs BUSINESS AREAS Renault Mack UD Volvo Group Trucks Volvo Volvo Volvo Governmental VFS Trucks Trucks Trucks Trucks Asia & JVs CE Buses Penta Sales TRUCK DIVISIONS Value Trucks Group Trucks Technology DFCV Group Trucks Operations Group Trucks Purchasing VECV Executive Board members 199 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 Governance principles and organizational structure (cont.) 11 G R O U P M A N AG E M E N T The Trucks Business is further organized into three divisions: Group The Group Executive Board comprises 13 members. Trucks Technology (GTT), Group Trucks Operations (GTO) and Group In addition to the CEO, the Group Executive Board comprises the Exec­ Trucks Purchasing (GTP). GTT is responsible for product development of utive Vice Presidents of the three Group Truck Divisions, the Executive engines, transmissions and trucks. GTO is responsible for the production Vice Presidents of the five Business Areas Renault Trucks, Mack Trucks, of trucks and the Group’s engines and transmissions, as well as for the UD Trucks, Volvo Trucks and Volvo Construction Equipment, and the Group’s spare parts supply and logistics operation. GTP has overall Executive Vice Presidents of the four Group Functions. The head of Group responsibility for purchasing for the Group’s trucks, engines and transmis­ Finance is, besides CFO, also deputy CEO. The members of the Group sions operations as well as for the Group’s purchase of indirect products Executive Board report directly to the CEO. and services. The Presidents of the Business Areas Group Trucks Asia & JVs, Volvo In addition, there are four Group Functions: Group Human Resources, Buses, Volvo Penta, Governmental Sales and VFS also report directly to Group Finance, Group Communication & Sustainability Affairs and Group the CEO and are part of an extended Group Management Team together Legal & Compliance, tasked with supporting to the CEO and the Group with the members of the Group Executive Board. Executive Board with expertise within each Group Function area and with The CEO is responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of the developing standards for the entire organization through policies, direc­ Volvo Group and is authorized to make decisions on matters that do not tives and guidelines. In addition, there are Group Functions that provide require Board approval. The CEO leads the operations of the Group mainly services and/or products for the entire Group, such as Group IT and through the Group Executive Board and the extended Group Manage­ Accounting & Company Control. ment Team. With this governance model, Volvo can utilize the synergies of having The Product Board is where key decisions are made related to the global organizations for manufacturing, product development and pur­ Group’s offering and technology portfolio. The Product Board focuses chasing, while maintaining clear leadership and responsibility for each primarily on R&D projects in the Group’s truck Business Areas and Grouptruck brand to make sure that customer needs are met. The aim of the wide projects of significant size. governance model is that all Business Areas are driven according to the The Quality Board is where quality-related matters are addressed in same distinct business principles, whereby each Business Area can order to support fast decision-making and customer focus in this area. ­ follow and optimize its own earnings performance in the long and At special meetings for Sales & Operations Planning (S&OP), decisions short term. are made regarding a production plan aimed at optimizing the Volvo Group’s overall profitability. The purpose of the meetings is to balance demand with supply chain capabilities, drive capacity management and provide directions for the Group’s sales and operations activities. All of the above bodies affect control and monitoring of the Group’s financial development, strategies and targets, and make decisions regard­ ing investments and other matters. 200 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 Remuneration of the Group Executive Board Changes to the Group Executive Board Every year, AB Volvo’s Annual General Meeting resolves on a policy for On January 1, 2018, Melker Jernberg joined the Group Executive Board remuneration of the Group Executive Board, based on a proposal from the and assumed the position as President of Volvo Construction Equipment. Board. For information about the remuneration policy adopted by the Melker Jernberg replaced Martin Weissburg, who will replace Dennis Sla­ Annual General Meeting 2017, refer to Note 27 “Personnel” in the Group’s gle as President of Mack Trucks as per June 1, 2018. notes in the Annual Report. On January 1, 2018, Kina Wileke joined the Group Executive Board and assumed the position as Executive Vice President Group Communica­ tions & Sustainability Affairs. Kina Wileke replaced Henry Sténson. Martin Lundstedt, President and CEO, at the Annual General Meeting 2017. 201 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 Group Executive Board Martin Lundstedt Jan Gurander Claes Nilsson Bruno Blin Dennis Slagle Joachim Rosenberg President and CEO Deputy CEO and CFO Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Volvo Group and Volvo Group and Volvo Group and Volvo Group and President Volvo Trucks ­President Renault ­President Mack Trucks Chairman of UD Trucks Trucks. Education MSc. MSc. MBA. BS Accounting CPA. MSc Industrial Engineering and Management, MSc Financial Economics, MSc Business and Economics. Born 1967 1961 1957 1963 1954 1970 Principal work President and CEO of CFO & Senior Vice President Volvo Trucks After having worked Has held various Executive Vice Presi­ ­experience Volvo and member of President Finance since 2016. Senior Vice for several companies ­executive level posi­ dent Group Trucks the Group Executive Volvo Car Corporation President Volvo Group in the manufacturing, tions within Volvo Sales 2015–2016. Board since October 2011–2013. CFO MAN Trucks Sales Latin ­quality and purchasing Group Trucks Sales Executive Vice Presi­ 2015. President and Diesel & Turbo SE America 2015. Senior areas, he joined North America 2008– dent Group Trucks CEO of Scania 2012– 2010. CFO MAN Diesel Vice President Volvo Renault Trucks Pur­ 2016. President Volvo Sales & Marketing 2015. Prior to that, SE 2008–2009. Group Group Trucks Sales, chasing in 1999. Has Construction Equipment APAC 2012–2014. ­various managerial Vice President and Europe North and held several senior North America 2000– President Volvo Group ­positions at Scania CFO Scania AB 2001– ­C entral 2013–2014. positions over the years 2008. Member of the Asia Truck Operations since 1992. Co-chair­ 2006. President of Senior Vice President until being appointed Group Executive Board 2007–2011. Vice Presi­ man of the UN Secre­ Business Unit Finance Volvo Trucks 2011– Senior Vice President since March 2016 and dent Volvo Group tary-General’s HighAB Volvo 1999–2001. 2012. President Volvo of Volvo Group Pur­ between 2008–2014. ­A lliance Office 2007. Level Advisory Group Senior Vice President Trucks, Europe Division chasing. Has also With Volvo since 2000. Vice President Volvo on Sustainable Trans­ & Finance Director 2007–2011 and Inter­ served as Senior Vice Powertrain 2005– port 2015-2016. Scania AB 1998–1999. national Division President, Group Truck 2007. Consultant with Member of the Group 2006–2007. Member Sales South Europe McKinsey & Company Executive Board since of the Group Executive January 2013–2016. 1996–2004. Member 2014. With Volvo 1999– Board since 2016. With Member of the Group of the Group Executive 2001 and since 2014. Volvo since 1982. Executive Board since Board since 2012. March 2016. With Volvo With Volvo since 2005. since 1999. Board Chairman of Partex Volvo Group repre­ Volvo Group represent­ memberships Marking Systems AB sentative for National ative for Japan Auto­ and Permobil AB. Association of Manu­ mobile Manufacturers Board Member of facturers (NAM). Association (JAMA). ACEA ­C ommercial Vehicle and Concentric AB. Member of the Royal Swedish Acad­ emy of Engineering Sciences (IVA) and Advisory member of the Swedish National Innovation Council. Holdings in Volvo, 75,624 Series B shares. 26,143 Series B shares. 206 Series A shares, 7,863 Series B shares. 85,047 Series B shares. 87 Series A shares, own and related 21,488 Series B shares. 59,996 Series B shares. ­parties 202 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 Melker Jernberg Lars Stenqvist Jan Ohlsson Andrea Fuder Sofia Frändberg Kerstin Renard Kina Wileke Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President ­Executive Vice ­President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Volvo Group and Group Trucks Group Trucks Volvo Group Trucks Group Legal & Group Human Group ­C ommunication ­President Volvo ­Technology ­O perations Purchasing ­C ompliance and Resources & ­Sustainability ­Construction Equipment ­General Counsel Affairs MSc Mechanical MSc Industrial MSc. MSc and MBA. Master of Laws. BSc Sociology. Degree in journalism, ­Engineering. ­Engineering. University of Gothen­ burg. 1968 1967 1953 1967 1964 1961 1974 CEO and President Executive Vice Senior Vice President Has worked in Quality Responsible for Group Senior Vice President Responsible for Group at Höganäs AB 2014– ­President Group Trucks Powertrain Production and Logistic and held Legal & Compliance Human Resources for Communications since 2017. Executive Vice Technology and Volvo Group Trucks Operavarious senior positions and General Counsel of the Volvo Group 2007– 2018. With the Volvo President, Business Group Chief Technology tions 2012–2016. at Volkswagen’s Pur­ the Volvo Group since 2011. Prior to that Group since 2008, Area EMEA at SSAB Officer since October 2001–2012 General chasing organization April 2013. Head of ­Senior Vice President most recently as Senior 2011–2014. Has held 2016. Head of R&D and Manager European since 1992. Head of Corporate Legal at AB Human Resources Vice President Brand, various positions at CTO at Volkswagen Manufacturing Volvo Purchasing at Scania Volvo 1998–2013. Cor­ & Communication at Communication & Scania AB since 1989, Truck & Bus 2015– Trucks. Member of the 2012–2016. Member of porate Legal C­ ounsel Volvo Powertrain ­Marketing Volvo Penta most recently as Senior 2016. Senior Vice Group Executive Board the Group Executive at AB Volvo 1994– 2005–2006. Member 2016–2017, Senior Vice President Buses President Vehicle Defi­ since April 2016. Board since 2017. 1997. Member of the of the Group Executive Vice President External and Coaches at Scania nition R&D at Scania With Volvo since 1979. With Volvo since 2017. Group Executive Board Board since 2012. Corporate Communi­ AB 2007–2011. 2007–2015. Prior to since April 2013. With Volvo since 2005. cation Volvo Group ­Member of the Group that various senior With Volvo since 1994. 2012–2016 and CEO Executive Board since positions at Scania Communication Volvo 2018. since 1992. Member of Group 2008–2012. the Group Executive Has held a number of Board since October positions in TV4 Group 2016. With Volvo Group 1998–2008. Member since October 2016. of the Group Executive Board since 2018. Secretary to the AB Board Member of Board Member of Volvo Board since April Teknikföretagen ­Handelsbanken 2013. ­(Engineering Regionbanken Västra ­companies). Sverige. 2,000 Series B shares. 1,768 Series B shares. 32,154 Series B shares. 1,600 Series A shares, 1,738 Series A shares, 405 Series A shares, 135 Series A shares, 2,100 Series B shares. 50,774 Series B shares. 43,375 Series B 5,651 Series B shares. shares. 203 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 12 INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board is responsible for the internal controls according to the Swedish Risk assessment Companies Act and the Code. The purpose of this report is to provide Risks relating to financial reporting are evaluated and monitored by the shareholders and other interested parties with an understanding of how Board through the Audit Committee inter alia through identifying risks internal control is organized at Volvo with regard to financial reporting. that could be considered as material, and through the mitigating control The description has been designed in accordance with the Swedish objectives. The risk assessment is based on a number of criteria, such as Annual Accounts Act and is thus limited to internal control over financial the complexity of the accounting principles, revaluation principles of reporting. assets or liabilities, complex and/or changing business circumstances, etc. The risks together with mitigating control objectives are collected in Introduction a framework for internal control over financial reporting, Volvo Internal Volvo has a function for internal control with the objective to provide sup­ Control Standard (VICS). port for management, allowing them to continuously provide solid internal controls relating to financial reporting. Work that is conducted through Control activities this function is primarily based to ensure compliance with directives and In addition to the Board of Directors of AB Volvo and its Audit Committee, policies, and to create effective conditions for specific control activities in the management groups and other decision-making bodies in the Group key processes related to financial reporting. The Audit Committee is con­ constitute overall supervisory bodies. Business processes are designed tinuously informed of the results of the work performed by the Internal to ensure that potential errors or deviations in the financial reporting are Control function within Volvo with regard to risks, control activities and prevented, discovered and corrected by implementing control activities follow-up on the financial reporting. that correspond to the control objectives defined in the VICS framework. Volvo also has an internal audit function, Corporate Audit, which among Control activities range from review of outcome results in management other things, independently monitors that companies in the Group follow group meetings to specific reconciliation of accounts and analyses of the the principles and rules that are stated in the Group’s directives, policies ongoing processes for financial reporting. and instructions for financial reporting. The head of the Corporate Audit function reports directly to the CEO, to the Group’s General Counsel and Information and communication the Board’s Audit Committee. Policies and instructions relating to the financial reporting are updated and communicated on a regular basis from management to all affected Control environment employees. The Group’s financial reporting function has direct operating Fundamental to Volvo’s control environment is the business culture that is responsibility for the daily financial reporting and works to ensure a uni­ established within the Group and in which managers and employees form application of the Group’s policies, principles and instructions for the operate. Volvo works actively on communication and training regarding financial reporting and to identify and communicate shortcomings and the company’s basic values included in the Group’s Code of Conduct, to areas of improvement in the processes for financial reporting. ensure that good morals, ethics and integrity permeate the organization. The foundation of the internal control process relating to the financial reporting is based on the Group’s directives, policies and instructions, as well as the organization’s responsibility and authority structure. The prin­ ciples for Volvo’s internal controls and directives and policies for the finan­ cial reporting are contained in the Volvo Group Management System, a group wide management system comprising, among other things, instruc­ tions, rules and principles. s ncie Pla ficie na de g foc nd of ortin u Rem ep ly ed tyear ia lec as an tion Volvo Group Internal se are d s r Control Programme FPP VICS VOLVO GROUP INTERNAL CONTROL PROGRAMME o Test Yearly evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting (ICFR) within the Volvo Group. fd es d co et a s m n tr en ol (v an il s t a li da e ss ass ti o n c ) P ro s i g n de 204 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2017 A U D I TO R ’ S R E P O R T O N T H E C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E R E P O R T Follow-up To the annual meeting of the shareholders of AB Volvo (publ), corporate Ongoing responsibility for follow-up rests with the Group’s financial identity number 556012-5790 reporting function. In addition, the Corporate Audit and the Internal ­Control function conduct review and follow-up activities in accordance Engagement and responsibility with what is described in the introduction of this report. More specifically, The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance the Internal Control function runs and coordinates evaluation activities statement on pages 188–205 has been prepared in accordance with the through the “Volvo Group Internal Control Programme,” with the purpose Annual Accounts Act. of systematically evaluating the quality of the internal control over ­financial reporting on an annual basis. An annual evaluation plan is established and The scope of the audit presented to the Audit Committee. This evaluation program comprises Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conducted in three main areas: accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor’s examina­ tion of the corporate governance statement. This means that our exami­ 1. Group-wide controls: Self-assessment procedure carried out by manage­ nation of the corporate governance statement is different and substan­ ment teams at business area, Group Function and company levels. The tially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with main areas evaluated are compliance with the Group’s financial direc­ International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing tives and policies and the Group’s Code of Conduct. standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us 2. Process controls at transaction level: Processes related to the financial with sufficient basis for our opinions. reporting are evaluated by testing procedures/controls based on the framework for internal control over financial reporting, Volvo Internal Opinions Control Standards (VICS). A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 of 3. General IT controls: Processes for maintenance, development and the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph access management of financial applications are evaluated by testing the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts procedures and controls. and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual The results of the evaluation activities are reported to Group management Accounts Act. and the Audit Committee. During 2017, the Internal Control function reported three times to the Audit Committee regarding the annual evalu­ ation plan, status on outstanding issues and final assessment of the Göteborg, March 6, 2018 ­control environment. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Göteborg, March 6, 2018 Peter Clemedtson Johan Palmgren AB Volvo (publ) Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant The Board of Directors Lead Partner Partner 205 OTHER INFORMATION Proposed policy for remuneration to senior executives Proposal by the Board of Directors For Executives resident in Sweden, the notice period upon termination to the Annual General M ­ eeting 2018 by the company shall not exceed 12 months and the notice period upon This policy concerns the remuneration and other terms of employment for termination by the Executive shall not exceed 6 months. In addition, in the the members of the Volvo Group Executive Board (“Executives”). event of termination by the company, the Executive may be entitled to a The remuneration and the other terms of employment of the Executives maximum of 12 months’ severance pay. shall be competitive so that the Volvo Group can attract and retain com­ Executives resident outside Sweden or resident in Sweden but having petent Executives. The total remuneration to Executives consists of fixed a material connection to or having been resident in a country other than salary, short-term and long-term incentives, pension and other benefits. Sweden may be offered notice periods for termination and severance pay­ Short-term and long-term incentives shall be linked to predetermined and ment that are competitive in the country where the Executives are or have measurable criteria relating to EBIT and cash flow targets for the Volvo been resident or to which the Executives have a material connection, Group, devised to promote the long-term value creation of the Volvo ­preferably solutions comparable to the solutions applied to Executives Group and strengthen the link between achieved performance targets resident in Sweden. and reward. The criteria for short-term and long-term incentives shall be determined by the Board annually. Authority to decide on deviations from this policy Short-term incentive may, as regards the President & CEO, amount to a The Board of Directors may deviate from this policy if there are special maximum of 100% of the fixed salary and, as regards other Executives, a reasons to do so in an individual case. maximum of 80% of the fixed salary. Long-term incentive may, as regards the President & CEO, amount to a Additional information maximum of 100% of the fixed salary and, as regards other Executives, a Executive compensation, which has been decided but which has not yet maximum of 80% of the fixed salary. The long-term incentive program for become due for payment by the time of the 2018 Annual General Meet­ the Group’s top executives, including the Executives, is cash-based. ing, falls within the scope of this policy. Additional information regarding Awards under the program, based on how well the performance targets remuneration is available in the Volvo Group Annual and Sustainability are achieved, are disbursed in cash to the participants on the condition Report for 2017. that they invest the net award in AB Volvo shares and that they retain the shares for at least three years. Any new share-based incentive program will, where applicable, be resolved by the General Meeting, but no such program is currently proposed. 206 OTHER INFORMATION Proposed disposition of unappropriated earnings AB Volvo SEK According to the Board of Directors’ opinion, the proposed dividend will not affect the Company’s or the Group’s ability to fulfil their payment obli­ Retained earnings 26,642,477,930.63 gations and the Company and the Group are well prepared to handle both Income for the period 2017 19,001,100,585.85 changes in the liquidity and unexpected events. Total retained earnings 45,643,578,516.48 The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the Company and the Group have capacity to assume future business risks as well as to bear The Board of Directors proposes that the above sum be disposed of as contingent losses. The proposed dividend is not expected to adversely follows: affect the Company’s and the Group’s ability to make further commercially justified investments in accordance with the Board of Directors’ plans. SEK In addition to what has been stated above, the Board of Directors has To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 4.25 per considered other known circumstances which may be of importance for share 8,635,875,003.25 the Company’s and the Group’s financial position. In doing so, no circum­ To be carried forward 37,007,703,513.23 stance has appeared that does not justify the proposed dividend. Total 45,643,578,516.48 If the Annual General Meeting resolves in accordance with the Board of Directors’ proposal, SEK 37,007,703,513.23 will remain of the Compa­ ny’s non-restricted equity, calculated as per year end 2017. The record date for determining who is entitled to receive dividends is The Board of Directors has the view that the Company’s and the proposed to be Monday April 9, 2018. Group’s shareholders’ equity will, after the proposed dividend, be suffi­ In view of the Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting cient in relation to the nature, scope and risks of the business. to be held April 5, 2018 to decide on the distribution of a dividend of SEK 4.25 per share, the Board hereby makes the following statement in accordance with Chapter 18, Section 4 of the Swedish Companies Act. The Board of Directors concludes that the Company’s restricted equity The Board of Directors and the President certify that the annual financial is fully covered after the proposed dividend. The Board further concludes report has been prepared in accordance with generally accepted account­ that the proposed dividend is justifiable in view of the parameters set out ing principles and that the consolidated accounts have been prepared in in Chapter 17, Section 3, second and third paragraphs of the Swedish accordance with the international set of accounting standards referred to Companies Act. In connection herewith, the Board wishes to point out in Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the the following. Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting The proposed dividend reduces the Company’s solvency from 53.2 per standards, and give a true and fair view of the position and profit or loss of cent to 49.0 per cent and the Group’s solvency from 26.4 per cent to 24.9 the Company and the Group, and that the management report for the per cent, calculated as per year end 2017. The Board of Directors consid­ Company and for the Group gives a fair review of the development and ers this solvency to be satisfactory with regard to the business in which performance of the business, position and profit or loss of the Company the Group is active. and the Group, and describes the principal risks and uncertainties that the Company and the companies in the Group face. Göteborg, March 6, 2018 Carl-Henric Svanberg Board Chairman Matti Alahuhta Eckhard Cordes James W. Griffith Board member Board member Board member Martin Lundstedt Kathryn V. Marinello Martina Merz President, CEO and Board member Board member Board member Hanne de Mora Håkan Samuelsson Helena Stjernholm Board member Board member Board member Lars Westerberg Board member Lars Ask Mats Henning Mikael Sällström Board member Board member Board member Our audit report was issued on March 6, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Peter Clemedtson Johan Palmgren Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Lead Partner Partner 207 OTHER INFORMATION AUDIT REPORT Audit report for AB Volvo (publ) To the general meeting of the shareholders of AB Volvo (publ), corporate Our audit approach identity number 556012-5790 Audit scope We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, Opinions we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assump­ Aktiebolaget Volvo (publ) for the year 2017 with the exception of the tions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our ­ Sustainability Report (Sustainability Index) on page 82. The annual audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence pages 82–187, 206–207 and 211–213 in this document. of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2017 and as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group, the accounting its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accord­ processes and controls, and the industry in which the group operates. ance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have In our audit, we have focused on those entities that have the largest been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present impact on the financial reporting with consideration taken to the group’s fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of different segments as well as each entity’s different function such as 31 December 2017 and their financial performance and cash flow for the manufacturing, sales, financial services. year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting For the Swedish entities the audit is performed by the group audit team Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. and for the entities outside of Sweden the audit is performed by local Our opinions does not cover the Sustainability Report on page 82. audit teams primarily within the PwC network. The work of local audit The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of teams is based on instructions from the group audit team who continu­ the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. ously monitor and evaluate the work of local audit teams. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders As part of this year’s audit procedures we from the group audit team adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company have visited foreign subsidiaries of which some were in Brazil and USA. and the group. Our opinions in this report regarding the annual accounts and consoli­ Materiality dated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An that has been submitted to the parent company and group audit commit­ audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial tee in accordance with the Auditors Ordinance (537/2014) Article 11. statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually or in Basis for Opinions aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Audit­ decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. ing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our respon­ Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantita­ sibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Respon­ tive thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the finan­ sibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in cial statements as a whole. These, together with qualitative considerations, accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, requirements. This means that, based on our best knowledge and belief, no both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. prohibited services referred to in the Auditors Ordinance (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited company or, as the case may be, its Key audit matters parent company or controlled companies within the European Union. Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 208 OTHER INFORMATION AUDIT REPORT Key audit matter How our audit addressed the Key audit matter EC antitrust settlement – risk for losses from private damages claims from customers and other third parties Refer to note 24 in the annual report. Management and the board of directors have been highly involved In January 2011, the Volvo Group and a number of other companies in the truck industry in the dealing with private damages claims. In our audit, we assess became part of an investigation by the European Commission regarding a possible violation how the private damages claims are treated on management and of EU antitrust rules. board level, including reviewing supporting documentation. In July 2016, the Volvo Group reached a settlement with the European Commission in the We have in our audit taken part of several statements from the ­investigation. Following the adoption of the European Commission’s settlement decision, the Volvo company’s external legal advisors as well as requested and received Group has received and will be dealing with numerous private damages claims from customers and legal letter from the company’s external legal advisors about the other third parties alleging that they suffered loss by reason of the conduct covered in the decision. claims. To assess this kind of legal disputes and possible future obligations is complicated and require involvement of experts within relevant areas to assist in the assessment of the financial application aspects of the matters. The outcome of the private damages claims from customers and other third parties require judgement and is uncertain. At this stage it has not been possible for the company to make a reliable estimate of the amount of any liability that could arise from any such proceedings. Credit loss risks in China Refer to note 8, 24 and 30 in the annual report. Our audit of credit loss risks in China is performed in several steps As a result of the downturn of the Chinese mining industry in prior years, many dealers and and include to understand and assess the process and models retail customers of Construction equipment in China have financial difficulties. manage­ment use to limit the losses through mitigating activities. On-balance exposure mainly consists of exposure for accounts receivables, entrustment We review the risk assessments made by management and the loans to dealers and used equipment that has been bought back while off-balance exposure impairment ratio used for provisions and allowances. The review is consists of credit guarantees. made individually per dealer and the objective is to assess the Management has taken several measures to manage the situation. A significant part of the ­provisions and allowances. credit guarantees still refers to credit guarantees related to dealers and retail customers of Our procedures include to evaluate the exposure through test construction equipment in China. Credit guarantees are primarily related to the period before of the gross amounts of accounts receivables, entrustment loans 2016 and are on the same level compared to 31 December 2016. to dealers and credit guarantee exposure through testing a sample The assessment of risk for losses for assets and credit guarantees include judgement of supporting documentation. where the outcome can differ from the current assessment. Revenue Recognition Refer to note 7 and 21 in the annual report. As the group offer financing and different kinds of residual value The recognized net sales pertain mainly to revenues from sales of goods and services. R ­ evenue guarantees in connection to the sales, the sales agreements must from the sale of goods is recognized when significant risks and rewards of ownership have be assessed with respect to the timing of the revenue recognition. been transferred to external parties, normally when the goods are delivered to the customer. The company has developed instructions and models for how to However, if the sale of goods is combined with a buy-back agreement or a residual value recognize revenue for these transactions with customers. We have guarantee, the transaction is recognized as an operating lease transaction if significant risks assessed whether the accounting models are in line with IFRS. in regard to the goods are retained in the group. Revenue is then recognized over the period Our audit approach has consisted of controls testing regarding of the residual value commitment. managements process for identifying sales agreements that should If the residual value risk commitment is not significant the revenue is recognized at the be classified as operating leases. time of sale and a provision is made to reflect the estimated residual value risk. We have also examined a sample of the sales agreements and Due to the complexity in assessing the transfer of risk and rewards of ownership there is evaluated the classification of the sales. For sales agreements classi­ an inherent risk that revenue is recognized in the incorrect period. fied as operating leases we have examined a selection of the trans­ actions to see if revenue is recorded over the duration of the contract. Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director This document also contains other information than the annual accounts The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–81, 214–221 and preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that 224 as well as the Sustainability Report on page 82 and 222–223. The they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as other information. adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary not cover this other information and we do not express any form of assur­ to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts ance conclusion regarding this other information. that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above and Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going con­ account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess cern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going concern whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, con­ the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease opera­ clude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we tions, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. 209 OTHER INFORMATION AUDIT REPORT The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is designed so that company’s financial reporting process. the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director Auditor’s responsibility shall manage the ongoing administration according to the Board of Direc­ Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the tors’ guidelines and instructions and among other matters take measures annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from that are necessary to fulfil the company’s accounting in accordance with material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an audi­ law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. tor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in Auditor’s responsibility accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our ­ Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess Misstate­ments can arise from fraud or error and are considered material with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give annual accounts and consolidated accounts. rise to liability to the company, or A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the annual • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the accounts and consolidated accounts is available on Revisorsinspektion­ Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. ens website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This descrip­ tion is part of the auditor’s report. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess Report on other legal and regulatory requirements with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accord­ Opinions ance with the Companies Act. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guaran­ we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the tee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted audit­ Managing Director of Aktiebolaget Volvo (publ) for the year 2017 and the ing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adminis­ A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administra­ tration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the tion is available on Revisorsinspektionens website: www.revisorsinspek­ Managing Director be discharged from liability for the financial year. tionen.se/revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor’s report. Basis for Opinions Auditor’s statement regarding the statutory Sustainability Report We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing The Board of Directors is responsible for the Sustainability Report on standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are page 82 and that the report is prepared in accordance with the Annual ­further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are inde­ Accounts Act. pendent of the parent company and the group in accordance with profes­ Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s opinion sional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our RevR 12 Statement by an Auditor regarding the statutory Sustainability ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Report. This means that our examination of the Sustainability Report has a We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and different emphasis and a significantly smaller extent than the focus and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. scope of an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We consider this examination to Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director provide us with sufficient basis for our opinion. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations A Sustainability Report has been prepared. of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, Torsgatan 21, 113 97 Stockholm, was requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, appointed audit firm for Aktiebolaget Volvo (publ) by the general meeting size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s of shareholders on 2 April 2014 and has been the company’s audit firm equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. since 1998. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other Göteborg, March 6, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Peter Clemedtson Johan Palmgren Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant Lead Partner Partner 210 OTHER INFORMATION Alternative Performance Measures The Volvo Group uses alternative performance measures in order to EBITDA and EBITDA margin ­analyze trends and performance within the Group. The alternative perform­ Definition: EBITDA is the operating income before depreciation and ance measures are not defined by IFRS, unless otherwise is stated, amortization of tangible and intangible assets. The key figure EBITDA whereby definitions and reconciliations of significant alternative perform­ margin is calculated by adding back depreciation and amortization on the ance measures are presented in the annual report. If the reconciliation is operating income, in relation to net sales. not directly reflected in the financial statements, a separate reconciliation is presented below. Industrial Operations SEK M 2017 2016 Basic earnings per share (defined by IFRS) Definition: Income for the period attributable to shareholders of the Net sales 323,809 291,459 Parent Company divided by the weighted average number of shares ­ Operating income 28,135 18,740 ­outstanding during the period. For reconciliation see Note 19 Equity and Amortization product and software development 2,807 2,826 number of shares. Amortization other intangible assets 404 573 Depreciation tangible assets 9,385 9,234 Cash flow Total depreciation and amortization 12,597 12,633 Definition: The combined changes in the Group’s liquid funds during the Operating income before depreciation and fiscal year. Changes in liquid funds are specified with reference to amortization (EBITDA) 40,732 31,373 changes in the operating activities, changes on investments in equipment EBITDA margin, % 12.6 10.8 and fixed assets, which add up to the operating cash flow, as well as changes in loans and investments. For reconciliation see Consolidated cash flow statement. Diluted earnings per share (defined by IFRS) Definition: Diluted earnings per share is calculated as income for the period attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders divided by the average number of shares outstanding plus the average number of shares that would be issued as an effect of ongoing share-based incentive pro­ grams and employee stock option programs. For reconciliation see Note 19 Equity and number of shares. Equity ratio Definition: Shareholders’ equity divided by total assets. Industrial Operations Volvo Group SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 Shareholders’ equity 97,790 86,579 109,011 97,764 Total assets 301,165 280,093 412,494 398,916 Equity ratio, % 32.5 30.9 26.4 24.5 Gross margin Interest coverage Definition: Gross income divided by net sales. Definition: Operating income plus interest income and similar credits divided by interest expense and similar charges. Industrial Operations Volvo Group SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 Industrial Operations SEK M 2017 2016 Net sales 323,809 291,459 334,748 301,914 Gross income 75,428 65,662 80,167 70,312 Operating income 28,135 18,740 Gross margin, % 23.3 22.5 23.9 23.3 Interest income and similar credits 164 240 Operating income and interest income and similar credits 28,299 18,980 Interest expenses and similar charges –1,852 –1,847 Interest coverage, times 15.3 10.3 211 OTHER INFORMATION Net financial position Definition: Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and interestbearing shortand long-term receivables reduced by shortand long-term interest-bearing liabilities and provisions for post-employment benefits. For reconciliation see table Net financial position, which is presented after the Balance sheet for the Group. Operating income, operating margin, adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin Definition operating income: Operating income is profit excluding interest Definition adjusted operating income: Adjusted operating income is profit and tax, also known as EBIT (Earnings before interest and tax) and is a excluding interest and tax as well as significant expenses or income of a measure of profit from the ordinary business operations. For r­ econciliation one-time character. see the Income statement for the Group. Definition adjusted operating margin: Adjusted operating income divided Definition operating margin: Operating income divided by net sales. by net sales. Group SEK M functions & Construction Volvo Other incl. Industrial Financial Elimi­ Volvo 2017 Quarter Trucks Equipment Buses Penta elim operations Services nations Group Net sales 216,480 66,497 26,078 11,119 3,635 323,809 11,812 –873 334,748 Operating income 20,383 7,917 928 1,439 –2,532 28,135 2,192 – 30,327 Capital gain on sale of shares in Deutz AG 3 – – – – –400 –400 – – –400 Year – – – – –400 –400 – – –400 Adjusted operating income 20,383 7,917 928 1,439 –2,932 27,735 2,192 – 29,928 Operating margin, % 9.4 11.9 3.6 12.9 – 8.7 – – 9.1 Adjusted operating margin, % 9.4 11.9 3.6 12.9 – 8.6 – – 8.9 Group SEK M functions & Construction Volvo Other incl. Industrial Financial Elimi­ Volvo 2016 Quarter Trucks Equipment Buses Penta elim operations Services nations Group Net sales 200,650 50,731 25,386 9,893 4,799 291,459 11,242 –787 301,914 Operating income 15,020 2,246 911 1,269 –707 18,740 2,086 – 20,826 Sale of external IT business 1 – – – – –885 –885 – – –885 EU competition investigation 2 2,334 – – – – 2,334 – – 2,334 EU competition investigation 3 190 – – – – 190 – – 190 Gain from divestment of real estate in Gothenburg 4 –71 – –41 – –1,258 –1,371 – – –1,371 Year 2,453 – –41 – –2,143 268 – – 268 Adjusted operating income 17,472 2,246 870 1,269 –2,850 19,008 2,086 – 21,094 Operating margin, % 7.5 4.4 3.6 12.8 – 6.4 – – 6.9 Adjusted operating margin, % 8.7 4.4 3.4 12.8 – 6.5 – – 7.0 212 OTHER INFORMATION Penetration rate Return on shareholders’ equity Definition: Share of unit sales financed by Financial Services in relation to Definition: Income for the period divided by weighted average share­ total number units sold by the Volvo Group in markets where financial holders’ equity. services are offered. Volvo Group Financial Services SEK M 2017 2016 Number of units 2017 2016 Income for the period 21,283 13,222 Number of financed units 51,919 49,809 Weighted average shareholders’ equity 102,403 88,679 Number of units sold where financial services Return on shareholders’ equity, are offered 205,717 194,820 12 months rolling, % 20.8 14.9 Penetration rate, % 25 26 Return on operating capital Definition: Operating income divided by weighted average operating ­c apital. Industrial Operations SEK M 2017 2016 Operating income 28,135 18,740 Weighted average operating capital 86,496 87,142 Return on operating capital, 12 months rolling, % 32.5 21.5 Sales growth adjusted for currency and acquired and divested operations Definition: Sales growth adjusted for currency and acquired and divested operations. Industrial Operations Volvo Group SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 Net sales 323,809 291,459 334,748 301,914 Increase/decrease of net sales for the year 32,350 –12,123 32,834 –10,601 Currency rates 1,044 1,533 1,044 1,533 Acquired and divested units –2,026 92 –2,133 244 Adjusted Increase/decrease of net sales for the year 31,368 –10,498 31,745 –8,824 Sales growth adjusted for currency and acquired and divested units, % 10.8 –3.5 10.5 –2.8 Self-financing ratio Definition: Cash flow from operating activities divided by net investments in tangible assets, intangible assets and leasing vehicles as defined in the Consolidated cash flow statement. Industrial operations Volvo Group SEK M 2017 2016 2017 2016 Operating cash flow 35,775 9,934 37,599 17,559 Investment in fixed assets and leasing vehicles, net 7,403 6,403 13,843 11,308 Self-financing ratio, % 483 155 272 155 213 OTHER INFORMATION Eleven-year Summary The reporting in the eleven-year summary is based on IFRS. Respective year is presented in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP) for that year. Earlier years are not restated when new accounting standards are applied. Consolidated income statement SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net sales 334,748 301,914 312,515 282,948 272,622 303,647 310,367 264,749 218,361 303,667 285,405 Cost of sales –254,581 –231,602 –240,653 –220,012 –212,504 –235,085 –235,104 –201,797 –186,167 –237,578 –219,600 Gross income 80,167 70,312 71,862 62,937 60,118 68,562 75,263 62,952 32,194 66,089 65,805 Research and development expenses –16,098 –14,631 –15,368 –16,656 –15,124 –14,794 –13,276 –12,970 –13,193 –14,348 –11,059 Selling expenses –28,582 –26,867 –27,694 –27,448 –28,506 –28,248 –26,001 –24,149 –25,334 –27,129 –26,068 Administrative expenses –5,642 –5,121 –5,769 –5,408 –5,862 –5,669 –7,132 –5,666 –5,863 –6,940 –7,133 Other operating income and expenses –1,061 –3,135 –4,179 –7,697 –3,554 –2,160 –1,649 –2,023 –4,798 –1,915 163 Income from investments in joint ventures and associated ­companies 1,407 156 –143 46 96 –23 –81 –86 –14 25 430 Income from other invest­ ments 135 112 4,609 50 –30 –47 –225 –58 –6 69 93 Operating income 30,327 20,826 23,318 5,824 7,138 17,622 26,899 18,000 –17,013 15,851 22,231 Interest income and similar credits 164 240 257 328 381 510 608 442 390 1,171 952 Interest expenses and similar charges –1,852 –1,847 –2,366 –1,994 –2,810 –2,476 –2,875 –3,142 –3,559 –1,935 –1,122 Other financial income and expenses –385 11 –792 931 11 –301 297 213 –392 –1,077 –504 Income after financial items 28,254 19,230 20,418 5,089 4,721 15,355 24,929 15,514 –20,573 14,010 21,557 Income taxes –6,971 –6,008 –5,320 –2,854 –919 –4,097 –6,814 –4,302 5,889 –3,994 –6,529 Income for the period 21,283 13,223 15,099 2,235 3,802 11,258 18,115 11,212 –14,685 10,016 15,028 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Parent Company 20,981 13,147 15,058 2,099 3,583 11,039 17,751 10,866 –14,718 9,942 14,932 Minority interest 302 75 41 136 219 219 364 346 33 74 96 21,283 13,223 15,099 2,235 3,802 11,258 18,115 11,212 –14,685 10,016 15,028 Consolidated income statement Industrial Operations SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Net sales 323,809 291,459 303,582 275,999 265,420 296,031 303,589 257,375 208,487 294,932 276,795 Cost of sales –248,382 –225,797 –236,311 –217,251 –209,307 –231,216 –233,097 –197,480 –179,578 –232,247 –214,160 Gross income 75,428 65,662 67,271 58,748 56,113 64,815 70,492 59,895 28,909 62,685 62,635 Research and development expenses –16,098 –14,631 –15,368 –16,656 –15,124 –14,794 –13,276 –12,970 –13,193 –14,348 –11,059 Selling expenses –26,495 –24,946 –25,857 –25,778 –26,904 –26,582 –25,181 –22,649 –23,752 –25,597 –24,671 Administrative expenses –5,602 –5,081 –5,728 –5,367 –5,824 –5,639 –4,753 –5,640 –5,838 –6,921 –7,092 Other operating income and expenses –640 –2,531 –3,473 –6,931 –2,710 –1,600 –1,045 –659 –2,432 –1,457 249 Income/loss from investments in joint ventures and associated companies 1,407 156 –143 46 96 –23 –82 –86 –15 23 428 Income from other investments 135 112 4,610 49 –31 –46 –225 –57 –13 69 93 Operating income 28,135 18,740 21,312 4,111 5,616 16,130 25,930 17,834 –16,333 14,454 20,583 214 OTHER INFORMATION Consolidated balance sheets SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Intangible assets 35,893 37,916 36,416 37,115 36,588 40,373 39,507 40,714 41,628 43,958 36,508 Property, plant and equipment 53,348 55,875 53,618 55,181 52,233 55,004 54,540 54,242 55,280 57,270 47,210 Assets under operating leases 37,166 34,693 32,531 31,218 25,672 29,022 23,922 19,647 20,388 25,429 22,502 Shares and participations 11,225 12,420 12,050 9,839 6,327 2,890 1,874 2,098 2,044 1,953 2,219 Inventories 52,701 48,287 44,390 45,533 41,153 40,409 44,599 39,837 37,727 55,045 43,645 Customer-financing receivables 109,378 110,821 102,583 99,166 83,861 80,989 78,699 72,688 81,977 98,489 78,847 Interest-bearing receivables 3,501 2,393 2,938 2,555 1,389 5,635 3,638 2,757 3,044 5,101 4,530 Other receivables 72,961 70,814 61,932 68,448 59,943 55,531 59,877 53,154 50,575 61,560 55,152 Non-interest-bearing assets held for sale 51 525 3,314 288 8,104 – 9,348 136 1,692 – – Cash and cash equivalents 36,270 25,172 24,393 33,554 29,559 28,889 37,241 32,733 37,910 23,614 31,034 Assets 412,494 398,916 374,165 382,896 344,829 338,742 353,244 318,007 332,265 372,419 321,647 Shareholders’ equity1 109,011 97,764 85,610 80,048 77,365 86,914 85,681 74,121 67,034 84,640 82,781 Provision for post-employment ­benefits 14,476 14,669 13,673 16,683 12,322 6,697 6,665 7,510 8,051 11,705 9,774 Other provisions 25,477 26,408 27,207 28,010 19,900 21,787 20,815 18,992 19,485 29,076 27,084 Interest-bearing liabilities 127,676 141,048 132,607 147,985 135,001 131,842 130,479 123,695 156,852 145,727 108,318 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale – 148 573 130 350 – 4,716 135 272 – – Other liabilities 135,854 118,879 114,495 110,042 99,891 91,502 104,888 93,554 80,571 101,271 93,690 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities 412,494 398,916 374,165 382,896 344,829 338,742 353,244 318,007 332,265 372,419 321,647 1 of which minority interests 1,941 1,703 1,801 1,723 1,333 1,266 1,100 1,011 629 630 579 Assets pledged 12,791 10,592 9,428 7,680 5,078 4,099 1,832 3,339 958 1,380 1,556 Contingent liabilities 15,242 16,056 15,580 15,940 17,290 17,763 17,154 11,003 9,607 9,427 8,153 Consolidated balance sheets, Industrial Operations SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Intangible assets 35,716 37,768 36,314 37,010 36,479 40,267 39,385 40,613 41,532 43,909 36,441 Property, plant and equipment 53,308 55,812 53,554 55,087 52,146 54,899 54,446 54,169 55,208 57,185 47,132 Assets under operating leases 24,051 22,752 20,616 19,484 17,013 21,263 16,749 13,217 13,539 16,967 13,850 Shares and participations 11,215 12,409 12,042 9,825 6,321 2,884 1,871 2,080 2,025 1,935 2,189 Inventories 52,231 48,080 44,194 45,364 40,964 40,057 43,828 38,956 35,765 54,084 43,264 Customer-financing receivables 1,358 1,698 11 1,828 1,406 1,397 1,702 1,428 1,367 975 1,233 Interest-bearing receivables 4,966 4,415 3,738 2,777 2,195 11,011 6,734 11,153 8,010 6,056 13,701 Other receivables 85,822 75,759 68,223 70,413 60,679 54,324 59,062 52,358 49,008 60,586 55,970 Non-current assets held for sale 51 525 3,314 288 8,104 – 9,348 136 1,692 – – Cash and cash equivalents 32,447 20,875 21,210 31,105 28,230 27,146 35,951 31,491 37,404 22,575 30,026 Assets 301,165 280,093 263,216 273,181 253,537 253,248 269,076 245,602 245,550 264,272 243,806 Shareholders’ equity 97,790 86,579 75,151 70,105 68,467 78,321 76,682 66,101 58,485 75,046 75,129 Provision for post-employment ­benefits 14,391 14,608 13,621 16,580 12,249 6,663 6,635 7,478 8,021 11,677 9,746 Other provisions 22,680 22,545 23,936 25,054 17,575 19,653 19,101 17,240 17,456 27,015 25,372 Interest-bearing liabilities 27,001 33,944 32,562 48,180 52,491 54,472 55,394 59,857 78,890 46,749 38,286 Liabilities associated with assets held for sale – 148 573 130 350 – 4,716 135 272 – – Other liabilities 139,303 122,269 117,374 113,131 102,405 94,139 106,548 94,791 82,426 103,785 95,273 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities 301,165 280,093 263,216 273,181 253,537 253,248 269,076 245,602 245,550 264,272 243,806 215 OTHER INFORMATION Consolidated cash flow statements SEK bn 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Operating income 30.3 20.8 23.3 5.8 7.1 17.6 26.9 18.0 –17.0 15.9 22.2 Depreciation and amortization 16.9 16.7 16.8 15.9 17.4 14.7 13.9 13.8 15.2 13.5 12.5 Other non-cash items 1.4 –0.4 –0.5 6.1 2.4 1.4 1.3 1.6 4.4 –0.2 –0.5 Change in working capital –4.7 –13.9 –9.0 –14.1 –10.8 –21.9 –15.1 4.8 16.9 –23.3 –9.9 Financial items and income tax –6.3 –5.7 –4.6 –5.0 –5.1 –8.0 –7.3 –5.5 –4.6 –5.2 –5.9 Cash flow from operating activities 37.6 17.5 25.9 8.7 11.0 3.8 19.7 32.7 14.9 0.7 18.4 Investments in fixed assets –7.7 –9.5 –8.8 –8.6 –12.2 –14.6 –12.6 –10.4 –10.5 –12.7 –10.1 Investments in leasing assets –11.5 –10.8 –10.5 –10.1 –8.2 –10.0 –7.4 –4.8 –4.2 –5.4 –4.8 Disposals of fixed assets and leasing assets 5.4 9.0 6.0 5.0 3.4 3.1 3.3 3.1 3.8 2.9 2.9 Investments and divestments of shares, net 2.2 0.2 –2.0 0.1 0.0 –1.2 –0.1 –0.1 0.0 0.0 0.4 Acquired and divested operations, net 0.9 1.4 0.4 7.4 0.9 3.4 –1.6 0.6 0.2 –1.3 –15.0 Interest-bearing receivables including ­marketable securities 1.6 2.5 3.6 –4.8 0.5 3.7 2.6 6.8 –8.9 10.9 3.6 Cash flow after net investments 28.5 10.4 14.5 –2.3 –4.6 –11.8 3.9 27.9 –4.7 –4.9 –4.6 Change in loans, net –9.0 –2.2 –13.2 6.7 13.0 14.1 8.7 –25.7 12.6 18.2 28.7 Repurchase of own shares – – – – – – – – 0.0 – – Dividend to AB Volvo’s shareholders –6.6 –6.1 –6.1 –6.1 –6.1 –6.1 –5.1 0.0 –4.1 –11.1 –20.3 Dividend to minority shareholder’s 0.0 –0.2 0.0 0.0 –0.2 0.0 0.0 –0.1 – – – Other 0.0 0.0 0.0 –0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 –0.1 0.0 0.0 Change in cash and cash equivalents excluding translation differences 12.8 1.9 –4.8 –1.8 2.2 –3.8 7.5 2.1 3.7 2.2 3.8 Translation differences on cash and cash equivalents –0.7 1.0 –0.4 1.1 –0.5 –0.8 –0.1 –0.4 –0.2 1.0 0.0 Change in cash and cash equivalents 12.1 2.9 –5.2 –0.7 1.7 –4.6 7.4 1.7 3.5 3.2 3.8 Operating cash flow Industrial Operations SEK bn 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Operating income 28.1 18.7 21.3 4.1 5.6 16.1 26.0 17.8 –16.3 14.5 20.6 Depreciation and amortization 12.6 12.6 12.6 12.7 14.5 12.0 11.4 11.4 12.4 11.8 10.3 Other non-cash items 0.9 –1.1 –1.1 5.3 1.5 0.8 0.6 0.1 2.3 –0.7 –0.4 Change in working capital –0.2 –14.7 –1.9 –3.3 –2.0 –9.2 –4.2 4.6 4.7 –10.9 –0.1 Financial items and income taxes –5.6 –5.6 –4.0 –4.5 –4.9 –7.3 –6.9 –5.1 –4.7 –5.0 –6.0 Cash flow from operating activities 35.8 9.9 26.7 14.3 14.7 12.4 26.9 28.8 –1.6 9.7 24.4 Investments in fixed assets –7.7 –9.4 –8.8 –8.6 –12.2 –14.6 –12.6 –10.3 –10.3 –12.6 –10.1 Investments in leasing assets –0.1 –0.1 –0.3 –0.5 –1.5 –3.6 –1.4 –0.3 –0.2 –0.4 –0.2 Disposals of fixed assets and leasing assets 0.4 3.2 0.7 1.1 0.5 0.9 1.2 0.8 0.7 0.6 1.1 Operating cash flow 28.4 3.5 18.3 6.4 1.5 –4.9 14.1 19.0 –11.4 –2.7 15.2 216 OTHER INFORMATION Exports from Sweden SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Volvo Group, total 107,958 91,962 86,731 78,174 88,560 84,314 91,065 72,688 41,829 96,571 88,606 Key ratios 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Gross margin, % 1 23.3 22.5 22.2 21.3 21.1 21.9 23.7 23.3 13.9 21.3 22.6 Research and development expenses as percentage of net sales1 5.0 5.0 5.1 6.0 5.7 5.0 4.4 5.0 6.3 4.9 4.0 Selling expenses as percentage of net sales1 8.2 8.6 8.5 9.3 10.1 9.0 8.0 8.8 11.4 8.7 8.9 Administration expenses as percentage of net sales1 1.7 1.7 1.9 1.9 2.2 1.9 2.3 2.2 2.8 2.3 2.6 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 20.8 14.9 18.4 2.8 5.0 12.9 23.1 16.0 –19.7 12.1 18.1 Interest coverage, times1 15.3 10.3 9.1 2.2 2.1 6.7 9.6 5.9 –4.7 8.8 20.7 Self-financing ratio, % 272 155 194 64 84 18 118 270 137 5 153 Self-financing ratio Industrial Operations, % 483 155 316 180 112 72 210 294 –16 78 265 Net Financial position excl. post­employment benefits SEK M¹ 26,339 –1,151 349 –9,924 –19,828 –19,023 –14,974 –18,849 –35,506 –20,549 3,321 Net financial position excl. post-­ employment benefits as percentage of shareholders’ equity1 26.9 –1.3 0.5 –14.2 –29.0 –24.3 –19.5 –28.5 –60.7 –27.4 4.4 Net Financial position incl. post­employment benefits SEK M¹ 12,200 –15,679 –13,237 –26,378 –32,066 –22,978 –19,346 –24,691 –41,489 –29,795 –4,305 Net financial position incl. post-­ employment benefits as percentage of shareholders’ equity1 12.5 –18.1 –17.6 –37.6 –46.8 –29.3 –25.2 –37.4 –70.9 –39.7 –5.7 Shareholders’ equity as percentage of total assets 26.4 24.5 22.9 20.9 22.4 25.7 24.3 23.3 20.2 22.7 25.7 Shareholders’ equity as percentage of total assets, Industrial Operations 32.5 30.9 28.6 25.7 27.0 30.9 28.5 26.9 23.8 28.4 30.8 Shareholders’ equity excluding minority ­interest as percentage of total assets 26.0 24.1 22.4 20.5 22.0 25.2 23.9 23.0 20.0 22.6 25.6 1 Pertains to the Industrial Operations. 217 OTHER INFORMATION VOLVO SHARE STATISTICS Data per share (adjusted for issues and splits)1 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Basic earnings, SEK1 10.33 6.47 7.42 1.03 1.77 5.44 8.75 5.36 –7.26 4.90 7.37 Cash dividend, SEK 4.258 3.25 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 2.50 0 2.00 5.50 Share price at year end (B share), SEK 152.70 106.40 79.10 84.70 84.45 88.80 75.30 118.50 61.45 42.90 108.50 Dividend yield (B share), %2 2.8 3.1 3.8 3.5 3.6 3.4 4.0 2.1 – 4.7 5.1 Effective return (B share), % 3 48 39 –3 4 –2 22 –34 97 43 –59 25.7 Price/earnings ratio (B share)4 14.8 16.4 10.7 82.2 47.7 16.3 8.6 22.1 neg 8.8 14.7 EBIT multiple5 9.9 11.7 7.7 26.3 19.6 9.0 5.1 12.0 neg 3.6 9.7 Payout ratio, %6 41 50 40 291 169 55 34 47 – 41 75 Shareholders’ equity, SEK 7 54 47 41 39 38 43 42 36 33 41 41 Return on shareholders' equity, % 20.8 14.9 18.4 2.8 5.0 12.9 23.1 16.0 neg 12.1 18.1 1 Basic earnings per share is calculated as income for the period divided by aver­ 6C ash dividend divided by basic earnings per share. age number of shares outstanding. 7S hareholders’ equity for shareholders in AB Volvo divided by number 2 Proposed dividend in SEK per share divided by share price at year end. of shares outstanding at year end. 3 Share price at year end, including proposed dividend during the year, divided by 8P roposed by the Board of Directors. share price at beginning of the year. 4 Share price at year end divided by basic earnings per share. 5 Market value at year end less net financial position and minority interests divided by operating income. Other share data 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Number of shareholders at year end 240,521 237,654 234,989 237,871 246,265 242,482 251,715 240,043 233,311 220,192 197,519 Number of Series A shares outstanding at year end, million 459 472 485 492 499 526 643 657 657 657 657 Number of Series B shares outstanding at year end, million 1,573 1,560 1,546 1,537 1,530 1,502 1,385 1,371 1,371 1,371 1,369 Average number of shares outstanding, million 2,032 2,031 2,030 2,028 2,028 2,028 2,027 2,027 2,027 2,027 2,025 Number of Series A shares traded in Stockholm during the year, million 46.7 67.2 51.7 86.3 53.0 45.4 130.5 203.2 147.0 308.0 172.3 Number of Series B shares traded in Stockholm during the year, million 1,341.3 1,667.9 2,052.1 2,068.7 1,878.5 2,081.2 2,944.1 2,272.4 2,713.9 3,130.0 2,712.4 % of Share Distribution of shares, Number of % of total Share of The largest shareholders in Number total capital, December 31, 20171 shareholders votes1 capital, %1 AB Volvo, December 31, 20171 of shares votes % 1–1,000 shares 191,676 2.8 2.5 Industrivärden 142,471,882 23.1 7.0 1,001–10,000 shares 44,247 5.5 5.8 Cevian Capital 177,477,650 15.9 8.7 10,001–100,000 shares 3,722 3.3 4.5 Norges Bank Investment Management 55,002,091 5.4 2.7 100,001– 876 88.4 87.2 SHB 31,327,820 5.1 1.5 Total 240,521 100.0 100.0 Alecta (pension funds) 88,381,010 4.8 4.3 AMF Insurance & Funds 56,303,192 3.0 2.8 1 Based on all registered shares. AFA Insurance 13,849,990 2.0 0.7 Swedbank Robur Funds 90,837,110 1.9 4.5 AB Volvo held 4.5% of the Company’s shares on December 31, 2017. AP4 Fund 22,990,163 1.9 1.1 SHB Funds incl. XACT 33,592,433 1.1 1.7 Total 712,233,341 64.2 35.0 1 Based on the number of outstanding shares. 218 OTHER INFORMATION BUSINESS AREA STATISTICS Net sales1 SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Trucks Europe 99,642 91,468 83,767 72,757 73,640 76,365 83,451 69,606 65,874 109,914 108,651 North America 52,405 51,849 73,017 53,696 40,314 42,650 37,042 26,901 21,563 26,588 27,255 South America 12,789 10,613 11,624 19,669 23,318 21,172 26,847 21,680 12,490 14,680 11,483 Asia 36,998 33,464 31,589 29,264 26,740 36,531 37,840 35,231 26,943 37,515 26,593 Africa and Oceania 14,646 13,256 13,982 15,518 14,462 15,565 13,741 13,887 12,069 14,538 13,910 Total 216,480 200,650 213,978 190,904 178,474 192,283 198,920 167,305 138,940 203,235 187,892 Construction Europe 22,977 19,739 17,732 17,215 16,356 16,518 17,765 16,138 12,987 25,192 25,294 Equipment North America 12,234 10,724 11,843 10,784 8,319 12,027 7,829 6,267 5,475 10,159 11,170 South America 1,760 1,414 2,207 3,234 3,314 3,788 4,163 4,130 2,578 2,913 2,155 Asia 25,058 15,765 16,424 18,458 21,911 27,033 29,999 24,352 12,957 13,738 12,179 Africa and Oceania 4,468 3,088 2,802 3,164 3,539 4,192 3,745 2,923 1,661 4,077 2,835 Total 66,497 50,731 51,008 52,855 53,437 63,558 63,500 53,810 35,658 56,079 53,633 Buses Europe 7,753 7,861 7,284 6,139 5,429 6,200 6,631 6,242 7,707 7,321 7,767 North America 12,512 11,345 10,635 6,721 5,929 6,675 7,532 7,200 5,673 5,355 4,630 South America 1,148 1,363 1,425 2,559 1,836 2,794 2,715 1,737 1,235 1,571 1,623 Asia 3,135 3,067 2,557 1,892 2,055 2,853 2,953 3,299 2,749 2,094 1,802 Africa and Oceania 1,530 1,749 1,678 1,334 1,457 1,774 1,992 2,038 1,101 971 786 Total 26,078 25,386 23,580 18,645 16,707 20,295 21,823 20,516 18,465 17,312 16,608 Volvo Penta Europe 5,727 4,973 4,462 3,779 3,714 3,620 4,274 4,507 4,390 6,554 6,798 North America 2,456 2,191 2,161 1,584 1,491 1,486 1,379 1,500 1,100 1,947 2,674 South America 289 291 365 386 297 306 335 335 284 364 274 Asia 2,082 1,891 1,855 1,615 1,692 1,867 2,130 2,008 2,054 2,082 1,624 Africa and Oceania 566 546 562 425 356 352 341 366 331 486 349 Total 11,119 9,893 9,406 7,790 7,550 7,631 8,458 8,716 8,159 11,433 11,719 Volvo Aero Europe – – – – – 2,404 2,893 3,768 3,942 3,497 3,462 North America – – – – – 2,657 3,300 3,599 3,508 3,534 3,723 South America – – – – – 0 7 27 34 58 127 Asia – – – – – 109 104 233 205 234 234 Africa and Oceania – – – – – 49 52 81 114 125 100 Total – – – – – 5,219 6,356 7,708 7,803 7,448 7,646 Other and eliminations 3,635 4,799 5,610 5,806 9,252 7,044 4,532 –680 –538 –575 –703 Net sales Industrial Operations 323,809 291,459 303,582 275,999 265,420 296,031 303,589 257,375 208,487 294,932 276,795 Financial Europe 5,431 5,116 5,278 5,120 4,686 4,703 4,663 4,733 7,127 7,099 4,484 Services North America 4,234 4,202 4,033 2,999 2,900 2,833 2,326 2,605 3,004 369 2,467 South America 1,368 1,235 1,116 1,122 1,009 1,195 1,131 1,156 1,070 791 620 Asia 543 476 548 638 707 795 571 435 435 158 87 Africa and Oceania 235 213 224 232 237 257 192 101 75 68 47 Total 11,812 11,242 11,199 10,111 9,539 9,783 8,883 9,031 11,711 8,485 7,705 Eliminations –873 –787 –2,265 –3,162 –2,336 –2,167 –2,104 –1,658 –1,836 250 905 Volvo Group total 334,748 301,914 312,515 282,948 272,622 303,647 310,367 264,749 218,361 303,667 285,405 1V  olvo Aero was divested in October 1, 2012. 219 OTHER INFORMATION Operating income1 SEK M 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Trucks 20,383 15,020 19,517 4,157 6,145 10,216 18,227 10,112 –10,805 12,167 15,193 Construction Equipment 7,917 2,246 2,044 652 2,592 5,773 6,812 6,180 –4,005 1,808 4,218 Buses 928 911 860 92 –190 51 1,114 780 –350 –76 231 Volvo Penta 1,439 1,269 1,086 724 626 541 825 578 –230 928 1,173 Volvo Aero – – – – – 767 360 286 50 359 529 Financial Services 2,192 2,086 2,006 1,712 1,522 1,492 969 167 –680 1,397 1,649 Other –2,532 –707 –2,195 –1,514 –3,557 –1,217 –1,408 –102 –994 –731 –762 Operating income/loss Volvo Group 30,327 20,826 23,318 5,824 7,138 17,622 26,899 18,000 –17,013 15,851 22,231 1 Between 2007 and 2011, the benefits from the synergies created in the business units are transferred back to the various business areas. Operating income in 2014 included expected credit losses of 660. See section for Alternative Performance Measures regarding adjusted items. Operating margin % 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Trucks 9.4 7.5 9.1 2.2 3.4 5.3 9.2 6.0 –7.8 6.0 8.1 Construction Equipment 11.9 4.4 4.0 1.2 4.9 9.1 10.7 11.5 –11.2 3.2 7.9 Buses 3.6 3.6 3.6 0.5 –1.1 0.3 5.1 3.8 –1.9 –0.4 1.4 Volvo Penta 12.9 12.8 11.5 9.3 8.3 7.1 9.8 6.6 –2.8 8.1 10.0 Volvo Aero – – – – – 14.7 5.7 3.7 0.6 4.8 6.9 Volvo Group Industrial ­Operations 8.7 6.4 7.0 1.5 2.1 5.4 8.5 6.9 –7.8 5.2 7.8 Financial Services 18.6 18.6 17.9 16.9 16.0 15.3 10.9 1.8 –5.8 16.5 21.4 Volvo Group 9.1 6.9 7.5 2.1 2.6 5.8 8.7 6.8 –7.8 5.2 7.8 Number of employees at year-end Number1, 2, 3 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Trucks 55,026 52,154 54,668 58,067 58,542 61,256 62,315 57,796 56,505 64,280 64,390 Construction Equipment 12,788 13,397 13,889 14,901 14,663 14,788 18,422 16,648 16,126 19,810 19,710 Buses 7,943 7,353 7,270 6,900 6,648 7,514 8,529 8,685 9,541 8,930 9,290 Volvo Penta 1,622 1,530 1,470 1,422 1,412 1,361 2,549 2,353 2,928 2,940 3,000 Volvo Aero – – – – – – 3,179 3,120 3,278 3,510 3,550 Financial Services 1,363 1,328 1,340 1,339 1,355 1,362 1,323 1,235 1,234 1,290 1,150 Other 8,362 8,277 9,827 10,193 12,913 12,436 1,845 572 596 620 610 Volvo Group, total 87,104 84,039 88,464 92,822 95,533 98,717 98,162 90,409 90,208 101,380 101,700 1 Between 2007 and 2011, employees in business units are allocated to the business areas. 2 As of 2009, only regular employees are shown, for previous years also temporary employees were included. 3 As of 2012, employees in business units are not allocated to the business areas. Environmental performance of Volvo production plants, Industrial operations Absolute values related to net sales 2017 2016 2015 2014 Energy consumption (GWh; MWh/SEK M) 2,068; 6.4 2,076; 7.1 2,077; 6.8 2,168; 7.9 Direct CO2 emissions, scope 1 (1,000 tons; tons/SEK M)3 207; 0.6 211; 0.7 220; 0.7 231; 0.8 Indirect CO2 emissions, scope 2 (1,000 tons; tons/SEK M)3 192; 0.6 196; 0.7 192; 0.6 218; 0.8 Water consumption (1,000 m3; m3/SEK M) 4,817; 14.9 4,430; 15.2 4,919; 16.2 4,982; 18.1 NOX emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 301; 0.9 333; 1.1 344; 1.3 332; 1.2 Solvent emissions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 1,681; 5.2 1,792; 6.1 1,885; 6.2 2,472; 9.0 Sulphur dioxide e­ missions (tons; kilos/SEK M) 13.3; 0.04 12,9; 0.04 32.1; 0.1 37.9; 0.1 Hazardous waste (tons; kg/SEK M) 31,941; 98.6 27,649; 94.9 27,824; 91.6 24,944; 90.4 Net sales, SEK bn 323.8 291.5 303.6 276.0 1 Restated according to new accounting rules. 2 Excluding UD Trucks and Ingersoll Rand Road Development. 3 From 2012 revised system boundaries and emission factors. 220 OTHER INFORMATION Employees Number1 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Sweden 19,965 19,235 20,412 21,384 22,588 23,052 24,663 23,073 22,763 28,190 28,660 Europe, excluding Sweden 27,596 26,955 27,662 29,449 29,746 30,382 30,458 29,239 29,793 32,940 32,780 North America 15,882 14,245 15,534 15,217 16,397 16,569 15,427 12,844 12,640 14,200 15,750 South America 4,774 4,762 5,380 6,353 6,275 5,977 5,234 4,322 4,257 4,380 4,640 Asia 16,526 16,469 17,046 17,793 17,953 20,222 19,924 18,535 18,416 19,090 17,150 Africa and Oceania 2,361 2,373 2,430 2,626 2,574 2,515 2,456 2,396 2,339 2,580 2,720 Volvo Group total 87,104 84,039 88,464 92,822 95,533 98,717 98,162 90,409 90,208 101,380 101,700 1 As of 2009, only regular employees are shown, for previous years also temporary employees were included. Delivered units Number 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Heavy-duty trucks (>16 tons) 171,963 158,025 176,589 173,650 170,307 172,798 179,779 123,522 82,675 179,962 172,322 Medium-duty trucks (7–16 tons) 14,331 15,691 14,749 15,114 16,779 32,935 34,631 30,657 21,653 30,817 27,933 Light trucks (<7 tons) 16,108 16,708 16,137 14,360 13,188 18,284 23,982 25,811 23,354 40,372 36,101 Total trucks 202,402 190,424 207,475 203,124 200,274 224,017 238,391 179,989 127,681 251,151 236,356 Number 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Trucks Europe 105,432 97,909 86,448 72,458 82,088 84,355 95,113 65,503 49,145 121,847 128,070 North America 37,941 39,193 64,507 57,714 44,755 47,806 42,613 24,282 17,574 30,146 33,280 South America 11,073 9,442 11,069 23,741 29,137 23,443 29,274 21,483 12,587 18,092 15,264 Asia 35,476 31,502 31,979 32,399 28,692 51,514 56,165 53,833 34,800 60,725 39,916 Africa and Oceania 12,480 12,378 13,472 16,812 15,602 16,899 15,226 14,888 13,575 20,341 19,826 Total 202,402 190,424 207,475 203,124 200,274 224,017 238,391 179,989 127,681 251,151 236,356 Buses Europe 2,645 2,676 2,431 2,221 2,146 2,491 2,695 2,395 3,164 3,313 3,748 North America 2,973 2,659 2,398 1,590 1,752 1,826 3,014 2,092 1,539 1,884 1,547 South America 784 1,149 1,415 2,985 2,434 2,560 2,620 1,174 690 995 1,318 Asia 2,186 1,849 1,656 1,242 1,822 2,945 3,417 3,477 3,839 3,033 2,757 Africa and Oceania 805 1,220 925 721 756 856 1,040 1,091 625 712 546 Total 9,393 9,553 8,825 8,759 8,910 10,678 12,786 10,229 9,857 9,937 9,916 2013 20121 2011 2010 2009 2008 20072 2,320; 8.7 2,483; 8.5 2,471; 8.1 2,315; 9.0 1,888; 9.1 2,530; 8.6 2,426; 9.6 255; 1.0 273; 0.9 255; 0.8 279; 1.1 213; 1.0 291; 1.0 242; 1.0 243; 0.9 260; 0.9 5,815; 21.9 7,372; 25.2 7,970; 26.2 7,519; 29.2 6,637; 31.8 8,205; 27.8 7,067; 27.9 347; 1.3 413; 1.4 474; 1.6 719; 2.8 322; 1.5 800; 2.7 542; 2.1 2,221; 8.4 2,358; 8.1 2,554; 8.4 2,294; 8.9 1,435; 6.9 1,945; 6.6 1,979; 7.8 23.4; 0.1 26; 0.1 34; 0.1 33; 0.1 38; 0.2 64; 0.2 58; 0.2 28,395; 107.0 32,547; 111.4 25,943; 85.5 22,730; 88 17,558; 84 27,675; 94 27,120; 107 265.4 292.2 303.6 257.4 208.5 294.9 253.2 221 OTHER INFORMATION REPORTING SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES Material issues Our materiality approach describes the relevant economic, social and environmental aspects we address and report on. We consider their impact on the business and importance to ­stakeholders’ ­decisions. The key stakeholder groups are customers, employees and investors as topics accurately reflect the organization’s material sustainability issues well as society, suppliers and other business partners. We identified the and validated nine priority areas to be reported with added detail in this most important factors for their engagement with the Volvo Group using report. For 2017 members from the Group Management decided there are feedback from recent stakeholder dialogue to qualify the quantitative data no significant changes compared to 2016. gathered previously from stakeholders across key groups, segments and For further information about the materiality process, including stake­ geographies. Combining internal and external analysis, we were able to pri­ holder engagement and definitions of all topics, please refer to the GRI oritize 17 topics. In 2016, Group Management approved that the material (G4) Index, available at volvogroup.com. OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS IDENTIFY PRIORITIZE VALIDATE REPORT 17 material topics Business and Group management Annual & Sustainability ­stakeholders Report, GRI (G4) Index OUR MATERIAL ISSUES Business ethics and integrity Human rights Legal compliance Customer success Emissions (products) VERY HIGH Energy efficiency (products) Importance to stakeholders Product safety and security Operational impacts (environmental) Financial health Intelligent technology HIGH Supply chain Admired employer Societal engagement Health, safety and wellbeing M O D E R AT E Product use and lifecycle Industry leadership and partnership Diversity and inclusion Impact on the business 222 OTHER INFORMATION D E F I N I T I O N S O F K E Y A S P E C T S ­( A L P H A B E T I C A L O R D E R ) A D M I R E D E M P L OY E R – leading and embracing change. Attracting people E N E R G Y E F F I C I E N C Y ( P R O D U C T S) – developing innovative product with a strong business instinct and developing a skilled and agile workforce and service solutions designed to reduce energy consumption, operational with the optimal knowledge and competencies at all levels. Trusting and costs and environmental impacts. empowering colleagues to use their intuition and make the right decisions. F I N A N C I A L H E A LT H – managing economic and financial risks and devel­ B U S I N E S S E T H I C S A N D I N T E G R I T Y – creating, leading and maintain­ oping resilience to market volatility. Reinforce and regain market share, grow by ing a responsible culture built on the business ethics, human rights, social and meeting customer needs in specific segments and secure industry leading prof­ environmental principles set out in our Code of Conduct, including principles on itability. Generating and distributing economic value to various stakeholders. anti-corruption, taxation and political involvement. I N T E L L I G E N T T E C H N O L O G Y – – investing in pioneering research and L E G A L C O M P L I A N C E – working to ensure compliance with all applicable development for innovative technology, transport and service solutions. Investing in laws, regulations, directives, international standards and widely recognized initia­ connectivity, automation, safety, data protection and security. Adapting products tives. Continuous development of our corporate governance, policies and prac­ and services to reduce congestion and improve the economic, social and environ­ tices to ensure adherence. mental dimensions of mobility, distribution and infrastructure. C U S T O M E R S U C C E S S – engaging with customers to truly understand P R O D U C T S A F E T Y A N D S EC U R I T Y – researching and developing prod­ their business challenges, needs and ambitions. Creating value for customers, uct, technology and training solutions designed to enhance driver and operator by delivering transport solutions that increase profitability through lower run­ safety, traffic and site safety, and goods’ security. ning costs and higher revenues. E M I S S I O N S ( P R O D U C T S) – developing cleaner transport solutions designed to reduce consumption of fossil fuels and lower emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrogen oxide (NOX), particulate matters and noise. For the reporting scope and boundary for non-financial data, please see the GRI (G4) Index at www.volvogroup.com. 223 OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING, APRIL 5, 2018 PRELIMINARY PUBLICATION DATES The Annual General Meeting of AB Volvo will be held in Göteborg in Annual General Meeting 2018 April 5, 2018 ­Konserthuset, Götaplatsen, Thursday, April 5, 2018. Report on the first quarter 2018 April 24, 2018 Notice Report on the second quarter 2018 July 19, 2018 Those who wish to participate must be recorded as shareholders in the Report on the third quarter 2018 October 19, 2018 share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB on March 28, 2018 and give notice of intention to attend the meeting no later than March 28, 2018: The reports are available on www.volvogroup.com on date of ­publication • by telephone, +46 8 402 90 76, notice of intention to attend the m ­ eeting and are also sent electronically to shareholders who have advised Volvo could be given by telephone no later than 4.00 p.m. on March 28, 2018 that they wish to receive financial information. • by mail addressed to AB Volvo (publ), “AGM”, c/o Euroclear Sweden, P.O. Box 191, SE-101 23 Stockholm, Sweden Historical and current time series reflecting the Volvo Group’s market • on AB Volvo’s website www.volvogroup.com information are published regularly on www.volvogroup.com When giving notice, shareholders should state their: • name • personal registration number (corporate registration number) CONTACTS • address and telephone number • name and personal number of the proxy, if any Investor Relations: • number of any accompanying assistant(s) (maximum two) Christer Johansson +46 31-66 13 34 Anders Christensson +46 31-66 11 91 To be entitled to participate in the annual general meeting, shareholders E-mail: investorrelations@volvo.com having their shares registered in the name of a nominee must request the nominee to enter the shareholder into the share ­register. Such registration, CSR Management: which can be temporary, must have been effected by March 28, 2018 and Malin Ripa +46 31-322 01 60 should therefore be requested well in advance of March 28, 2018. E-mail: csr@volvo.com Aktiebolaget Volvo (publ) 556012-5790 VOLVO’S ELECTION COMMITTEE Investor Relations, VHQ SE-405 08 Göteborg Sweden The following persons are members of Volvo’s Election Committee: Tel +46 31 66 00 00 www.volvogroup.com Bengt Kjell Chairman of the Election Committee, AB Industrivärden Pär Boman Svenska Handelsbanken, SHB Pension Fund, SHB Pensionskassa, SHB Employee Fund and Oktogonen Yngve Slyngstad Norges Bank Investment Management Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman of the AB Volvo Board Among other duties, the Election Committee is responsible for submit­ ting to the Annual General Meeting proposals for candidates to serve as members of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Board and ­proposal for auditors if applicable. The Committee also proposes the amount of the fees to be paid to the holders of these positions. 224 The Volvo Group is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of trucks, buses, construction equipment and marine and industrial engines. The Group also provides complete solutions for financing and service. The Volvo Group, which employs about 100,000 people, has production facilities in 18 countries and sells its products in more than 190 markets. In 2017 the Volvo Group’s sales amounted to about SEK 335 billion. Volvo shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. AB Volvo, Investor Relations and Group Accounting
