UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 Statement of continuing support July 2018 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 Statement of continuing support We are pleased to introduce Neighbourly’s Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Neighbourly reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Neighbourly’s ambition is to be the all-in-one platform that makes it easy for any company to ‘activate its social purpose at scale’. That means all contribution in one place, an empowering tool to get colleagues involved and ultimately, a place to encourage and inspire customers and citizens to join with you as your business leads the change we want to see in the world. The world’s most responsible brands (Danone, Marks & Spencer, The Body Shop, Starbucks, Heineken, LIDL etc) share that ambition and we’re proud to call them partners. Since 2016 the Neighbourly platform has categorised, tracked and measured all Corporate Community Giving using the Sustainable Development Goals. Each of the 7,500+ charities and community projects listed on Neighbourly are linked to the SDGs, giving an overview of the total contribution of businesses using Neighbourly within the framework of the Goals. Neighbourly is a founding UK ‘B Corporation’ member which acts as a global identifier for socially responsible business. It is given to for-profit organisations that meet rigorous standards of social and environmental performance, accountability and transparency. Our Code of Ethics underpins everything we do as a business. As a founding member of the UK B-Corp movement we will promote the values of business as a force for good, demonstrate our responsibility to people and planet, and create shared value with all our stakeholders. We welcome feedback on our work and commit to learn from this. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Nick Davies Steve Butterworth Founder Chief executive Officer Principle Definition Overview Outcomes Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses The team at As a small, single-site business with few external suppliers there is should support Neighbourly have set negligible risk that any human rights violations will take place and respect out our commitment to within our ecosystem. However, we take a number of steps to the protection human rights through a ensure that our business activities deliver a positive impact on our of range of internal and employees and ensure that we only work with clients and internationally publicly available suppliers that support and respect the protection of proclaimed documents. internationally proclaimed human rights. human rights; and; Our Employee Our Employee Handbook is underpinned by the Human Rights Act Handbook is issued to 1998. In this document, we set out clearly to all employees that it Principle 2 make sure that all new starters and is is essential that all members of Neighbourly behave with dignity, they are not available to all staff on courtesy and respect and to act in a non-discriminatory manner at complicit in an ongoing basis. all times and with all stakeholders. This is particularly important at human rights Neighbourly because a significant component of our work requires abuses We follow a daily liaison with socially vulnerable and disadvantaged Responsible Sourcing community groups who need and deserve our respect and Policy and Assessment support. The Handbook also outlines our whistleblowing policy Framework when and grievance procedures that ensures employees are familiar collaborating with with how to raise concerns about staff treatment or any other partners and suppliers. aspect of their work. Finally, our Ethics Policy Based on our commitment to human rights, we have set out in our is available to the public publicly accessible Ethics Policy the principles for a code of through our website. conduct that we expect to be followed by the businesses, charities These all include and community projects we work with. references to our observance of and To ensure our suppliers operate within our Responsible Sourcing commitment to the UN Policy and Assessment Framework we operate a Responsible Human Rights Charter Sourcing Policy which is designed to inform the purchasing and principles of the decisions of the Neighbourly team when selecting a supplier. This UN Global Compact. Policy sets out the principles and processes by which we will assess the credentials of prospective suppliers. The Assessement Framework we use has been developed on the basis of the United Nations Global Compact. Our Responsible Sourcing Policy and Assessment Framework also specifically sets out that we will not tolerate child labour or any form of modern day slavery in our suppliers. We reserve the right to terminate arrangements with any organisation not complying with these principles. Labor Principle 3 Businesses Neighbourly believes its As a small UK company specialising corporate purpose activation should uphold employees are its the risk of our having a detrimental impact on labour rights is the freedom of greatest asset and relatively low. Nevertheless we consider robust labour practices association recognises its as fundamental for attracting, developing and retaining the and the responsibility to ensure talented people that make us leaders in our field. Moreover, we effective they are afforded attach importance to proactively encouraging positive labour recognition of appropriate practices across the UK through our work with clients, partners, the right to development supply chain, and indeed our investors. As a certified B collective throughout their Corporation we screen all our partners and suppliers to the same bargaining; employment. We value standards to which we aspire. Principle 4 the and encourage diversity elimination of and difference and Neighbourly has a comprehensive Employee Handbook including all forms of believe that we are a diversity and dignity at work, flexible working arrangements, forced and stronger company as a grievance procedures and whistleblowing, alongside health and compulsory result. safety in the workplace and clear terms and conditions of labour; employment. The Handbook details the processes and procedures Our aim is to support by which all employees can expect their rights to be respected and and develop employees their recourse were they to wish to raise concerns. Principle Definition Overview Outcomes Labor Principle 5 the effective in their role so that Our Ethics Policy publicly sets out our responsibility to each other: abolition of they feel confident to child labour; undertake the We will at all times treat our colleagues with dignity and respect. and; responsibilities placed We will work as a team, encourage collaboration, recognise the upon them and strengths of our differences, and support each other to achieve Principle 6 the ultimately are able to our shared goals. elimination of contribute to the We will not tolerate discrimination, harassment or victimisation. discrimination success of our mission. We will embrace the value of diversity in recruitment and in respect of dealings with employees. employment We will value openness and honesty and encourage our and employees to raise ethical concerns. occupation We will at all times conduct ourselves in a manner which brings credit to Neighbourly and our partners. Environment Principle 7 Businesses In line with our B-Corp We operate ‘Neighbourly Food’, a food surplus redistribution should support status, we seek to programme. We are a signatory of the Courtauld 2025 a reduce the commitment and work closely with WRAP (the Waste and precautionary environmental impact Resources Action Programme) to develop our work in this area. approach to of our own business We measure the reduction in CO2 from food and product environmental and provide services to donations made through our platform. challenges; help corporate undertake organisations reduce Our food surplus redistribution programme has redistributed over Principle 8 initiatives to theirs too. Our work 5.6 million meals that would have otherwise gone to waste and promote involves helping this has led to saving over 6,500 tonnes of CO2. Our work in this greater businesses use their area was recognised by the National Recycling Awards, winning environmental scale for good by the category for Food Waste Initiative of the Year 2017. responsibility; tackling current and and; future social and Our Responsible Sourcing Policy, Handbook and Assessment environmental Framework not only ensures that suppliers adhere to our Principle 9 encourage the challenges facing environmental principles, but also is geared to give preference to development society in all the suppliers who we determine meet higher social and and diffusion communities where environmental standards. For example, our stationary supplier of they operate. We have was specifically chosen for its environmental credentials. environmental been working to ly friendly increase awareness of Our offices offer facilities for waste recycling and we actively technologies and change behaviour encourage staff to use these. around environmental issues since the We also have a formal policy in place to reduce the environmental Neighbourly platform footprint caused by commuting. went live in summer 2014 and have had some remarkable successes with international brand campaigns already. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses Our ethical policy sets Our Employee Handbook outlines the relevant policy and should work out that we will not grievance procedures so that employees are familiar with how to against accept favours or bribes raise concerns about any form of corruption arising in the context corruption in or allow personal of their work. all its forms, affiliations to influence including the award of contracts. Our expenses policy and itemised process ensure clear oversight extortion and of all financial transactions. bribery
