2020 GOAL 50% Sewing lines in RMG factories led by Female Supervisors 50 Liters of water for dyeing one kg fabric Did You Know? Honey bees are pollinating crop species that feed 90% of the world. A world without bees could struggle to sustain the global human population of 7.6 billion. Honey bees build their hives with honeycomb shaped 100k Trees to oﬀset carbon emissions cells. The honeycomb shape tessellates, ensuring that there’s neither wasted space nor wasted energy. This shape is used to illustrate the “Benzene Ring”: the orbital compound which forms the essential structure of all organic chemistry. Universally from the standpoint of signiﬁcance, honeycomb represents communication, equality, balance, integration, union, perfection and sustainability. 10% Renewable energy from solar panels 1 TVET center in community 1% 20% from recycled materials SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PAGE CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE I-II PAGE MATERIALITY TEST III-IV PAGE MATERIALITY MAPPING V PAGE REPORTING PARAMETERS VI PAGE CHAPTER I 01 1-8 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH PAGE CHAPTER I 02 9-32 DBL & SUSTAINABILITY PAGE CHAPTER I 03 33-40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PAGE CHAPTER I 04 41-52 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE PAGE CHAPTER I 05 53-66 ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES PAGE CHAPTER I 06 67-84 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PAGE CHAPTER I 07 85-102 STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT CONTENTS “We are now focusing on our own DBL Sustainability Goals: we call these It is my great pleasure to present to you the 2020 Goal” Sustainability Report of DBL Group for the year 2017. We say that Sustainability is deeply rooted within the DNA of DBL and with this report we continue to share our continues to be popular ongoing efforts. The Sustainable as we see the sales cross a million dollars in Development Goals or the SDGs once again 2016-17. help us in mapping out our efforts effectively. Our focus on empowering women is a continuous process. We have been creating We are greatly honored to have become a female Line Supervisors through our part of the Business Call to Action (BCtA) in-house Female Supervisors Leadership through our Bandhan Fair Price Shop: an Program since 2013 and now have 36 initiative to provide necessary goods to Female Supervisors. We are also recruiting employees at subsidized price. The BCtA is more female Security Guards to further a global platform of the UNDP on inclusive reduce inequalities. And of course, we are and sustainable business. Starting with a continuously taking care of their hygiene single shop in 2008, we currently have six issues through our Women Health Program shops in our different factory complexes. Initiative. In addition, our Family Planning Bandhan has become an integral part of Corner with Marie Stopes Bangladesh has DBL. Every time we expand into a new gone into operation this year and we already complex, we include Bandhan for the have 1,034 registered clients availing the betterment of our people. The shop different family planning services. I Partnering with UNICEF, the program to All these have inspired us to create our own promote breastfeeding in the workplace has sustainability targets. Inspired by the SDGs, also started. Other than lunch breaks, the we are now focusing on our own DBL working mothers now have two additional Sustainability Goals: we call these 2020 time slots within the working hours to attend goal. Currently set for the year 2020, these to their new born babies. Furthermore, we goals target training more Female continue to support our employees’ children Supervisors, reducing water consumption in education: providing a total of $447,146 dyeing, planting trees to offset carbon scholarship which facilitated for 7,096 emissions, using renewable energy, students this year. This in turn can help establishing a community technical and prevent child labor in the country since vocational training center, including more ﬁnancial problems act as barriers to higher people with disabilities, and increasing the education. In addition, our programs for use of recycled products in creating yarns. recognizing meritorious children and providing them academic career path In alignment with the 10 principles of UN counseling is still ongoing. Within the Global Compact, we are committed to community too, we are providing various ensure sustainable future for people and supports to educational institutions. We also environment and to stand against hold Community Knowledge Exchange corruption. We also respect human rights as Programs in our attempt to enlighten the part of our commitment to the UN Guiding local community. Principles for Business and Human Rights. Our approach to Corporate Social In 2016, we celebrated 25 years since our Responsibility or CSR is strategic: we ensure inception. Our theme during our silver jubilee sustainability in our approach. We do not was “Crafting happiness”. With this, we aim limit ourselves to simple philanthropy. We to sustain with our endeavors and generate believe that setting up industries and satisfaction for all our workers, our creating employment opportunities is the employees, and our stakeholders. In this most sustainable form of serving the regard, I sincerely thank all our stakeholders society. And with vast expansions in for their ongoing understanding and planning as well as implementations, we are continued support for our company. achieving so. Sustainability makes great business sense too. We have reduced absenteeism, reduced employee migration, increased productivity, and so on. Relating to environmental efforts, we have seen direct -----------------------ﬁnancial returns from resource savings. Abdul Wahed Chairman II Materiality Test Most material Material Least material Any impact 1 No impact 0 Sustainability impacts, Category Aspects risks, or opportunities Economic Performance 1 Economic Indirect Economic Impacts 1 Procurement Practices 1 OHS 1 Equal Remuneration For Men & Women 1 Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices 1 Social Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms 1 Local Communities 1 Compliance 1 Energy 1 Water 1 Emissions 1 Environment Effluents & Waste 1 Compliance 1 Supplier Environmental Assessment 1 III Sustainability interests, Future challenges for topics, & indicators the sector, reported by Organizational values, raised by stakeholders peers & competitors Legal compliance policies & strategies Total 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 1 5 IV Materiality Mapping Economic: Economic: Prourement Practices Economic Performance Indirect Economic Impacts Social: Equal Remuneration for Social: Inﬂuence on Stakeholder Assessments & Decisions Men & Women OHS Supplier Assessment for Labor Environment: Practices Compliance Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Compliance Local Communities Environment: Energy Water Emissions Eﬄuents & Waste Supplier Environmental Assessment Signiﬁcance of Economic, Social & Environmental Impacts V Reporting Parameters Period: 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017 Reporting cycle: Annual Most recent previous report: DBL Group Sustainability Report 2016 GRI Guidelines followed: GRI G4 ‘In Accordance’ option chosen: In Accordance Core Contact person: Mohammed Zahidullah Head of Sustainability Mobile: +880 1711 677 626 Email: zahid@dbl-group.com Defining the Report Content and the Aspect Boundaries The content of the report is based on the social, environment, economic and product sustainability practices at DBL Group. Identifying of the Aspects has been as per the guidelines of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and indicators have been selected based on the availability of information on those practices. Some of the sustainability projects of DBL Group are beneﬁcial to the organization itself and some others are beneﬁtting the community as well. We have tried to create meaningful connection between the sustainability practices of DBL Group with the reporting guidelines of GRI. This is our fourth reporting on sustainability adhering to the GRI’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Through this report we have focused our insights on setting goals, measuring performance and managing change in order to implement better performances. We would like to take our sustainability reporting practice to the next level by continuous improvement in our future endeavors in reporting. Through this report, DBL Group continues its journey in sustainability reporting on the economic, environmental and social dimensions of its business activities. Through progressive advancement in reporting, DBL Group is committed to report transparently on how it manages its economic, environmental, social, and governance performance. VI SUSTAINABILITY CHAPTER 1 APPROACH You can't put a limit on anything. The more you dream, the further you get. Michael Phelps Competitive Swimmer 2 Evolution of Sustainability The term Corporate Social Responsibility or CSR used to focus on simple philanthropy. In some organizations, this is still apparent. However, there has been a substantial change in the meaning: CSR now focuses on beyond philanthropy. From one “Sustainability point of view, sustainability encompasses more than CSR by encompasses integrating the business impacts. As an example, where traditional more than CSR CSR or philanthropy talks about by integrating donations to help the underprivileged, sustainability the business focuses more on a holistic impacts.” approach: creating employment opportunities. Organizations have been practicing various initiatives for an extended amount of time to address the social, environmental, and economic challenges of a community or even a country. These activities may not have been referred as “CSR”, “sustainability”, or “inclusive business”, as these terms have come into effect relatively recently. When the UN launched the Sustainable Development Goals or SDGs in 2015, an improved way of addressing the social, environmental, and economic issues have come into effect. Organizations can now create a set of their own goals based on the SDGs or otherwise. 3 DBL’s practices were selected based on the greatest impacts and relevant targets were set for each of them. Crafting a vision for the Sustainability year 2020, seven different goals have been set up. These goals target women empowerment, responsible consumption of Targets resources, offsetting carbon emissions, renewable energy usage, developing skilled workforce, including disabled people, and DBL Group has a ﬁve-pillar approach to recycling. Sustainability: People, Process, Product, Community, and Environment. These are This year’s report has a special focus on briefly explained later in this chapter. The these goals. DBL refers to these goals as the ﬁrst approach of DBL with the SDGs was DBL Sustainability Goals. Since the goals mapping out the different programs, have been targeted for the year 2020, we practices, and initiatives with the different refer to these as 2020 Goal. These goals goals. An overview of this was stated in the have been included below. 2016 Sustainability Report. After the mapping was done, some programs and 50% Sewing lines 50 Liters of water in RMG factories for dyeing led by Female Supervisors one kg fabric 100k 20% of total yarn production from recycled materials 2020 Trees to offset carbon emissions GOAL 1% 10% Renewable energy Inclusion of people from solar panels with disabilities 1 TVET center in community SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 4 DBL Sustainability Pillars DBL Group’s Sustainability is based on ﬁve pillars: People, Process, Product, Community and Environment; thus, integrating a holistic approach towards Sustainability. For each pillar, there are several Sustainable Action Programs in place – both on large and small scales and short and long terms – through which the sustainability plans are translated into actions. 5 DBL Sustainability Pillars People As an organization, DBL Group realizes its responsibility towards its people: our employees. Our company understands how Community the business practices impact our We believe that together with our employees, employees and we work to serve in their customers, business partners and other best interests. stakeholders, we can create real and long-term changes for the betterment of the community and the environment. And together with our thousands of employees we can extend this impact even further – Process from improving the livelihood of our DBL Group is committed to continuously employees to the development of the society improve all its business processes: where we conduct our businesses. ranging from purchasing raw materials to transporting ﬁnal ﬁnished goods. We give a strong emphasis on eliminating non-value-added activities while delivering quality products on time with the least effect on the environment and greater Environment efﬁciency. Environment is a high priority for our company and we work to decrease carbon footprint, water consumption, and waste from our manufacturing processes. We dedicate ourselves in conserving energy, managing waste effectively and replenishing Product the environment to the best of our capacity. DBL Group continuously works towards DBL recognizes that its own sustainability improving the quality of the products, and rests on its ability to work harmoniously in all the processes that go into making the its social and environmental settings. So, ﬁnal ﬁnished product, and ensures to with economic success we also want to minimize the negative impact on the balance social and environmental prosperity. environment and the consumers. The R&D department is actively involved in creating new and researching existing products and the processes associated with them. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 6 7 50% Sewing lines in RMG factories led by Female Supervisors SDG 5 GENDER EQUALITY The sewing lines in the readymade garments (RMG) industry is signiﬁcantly dominated by women and hence it makes sense to have Female Supervisors overseeing them. DBL Group launched the Female Supervisor Leadership Program in 2013, and since then, a total of 36 Supervisors have graduated from the program. Now, targeting the year 2020, DBL aims to have 50% of the sewing lines to be led by Female Supervisors. DBL & CHAPTER 2 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is no longer about doing less harm. It's about doing more good. Jochen Zeitz Former CEO, Puma 10 Company Profile DBL Group is a diversiﬁed conglomerate with a strong backward linkage. The Group started its business in 1991. The diversiﬁed Vision business includes Apparels, Textiles, Packaging, Ceramic Tiles, Telecommunications, Dredging, Semiconductor Design (VLSI), and Pharmaceuticals. The Group started its We envision to sustain business back in 1991. and grow as a diversiﬁed In the apparels and textiles sector of global conglomerate. Bangladesh, DBL Group is one of the largest and 100% export oriented composite knit garments and textiles manufacturing organization. We are supplying quality apparels around the world to the best of the retailers and the biggest brands of the fashion industry. The company is headquartered in Dhaka, Bangladesh and operating its production processes at the factories situated in Gazipur, Dhaka, Bangladesh. 11 Company Proﬁle • Integrity Values • Passion • Excellence • Adaptability • Care • Color City Ltd. Concerns • DB Tex Ltd. • Dulal Brothers Ltd. • Flamingo Fashions Ltd. • Hamza Textiles Ltd. • Jinnat Apparels Ltd. • Jinnat Fashions Ltd. • Jinnat Knitwears Ltd. • Matin Spinning Mills Ltd. • Mawna Fashions Ltd. • Mymun Textiles Ltd. • Parkway Packaging and Printing Ltd. • Textile Testing Services Ltd. • Thanbee Print World Ltd. DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 12 Products and services DBL Group offers the following products and services: • Yarns, Fabrics, Threads • Casual knitwear (T-Shirts, Polo Shirts, Tank Tops, Joggers, Hooded Jackets, Cardigans, Leggings, Trousers, and Dresses) • Fashionable wear (Skirts, Gowns) Manufacturing processes DBL Group makes use of the following in the manufacturing processes: • State-of-the-art machineries • Best grade cotton in our spinning mill for all products • Knitting makes use of low proﬁle hazardous materials • Oeko-Tex 100 Standard with Product Class I • Dyeing operation makes use of low water to fabric ratio: only 50 liters per kilogram of fabric • Garments manufacturing processes make use of CAD, CAS and CAM systems • Washing operations make use of machines which consume less water and have best ﬁltering and spinning systems We use a new wave of top notch technology for incorporating the production with good to put our yarn through a series of Quality quality at the lowest possible cost in the Control checks, to ensure strict quality shortest time. This desire for quality is also standards. This is then supplemented by shared by our team of highly qualiﬁed and concentrating on process manufacturing competent professionals, who under the and process improvements. We have set-up capable and dynamic leadership of the Industrial Engineering and Work Study Board of Directors have made our departments. Root cause analyses are done remarkable growth possible. It is with this by using statistical quality control tools. shared vision that we are marching towards our goal of attaining acknowledged The R&D department helps in developing leadership in providing quality products at new products and process improvements competitive price. 13 Company Proﬁle Process flowchart Sewing Cotton Import Washing Screen Printing Spinning Finishing Cutting Knitting Packaging All Over Printing Dyeing And Transportation Finishing DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 14 Bandhan Fair Price Shop “Bandhan” is a fair price shop which serves People low income workers with all the essentials and commodities at factory price of Programs manufactures. The shop is aimed at reducing workers’ monthly expenditure and sheltering them from the economic inflation. Any employee of DBL can buy items through zero-cash and on-credit transaction: the bills are simply adjusted with their salaries at the end of the month. Bandhan was recognized by the Business Call to Action (BCtA) as an inclusive business model and gained DBL a membership of the BCtA. $1.04 Million Sales Total Shops 6 15 People Programs 16 Female workers promoted to Supervisors Total Female Supervisors 36 Female Supervisor Leadership Program DBL designed an in-house training program for its Female Supervisors. This comprises of 165-hour lessons covering areas of skill, counseling and general management. Over a period of 2 months, training is provided to potential in-house female workers having worked in sewing or quality departments within DBL. After successful completion of the training program, they are promoted as Female Supervisors. As per the 2020 Goal, DBL aims to have 50% of its garments sewing lines led by these Supervisors. DBL’s vision regarding female workers is: “To be the most attractive employer for the female workers in the garments industry of Bangladesh” DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 16 Sanitary napkins (SN) 32% Increase in average monthly sales than 2015-16 29% Female employees using SN Women Health Program Initiative (WHPI) Starting from March 2013, the program targeted all the female workers of DBL Group. It has a long-term objective to ensure good health and hygiene for all female workers. The initial activity was providing women with sanitary napkins at discounted price: thus, not only limiting to educating Nirapod: Saving Women women but also providing opportunities for from Unwanted Pregnancy ensuring their safe health. and Unsafe MR Analysis and follow up are done to NGO Phulki, in partnership with the Embassy encourage women to make proper use of of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, is these products. For instance, to maintain the working towards promoting health privacy of workers, the pads are now made awareness among the female garments available in the female washrooms. workers of DBL Group involving peer Counselling sessions are also done regularly educator group. Starting in August 2013, to aware women regarding the health Phulki has expanded the reach of this beneﬁts of the products. The effectiveness project through partnership approach. These of these initiatives has been visible from the trainings are provided during orientation. substantial increase in sales. The second phase of Nirapod has started in two factories of DBL in 2016-17. 17 People Programs CESA $447,146 Scholarship provided Employees’ children 7,096 Academic Career Path Counseling 90 Children of employees Children received recognitions and counseling Education Support Initiative A set of programs exist under the Children Disability Inclusion Education Support Initiative which focuses Program on accessibility to education for all the employees of DBL. These consist of: To include people with disabilities within the • Recognition for meritorious students workforce, DBL Group has partnered up with • Providing career path counselling to the Center for Disability in Development students who have passed Higher (CDD). CDD has provided training and Secondary education conducted awareness programs for the • Children’s Education Support Allowance factory HR departments. This way, the (CESA): Sponsoring two children of each importance of the inclusion of the people employee whose monthly income is with disabilities has been brought into below BDT 25,000 realization. Currently we have 41 such individuals under DBL Group’s employment. The Disability Inclusion Program is growing with a vision to have a one percent of our workforce to consist of people with different types of disabilities. DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 18 Mothers@Work DBL signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with UNICEF to promote and improve breastfeeding practices in the workplace. The Mothers@Work program is expected to reach 4,767 female workers, 340 pregnant and lactating women, and at least 340 infants and young children over the 3-year span of program implementation. Infants from both the Day Care Centre and the community are availing the service. Some of the key achievements from the program are outlined below: • Two dedicated private lactation stations, with proper ventilation and comfortable sitting arrangement • Facility to express breast milk and store breast milk in breastfeeding corners • Two 30-minute time slots for breast feeding • 200 mothers are using breastfeeding bottles to preserve breast milk in factory and at home • 300 pregnant mothers and 250 nursing mothers counseled to support breastfeeding • Training provided to management and pregnant and lactating mothers to support breastfeeding. 19 People Programs 74 babies are being nursed @ DBL’s Breast Daycare Community Feeding Corner 28 46 Babies Babies DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 20 Process Automation of fabric Programs manufacturing operation process The Management Information System (MIS) team of DBL Group developed an in-house system in the Fabric Knitting section to transfer the manual operation practices into an automated one. Earlier, on-time and on-line information were unavailable which lead to wastage and indecisiveness in the process. The new system automates the manufacturing process operation to make effective decisions, reduce wastage, and ensure convenience. Workers are now using electronic tabs and computers to input production and operational information. 21 Process Programs The management now has a digital dashboard to understand the most recent status of different machines and can hence make instant decisions related to the operation. Some of the key features include: • On-line and on-time production and efﬁcient monitoring system • Supply chain traceability Sudokkho Skill • Barcode and labeling system for fabric Development Program tracking • On-line and off-line quality control Sudokkho is a skill development program for • Simpliﬁed electronic delivery system sewing operators which caters to the capacity building for factory-based training • Efﬁcient inventory system centre. The program inspires the industry to • Signiﬁcant reduction in fabric wastage invest in developing and operating skills • Completely paperless operational system training and employability activities. • “Smart” centralized production planning: Sudokkho supports the industry to develop system suggests what to do innovative and sustainable training models allowing employees to acquire the skills leading to employment in higher valued The system has generated multiple beneﬁts semi-skilled or skilled jobs. including the following. Lean manufacturing Lean Manufacturing is a business model 48,360 and collection of tactical methods that Hours saved* in operational process emphasize eliminating non-value-added activities (waste) while delivering quality products on time at least cost with greater 8,817 efﬁciency. The project was launched Fabric saved (kg) in production* following the guidelines and support of Walmart in Jinnat Fashions Ltd. and various 3% methods were implemented for the Increase in efficiency garments cutting, sewing, and ﬁnishing operations. Replication of the practices are ongoing at other garments and non-garments units including fabric knitting, * Figures are for 133 machines fabric dyeing and ﬁnishing, and garments printing. DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 22 Resource saving dyeing DBL’s practices allow use of low water to dye one kg of fabric. Currently, the dyeing and finishing operation makes use of only 55 liters of water, whereas industries have been Multiple initiatives have been taken by DBL reported to use up to 200 liters. DBL aims to Group to reduce the consumption of energy reduce the usage of water for dyeing to 50 for the dyeing and ﬁnishing processes. The liters per kg of fabric within 2020. energy meters ensure proper measurement of power consumption. Relevant temperature adjustments are done depending on the fabric for the dyeing, DBL Idea Club scouring-bleaching and soaping processes to optimize the energy usage. The dyes DBL encourages ideas from any employee or used allow consumption of less energy as worker, regardless of their designation. Their well. efforts are recognized through a monthly recognition system: the “Employee of the The wicking ﬁnishing process converts Month”. In 2015, a yearly recognition system hydrophobic fabrics (such as polyester) to was launched as well, named the “Employee hydrophilic. Hydrophilic products intake of the Year”. The program has been water much better than hydrophobic ones inaugurated in the knitting section and has and thus enable optimum consumption of been replicated for other units too. This water. It also reduces weight loss of fabric encourages employees to work at their full during processing: which allows better potential and gives them a feeling of fairness hand-feel and increased fabric strength. as every employee has an equal opportunity at obtaining this reward. 23 Process Programs QC Circles Newly created 36 Total QC circles 120 DBL Quality Control (QC) Circles The Quality Control (QC) Circles promote employee engagement in workplace decision making. The bottom-up approach to quality empowers employees and workers to make effective decisions which influence production directly. Each of the different operations has their own QC Circles. These teams have participated in both national and international QC Circle competitions and won the highest recognitions on multiple occasions. 24 Product Programs Furthermore, in collaboration with the Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC), traceability is being introduced for the viscose used in the processes. The FSC promotes the responsible management of the world’s forests. In addition, under the Global Recycled Standard (GRS) certiﬁcation, recycled polyester blended yarn is being produced to create a variety of sustainable products. As part of the 2020 Goal, our Spinning Mill Sustainable yarn now targets to have 20% of total production production made from these recycled products. Our Spinning Mill makes use of different processes that reduces the consumption of cotton. Recycled textile materials are used instead of raw cotton. The Coarse yarns used to produce fabrics reduces the consumption of raw materials by up to 60%. Up to 30% recycled materials can be used with virgin ﬁber to produce ornamented products known as Cotton Neppy Mélange yarns. Different colored neps (produced from recycle polyester) are visible in the yarn body and this works as ornamentation on the fabric surface. Mixing of spinning waste produces Snow yarns, which create a snow effect in the ﬁnished fabrics which takes its place in the new fashion trade. 25 Product Programs Special certifications Better Cotton Initiative Oeko-tex Standard 100 The program has been adopted to support For our Spinning, Dyeing, Printing and the global standards for Better Cotton and Garments processes, we follow the to promote our commitment to make global Restricted Substances List (RSL) speciﬁed cotton production better for the producers, by Product Class 1 of the Oeko-Tex Standard environment and the sector. Over 90% of 100 certiﬁcate. the total yarn production is from BCI. Organic Cotton Global Organic Textile Standard (GOTS) It is an initiative to reduce the negative The GOTS certiﬁcation is a worldwide impact on the environment and consumers. leading textile processing standard for Organic cotton is imported from India to organic ﬁbers. This includes ecological and process organic yarn. This comprises of social criteria, backed up by independent about 8% of the total yarn production. certiﬁcation of the entire textile supply chain. 26 Community Mini Fire Brigade (MFB) Programs The Mini Fire Brigade (MFB) is DBL Group’s ﬁrst public-private partnership, which is in collaboration with GIZ (through the German Cooperation) and the Bangladesh Fire Service and Civil Defence (BFSCD). Already in operation, the objective of the Mini Fire Brigade rapid response and risk reduction unit is to prevent ﬁre in the industrial buildings around Kashimpur, Gazipur area. The unit is located outside the Jinnat Complex of DBL Group which will also serve other factories in the Kashimpur-Konabari industrial cluster. 13 Successful operations 0 Casualities 27 Community Programs 120 Beneficiaries till date DBL Group has provided land, constructed the MFB building, and has given volunteer ﬁre ﬁghters. The BFSCD has undertaken the Community Knowledge initiative to organize training for volunteer ﬁreﬁghters and provide infrastructure Exchange Program support. BFSCD has also provided a ﬁre DBL continues to hold Community vehicle dedicated to the MFB. GIZ has Knowledge Exchange Programs in the facilitated the procurement of an additional different communities where DBL’s ﬁre-ﬁghting vehicle. The facility is staffed 24 operations are taking place. These programs hours a day with a target to respond within focus on empowering women through the ﬁrst 10-15 minutes to both industrial ﬁre ﬁnancial literacy such as family budget, and building collapse. savings, mobile banking, etc and personal hygiene for women including the use of sanitary napkins and Sexual and Community education Reproductive Health Rights (SRHR). support As part of endorsing the need for achieving SDG-4: Quality Education in Bangladesh, Community health DBL Group has been involved with multiple programs initiatives. A four-storied building has been constructed by DBL for Hatimara School To further focus on SDG-3, Good Health and and College. Computers with audio-visual Well-Being, DBL is continuing with systems were installed to equip the college Community Health Development Programs auditorium with latest classroom facilities. in the different communities where DBL’s The building can accommodate about operations are taking place. Children, 1,000 students.DBL also donated 100 sets women, men, and the elderly of the of benches to Sardagonj Government community visit to take free treatments. In Primary School to accommodate 300 one of the camps, a disabled child was students. A renovation of an existing builddiscovered. DBL arranged for a consultation ing in the school has also been done to with the Centre for the Rehabilitation of the further facilitate the students. Paralysed (CRP) in DBL’s own premises. The child is currently under treatment. DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 28 • Exhaust gas boiler • Heat recovery from Stenter Environment (fabric ﬁnishing) machine through Eco Booster Programs • Hot water recovery • LED lighting DBL Group has signed up for the second phase of PaCT which is due to be commenced from the ﬁrst quarter of the year 2018. Sustainable Action and Vision for a better Partnership for Environment (SAVE) Cleaner Textile (PaCT) A project by Puma co-ﬁnanced by DEG with PaCT is a holistic program supporting support from H&M and ASSIST, SAVE aimed textile wet processing factories to adapt to at reducing carbon emission, energy cleaner production. It engages with brands, consumption, waste and water consumption government, communities, ﬁnancial by 25% by 2015 keeping 2011 as the institutions and other stakeholders in baseline. Multiple recommendations were bringing about systemic, positive implemented in the garments unit Jinnat environmental change for the Bangladesh Knitwears Ltd. based on an onsite textile sector, the workers and the assessment performed in November of communities of operations. The program 2014. These recommendations have contributed to water, gas, electricity, steam, immediate, short-term or long-term payback dyes/chemicals and carbon emission periods and were implemented throughout consumption reduction. A quick summary 2015. DBL received the recognition for of the implementations of the program, having the “Best Management System” which concluded in 2017, is shown below. during the event closing in January 2016. • Rain water harvesting • Procuring machines with low liquor ratio DBL replicated the SAVE program in the Screen Printing unit: Thanbee Print World • Using water trigger nozzles Ltd. The program enabled Thanbee savings • Condensed water recovery of 308 tons of carbon emissions and 460 MWh of electricity annually. 29 Environment Programs Bio Gas Generation In collaboration with GIZ, a bio gas generation plant has been set up in the Jinnat Complex, where the knitting and garments operations take place. Cattle excrement is used to provide as source of the gas and is currently being used as a source of fuel in cooking. With an initial investment of BDT 485,000 (US$ 6,218), a return of about BDT 600,000 (US$ 7,692) is obtained per year. 3E Zero Discharge of The Energy Efﬁciency Engagement (3E Program) is implemented by the Nordic Hazardous Chemicals Chamber of Commerce and Industry in (ZDHC) Bangladesh (NCCI) and funded by the Danish International Development In 2011, a group of major apparel brands Cooperation (DANIDA). The overall goal of and retailers made a collective commitment this program is to reduce carbon emissions to help lead the industry towards zero and decrease costs related to industrial discharge of hazardous chemicals by 2020. energy consumption. This is achieved by Brands involved in this project are H&M, offering companies the opportunity to have Esprit, G-Star and Puma. A “Joint Roadmap” energy assessment of their production was published in November 2011 which facilities. Three of DBL Group’s facilities have demonstrates the group’s collaborative gone through the assessment and reports efforts in leading the apparel and footwear have been provided to for the respective industry towards ZDHC for all products implementation procedures. DBL will be across all pathways by 2020. starting these implementations in 2017-18. 30 Major buyers Knowledge partners 31 50 Liters of water for dyeing one kg fabric SDG 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION The dyeing industry uses signiﬁcant amount of water for the processes: consuming as high as 200 liters for dyeing in kg of fabric. With programs such as the Partnership for Cleaner Textile (PaCT) by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), several methods have been implemented to reduce consumption of water and other resources. DBL is now making initiatives on its own to further reduce the consumption of water from 55 liters per kg to 50 liters by 2020. CORPORATE CHAPTER 3 GOVERNANCE The real mechanism for corporate governance is the active involvement of the owners Louis V. Gerstner Jr. Former CEO of IBM 34 “Good business is where business is done with compassion towards humanity. Too often we underestimate the power of a touch, a smile, a kind word, a listening ear, an honest compliment or the smallest act of caring, all of which have the potential to turn a life around. Take care of people and your people will take care of your organization.” Abdul Wahed Chairman Board of Directors The highest governing body in DBL Group is the Board of Directors. Our current Board DBL Group’s senior management are chosen consists of four Directors and one Advisor. by the Board of Directors because of their The Vice Chairman is also a director of vast experiences, immense knowledge, BGMEA. fascinating competence, cross industry exposure, local and overseas footage, and The company has deﬁned guidelines and well accepted market reputation. This established framework for the board cohesive team wants to make a difference, meetings and other proceedings. These develop and inspire others, drive innovative guidelines help decision-making processes ideas and deliver results, and live with DBL of the board members in a systematic, Group’s values. informed and efﬁcient manner. The Board evaluates: The distinguished Board is cultivating a sustainable work culture through them. DBL credits its strength, the sustainability of a • Strategic decisions of the company consistent approach to managing the business, the constant growth of its people, • Management policies and their to this senior management team. effectiveness • Strategic review from each of the board members • Financial, production and other business performance through relevant reports. 35 Board of Directors “An empowered organization is one in which individuals have the knowledge, skill, desire and opportunity to personally succeed in a way that leads to collective success. The knowledge we acquire is the fuel for driving ourselves to a better future, brimming with immense possibilities; achieving our goals along the way.” M. A. Jabbar Managing Director Our commitment to strong corporate governance DBL Group adheres to the deﬁnition of in Bangladesh and an important determinant Corporate Governance of the International of the role of the company in a modern Finance Corporation (IFC): a set of economy and society.Through implementing structures and processes for the direction the recommendations by IFC, DBL Group and control of companies, which involves a aims at bringing its corporate governance set of relationships between the company’s framework up to best international practices shareholders, board and executive bodies and standards to the extent possible. This is with the purpose of creating long term critical to DBL Group given the company’s shareholder value. expected growth. The desire to attract new investors will heavily rely on the existence of DBL views corporate governance as the a concrete corporate governance system. means to: DBL Group intends to establish a sound corporate governance system which will facilitate the organization to attain: • Improve operational efﬁciency • Better access to external capital • Attract ﬁnancing at a lower cost • Lower ﬁnancing costs • Build a better reputation. • Higher credit ratings The company also considers a sound • Strong investor conﬁdence system of corporate governance as an important contribution to the rule of law CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 36 Family business General governance governance structure Family Business Governance is an important The company has the following governing issue for DBL Group since it is a family owned business comprising of family and other bodies: members vested with signiﬁcant • General Assembly: Allows the decision-making authority. The company is shareholders to participate in the investing its time and effort on governance of the company implementing Corporate Governance and • The Board: Responsible for the strategic Family Business Governance for the greater direction of the company, and the good of the company and a sustainable guidance and oversight of management business • CEO: Assigned the task of the day-to-day management of the company, and carrying out strategy as approved by the Compliance board. • Company Secretary: Ensures that the DBL Group’s Corporate Governance governing bodies follow internal rules framework is based on Bangladesh and external regulations in order to legislation as well as internationally facilitate clear communications between recognized best practices and principles, the governing bodies, and acts as an such as the OECD Principles of Corporate adviser to directors and senior Governance. The company’s corporate executives governance framework is based on the • Internal Auditor: Develops and monitors following principles: internal control procedures for the business operations of the company. • Accountability • Structure and Committees: DBL Group • Fairness has established the following Board • Transparency Committees: » The Audit Committee • Responsibility » The Remuneration Committee “Business is not merely about making money. It’s about achieving our deep goals and protecting the fruits of our labor. It’s about stewardship, and therefore, about achieving social good. Through management excellence and discipline, ﬁnancial stability for the business can be achieved. “ M. A . Rahim 37 Vice Chairman Board of Directors » The Nominations and Corporate much higher level of Governance Committee expectations – market and regulatory. » Other committees deemed necessary DBL will improve its disclosures in two by the Board primary areas: Annual Report information and website disclosures. Matin Spinning Mills, a concern of DBL Group is now Internal audit and control enlisted under Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission and is available • The Board’s Audit Committee: The audit for public trading. A stock enlisted committee focuses on three key areas: company needs to comply with ﬁnancial reporting, risk management, and regulatory requirements for disclosure internal external audit (legal compliance and the company is ensuring essential and risk management). disclosures of the concern thorough • Risk Management: The company places Annual Report and website. great importance on a risk management and it is the board of directors that is tasked with ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are established. • Internal Auditor: The internal auditor (or ofﬁce of the internal auditor) is responsible for the daily internal control of the company’s ﬁnances and operations. • External Auditor: An external auditor audits the company’s ﬁnancial statements. • Disclosure: DBL’s current disclosures through its website are adequate for a non-listed private company in Bangladesh. However, once companies of DBL Group go public, there will be a “Operational excellence is what takes a business from average to extraordinary. The key to achieving excellence lies in tending to the details. The little waves we make in our day-today work, go a long way. The biggest step towards perfection would be achieving operational excellence through an integrated approach, engaging all employees within the organization.” M. A. Quader 38 Deputy Managing Director and Group CEO 39 100,000 Trees to be planted to offset carbon emissions SDG 15 LIFE ON LAND Creating industries has a direct relation with creating employment. At the same time, carbon emissions are associated with the industries. A method of offsetting these emissions is by planting trees. Trees, of course, have other beneﬁts including restoring biodiversity. Recognizing all these, DBL has already started planting trees as part of the Tree Plantation Program. DBL aims to plant 100,000 trees in different regions of its operations and beyond within 2020. ECONOMIC CHAPTER 4 PERFORMANCE A business absolutely devoted to service will have only one worry about proﬁts. They will be embarrassingly large. Henry Ford Founder, Ford Motor Company 42 Bangladesh Knitwear Exports Bangladesh continues to be the number two supplier of readymade garments (RMG) in the world, second only to China. Bangladesh’s income from RMG is still extremely signiﬁcant, contributing over 81% in 2016-17 1. The knitwear exports in 2016-17 contributed to 49% of total RMG exports and 40% of total country exports 1. DBL currently produces knitwear and contributed to 1.42% of the total knitwear exports from Bangladesh. Vast expansions plans are already underway to capture a further share of the market to make a signiﬁcant contribution to the GDP of Bangladesh. 1. Source: http://bgmea.com.bd/home/pages/TradeInformation, Accessed: 2 October 2017 43 Economic SDGs 4 (Quality Education), 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), and 9 (Industry, Impact in DBL Innovation and Infrastructure) also make references to importance of employment. In that regard, DBL’s constant expansions contribute signiﬁcantly to reducing poverty. The following graph shows the growth of DBL’s employees within the last ﬁve years. Within the next ﬁve years, DBL’s expansions aim to double the number of the current workforce of 28,000. Employment Contributing further to inclusion, DBL is also DBL believes that setting up industries and employing disabled employees. Currently, creating employment opportunities are the DBL has 41 disabled people within the best forms of serving the society as workforce. DBL has already received an employment has direct contribution to the assessment from the Centre of Disability in development of a country. Employment can Development (CDD), Bangladesh to make directly contribute to Goal 1 of the the workplace more accessible. DBL targets Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to have 1% disabled people within the which discusses ending poverty. In addition, workforce by 2020. Employee growth: 2012-13 to 2016-17 28,000 24,500 20,450 16,200 15,700 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 44 Women engagement in Operator DBL Management Participation Committee Member The increasing employment is also contributing to SDG-5: Gender Equality and SDG-10: Reducing Inequalities, since Women women’s participation in the workforce has Doctor engagement Security Guard increased. DBL’s in-house Female in DBL Supervisor Leadership Program is developing female Line Supervisors every year: with an aim for 2020 to have 50% of Welfare Supervisor the garments sewing lines run by females. Oﬃcer Women in DBL Group are currently engaged Care-giver in various roles, as shown in the following diagram Economic Impact in DBL Economic sustainability through social and environmental initiatives The deﬁnition of sustainability encompasses social, environmental and economic performance. In cases, initiatives may be taken directly to address economic sustainability such as procuring machines 74,645,805 kWh equivalent energy with greater life span or reducing the use of raw materials by using recycled products. US$ The indirect beneﬁts can occur from reducing turnover and absenteeism; for the 2,985,805 former, recruitment and training costs are reduced and for the latter, there is a direct impact on production. One example of economic impact is the Partnership for Cleaner Textile (PaCT) program by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank. Initiated in 2010 under the Cleaner Production program and in 2013 as PaCT, the program targeted water and other resource saving initiatives. By the end of 2016, the program provided signiﬁcant savings in water, energy, and dyes and chemicals. In 2016 alone, 1.22 billion liters of water were saved, which caters to the need 1,107,859 of 13,927 families. The savings were kg dyes & chemicals reflected on the other resources too: an US$ overview of which is shown below. 1,661,789 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 46 $194,946,829.06 EXPORTED IN 2016-17 DBL Group has exported garments to the following countries. EUROPE AFRICA ASIA & OCEANIA NORTH AMERICA NORTH AMERICA AUSTRIA MOROCCO AUSTRALIA CANADA ARGENTINA BELGIUM SOUTH AFRICA CHINA EL SALVADOR BOLIVIA CROATIA HONG KONG MEXICO BRAZIL DENMARK INDIA USA CHILE FRANCE INDONESIA ECUADOR GERMANY JAPAN PANAMA GREECE MALAYSIA PARAGUAY ITALY NEW ZEALAND PERU NETHERLANDS PHILLIPPINES URUGUAY NORWAY SINGAPORE VENEZUELA POLAND SOUTH KOREA RUSSIA TAIWAN SERBIA THAILAND SPAIN UAE SWEDEN TURKEY UK 47 Economic Impact in DBL Awards and accolades 5th HSBC – The Daily Star Climate Awards under the category of “Category 2: Climate Champion in Green Operations” 3 Gold Awards in the International Convention on Quality Control Circles (ICQCC) 2017, organized by The Quality and Productivity Association of the Philippines in Manila, Philippines Economic Summary All amounts in million US$ (USD 1 = 78.25 BDT) 2016-17 Exports (domestic & international) 204.51 Revenue (gross) 368.10 Other income 4.28 Direct economic value generated 372.38 Operating costs 236.50 Employee wages and beneﬁts 59.37 Payments to providers of capital 16.07 Payments to government 8.40 Community investments 0.68 Economic value distributed 321.02 Economic value retained (direct economic value generated less economic value distributed) 51.36 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 48 Community impacts Wage and Apart from the machinery used in the Community different operations, DBL procures all other products and services from Dhaka. Impacts When DBL began its operations in Kashimpur and Mawna (Gazipur), the entire area/locale was undeveloped. The progression was escalated by industries and the locality has gone through a signiﬁcant transformation. Popular local branded shops and local and global branded products are now available in the Entry level wage community. DBL Group always abides by the minimum About 70% of a worker’s earnings are spent wage as set by the government. The levels on rent, children education and household of wages are a common standard for the items for their daily needs. Based on this, the industry regardless of gender or area of following graph shows the improvement operation: this is constant throughout throughout the years and the contribution of Bangladesh. Each worker is recruited in one DBL to the improvement of the local of seven grades (apart from trainees). For all economy. grades, DBL pays at a higher rate than the minimum: experience is also considered in The Bandhan Fair Price Shop of DBL Group relevant cases – the lowest grade usually plays an important role towards the positive comprises of people with little or no prior contribution through its product lines. experience. The surplus amount depends on Reputed brands such as GlaxoSmithKline, the amount of prior experience the recruit Unilever, etc. are available for the workers at has. prices which are more affordable to them: 49 Wage and Community Impacts hence they now have access to better inclusive business model since it includes quality as well as healthier products. Items the low-income workers as consumers. include food, cooking oil, toiletries, DBL Group has also contributed to the house-keeping goods, tea & beverages, economy through the following ways: along with others, including sanitary napkins. • Medical facilities for workers and consultation services for family members An inclusive business model, Bandhan was • Providing access to medicine at established as a strategic approach. Back in manufacturer’s price for workers and 2007-08 when the global ﬁnancial crisis their families affected everyone, DBL decided to increase • Contribution to educational institutions in the salaries of our workers by 15%. This had the community a negative effect as the other industries in • Conducting surveys to understand the the cluster started to demand the same in needs of the community their factories. In response, Bandhan was • Financial assistance to various hospitals established which not only reduced the expenditure burden of the workers, but also prevent any unrest. Bandhan acts as an DBL’s contribution to the local economy (in USD Million) 35 32 30 30 26 25 21 20 20 14 15 9.3 10 8.4 5 6 0 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 50 51 10% power generation from solar energy SDG 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY The use of renewable energy, such as solar power, reduces the impact on the environment. This is because this type of power generation causes no carbon emission and even saves fossil fuels; thereby often referred to as “clean” energy. With the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and other stakeholders, DBL has already studied, and is continuing to study, the feasibility of using solar panels. Targeting 2020, DBL aims to use up to 10% solar power for the production processes. ENVIRONMENTAL CHAPTER 5 PRACTICES The Earth does not belong to us: we belong to the Earth. Marlee Matlin Actress 54 To reduce environmental footprint, DBL Group has formed an Environmental Management System (EMS) team of ﬁve members. Standard environmental policy and Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) policy have been formulated which addresses management of: Environment • Waste • Energy Management • Wastewater • Noise pollution Approach • Water use • Greenhouse gas (GHG) • Ozone depleting substances (ODS), etc. DBL management is committed to manage and protect environment as an integral part These guiding activities help us address of its business. The company prefers to run environmental challenges such as its businesses in a responsible, biodiversity conservation. These are given environmentally sound and sustainable priority to ensure environmental manner by implementing effective responsibilities and continual improvement environmental policy and procedures in all to reduce environmental impacts. As the factories. Several sustainability projects minimization of pollution is addressed, the relating to environmental management organization can ensure sustainability of the system have been and are being environment as an integral part of the implemented. business. 55 Environment Management Approach Awareness training on Monitoring and follow-up environment of environmental practices Environment awareness trainings are conducted every month for all employees The EMS team carries out internal audits relating to more general issues as well as on based on legal requirement and buyers’ the production processes. All new standards to review the environmental employees, irrespective of their levels, are aspects. External (third party) audits are also briefed about EHS and environmental involved to assess important aspects such related aspects of the organization during as stack and ambient air emission test, their induction process. Employees are also noise test, Environmental Impact Assessmade to undergo speciﬁc training with ment (EIA), etc. The different issues are respect to the nature of their work. Need addressed without delay: monthly meetings identiﬁcation for this is done by the are also conducted to tend to the remaining respective heads of departments for sending issues. The EMS and EHS committees in staff across for internal as well as external each unit are also involved to implement the trainings. environmental practices. Environmental certifications Certification Processes Environmental Clearance Certificate Spinning, fabric dyeing, all-over printing, (ECC) screen printing and packaging Spinning, fabric dyeing, all-over printing, Oeko-Tex Standard 100 garments and screen printing Global Organic Textile Standard Spinning, fabric dyeing, all-over printing, (GOTS) garments and screen printing Organic Content Standard (OCS-IN) Garments ISO 14001 Fabric dyeing and all-over printing ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 56 Environmental initiatives in different business operations Cotton import Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Organic Cotton Use of materials Spinning Depending on the different production processes, different raw materials are used. Energy efficient machinery All input materials are weighed and tracked Innovation in yarn production to control unwanted wastage. Systems such as Lean Manufacturing, Kaizen and 5S are included to make proper use of materials Fabric thereby reducing waste. Electronic tabs are dyeing used for data input with in-house developed software and hence moving a step closer to Low liquor ratio machines paperless systems. Energy saving dyeing Partnership for Cleaner Textiles (PaCT) Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) External assessments by government and private organizations are made on noise and air pollutions and the quality of wastewater Garment before discharging. DBL performs its own production assessments as well. All recommendations are implemented to reduce impact on the Energy, water, and waste management environment. 57 Environment Management Approach The primary raw materials for the different production processes Process Input material(s) Output from process Cotton spinning Raw cotton Yarns Fabric knitting Yarns Fabrics Fabric dyeing and finishing Fabrics, dyes and chemicals Dyed fabrics All-over printing Fabrics, dyes and chemicals Printed fabrics Garments manufacturing Fabrics, accessories Finished garments Garments printing Finished garments, dyes Printed garments and chemicals Garments washing Finished garments Washed garments Corrugated carton Cardboard Cartons Materials used by weight or volume Materials Unit 2016-17 Change Cotton kg 7,724,563 -6.6% Yarn kg 18,363,368 -12.3% Fabric kg 46,520,110 -4.4% Dyes kg 691,030 -14.2% Chemicals kg 5,940,873 3.0% Salt kg 5,531,103 -7.5% Cut panel pieces 23,690,069 -10.0% Paper kg 6,081,809 -17.9% ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 58 Water management DBL Group continuously tracks the water consumption by using water flow meter in the factories and takes initiatives to reduce the consumption. Water withdrawal for different facilities Type of water Unit 2015-16 2016-17 Change Groundwater m3 2,181,323 2,164,292 -0.8% 59 Reducing Resource Other water saving practices Consumption • Rain water harvesting • Repair leaking taps and educate staff to turn off after use • Replace water taps without aerators by taps with aerators • Replace single flush cisterns with dual flush • Boiler hot water reuse Efficient machineries We have installed state-of-the-art dyeing Energy management machines that consume 50% less water in comparison to the average dyeing Energy is an essential point of the industrial machines. This in turn has a direct effect on sector to achieve sustainability as it is the receding water table and energy directly related to ﬁnancial matters and consumption. global climate change. Energy consumption within the organization is monitored and tracked to reduce wastage of the energy. The following steps are currently Reduced water implemented to reduce energy consumption: consumption • Preparation of energy management policy Water consumption in the fabric dyeing • Collecting consumption of water, steam, process has been reduced from 120 liters diesel, gas and electricity along with per kg of fabric to 55 liters per kg. Less water directly impacts the consumption of monthly production dyes, chemicals, steam and electricity and • Benchmarking and regulating energy reduction in waste water discharge. As such consumption in consultation with the the environment impact is reduced and production team by doing process production cost is also lower. re-engineering and innovations ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 60 Energy efficient machineries • Reducing carbon emission High end energy efﬁcient capital • Reducing diesel consumption in machineries from Europe, USA and Japan generators are used in our production processes. These • Taking initiative to reduce energy world class machineries have greatly consumption by choosing alternative reduced the energy consumption for sources of non-renewable resources different production processes by 15%. • Training employees on energy and Some of the features of our energy efﬁcient environmental aspects within the and environment friendly machines are as industry follows: DBL currently makes use of non-renewable • The dyeing machines have individual energy sources for its operations. In 2016-17, 39,075,517 cubic meters of heat recovery unit resulting in lower compressed natural gas and 15,266,824 power consumption and energy saving liters of diesel has been used. For by 15% transportation, 1,359,593 compressed • Water consumption saving of 20% natural gas, 410,315 liters of diesel, and compared to normal dyeing machines 213,138 liters of octane were used. • Reduction in consumption of dyes, chemical and steam due to less water consumption Natural water cooling • Heat recovery from Captive Power Plant is providing energy saving of about 15% pads We are using natural water cooling pads in our production floors. One side of the Servo motors production floor has cooling pads through which water flows continuously while the We are using sewing machines with energy other side has blower fans which “pull” and circulate the generated cool air on the floor. efﬁcient servo motors instead of the The room temperature for the workers is traditional clutch motors in the sewing lines. comparatively lower than the cooling done Servo motors consume electricity only when by ceiling fans. The need for installing the machine needle is active whereas the hundreds of ceiling fans has been clutch motor consumes electricity even in abandoned and energy consumption has standby mode. The remaining clutch motors greatly reduced. Workplace comfort has also will be replaced as soon as the machines are been increased signiﬁcantly. out of order. 61 Reducing Resource Consumption To ensure effective monitoring and Other energy saving minimizing of energy consumption and GHG practices emission, DBL’s practices include the following: • Hot water recovery (lowering the consumption of diesel) • Maintaining an energy usage inventory • Reducing light intensity in certain areas (e.g. energy consumption data such as • Switching off unnecessary lights during gas bills, electricity bills, and fuel use in day time vehicles) • Replacing T8 and T5 lights with the more • Checking electricity lines, gas lines, oil efﬁcient LEDs (light emitting diodes) tankers and generator connections • Recovering steam condensates • Maintaining GHG emission inventory • Purchasing Variable Frequency Drive including direct and indirect energy (VFD) in-built air compressors consumption. • Regular maintenance Effluents Emissions DBL Group currently has two biological Emissions include greenhouse gases Effluent Treatment Plants (ETPs) in the (GHGs) which are emitted from the different fabric dyeing facility. These ETPs are for machines used in the operations and from treating the wastewater generated from the vehicles. This consists primarily of carbon fabric dyeing and all-over printing dioxide and is calculated using IFC and GHG operations. The ﬁrst ETP, with the capacity Protocol guidelines. From the different of 4,000 cubic meters, was taken as a operational facilities, 120,704 tons of carbon benchmark by the Department of dioxide emissions were recorded in 2016-17. Environment (DoE) of the government of From the transportation services, the emisBangladesh. To meet the extended capacity sions are from compressed natural gas, of the dyeing process, a second of 7,500 octane, and diesel used by the vehicles. In cubic meters ETP was constructed and went 2016-17, 2,574 tons of carbon dioxide into operation in November 2014. The emissions were recorded from the cumulative total of 11,500 cubic meters is transportation services. among the largest ETPs in the country that is under a single factory complex. DBL also GHGs are related with energy production constructed another biological ETP in the and reducing energy consumption helps screen printing facility, which went into with reduction of GHGs, thus contributing to operation on February 2016. In 2016-17, a minimization of climate effects. total of 2,311,209 cubic meters of effluents were generated. ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 62 Waste management All wastages in DBL are tracked and monitored regularly. Non-hazardous and hazardous are given to government authorized waste collectors for proper disposal. Different types of wastes are disposed in different ways. Before disposing any waste, they are categorized according to their characteristics. In general, they may be categorized as hazardous and non-hazardous. Category wise list of wastes in different sections Section/ Types of Waste Area Non-hazardous Hazardous Cotton fabric, paper, Synthetic fabric, poly bag, cutting knife, Cutting scissors, blade, pp van carton, tubes of fabric roll Synthetic fabric, synthetic thread, Cotton fabric, cotton Sewing thread, cotton label, paper synthetic label, poly, cutter, scissors, needle, plastic cone, button, zipper, rivet Needle, poly, used gum tape, tag pin, Finishing Cotton thread, cartons empty bottle of spot lifter Medical Syringe, synthetic packaging materials Gauge, unused cotton of medicine, empty, medicine bottle Centre Canteen Gauge, unused cotton Plastic packets, water bottle etc. Lab Cotton, paper boxes, etc. Detergent (liquid and solid) Tube lights, electric bulbs, oil, electric Common Wood, paper, etc wires, rubber mats, metal, empty chemical drums 63 Reducing Resource Consumption Total weight of waste by type Type of waste Unit 2016-17 Hazardous kg 256,675 Non-hazardous kg 8,410,413 There are 3 separate dustbins clearly labeled set in the medical center for depositing all types of bottle/strips, cotton/bandages and syringes/needles respectively. All concerned staff are instructed to deposit waste in those speciﬁc dustbins. 64 Transportation impact management The impacts due to transportation are managed in several ways including the following: • Daily, weekly and monthly maintenance • Engine servicing after running every 3,000 km or 3 months: including Biodiversity management washing, engine flashing, changing Mobil and air ﬁlters, etc. Environmental impact assessment is done for • Spark plug checking and replacing every facility and preventive actions are taken • Engine valve (inlet and exhaust) against the possible impact. This assessment clearance checking and adjusting takes the following into consideration: • Greasing moving parts to avoid friction • Noise pollution management • Fuel ﬁlter cleaning and replacing • Air emissions management • Battery water level checking and • Greenhouse gas emissions monitoring recharging and energy management • Gear box and axle gear oil level checking • Safe disposal of waste materials from and replacing production process • Avoid air draft using windshield/air • Biodiversity conservation reflector. • Motivating drivers to minimize fuel consumption, avoiding over speed, etc. Products and services To mitigate the impacts on the environment, multiple Sustainability programs have been Environmental grievance taken by DBL Group. Brief explanations of mechanisms these programs have been included under Chapter 2 of this report. DBL is constantly Till now, we have had no grievances about involved in resource saving and reducing environmental impacts since all our facilities emissions to preserve the environment. maintain environmental compliance. 65 1 tVET center in community SDG 4 QUALITY EDUCATION The need for technical and vocational education has been recognized not just in Bangladesh but in other countries of the world as well. Through the Sustainable Development Goals, this have been included in the global agenda. A skilled workforce can contribute to increased quality production, which in turn impacts resource consumption: the reworking rate goes down. DBL aims to create a Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) center within the local community: the graduates of which can join any industry with the necessary skills required. SOCIAL CHAPTER 6 DEVELOPMENT Human Development is the base for Sustainable Development. Mekelle University, Ethiopia 68 Labor approaches are taken by educating workers on national laws, buyers’ codes of conduct, Practices health and safety issues, human rights, etc. The policies and compliance levels of DBL Group are veriﬁed by our buyers and their recognized third-party inspection companies. Compliance audit procedure Compliance The EMS team also facilitates the different environmental sustainability projects to DBL Group has a dedicated Compliance assess and reduce environmental risks. The department to ensure regulatory, social, Head of the Compliance department reports environmental, and requirements of all the activities of the team to the Board of international partners. The department Directors. Continuous interaction with other regularly conducts internal audits departments is maintained for making throughout the group. The department is corrective actions based on the audits and divided into two wings: social and preparation for future audits. The most environmental. The social team oversees recent information on laws and regulations issues such as timely and proper payment are collected periodically from the different of wages and salaries, employee welfare, ﬁre government authorities and buyers and the safety, electrical and building safety, and same is updated and implemented. Any occupational health and safety (OHS). The notiﬁcation issued by the government Environmental Management System (EMS) authority or our buyers is immediately team looks after environmental affairs such communicated by the Compliance as waste management, resource efﬁciency, department to all concerned departments to carbon emissions, etc. Precautionary update and implement. Opening Floor Worker Documentation Closing Meeting Visit Interview Review Meeting 69 Labor Practices Suppliers of DBL are also assessed for labor practices, human rights, as well as societal impacts. The DBL Compliance team conducts supplier assessment through speciﬁc standards questionnaire on social and environmental areas based on the DBL Code of Conduct. Before making a business relationship with a supplier, it is compulsory that the supplier abides by our Code. International standards integrated within DBL Group’s policies Organization Specific standards International Labour Convention 1 (Working Hours) Organization (ILO) Conventions 29 and 105 (Forced and Bonded Labour) Convention 79 (Young Persons' Night Work) Convention 87 (Freedom of Association) Convention 98 (Right to Collective Bargaining) Conventions 100 and 111 (Equal Remuneration for Male and Female Workers for Work of Equal Value; Discrimination) Convention 135 (Workers' Representatives) Conventions 138 and 142 (Minimum Working Age) Convention 155 and Recommendation 164 (Occupational Safety and Health) Convention 159 (Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment / Disabled Persons) Convention 177 (Home Work) Convention 181 (Private Employment Agencies) Convention 182 (Worst Forms of Child Labour) Better Work Bangladesh (along with IFC) United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UN) Convention on the Rights of Child Convention to Eliminate all Forms of Discrimination against Women Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) Social Accountability 8000 (SA8000) Guidance Document for Social Accountability 8000 International Quality Guidelines for Auditing Companies in the Others Framework for SA8000 Accreditation Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Social Accountability International (SAI) Guideline (150.1 – 150.8) Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 IFC Performance Standards SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 70 Employee distribution 28,000 workforce* 10,264 17,736 Basic salary & Remuneration 37% Women 63% Men 1:1 Total male employees: 3,662 (98%) Total female employees: 70 (2%) Total supervised male workers: 14,074 (57%) *All workforce are full-time Total supervised female workers: 10,194 (43%) Distribution by age Distribution by religion 0.72% 0.20% 0.06% 3.62% 31.78% 67.50% 96.12% Below 30 30 to 50 Above 50 Muslim Hindu Christian Buddhist New hires Age group Gender 0.3% 24.0% 43% 75.7% 57% Below 30 30 to 50 Above 50 Female Male Note: Percentages may not add up to 100 due to rounding 71 Labor Practices Training • Disciplinary Procedure as per Bangladesh Different trainings are provided to DBL’s Labour Law employees every month which consist of • Environment, Energy, and Water Saving both generalized and speciﬁc trainings. The Awareness generalized training topics include, but not • Waste-handling Procedure limited to, the following: • Participation Committee (PC), OHS, and Environment Committee's Functions • Orientation for newly recruited workers • Child Labor, Forced Labor, Discrimination, and employees on company rules and Harassment, and Abusive Behavior regulations • Anti-harassment, Anti-abuse, and Griev• Company Code of Conduct ance Procedure • Buyer Code of conduct • Awareness on AIDS and Transmittable • Working hours, Overtime, and Calculation and non-Transmittable diseases of Wages and Overtime Payments • Compensation and Beneﬁts (including The speciﬁc trainings target mid-level leave facilities) management, workers, chemical handlers • Threat Awareness and spot removers, loaders, quality in • Worker Rights and Responsibilities spectors, ﬁrst aiders, ﬁre ﬁghters, • Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) evacuators and rescuers, cleaners, etc. • Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) and Chemical Handling Procedure In 2016-17, the total training hours spent • Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) amounted to 287,178 with female and male • Lifting and Carrying Procedures employees receiving 142,801 hours and • Electric Safety and Operation of Boilers 144,377 and hours respectively. The average • First Aid training hours per female employee was • Fire Safety 13.91 and male employees was 8.14; the • Machine Operating Process and Safety overall average per employee was 10.26. • Awareness on Health and Nutrition for Pregnant Women 72 Maternity facilities and benefits • Gift hamper for new babies • Breastfeeding kit for lactating mothers All the female employees of DBL Group are provided by UNICEF entitled to take parental leave. The pregnant • Facility for using lifts for pregnant women women can also avail the following services: • Consideration to work on the ground floor and the ﬁrst floor of any building • Educate women about the maternity • Free antenatal and postnatal treatment beneﬁt • Awareness training on maternity protection and breastfeeding • 112 days of paid maternity leave • Apart from lunch breaks, two extra times, with a total of 60 minutes, breastfeeding breaks within working hours • Provision of riskless work for pregnant In 2016-17: female employees 308 women took parental leave in 219 returned from leave 137 continued for at least one year 62.6% retention rate 73 Labor Practices Grievance procedure At DBL, we train our welfare ofﬁcers to exercise grievance procedures very professionally and encourage employees to express their concerns without hesitation through the complaint management system. Workers feel comfortable sharing any concern that they might have with the Welfare Ofﬁcers. We process grievances both formally and informally. These include: The Suggestion/Grievance Box: Workers can put in their issues in written form and drop them in the boxes. Multiple boxes are placed on each floor: these are checked every week by designated people and the grievances are recorded in a register. The Bandhan Newsletter: Like the Suggestion/ Grievance Boxes, workers can place their complaints in the newsletter which is published monthly. A section of this newsletter is detachable and a worker can drop this off conﬁdentially in any box. Verbal complaint: Workers can inform verbally to Ofﬁcers from the Welfare, Compliance, Human Resource (HR), and/or Admin departments or to their Supervisor or Line Chief. During the Participation Committee (PC) meetings: A concerned worker can express themselves through a PC member who will put forward the complaint during the meetings. Grievances of all employees regarding any topic are considered by the management. This includes violations of rights of indigenous people. In 2016-17, there were no incidents reported where the rights of such people were violated either through formal grievance mechanisms or through informal ones. DBL Group’s grievance procedure addresses labor practice issues as well as human rights and societal topics. In overall, 2016-17 recorded 230 grievances of which all were addressed and 229 resolved. 1 grievance of 2015-16 was resolved this year. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 74 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) DBL Group aims on creating a healthy, surroundings. The presence of dust, heat, environment-friendly and safe workplace chemicals, work stress, posture of working, and educating the workforce regarding etc. make rise to illness such as cough or health and safety issues. A good work cold, headaches, back pains, allergies, neck environment not only has direct impact on pain, as well as sinusitis. Most of these the employees’ health but also plays a vital diseases can be cured or even prevented role on the productivity level. Our Health and through the proper use of personal Safety Management policy and procedure protective equipment (PPE). encompass all national and international standards. Dedicated teams are present to A dedicated medical center is present in oversee the availability and status of the ﬁrst each factory complex which manages and aid supplies, medical facilities, hygiene treats all kinds of occupational diseases. In facilities, temperature levels, quality of water addition, the center also deals with and food, and so on. non-occupational but common diseases such as fever, measles, tooth pain, and so All instances of accidents, injuries, and on. occupational diseases are kept in record in DBL. Each record of an occurrence is Furthermore, to aware employees and categorized into multiple types to analyze workers regarding various health issues, the speciﬁc type of injury and disease. awareness programs, meetings, trainings, and workshops are conducted on a regular Occupational diseases are prevalent in the basis. The topics of these sessions also deal workplace due to the existing with issues such as personal hygiene, for 75 Labor Practices example washing hands, thereby dealing within the factories such as the chemical with a preventive measure for various store rooms and the ETP, as well as the diseases. Health and safety committees are zones containing different machines such present in each of the factory complexes: as compacting machines and generators. who comprise of 3.69% of the total Pregnant women are also considered under workforce. risk management: to avoid the risk to the fetuses, they are to be seated when working, Fire safety is one of the most important allowed leaving early during the lunch issues regarding occupational safety. The breaks, and not allowed to work overtime. Compliance department performs audits to ensure unobstructed evacuation paths, Each type of analysis includes the properly designed evacuation maps and description and consequence of the hazard, lighting present in required areas. To tackle the person at risk and the control or the events of ﬁre, four teams – the ﬁre preventive measures that can be taken. In ﬁghters, the rescue team, the cordon party addition, hazards are given ratings, and the ﬁrst aiders – are involved. calculated by using the frequencies of occurrence and the severity, thereby In 2016-17, a total of 246 non-fatal accidents effectively identifying the risks or hazards to and injuries were reported while the prioritize on. employees were at work: 200 of them were males and the rest 46 were females. 239 occupational diseases were reported for the male workforce and none for the females. A total of 1,033 lost days were recorded: of them were 767 males and 266 females. OHSAS 18001:2007 standard The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) is an i nternational management system speciﬁcation for occupational health and Risk management safety. Implemented by the GIZ, one of DBL Given the nature of business, the raw Group’s dyeing units acquired this materials and products that DBL handles certiﬁcation in April 2016. OHSAS was and the scale of operations, our risk chosen to further reduce illness and management systems are designed to incidents through continual improvement, ensure that all our assets are safeguarded increase awareness about health and safety, and protected against any kind of loss and establish a health and safety including mankind and property. management system within the factory. The multi-department committee formed has For worker safety, speciﬁc risk analyses are enabled multiple beneﬁts including done based on their workplaces. These increased hazard awareness, safety culture, workplaces include a wide variety of areas and reduced risk behavior. DBL is planning to replicate the standard to other units. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 76 Safety measures Fire safety • Fire extinguishers • Fire blankets • Stretchers • Smoke detectors Building safety • Sprinklers • Structural assessments • Fire hose cabinet boxes • Bangladesh National Building Code • Water drums and buckets (BNBC) during construction • Fire beaters • Certiﬁcation with Architectural and Struc• Fire hooks tural Design Standard • Gong bells • Scaled as-built drawings • Lock cutters • Emergency lights • Safety equipment such as gloves, helmets, gas masks and gumboots Chemical safety • Careful assessment of chemicals • Chemical usage policy • Material safety data sheet (MSDS) Electrical safety • Regular trainings • Top quality cabling and accessories • Trained technicians for maintenance • International safety features for equipment • Maintenance and risk analysis records 77 Human Rights Investment Signiﬁcant investment agreements include Member of the QuizRR training program for participation in training, creation and completing more than 100 training sessions. implementation of a new policy or In collaboration with global buyers, suppliprocedure, and other activities that DBL ers, and other stakeholders, QuizRR aims to Group undertakes to promote labor improve awareness, knowledge, and practices, human rights, societal and workplace systems for employees at all environmental concerns, as well as any levels in factories in Bangladesh. QuizRR is a sustainability issue. DBL has dealt with visual, simple, and rewarding digital training multiple activities that promote human system that introduces tools to measure rights. These are summarized below. employee training outcome. DBL Group has made investment in various Further details of these and other programs training sessions. The Mothers@Work have been explained under Chapter 2 of this program is designed by UNICEF and report. implemented by BRAC to train pregnant and lactating mothers on maternity protection and breastfeeding. The Nirapod program is Phulki’s approach in partnership with the Forced labor Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands for saving women from unwanted and DBL does not use involuntary or forced unsafe pregnancy. The second phase of labor. The Code of Conduct emphasizes that Nirapod is already under implementation in all employees should be working at factory two factories. In addition, Phulki is also voluntarily and no means should be adopted providing training on UNICEF’s Children’s as a measure which may indirectly result in Rights in Business Principles. an employee working forcibly. The freedom DBL Group also became the Gold Level of movement of employees is not restricted SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 78 Non-discrimination DBL employs, pays, promotes, and terminates workers based on their ability to do the job, rather than based on personal characteristics or beliefs. Discrimination on any ground is not allowed. Due to the strength of the practice, there have been no cases of discrimination. except for the protection of property and security of factory personnel. Additionally, no employees are recruited on contract Freedom of association basis and an employee may resign from the and collective bargaining company by giving one month’s notice. DBL recognizes and respects the right of employees to exercise their lawful rights of freedom of association and collective Security practices bargaining. No discrimination is done against employees who form or participate All security personnel in DBL are of our own: in lawful associations and or collective there are none from third party bargaining. The presence of the organizations. Human rights topics are Participation Committee (PC) allows the communicated to all security personnel via workers to freely communicate regarding trainings that take place every month. any issue. To ensure these rights are exercised, monthly audits from the Compliance team take place, noting the Child labor composition of the committee members, frequency of meetings, topics discussed, DBL is not engaged with any form of child and so on. DBL management has been able labor. At the time of hiring, psychological to form PCs according to the guidelines interviews are done to determine the age of which is very effective for conveying potential employees. In addition, documents information to both labor and management such as proofs of age are collected from all and resolving any grievances if present. potential employees and the authenticity of age documents is veriﬁed. In the absence of Signiﬁcant operational changes are age documents, the potential employee is to communicated with the concerned be veriﬁed and conﬁrmed by the registered employees a minimum of 3 months prior to doctor available at the factory. the change. 79 Society Local communities To minimize the impact on communities, 3. Carbon emissions from the different the industries of DBL are situated in remote machines influences the air quality and locations. Potentiality, however, is still temperature of the local environment. present to create negative impacts on the With the goal of planting 10,000 trees by local communities. 2020, DBL has started to offset the carbon emissions within the different These include the following: communities where we are operating. 1. Noises from machines, particularly These trees will also be mitigating the generators, tend to reach out of the increase in temperature. factory premises. Quality machines are procured which produces lesser noise than the inexpensive alternatives. These Anti-corruption machines are also placed in ideal places within the facilities to reduce the impact. DBL has no conﬁrmed incidents of 2. Although Effluent Treatment Plants corruption and has not made any ﬁnancial (ETPs) are present, there is dumping of and in-kind political contributions. In the treated wastewater. Programs such addition, there have been no legal actions for as the Zero Discharge of Hazardous anti-competitive behaviors, anti-trust and Chemicals are present which improves monopoly practices. An always compliant the quality of wastewater discharged. The organization, DBL did not incur any ﬁnes or quality of sludge produced is also been involved in non-monetary sanctions for equivalent to that of municipal waste, non-compliance with laws and regulations. which contributes further in reducing the The reputation of DBL Group for lawful and negative impact on the community. responsible business behavior is of prime SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 80 importance and is one of its greatest assets. the following components: DBL Group is committed to the prevention, • Communicating code of conduct to deterrence and detention of corrupt employees; business practices, fraudulent activities and • Reporting and investigating any allegation bribery. DBL Group has zero tolerance of fraud, bribery, and other corrupt toward any unethical business practice. DBL practices; Group has strictly enforced policies on • Appropriate disciplinary procedures for anti-corruption, anti-fraud and bribery which employees who are found to have apply to all businesses within DBL Group. engaged in such practices; and The Management seeks to promote the • Monitoring of the effectiveness of such adoption of regulations consistent with the controls principles set out in the different company policies on anti-corruption. DBL Group and each of its business take the It is required that all personnel: appropriate steps to ensure all its • Act honestly and with integrity and employees and those acting on its behalf: safeguard the company resources for • Meet all legal and regulatory requirements which they are responsible governing the lawful and ethical conduct • Respect customers, suppliers, and other of business parties to achieve DBL’s objectives by • Make all employees aware of their conducting business in an ethical, lawful, personal responsibilities and strictly and professional manner. adhere to this policy • Provide information to all employees and At DBL, we have an effective compliance further guidance if they have any query or program which includes but is not limited to, uncertainty regarding these requirements. 81 Product Customer health, safety Responsibility and privacy DBL respects the privacy of all customers and henceforth there has been no complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. DBL does not engage itself into incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. Additionally, there were no incidents of non-compliance with any regulations or codes that deal with marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Furthermore, DBL incurred no ﬁnes for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the DBL ensures the following for each product provision and use of products and services. created: Created accroding to brand’s Pull-testing of buttons to avoid specifications choking hazard Button strength test for children-wear Restrictions on use of certain Fusing process for embroidery to substances and methods safeguard human skin SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 82 Employee welfare A variety of activities are present in DBL for the welfare of employees including: • Having a fair price shop, Bandhan, which allows employees to have zero-cash transactions and get to buy on credit with zero interest: the cost is simply adjusted with the monthly salaries of employees • In-house day care center with trained professionals • Dedicated breastfeeding corners within the factory premises and two extra time slots for mothers to breastfeed their children within working hours • In-house medical center with a wide range of tests and even providing outpatient medical services • In-house pharmacy providing medicines at fair price even for employees’ family members • Providing highly subsidized sanitary napkins • Family Planning Corner with Marie Stopes Bangladesh within the factory premises • Providing new born gift hampers • Participating and organizing in-house sports tournaments such as cricket, football, and volleyball • Promoting culture through the encouragement of music and art competition • Special recognition of employees’ children for excellent academic performance in National Board Examinations • Sponsorship for two children’s education of each employee who are earning less than BDT 25,000 (approximately $313) per month • Providing career path counselling to employees’ children • Worker-Management Relationship program where personal issues and needs discussed every month through Workers Participation Committee (WPC) meetings • Worker Listening Session, a Quality department training to aware present responsibility to trainees: covers HR policies and ﬁre safety issues 83 1% Inclusion of people with disabilities SDG 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES An inclusive workforce encompasses any employee, regardless of their gender, social status, physical or psychological challenges, etc. Disabled people are often looked down upon and multiple cases have been discussed where they are deprived of employment. Through the Disability Inclusion Program, DBL is already addressing their challenges by providing employment, as currently 41 disabled people are working in different units. By 2020, DBL aims to create a more inclusive environment by providing employment to disabled people: which will contribute to 1% of the total workforce. STAKEHOLDER CHAPTER 7 ENGAGEMENT A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination. Nelson Mandela Philanthropist 86 Stakeholder Engagement At DBL Group stakeholder satisfaction is of very high concern to the company values and we take the matter very sincerely. Our stakeholders include those who are associated directly or indirectly to our businesses. The approach and the frequency of engagement with the stakeholders differ on the basis of the category of the stakeholder. DBL Group reserves special interest in identifying all applicable stakeholders and understanding their expectations to remain sustainable in the long run. DBL Group is growing sustainably and we believe that a fully sustainable company will have all its stakeholders engaged in the key processes of the business. All organizations and entities that have signiﬁcant influence on DBL Group and those that are directly or indirectly affected by the Group’s operations are considered as stakeholders. We identify potential stakeholders through the following process. Stakeholder engagement process Stakeholder Consultation Prioritization Collaboration Reporting Identification There is no particular frequency of engagement with the stakeholders. However, there are annual events like vendor meetings for suppliers, annual general meeting for investors and shareholders, exhibition for customers and others. In addition, respective departments engage with their speciﬁc stakeholder groups as situation demands and on need basis. 87 Key stakeholders Suppliers NGOs Community Media Board Members Employees Shareholders Customers (Buyers) Investors Knowledge Partners Service Providers Government/Public Sector Industry Associations Internal Stakeholders External Stakeholders Committing to Internal Participation Committee Stakeholders (PC) Collective bargaining agreement is not DBL Group’s major stakeholder group and a prohibited in DBL Group. To make a principal asset is the workforce. Hence, DBL trustworthy relationship between the reserves a special importance to creating workers and the company, DBL Group has the proper work environment for all formed Workers Participation Committees. employees. Similar attention is also given to These committees constitute of their families. To maintain a fully energized representatives of both the employers and workforce we maintain a number of the workers. Workers are encouraged highly initiatives to strengthen employer-employee in forming of this committee, over 50% of bonding. Some are discussed below. each the committee comprises of workers. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 88 To promote mutual trust, understanding and cooperation between the employers and the workers as to fulﬁll production target, reduce production cost and improve the quality of products, the committees meet once every month. They are working to effectively establish privileges as well as to improve welfare services for the workers and their families. Through the PC, workers can freely contact the committees to discuss any issue. DBL Group makes an effort to encourage good relations between workers and managers, through hosting trainings covering topics, such as labor standards, leave days, working hours, wages, personal protective equipment, health and safety, environmental issues, welfare, and so on. The committees’ members are representatives of employees and top management: they were selected by each group respectively. The selection criterion has now been replaced through a supervised election procedure. Issues discussed include wages, beneﬁts, working conditions, complaints, productivity, quality, health issues, and even items for the Bandhan Fair Price Shop. 89 89 Committing to Internal Stakeholders Effective communication procedures DBL Group has established different channels to communicate with its workers: these include: • Meetings feel very comfortable expressing themselves • Poster boards to them. They handle every single case with • Suggestion boxes great care and efﬁciency and maintain • Open door policy. conﬁdentially depending on the sensitivity. Proper measures are taken immediately to resolve any concern over workplace or even Grievance mechanisms workers’ personal issues. Apart from formal grievance procedures which are set up as per local laws, DBL Roles of Welfare Officers Group has informal ways to resolve any sort • Maintaining ﬁrst aid boxes and checklists of disputes quickly and effectively. The top • Dealing with complaints from workers management has an open-door policy and • Registering and providing extra care to grievance boxes are provided to assist pregnant employees employees maintain conﬁdentiality. • Ensuring washroom hygiene • Coordinating and conducting trainings DBL Group has established several channels • Facilitating meetings for workers to ﬁle complaints, including • Informing workers of any changes in anonymous complaints. These include policies suggestion box and an open-door policy. The Welfare Ofﬁcers are responsible for handling complaints. The suggestion boxes The are checked every Saturday and the grievKaizen suggestion box ances are recorded. Appropriate action is taken and results are reported back to DBL Group appreciates ideas from all of its employees. employees, including the workers.Besides the Suggestion/Grievance Boxes, an additional box has been included with the Welfare Officers aim of taking in suggestions from workers that relate to improving production efﬁciency. This method provides a way to The Welfare Ofﬁcers stationed at the factory involve workers in the decision-making complexes oversee workers’ concerns and process which makes workers feel problems and communicate with the Human important about themselves and they highly Resource and other concerned departments appreciate the management for such as required. These Ofﬁcers are involved with initiative. a number of tasks as shown below. Workers STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 90 These boxes are referred to as “Kaizen Suggestion Boxes” and are present in all units. These boxes are green in color – as opposed to the white for the Suggestion/Complaint Boxes – in order to help users easily identify and distinguish them. Users submit their ideas in the boxes including their names in order to be identiA huge advantage of having an employee of ﬁed for recognition. the month incentive is the motivation. It encourages the employees to work at their All suggestions are discussed in the Kaizen highest potential and move them towards Meeting held every month: the employee or empowerment. This is in terms of work worker with the best suggestion for the performance as well as punctuality and month is recognized with the ‘Kaizen attendance on the job. It promotes Award’: multiple employees and workers employees to work at their full potential have been awarded. Some of the suggeswithout causing any adverse side effects. tions have even been implemented: in some The Employee of the Month program is open cases the best suggestion was chosen for all employees and it gives them a feeling among the multiple good ones received. In of fairness as every employee has an equal addition to the award, the names, photos, opportunity at obtaining this reward. and ideas of the accepted ones are displayed on the notice boards. The evaluation system also encompasses suggestions provided by employees and workers that would improve working Employee of the month procedures. The employees and workers and employee of the year that win the award are provided certiﬁcates of achievements in addition to cash In addition to the Kaizen Suggestion system, incentives. Moreover, their names and efforts of our employees and workers are photos are displayed on the notice boards of also recognized through another monthly the respective units in order to further recognition system: the “Employee of the motivate them to grow in their careers and Month”. In 2016, a new recognition system, for improving the company. “Employee of the Year” was included as well. The program was inaugurated in the knitting section and has been replicated for the others units too. These ideas are compiled under DBL Group Idea Club Sustainability program. 91 Connecting with External Stakeholders DBL Group is committed to generating positive relations with external stakeholders through various non-binding initiatives which the organization subscribes and endorses. A constant communication is vital in order to ensure business sustainability: DBL recognizes and acts on this principle. The table below shows the various external stakeholders that DBL is currently involved with and how interaction is being made with each. External stakeholder Engagement Merchandizing Team, Emails, Exhibitions, Local and International Buyers Management Visits, Audits, Conferences Meetings with Local Union Councils, Surveys, Accommodating Community Requests, Community Engagement Emails, Meetings with BGMEA, BKMEA, BTMA, Interactions Industry associations with Chamber of Commerce (FBCCI, DCCI, BGCCI, JBCCI, etc.) Interaction with Government of Bangladesh, Embassies, and Government Overseas Ministries Communications Team, Press Releases, Press Brieﬁngs, Media Interviews Investors Emails, Meetings, Visits, Conferences, Internal Relations Team Suppliers Marketing Team, Sourcing Team, Emails, Meetings, Audits NGOs and CSOs Emails, Meetings, Conferences, Workshops STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 92 Community development A wide variety of activities are integrated within DBL’s sustainability that promotes societal development: thus, integrating the concept of “Community” included as a branch in the comprehensive coverage of sustainability. These activities include the following: FREE MEDICAL CARE INHEALTH HOUSE CAMP MEDICAL CENTER SCHOOL SURVEYS DEVELOPHEALTH MENT COURTDATA EDUCAYARD COLLECTION CESA* MEETINGS TION EMPLOYEE INFRASTRUCTURE LOGISTICS DATA& RENOBASE VATION ROAD FLOURISHCONSTRUCING TION ECONOMY IN-HOUSE AGRO *Children’s Education Support Allowance (CESA) FIELDS 93 Connecting with External Stakeholders Second MoU Between DBL Group and UNICEF As a part of UNICEF’s Children’s Rights and the Garments Industry Initiative in Bangladesh, UNICEF signed an MoU with DBL Group on 26 September 2016 at UNICEF’s Dhaka Ofﬁce. On behalf of DBL Group, M.A. Quader, Deputy Managing Director and on behalf of UNICEF, Edouard Beigbeder, Representative, UNICEF Bangladesh signed the MoU. This initiative aims to support garment manufacturers to establish and sustain family-friendly workplaces that improve the situation of working parents and their children, young workers and surrounding communities. The initiative is based on the Children’s Rights and Business Principles (CRBP), a set of 10 voluntary principles developed by UNICEF, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and Save the Children that guide companies on the full range of actions they can take to respect and support children’s rights in the workplace, marketplace, and community. 94 Panel Discussion by the World Bank and DEG The World Bank Group and DEG organized a joint session on Bridging the Skills Gap: Examining Successful Private Sector-Led Initiatives in The World Bank ofﬁce in Washington, DC, USA on 5 October 2016. M.A. Jabbar, Managing Director of DBL Group attended a panel discussion during the event and shared initiatives undertaken by DBL to work as a bridge to address the workforce skill gaps. From The World Bank Group, Ursula Mueller, German Executive Director, Michal J Rutkowski, Senior Director, Harry Anthony Patrinos, Manager, Education and among others Bruno Wenn, CEO, DEG – DFI and Michael J Handel, Associate Professor of Sociology, Northeastern University, USA were present during the session. 95 94 Connecting with External Stakeholders Chairman of Hatimara School and College As part of the Community Engagement and Development Program in promoting quality education in the community, on October 31, 2016, Abdul Wahed, Chairman of DBL Group, took the responsibility as Chairman of Hatimara School and College. Located in Kashimpur, Gazipur, the institution currently has about 2,600 students. The responsibility was ofﬁcially handed over by outgoing Chairman, A. K. M. Mozammel Haque, Minister for Ministry of Liberation War Affairs, Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Nasima Yeasmin, Principal of the institution, was present in the event along with the Ward Counselors, local elites and high ofﬁcials from DBL Group. 96 Letter of Intent Signing Ceremony Between DBL-H&M-GIZ German Federal Minister of Economic Cooperation and Development, Dr. Gerd Muller, Mr. Tobias FischerCountry Director, H&M Ethiopia and DBL’s Vice Chairman M.A. Rahim signed a Letter of Intent to provide technical training for the textile supervisors in Mekelle, Tigray Region, Ethiopia in the next 3 years. The German government will contribute USD 1 million for establishing a technical training center in Mekelle, Ethiopia. 97 Visitors Dialogue Tour to Bangladesh' dignitaries team led by Dr. Lale Akgun, Head of the Government's Ofﬁce for Sustainable Procurement of the State of NorthRhine Westphalia, consisting members of parliament of Germany, high ofﬁcials of DEG, GIZ and other organizations Team led by Alexios Pantelias, Manager, Energy & Water, Cross-Cutting Advisory Solutions, from the International Finance Corporation (IFC) 98 Visitors from Ethiopia consisting of Dr. Ambassador Addis Alem Balema – Vice President, Regional State of Tigray, Head of Bureau of Urban Development, Trade and Industry of Tigray, Daniel Mekonen Bahta – Vice Bureau Head of Urban Development, Trade and Industry of Tigray, Berhanu Gebreyesus Kaba Deputy Mayor of Mekelle City Administration and Goitom Gebrekidan Tekle – Regional Investment Core Process Owner Yalew Abate Reta, Speaker of the House of Federation of Ethiopia and Shams Mahmud, Honorary Consul of Ethiopia to Bangladesh 99 Hon. Kyeyune Haruna Kasolo, State Minister for Microﬁnance of Uganda Tatsiana Hulko, Corporate Engagement and Business Development Lead, and Tomohiro Nagasaki, Impact Team Lead, from the Business Call to Action (BCtA) 100 Delegation led by Angelique van der Made, Policy Ofﬁcer, Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights (SRHR), from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, The Kingdom of the Netherlands Eleonore Richardson, Program Manager of IFC Textile Competitiveness, and Sabine Hertveldt, Better Work Lead at IFC 101 20% of total yarn production from recycled materials SDG 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION The production of yarns uses substantial amount of raw materials such as cotton and polyester. Naturally, this puts a great pressure on the production of these products especially if the size and demand of the apparel industry is considered. However, when recycled raw products are used, there is not only responsible use of materials, proper wastage management is also ensured. In this regard, in addition to existing practices, DBL aims to produce up to 20% yarns in its Spinning operations from recycledmaterials. General Standard Disclosures This report has been prepared ‘in accordance’ with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Core option. General Page External General Page External Standard Number Assurance Standard Number Assurance Disclosures Disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS IDENTIFIED MATEIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-1 I-II No G4-17 48 No ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-18 III-VI No G4-19 III-V No G4-3 I No G4-20 III-V No G4-4 13,14,31 No G4-21 III-V No G4-5 11 No G4-22 VI No G4-6 11 No G4-23 VI No G4-7 38 No G4-8 31 No STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-9 I-II,14,47 No G4-10 71 No G4-24 31,87,93 No G4-11 79 No G4-25 31,87,93 No G4-12 14 No G4-26 31,87,93 No G4-13 69 No G4-27 31,87,93 No G4-14 38 No G4-15 70 No REPORT PROFILE G4-16 35 No G4-28 VI No G4-29 VI No G4-30 VI No G4-31 VI No G4-32 VI No G4-33 VI No GOVERNANCE G4-34 35-38 No ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 80,81 No 103 DMA and Page External Indicators Number Assurance Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA 62 No G4-EN15 62 No Specific Standard Aspect: Effluents and Waste Disclosures G4-DMA G4-EN23 63 63 No No Aspect: Products and Services DMA and Page External G4-DMA 65 No Indicators Number Assurance G4-EN27 65 No Aspect: Compliance CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-DMA 65 No Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EN29 65 No G4-DMA 48 No Aspect: Transport G4-EC1 48 No G4-EC4 48 No G4-DMA 65 No G4-EN30 65 No Aspect: Market Presence Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA 49 No G4-EC5 49 No G4-DMA 69 No G4-EN32 69 No Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA 46,49-50 No G4-EC7 46,49-50 No G4-DMA 65 No G4-EN34 65 No Aspect: Procurement Practices CATEGORY: SOCIAL G4-DMA 49 No LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-EC9 49 No Aspect: Employment CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT G4-DMA 71 No Aspect: Materials G4-LA1 71 No G4-DMA 57,58 No Aspect: Labor/Management Relations G4-EN1 57,58 No G4-DMA 74 No Aspect: Energy G4-LA4 74 No G4-DMA 60-62 No Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety G4-EN3 60-62 No G4-DMA 75-77 No Aspect: Water G4-LA5 75-77 No G4-LA6 75-77 No G4-DMA 54-60 No G4-EN8 54-60 No Aspect: Training and Education Aspect: Biodiversity G4-DMA 72 No G4-LA9 72 No G4-DMA 65 No G4EN14 65 No Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA 71 No G4-LA12 71 No 104 DMA and Page External Indicators Number Assurance Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms DMA and Page External G4-DMA 74 No Indicators Number Assurance G4-HR12 74 No SOCIETY 74 No Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Aspect: Local Communities Men G4-DMA 80 No G4-DMA 71 No G4-SO2 80 No G4-LA13 71 No Aspect: Anti-corruption Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA 80,81 No G4-SO5 80,81 No G4-DMA 69 No G4-LA14 69 No Aspect: Public Policy Aspect: Labor Practices Grievance MechaG4-DMA 80,81 No nisms G4-SO6 80,81 No G4-DMA 74 No Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-LA16 74 No Did HUMAN RIGHTS G4-DMA 80,81 YouNoKnow? G4-SO7 80,81 No Aspect: Investment Honey bees are pollinating crop species that feed Aspect: Compliance 90% of the world. A world without bees could struggle G4-DMA 78 No G4-HR1 78 No to sustain the global human population of 7.6 billion. G4-DMA 80,81 No G4-SO8 Honey bees build their hives 80,81 No with honeycomb shaped Aspect: Non-discrimination cells. The honeycomb shape tessellates, ensuring Aspect: Supplier that there’s neither Assessment wastedonspace nor wasted energy. for Impacts G4-DMA 79 No Society This shape is used to illustrate the “Benzene Ring”: G4-HR3 79 No the orbital compound which forms the essential G4-DMA 69 structure of all organicNo chemistry. Universally from Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective G4-SO9 69 No Bargaining the standpoint of signiﬁcance, honeycomb represents communication, equality, balance, integration, union, Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on G4-DMA 79 No perfection and sustainability. Society G4-HR4 79 No G4-DMA 74 No Aspect: Child Labor G4-SO11 74 No G4-DMA 79 No G4-HR5 79 No PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA 82 No G4-DMA 78,79 No G4-PR1 82 No G4-HR6 78,79 No Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Aspect: Security Practices G4-DMA 79 No G4-DMA 82 No G4-HR7 79 No G4-PR4 82 No Aspect: Indigenous Rights Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-DMA 74 No G4-DMA 82 No G4-HR8 74 No 82 G4-PR7 No Aspect: Assessment Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA 69 No 82 No G4-DMA G4-HR9 69 No G4-PR8 82 No Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA 69 No G4-DMA 82 No G4-HR10 69 No G4-PR9 82 No 105 Concept & Design by purplewood Ltd www.purplewoodbd.com
