COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Statement from the Chief Executive, Richard Marett Whizz Education Limited, 22 December 2018 I am pleased to confirm that Whizz Education reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. Whizz Education are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of its strategy, culture and daily operations. In our Communication on Progress report, we document the progress within Whizz Education. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communications. Whizz Education’s raison d’etre is to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and to promote lifelong opportunities for all (SDG 4) We aim to raise educational standards worldwide through our range of services participating, inter alia, in projects seeking to achieve gender equality and to empower all women and girls (SDG 5).In this regard, we provide our services both alone and in collaboration with other stakeholders. We explain our mission of enabling communities around the world to reach their full potential through individualised learning at www.whizzeducation.com. Richard Marett Chief Executive Whizz Education Limited COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Whizz Education supports the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. Policy on Human Rights Whizz Education supports and respects internationally proclaimed human rights. The Company believes in the equality of all its people and an employee “no discrimination” policy is included in Whizz Education’s Code of Conduct, Equalities and Recruitment and Development Policies. Violations connected to discrimination must be reported to the violator’s manager or through Whizz Education’s whistleblower system, and would be dealt with under our disciplinary process. Whizz Education aims to ensure that all workers have safe working environments that are fit for purpose and have sanitary work facilities where necessary. Whizz Education protects workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. Whizz Education has a Code of Conduct in place for employees worldwide and there is a whistleblowing process to follow. Any allegations of harassment would be taken seriously and thoroughly investigated. Whizz Education’s published corporate values are ‘Trust’, ‘Empowerment’ and ‘Transparency’ which all employees are encouraged to follow and demonstrate. Actions in the last year All stakeholders, including employees, contractors, partners, suppliers and subcontractors are now obliged to comply with Whizz Education’s Code of Conduct and Corporate Policies, unless non-company stakeholders have their own Code of Conduct which is at least as extensive as Whizz Education’s. From 2018, all employees have been made aware of Whizz Education’s Corporate policies at Induction, and training is now being provided in the policies and their application. Goals for the future All employees are henceforward to confirm that they have read and understood policies on an annual basis. Whizz Education plan to promote apprenticeships and internships. Measurement of outcomes All new starters have undergone Induction and been made aware of our policies. No case of violation connected to human rights has been reported during the year. Policy on Labour Whizz Education does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour. Whizz Education complies with minimum wage standards. Whizz Education ensures that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Whizz Education encourages a diverse and inclusive workforce. Whizz Education’s Code of Conduct and Single Equalities policy state that Whizz Education works to achieve an equal, healthy and wholesome workplace. Whizz Education’s newly appointed HR Manager ensures the Company’s compliance with labour and employment laws, including working hour requirements. The right to collective bargaining is recognized at Whizz Education although hitherto all employment contracts have been individually negotiated. We seek to ensure employee health and safety by the application of traditional risk assessment in our workplaces. Actions in the last year We have begun the process of seeking to ensure that all other stakeholders, including partners, contractors, suppliers and subcontractors should comply with Whizz Education’s Code of Conduct, unless they have an own Code of Conduct which is as least as extensive as Whizz Education’s. We have extended the principle that employees should have access to medical insurance schemes to all our subsidiaries and offices worldwide. Employees are also encouraged to have a healthy work life balance. We will be broadening our recently initiated Annual Employee Survey in an effort to monitor employee happiness and wellbeing. Goals for the future In the coming year, we shall be seeking to bring the UN Global Compact and its ten principles to the attention of all employees worldwide. Whizz Education aims to implement a Wellbeing policy and investigate ways that we can encourage and support staff wellbeing. Our newly appointed HR Manager will be studying Whizz Education demographics, breaking down management and employees by diversity factors. Measurement of Outcomes We have initiated an Annual Employee Survey in order initially to establish any need to address employment issues. No grievances have arisen in the year to date. Our workforce is diverse counting nine nationalities. There are no gender or ethnic pay gaps in our pay structure. Policy on Anti-corruption It is of the highest importance that Whizz Education adheres to and complies with all given legislations and regulations as well as setting a bar for how to act and behave in society always with the highest ethics. Whizz Education’s Anti-Bribery Policy first adopted in 2010 is available on its Intranet and all employees are regularly made aware of the Policy. Pursuant to the Policy, the Company is committed to promoting and maintaining the highest level of ethical standards in relation to all of its business activities. Its reputation for maintaining lawful business practices is of paramount importance and the Anti-Bribery Policy is designed to preserve these values. The Company therefore has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption and is committed to acting fairly and with integrity in all of its business dealings and relationships and implementing and enforcing effective systems to counter bribery.Whizz Education continuously works on improving its work against corruption and bribery. Violations connected to corruption must be reported to the violator’s superior or through a whistleblower procedure and violators would be subject to the Company’s disciplinary process with violations found to be gross misconduct potentially leading to summary dismissal. Actions in the last year We have begun the process of ensuring that all stakeholders, including employees, partners, contractors, suppliers and subcontractors should now be required by contract to comply with Whizz Education’s Anti-Bribery Policy. All UK employment contracts now include a direct reference to our Anti-Bribery Policy and we are taking steps to provide that any breach of our Anti-Bribery Policy by a business partner will lead to termination of their contract. Goals for the coming year The goal is to ensure no corruption in any aspect of Whizz Education’s activities. We intend to introduce anti-corruption provisions as a standard feature of contracts with business partners, and to seek to modify those existing contracts which do not yet contain such provisions. Measurement of outcomes No cases of corruption have been reported during the year Policy on Environment Whizz Education has an Environmental Policy which is shared with all employees. Since our operations are primarily office based and concern intellectual property, our Company’s impact on the environment is of limited importance, and we are unable to dictate methods of operation to change our impact to any significant degree. Whizz Education does increasingly encourage recycling of consumables used in our business where it is practical, and we intend to examine the degree to which we might be able to conduct our business with less employee travel. Each premise has emergency procedures in place to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health. The premises undergo relevant health and safety checks including air pollution control, waste and water treatment. Whizz Education minimises the use and ensures safe handling and storage of chemicals through COSHH (Care of Substances Hazardous to Health) and other dangerous substances. Actions in the last year None of significance. Goals for the coming year Communicate and encourage more Environmental awareness among our workforces. Measurement of outcomes We are not aware of any worthwhile procedures we could adopt to measure changes in the Company’s environmental impact. 22nd December, 2018
