2017 SHARING the RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT HOME | CONTENTS A LETTER FROM BOB SULENTIC CONTENTS CBRE creates A LETTER FROM BOB SULENTIC..................................................................... 3 SHARED ADVANTAGE 01 OUR COMPANY 3 About CBRE.................................................................................................. 7 through an integrated Operations.................................................................................................... 7 5 Governance.................................................................................................. 9 program of environmental Material Topics............................................................................................. 12 7 and social actions that Stakeholder Engagement............................................................................ 13 SDGs............................................................................................................ 14 11 generate sustained growth Awards | Honors.......................................................................................... 15 and continuous opportunity Memberships | Initiatives............................................................................ 15 19 02 SHARED ADVANTAGE for both the company and Definition & Our Commitments................................................................... 19 43 the communities it serves. 03 WHO WE ARE 61 People & Culture.......................................................................................... 23 Communities & Giving................................................................................. 31 69 04 HOW WE OPERATE Ethics & Compliance..................................................................................... 39 81 Health & Safety............................................................................................ 47 VIDEO Environmental Sustainability....................................................................... 51 89 ( 70 sec.) Procurement................................................................................................. 59 99 05 ABOUT THIS REPORT Report Overview........................................................................................... 66 109 GRI Content Index........................................................................................ 67 UNGC Ten Principles.................................................................................... 71 Thank you in advance for considering the environment by printing only specific pages, if desired. SASB Disclosures.......................................................................................... 73 Forward-Looking Statements...................................................................... 75 1 2 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR COMPANY | A LETTER FROM BOB SULENTIC ABOUT CBRE A LETTER FROM BOB SULENTIC [102-14] Dear Fellow Stakeholder: CBRE is increasingly integrating corporate responsibility sustainability a priority for our own operations, and to further drive safety results while investing in the initiatives into our daily business practices. As a result, more than 75 percent of the space we occupy is well-being of the CBRE community. our business solutions are creating environmental, social sustainably certified. Finally, reflecting our commitment to Shared Advantage, and governance (ESG) benefits for our company and We are also keenly focused on building a Shared we have affirmed CBRE’s support for the Ten Principles our communities and better outcomes for our clients. Advantage employee community that attracts, of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in Our approach is called Shared Advantage. Through it, develops and celebrates the professional success of the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and CBRE is helping to strengthen communities while every individual. Our efforts have been recognized by Anti-Corruption for the 11th consecutive year. growing our business in socially responsible ways. both Forbes and Fortune magazines, which included There are many other ways that CBRE’s more than In 2017, this was particularly evident in our response to CBRE among the top companies for diversity and 80,000 global professionals are creating Shared the unprecedented natural disasters that struck the U.S., inclusion. While we have more work to do in this area, Advantage for our stakeholders. I invite you to learn Mexico and the Caribbean. CBRE and our employees we are particularly proud of our recent progress in more about them by reading our 2017 Corporate raised more than $540,000 through CBRE Cares to adding women to key leadership roles and to our Responsibility Report. help our employees who were directly affected and to Board of Directors. We also continue to drive the aid in disaster relief and local rebuilding efforts. growth of our employee network groups, which play a key role in recruiting and retaining diverse talent. Sustainability is a major, ongoing focus of our Shared Advantage efforts. We are forging environmentally Shared Advantage depends on our community of Robert E. Sulentic responsible business solutions across the company – employees and the contractors who help us create President & Chief Executive Officer from energy-saving measures at the 5.5+ billion square unmatched client outcomes. Their safety and feet of property we manage to the green building well-being is our first priority. Our commitment to financing we arrange to the ESG investment policies safety has helped us reduce our Total Recordable that govern our real estate investment management Incident Rate and Lost Time Injury Rate for the third and development services businesses. We also make year in a row, and we are implementing programs 3 4 OUR COMPANY CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR COMPANY | ABOUT CBRE S H A R E D A DVA NTAG E ABOUT CBRE CBRE Group, Inc. is a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company headquartered in Los Angeles. around the world (including property managed Our Asia Pacific reporting segment serves clients We are the world’s largest commercial real estate services and investment firm, with by our affiliate offices). Commercial mortgage in approximately 20 countries. Our largest leading global market positions in our leasing, property sales, occupier outsourcing and loan originations, including loan sale advisory, operations in Asia are located in greater China, valuation businesses. [102-1, 102-3] totaled $46.6 billion, and loan servicing totaled India, Japan, Singapore and Thailand. The $174.3 billion. We completed 474,300 Pacific region includes Australia and New Our business is focused on providing services to CBRE’s position as the world’s largest commercial appraisal and valuation assignments in 2017, Zealand. Our Asia Pacific segment accounted both occupiers of real estate and investors in real estate services and investment firm has including 280,825 residential valuation for 12.2% of our 2017 revenue. real estate. For occupiers, we provide facilities occurred through organic growth and a series of assignments in Asia Pacific, and our project Operations in our Global Investment management, project management, transaction strategic acquisitions. We executed a highly management contract value was $74.9 billion. Management reporting segment are conducted (both property sales and tenant leasing) and targeted M&A strategy in 2017, closing 11 CBRE Global Investors had $103.2 billion of through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary consulting services, among others. For investors, acquisitions that enhanced our capabilities, assets under management as of December 31, CBRE Global Investors, LLC and its global we provide capital markets (property sales, including companies operating in investment 2017, and Trammell Crow Company had $6.8 affiliates, which we also refer to as CBRE Global commercial mortgage brokerage, loan management, project management, retail billion of development in process. Investors. CBRE Global Investors provides origination and servicing); leasing; investment experience advisory services and occupier management; property management; valuation; brokerage focused on major technology CBRE revenue in 2017 totaled $14.2 billion, up investment management services to pension and development services, among others. We companies, as well as two real estate software 9% from 2016. We report our operations funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth provide commercial real estate services under as a service companies. There were not any through five business segments. funds, foundations, endowments and other the “CBRE” brand name, investment significant changes to the organization’s size, The Americas is our largest reporting segment, institutional investors seeking to generate returns management services under the “CBRE Global structure, ownership or supply chain in 2017. comprised of operations throughout the U.S. and diversification through investment Investors” brand name and development [102-10] and Canada as well as key markets in Latin in real estate. Our Global Investment services under the “Trammell Crow Company” America. Our Americas segment accounted for Management segment accounted for 2.7% brand name. [102-2] OPERATIONS 55.3% of our 2017 revenue. of our 2017 revenue. CBRE Group, Inc. is incorporated in Delaware [102-4, 102-6, 102-7] Our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Our Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) in the United States. Our Class A common CBRE operates in more than 450 offices and reporting segment serves clients in Trammell Crow Company, LLC and certain of stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange serves clients in more than 100 countries approximately 70 countries. The largest its subsidiaries provide development services, (NYSE) under the symbol CBRE. [102-5] Please worldwide. In 2017, CBRE advised clients on operations are located in France, Germany, primarily in the United States, to users of and see our Form 10-K for details on the entities 85,100 property sales and lease transactions Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, investors in commercial real estate, as well included in our financial statements; those valued at more than $337.6 billion. As of Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Our as for its own account. Our Development same entities are also included in this report. December 31, 2017, we managed 5.5 billion EMEA segment accounted for 29.3% of Services segment accounted for 0.5% of our [102-45] square feet of property and corporate facilities 2017 revenue. 2017 revenue. 7 8 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR COMPANY | ABOUT CBRE S H A R E D A DVA NTAG E GOVERNANCE Governance and Nominating (Governance) and Executive Committees. The Audit, Compensation Director Nomination Criteria [102-24] 2015. Of the 10 members currently serving on our Board, two directors, Beth Cobert and Board of Directors and Governance Committees are considered Our Governance Committee regularly reviews Sanjay Yajnik, joined our Board in 2017. As of [102-18] key governance committees, and each member May 2018, the average tenure of our Board is the composition of our Board and determines is independent under CBRE standards and 5.6 years. Two directors who served throughout CBRE has a 10-member Board of Directors, whether the addition of directors with particular guidelines, as well as in the case of our Audit 2017, Bradford Freeman and Frederic Malek, nine of whom our Board deems independent, experience, skills or characteristics would make Committee, under relevant rules of the U.S. did not stand for re-election and retired from and the tenth who is our President and CEO, our Board more effective. When a need arises Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). our Board at the expiration of their current terms Robert E. Sulentic. This level of independence to fill a vacancy, or it is determined that a At least one member of our Board serving on at the Annual Meeting in May 2018. These exceeds the majority standard established by director possessing particular experiences, skills the Audit Committee is required to have the gentlemen had a combined 32 years of director our Corporate Governance Guidelines and or characteristics would make our Board more qualifications and skills necessary to be service to us, and we are grateful for their many the listing standards of the New York Stock effective, our Governance Committee conducts considered an “Audit Committee Financial years of service to CBRE. Exchange (NYSE). targeted efforts to identify and recruit individuals Expert” under relevant SEC rules, and it has Additional information on our director who have the identified qualifications. Our Board bylaws require that the Board Chair been determined that four of our five current nomination criteria, including a director skills be an independent director. Ray Wirta served as Audit Committee members qualify as “Audit Our Board seeks directors who represent a mix matrix, may be found beginning on p. 8 of our Independent Chair of our Board from 2014 until Committee Financial Experts.” of backgrounds and experiences that will 2018 Proxy Statement. our annual meeting in May 2018, at which time enhance the quality of our Board’s deliberations One of our Board directors serves as a Brandon Boze succeeded Mr. Wirta as the and decisions. In nominating candidates, our Board liaison to management for corporate Independent Chair of our Board. Our Board Board considers a diversified membership in the GENDER responsibility matters, providing visibility to our Chair position has been non-executive and broadest sense, including persons diverse in Board in respect to our activities in this area, MEN 7 independent since our IPO in 2004 in experience, gender and ethnicity. Our Board and we believe that this reflects the value that WOMEN 3 recognition of the differences between the two does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, we and our Board places on corporate roles. Our CEO is responsible for setting the national origin, gender, religion, disability or AGE ETHNIC responsibility. That Board director sits on our strategic direction and overseeing the sexual preference. When evaluating candidates, GROUP DIVERSITY Global Corporate Responsibility Steering 0 19 2 8 day-to-day leadership and performance of the our Board considers whether potential nominees Committee, a management-level task force company while our Board Chair provides possess integrity, accountability, informed that has been established to advance our leadership to our Board and oversight and judgment, financial literacy, mature confidence corporate responsibility goals and periodically UNDER 30 30 50 OVER 50 DIVERSE NON-DIVERSE guidance to our CEO. [102-23] and high-performance standards. years old years old years old updates our Board on the progress being made Our Board is assisted by its committees: Audit toward those goals. Our focus on Board refreshment has resulted in and Finance (Audit), Compensation, Corporate the addition of five new directors since October 9 10 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR COMPANY | ABOUT CBRE S H A R E D A DVA NTAG E Risk Management is regularly informed through committee chair reports about such risks. These reports are Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Korea, Mexico, Morocco, New Zealand, Oman, MATERIAL TOPICS [102-11] [102-44, 102-46, 102-47, 102-49] presented at every regularly scheduled Panama, Peru, Portugal, Romania, Saudi Arabia, CBRE’s Board of Directors actively oversees Board meeting. Slovakia, South Africa, Taiwan, Turkey, Uruguay CBRE conducted its first materiality assessment our risk management. and Venezuela. We employed statistical in early 2015, the results from which can be Additional information on risk management may Our Board regularly reviews information sampling to identify a group of employees within found in our 2014 and 2015 Corporate be found on p. 18 of our 2018 Proxy Statement. regarding our most significant strategic, 5% of the median based on annual base salary, Responsibility Reports. In early 2017, CBRE operational, financial and compliance risks. CEO Pay Ratio then selected the median employee from this conducted a second materiality assessment to Our Board maintains direct oversight over our [102-38] group. We then calculated 2017 CEO pay, determine the topics that reflect our economic, enterprise risk management process rather than which includes Mr. Sulentic’s base salary, bonus, environmental and social impacts, as well as We believe our executive compensation those that influence the decisions of our delegating this function to a Board or equity awards, employer-paid insurance program must be consistent and internally stakeholders. management committee. premiums and 401(k) match. We used the same equitable to motivate our employees to perform We maintain an executive risk committee methodology in calculating 2017 pay for the Our corporate responsibility team reviewed in ways that enhance stockholder value. In 2017, chaired by our Chief Risk Officer and consisting the ratio of CEO pay $8,621,191 to median median employee. topics included in the GRI Standards and a of several other key senior executives responsible employee pay $57,303 was 150:1. Additional information may be found on p. 59 number of ratings and rankings assessments to for identifying, assessing and managing our of our 2018 Proxy Statement. develop a list of 33 topics that could be As is permitted under the SEC rules, we considered material to a business such as ours. most significant risks. This executive risk committee reports to the CEO. The Board identified the median employee by examining Learn More An online survey tool was used to gather the the annual base salary for all individuals, opinions of internal and external stakeholders receives multiple presentations on identified Additional information on our corporate excluding our CEO, who were employed by us on each topic. significant risks each year. The Audit Committee governance practices can be found in our at the end of 2017. We included all active and also receives presentations on significant risks on 2018 Proxy Statement. Internal stakeholders were asked, with regard to on-leave employees, whether employed on a a regular basis. Certain risks that are each topic, if CBRE creates a significant impact full-time, part-time or seasonal basis. We did not This includes: determined to be best managed directly by the on the environment, society and/or economy. make any adjustments or estimates with respect • Executive compensation details, beginning Board versus management, or that are in areas They were also asked whether they believe CBRE to annual base salary compensation, and we on p. 32 [102-35] specific to a particular Board committee actively manages the topic and, if so, how did not annualize compensation for any full-time expertise, are monitored and overseen at the • Composition of our Board and its committees, effectively it is managed. External stakeholders employees that were not employed by us for all Board or committee level as appropriate. found on p. 4 and pp. 10-14 [102-22] ranked each topic based on the degree to which of 2017. Under the di minimis exclusion, we Although each committee is responsible for excluded a total of 4.5% of our employee • Board committee details, including number the issue affects their assessments and decisions evaluating certain risks and overseeing the population from the following countries: of meetings held in 2017 and committee about CBRE. management of such risks, the entire Board Argentina, Austria, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, responsibilities, found on pp. 18-20 11 12 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR COMPANY | ABOUT CBRE S H A R E D A DVA NTAG E All stakeholders were asked where in CBRE’s supply chain was the issue relevant (suppliers/ STAKEHOLDER Mechanisms for Engagement vendors, corporate operations and/or clients). ENGAGEMENT Investors & Analysts Most topics are material within the boundaries [102-40, 102-42, 102-43] • Quarterly earnings calls of our operational control, with some topics also We define our stakeholders to be individuals • Investor presentations, events and being material to our suppliers and/or clients. one-on-one meetings and organizations who can impact or be • Response to information requests The survey was sent to all members of CBRE’s impacted by our operations. CBRE’s • Annual Investor Day Global Corporate Responsibility Steering stakeholders include shareholders, clients, • Shareholder Governance Outreach program Committee, as well as other internal stakeholders employees, suppliers, industry associations, who work directly on the topics included in the NGOs and academic institutions, communities, Clients survey. The survey was also sent to more than 80 advocacy and activist groups, governmental • Client Care program external stakeholders, including representatives organizations and regulating bodies, media • Customer satisfaction surveys of key clients, suppliers, governments and and competitors. • Localized research resources and insights nongovernmental associations (NGOs), as well We interact with stakeholders throughout the • Response to information requests as industry associations, universities and research year in a number of ways, including quarterly Employees entities. The survey results were then plotted to a earnings calls, regular customer satisfaction • Global employee intranet and email matrix and vetted with key stakeholders. surveys and industry events. As noted earlier, we communications Although some topics shifted within the also engaged directly with several stakeholders • Employee engagement survey In 2015, all 193 Member States of the United materiality matrix, there were no significant in early 2017 through the development of our • Employee Network Groups Nations adopted a plan to tackle the world’s changes from previous reporting periods in the materiality assessment, the results of which • Performance reviews most pressing social, economic and list of material topics and topic boundaries. helped define content for this report. Suppliers environmental challenges. This plan includes 17 This report includes detailed information on the In 2017, we began a Shareholder Governance Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that • Supplier Code of Conduct issues that were determined to be the most Outreach program. Twice a year, our General apply universally to all nations and seek to end • Supplier Diversity Program material to CBRE and our stakeholders. These Counsel and Head of Investor Relations contact extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice, include professional integrity, anti-corruption, all of our major shareholders to discuss their Industry Associations, NGOs & and protect our planet. Businesses will play a key diversity & inclusion and occupational health & views on our governance practices and Academic Institutions role in achieving the SDGs and CBRE is committed safety. We plan to conduct our next materiality compensation programs. • Partnership in research studies to contributing to this effort. As a first step, we assessment in 2018 to ensure our actions and • Participation on boards and committees have identified above the SDGs that align with our reporting reflect our significant impacts and • Attendance at conferences and events our business. Going forward, we plan to develop stakeholder priorities. • Speaking engagements and guest lecturing meaningful goals that align with the SDGs. 13 14 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR COMPANY | ABOUT CBRE S H A R E D A DVA NTAG E AWARDS & HONORS MEMBERSHIPS AND CBRE subscribes to and/or endorses a number of external initiatives, including: • Included in Fortune’s Most Admired Companies INITIATIVES • CDP for six consecutive years CBRE is a member of these leading organizations: • Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) • Named a World’s Most Ethical Company by ENERGY STAR® Ethisphere Institute for five straight years • Building Owners and Managers Association • Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol • Named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (BOMA) North America for four years in a row • International Organization for Standardization • Building Owners and Managers Institute (ISO) 14001 • Included in FTSE4Good for four straight years (BOMI) • Leadership in Energy and Environmental • Included in the 2018 Barron’s 100 Most • Business Roundtable Design (LEED)® Sustainable Companies • Boston College Center for Corporate • Occupational Health and Safety Assessment • Listed at #27 in the Forbes Just 100 2018: Citizenship (BCCCC) and its Professional Series (OHSAS) 18001 America’s Best Corporate Citizens Services Sustainability Roundtable (PSSR) • Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) • Received a 2018 EPA ENERGY STAR® • Business in the Community (BITC) Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence • Sustainability Accounting Standards Board • Center for Climate and Energy Solutions’ Award, marking the 11th consecutive year of (SASB) Business Environmental Leadership Council ENERGY STAR recognition (C2ES BELC) • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • Named to the 2018 America’s Best Employers • Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark • United Nations Guiding Principles on Business for Diversity list by Forbes (GRESB) and Human Rights • Named a 2017 Best Workplace for Diversity • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GOLD • WELL Building Standard (WELL) in the United States by FORTUNE and Community [102-12] Great Place to Work® • Green Rating Alliance • Achieved a perfect score on the Human Rights • International Council of Shopping Centers Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index for five (ICSC) years in a row • NAIOP, the Commercial Real Estate • Earned the 2017 Military Friendly® Employer Development Association designation; 6th consecutive year of • Real Estate Roundtable recognition by Victory Media for military friendly practices • Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Alliance • Named to the Companies That Care Honor Roll for 11 straight years • U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) [102-13] 15 16 SHARED ADVANTAGE CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SHARED ADVANTAGE WHO WE ARE SHARED ADVANTAGE Shared Advantage is a strategic commitment to creating measurable benefit for the company, our clients and the communities we serve through socially responsible, market-driven business solutions. INFLUENCE CONNECTIVITY Incorporating target objectives aligned to the Through Shared Advantage, CBRE seeks to United Nations Sustainable Development Goals improve the well-being of all communities we (SDGs), CBRE’s Shared Advantage establishes serve – from the micro-environment of an ecosystem of social responsibility that employees sharing a single office space to influences the surrounding community – occupants of a large commercial building or creating a culture of shared interest and property complex. This sense of connectivity collaboration in the development of integrated and collaboration extends beyond the environmental, health & wellness and social boundaries of the building itself, influencing in initiatives that drive economic vitality and a positive way the health and well-being of all long-term value. our neighbors in the broader community. OUR COMMITMENTS Improve community health and Build sustainable & economically well-being. thriving communities. Scroll through Shared Advantage for an animated view of how positive aspects of an oﬃce building can expand to inﬂuence healthy outcomes in the broader community. We pledge to build strong, equitable and We pledge to build strong, equitable and sustainable communities including providing sustainable communities including providing SHARED ADVANTAGE begins in the The positive effects of Shared Advantage access to healthy environments and promoting access to healthy environments and promoting occupied space, promoting a culture of health extend to the community itself, which becomes public safety, diversity and social justice. public safety, diversity and social justice. & wellness that improves productivity through engaged in developing policies and practices innovative space design and healthy lifestyle that incorporate social, environmental, Reduce the impacts of climate change. LEARN MORE programming. The concept grows to embody economic, efficient mobility and healthy living the built environment, increasing operational considerations. The result is a collaborative We pledge to protect the environment, reduce Visit Shared Advantage to discover how CBRE and resource efficiencies and influencing model of partnership that’s born in business greenhouse gas emissions and ensure human is creating a “win-win” for both the firm and our human behaviors, further enhancing the but which benefits the entire community. habitats are safe, resilient and sustainable. communities through these commitments. property’s value. 19 20 WHO WE ARE CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WHO WE ARE | PEOPLE & CULTURE H OW WE O PE R ATE PEOPLE & CULTURE Guided by our RISE values, CBRE is focused on talent attraction, professional development, diversity and inclusion practices – and a healthy culture where all employees feel DIVERSITY & INCLUSION GOC Sponsorship Program [103-1, 103-2, 103-3] Throughout 2017, each member of CBRE’s engaged and excited to come to work for us every day. Diversity and inclusion is material to CBRE Global Operating Committee (GOC) sponsored at least one diverse leader, identified RISE VALUES because people are at the center of our strategy. We are at our best when people with through the company’s annual talent assessment [102-16] process, who works outside the GOC member’s different backgrounds and experiences come We take great pride in our reputation for together to produce great results for our clients. span of control. This program provided upholding the highest standards in the way RESPECT. We act with consideration for advocates for diverse talent within the company others’ ideas and share information openly to The mission of our diversity and inclusion we do business. Our commitment to our inspire trust and encourage collaboration. initiative is to provide a work environment and visibly demonstrated our senior leadership’s business standards is a major reason why that attracts, develops and celebrates the commitment to diversity. Strong positive results INTEGRITY. No one individual, no one deal CBRE is the largest commercial real estate and no one client is bigger than our commitment professional success of every individual. and participant feedback led to the decision to company in the world. Our employees to our company and what we stand for. Diversity and inclusion is a material topic continue the initiative in 2018 and to expand don’t just work and live by these standards; SERVICE. We approach our clients’ challenges within our own operations. both the number of mentees and the dimensions they are the cornerstone of our RISE with enthusiasm and diligence, building of diversity on which the initiative is focused. long-term relationships by connecting the right CBRE strives for a work environment that corporate values. people, capital and opportunities. EXCELLENCE. We focus relentlessly on reflects the clients we serve, provides everyone IMPACT! Program WORKFORCE creating winning outcomes for our clients, employees and shareholders. with the opportunity to succeed, values the differences of each individual and recognizes To advance our commitment to improving [102-8, 405-1] gender balance at more senior levels, CBRE their contributions to our firm’s success. We created IMPACT!, an 18-month, global In 2017, our workforce grew to more than 80,000 employees worldwide. The following provides have great examples of gender, ethnic and executive development program that identifies, a demographic profile of CBRE’s global workforce, excluding affiliate offices. other categories of diversity in our leadership develops, retains and launches key female Employment Employment Management Employment and employee groups. We also recognize that leaders into senior and executive leadership Gender Age Type & Gender Contract & Gender Positions & Gender Contract & Region our industry is lagging behind world-class role roles. A second IMPACT! cohort began in 2017 FULL-TIME REGULAR models in key areas of diversity, and this is an with 20 participants from nine countries. The 65.31 64.95 66.18 opportunity for continued improvement. 55.37 55.29 REGULAR program focuses on both individual leadership FULL-TIME REGULAR 43.99 REGULAR 33.63 31.22 31.41 33.82 REGULAR 27.26 26.11 In 2017, we hired a new Vice President of training and group-focused learning. Each 20.34 24.38 PART-TIME PART-TIME TEMP TEMP TEMP TEMP TEMP Diversity and Inclusion for the Americas to participant is paired with an executive sponsor 2.41 1.06 1.21 1.43 .28 .62 1.74 provide vision, leadership and strategic planning who provides one-on-one coaching, supports Female Male Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Female Male Female Male Female Male Americas EMEA APAC their internal exposure and creates opportunities for our diversity and inclusion platform. % EMPLOYEES for them to advance. 23 24 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WHO WE ARE | PEOPLE & CULTURE H OW WE O PE R ATE Women on Internal Boards clear equality, diversity and inclusion criteria Our CBRE U.K. Gender Pay Gap Report Employee Network Groups against which companies are independently includes detailed statistics and information on In 2017, our EMEA Executive Committee A significant way that we advance workplace assessed. The NES assessment reviewed CBRE our programs to create more opportunities for diversity is through our employee network groups, developed a regional talent development against 49 individual competencies focused on women to progress. which have been an important part of our initiative to add more women to EMEA Country key topics such as governance, culture, HR success for more than 17 years. These groups and Service Line Boards. Eleven of our EMEA D&I Recruiting policies and processes, business planning, offer career and professional development countries and a majority of service lines had inclusivity, flexible working, leadership In 2017, CBRE expanded its commitment to opportunities, connections and networking women representing at least 30% of their Board commitment and accountability, as well as hiring more diverse talent throughout the possibilities across all business lines and regions, members. For countries where female external relationships with CSR activities and the company. and community involvement opportunities. Groups representation was less than 30%, a minimum firm’s supply chain. Our Diversity Internship Program partners with are open to all employees, and have formed in of one fee-earning woman was invited to join that Board for 12 months starting in January three organizations to help us identify diverse each of the regions where we operate globally. 2017, giving them the opportunity to participate U.K. Gender Pay Gap Reports talent: Commercial Real Estate Women AMERICAS A new law enacted in the U.K. in 2017 requires (CREW) Network, which is focused on the in senior leadership decision making. Fourteen • African-American Network Group all organizations with 250 or more employees to advancement of women in commercial real • Asia Pacific Network countries participated in the initiative in 2017, publish and report specific figures about their estate; The Posse Foundation, which is • CBRE Military resulting in a majority of our EMEA countries gender pay gap. The gender pay gap measures committed to recruiting and training outstanding • Hispanic and Latin Business Resource Group and service lines having at least 30% female the total difference between men and women’s students from urban backgrounds; and Vadis, • LGBTQ & Allies representation at the Board level. The initiative • Rising Professionals Organization average pay (including bonus and reward which is dedicated to providing services to is being continued in 2018 with the program • Women’s Network contributions) across an organization. This is people with disabilities. The CBRE Diversity being relaunched to focus on development and EMEA different to equal pay, which refers to men and Scholars Program, a scholarship grant and networking opportunities for the participants. • Women’s Network women receiving equal pay for equal work. summer internship program for students of • LGBTA Network National Equality Standard CBRE’s Gender Pay Gap for its U.K. businesses racial or ethnic diversity that we created in 2016, • Multicultural Network Following a robust assessment process, CBRE (including all employing entities) is 17.35%. Our continued in 2017. • Wellbeing Network U.K. Ltd., was awarded the National Equality gap is mainly attributable to the fact that there • Faith at Work Network CBRE also supports the Real Estate • Veterans & Reservists Standard (NES) in February 2018. CBRE is the are currently more men in senior roles within the Association Program (REAP), an first property services provider to achieve this business. This profile is characteristic of the • Next Generation industry-backed, market-driven program that • PAs Network accolade and the 22nd U.K. company overall. wider commercial real estate sector, which, serves as a bridge between talented minority APAC while changing, has traditionally attracted professionals and commercial real estate The U.K. National Equality Standard was • Women’s Network fewer women. companies looking for talent. • LGBTI developed by business for business and sets 25 26 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WHO WE ARE | PEOPLE & CULTURE H OW WE O PE R ATE Women’s Network TALENT MANAGEMENT LEARNING & employees globally. myLearning is where employees can seek and find training materials to The Women’s Network exists to promote the success of women, and has more than 3,000 Employee Engagement DEVELOPMENT enhance and develop their skills, connecting In 2017, we partnered with an external vendor to them to assigned and self-selected training members. Growth, Connection and Mentorship The Global Talent, Learning and Diversity team, launch a worldwide employee engagement content, allowing interaction with other learners – the three guiding pillars of the Women’s through its Learning and Development teams, survey that covered all employees. The survey across the company and providing better Network – provide a solid foundation to enhance focuses on empowering our employees to achieved a 54% response rate globally. Our management tracking of employee learning. careers and promote an environment that is develop themselves and their teams, providing overall engagement level was in the moderate In 2017, 88% of employees accessed training collaborative and keenly focused on success. tools to drive career development and growth. range compared with other companies. Given through myLearning. On average, CBRE learners In November 2017, CBRE hosted its first-ever Our professionals are connected across our aspirations for CBRE, we know that we need completed 7.9 hours of training in 2017. simulcast for members of the Women’s Network. to work hard to improve on this. Our scores geographies, business lines and shared services leveraging best practices, tools and content. We We have aligned our training opportunities with The live-streaming presentation, entitiled varied by geography and business line, and they engage creative and innovative methods to four pillars of learning and development: “A Conversation with Amy Cuddy,” was viewed highlighted some things we are doing well today by more than 3,000 women and men at more expand beyond traditional classroom offerings  Onboarding: Introducing new hires to CBRE as well as important areas where we can and online education, using world-class learning than 80 CBRE locations worldwide across the culture, history and the RISE values improve. Overall, 155 actions are now being processes and platforms. U.S., Canada, Latin America and Australia.  Professional Development: Teaching skills addressed in 7 categories across the globe. The presentation was also recorded for viewing Progress on these actions is being tracked and At the core of our learning strategy is the view that are applicable to all lines of business by Women's Network groups in other regions reported to senior management. We plan to that talent development happens through three  Business Acumen: Developing skills specific following the event. Social psychologist and key activities: to lines of business and job title conduct another full survey in Q3 2018 to bestselling author Amy Cuddy, the keynote measure year-over-year progress.  Leadership: Growing skills specific to 70% ON-THE-JOB work/doing the job at hand speaker, is an expert on the behavioral science leading people and managing a team 20% COACHING through direct feedback from of power, presence and prejudice. Performance Management a boss, peer or mentor These pillars consist of fundamental principles for The Women’s Network also hosted the Performance management is viewed as a ongoing professional and personal development. 10% FORMAL TRAINING to improve a skill or inaugural Power of WE (Women Excelling) continuous activity at CBRE. We offer a number This framework ensures the delivery of valuable increase expertise Conference in mid-November. This exclusive, of career development and performance content that is relevant, timely and applicable to two-day event for CBRE's senior-most women management training sessions, allowing This 70-20-10 approach includes webinars, CBRE professionals who are empowered to and a select group of their top female clients, employees to learn more about their role in the classroom training, self-paced e-learning, choose their own career path. The pillars offer delivered a strong blend of content-rich sessions process and how it benefits them in their career coaching, mentoring and on-the-job projects. additional guidance in selecting learning and dynamic networking opportunities that growth. In 2017, 79% of Americas employees Our global Learning Management System (LMS) opportunities that reach beyond job-specific deepened both the personal and professional and 54% of employees globally received a – called myLearning – is a world-class, training and help employees realize their relationships among these industry leaders. performance review. [404-3] cloud-based learning solution available to all professional goals and aspirations. 27 28 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WHO WE ARE | PEOPLE & CULTURE H OW WE O PE R ATE EMPLOYMENT For individuals not subject to external pay reviews and/or benefit requirements, such as force, including separation pay, a health care stipend and access to outplacement services. Total Rewards union contracts, CBRE undertakes an annual Our severance plan offers benefits to qualified We recognize and appreciate that employee “pay for performance” review. Employees are fulland part-time employees. total rewards are an important part of the assessed based on their performance against Total employee turnover for the past three years employment relationship. CBRE provides established goals and rewarded accordingly. is as follows. [401-1] competitive total rewards in all the markets in CBRE remains committed to providing eligible which we compete for talent, including fixed and employees with meaningful, compliant and 2015 2016 2017 variable pay, and comprehensive benefits that affordable benefits. We aim to support physical 19.94% 20.93% 22.56% complement country-specific, legislatively health, financial wealth and emotional resiliency prescribed programs. Examples of career rewards with a variety of programs for employees at any can be found on our U.S. Careers website. stage in their career. In 2017, CBRE added a Anti-Discrimination Annually, we review market competitiveness of health care concierge service to assist employees CBRE is vigilant in complying with all national all our total rewards programs and adjust our with managing their health care planning. regulations in the countries where we operate. programs accordingly. Additionally, we actively We have established policies and practices that balance the cost of these programs through Employee Transitions support the company’s position on prohibiting manager and employee education, promotion Treating our people with dignity and respect is a discrimination or harassment on the basis of of wellness activities and a “pay for priority. When practical, we provide impacted race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual performance” culture, as well as through employees advanced notice of staff reductions orientation, gender identity, pregnancy, continuous process improvement. and significant operational changes in excess of childbirth (or related medical condition), age, regulatory requirements. We comply with the citizenship, marital status, disability, veteran or CBRE focuses on providing equitable notice requirements of relevant labor and military status, political belief or any other basis opportunities to all our employees. employment laws and collective bargaining protected by applicable law. Differentiation in compensation is driven agreements, as applicable. In instances where relative to individual performance. However, we cannot provide advanced notice, employees Collective Bargaining our benefit programs are, where possible, receive pay in lieu of notice, consistent with our As of December 31, 2017, approximately 1,900 consistently offered within locations to ensure severance plan. (2.4%) of our employees were subject to that employees have the same access to collective bargaining agreements, most of whom programs as other employees within their CBRE provides outplacement assistance as part of the company’s transition assistance package work in properties we manage in California, location/position. Illinois, New Jersey and New York. [102-41] to employees who are affected by a reduction in 29 30 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WHO WE ARE | COMMUNITIES & GIVING H OW WE O PE R ATE COMMUNITIES & GIVING CBRE is committed to supporting and adding value to the communities where our employees campaign. The funds were first used to provide In addition, our U.K. charity partner, Shelter, live and work around the world, as well as in communities where the need is greatest. Each direct assistance to 153 CBRE employees deployed housing advisors and a CBRE-funded of our three regions – Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific impacted by these disasters. Grants to employees resettlement worker to the local area. Finally, (APAC) – operates independent charitable initiatives, leading their own regional programs. totaled nearly $400,000. The remaining funds CBRE made a corporate donation of £10,000 One element remains the same worldwide: our employees’ charitable spirit and enthusiasm. were donated to the American Red Cross for to the Kensington and Chelsea Foundation to CBRE Foundation relief efforts for the disasters impacting the U.S., help support the hundreds of people impacted. CONTRIBUTIONS & CBRE Disaster the Mexican Red Cross for earthquake relief We began tracking employee volunteer hours Relief Foundation efforts and Rebuilding Together for relief efforts EMEA and a CBRE Build Day activity in Florida. This globally in 2017. Employees volunteered 14,256 Our EMEA charity program, Building a Better video shows how employees were impacted by hours during business hours at charitable Future, engages each country in the region, the disasters and how grants from by the CBRE activities organized by CBRE. Employees also Employee committing a contribution of at least 0.5% of Disaster Relief Foundation supported them used their expertise to support nonprofit each country’s annual earnings before interest, during this difficult period. organizations with skills-based volunteering in taxes, depreciation and adjustments (EBITDA) In the EMEA region, EMEA Disaster Relief Funds to charitable causes. The EBITDA contribution is 2017, donating 844 hours. We believe these numbers represent just a fraction of our Corporate donated £25,000 to provide aid during the East divided into the following three components: employees’ volunteer activities, and we are $10,874,687 Africa Food Crisis. In the United Kingdom, after 50% is donated to local charity causes decided working to improve our tracking systems in 2018. $2,957,080 the June 2017 Borough Market terrorist attack, by each country. $1,295,464 CBRE made a £5,000 donation to the Borough 40% goes toward an EMEA-wide partnership DISASTER RELIEF TOTAL: $15,127,231 Market Hardship Fund, as well as worked with contractors to repair the damage to the Borough program, which currently supports Plan Acting in coordination with CBRE, the CBRE • Hurricane Harvey (Texas) International. Market area free of charge. Foundation and regional and local disaster relief • Hurricane Irma (Florida) 10% is added to our EMEA Disaster Relief In response to the June 2017 Grenfell Tower fire, Funds to ensure we can respond quickly to committees, the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation • Hurricane Maria (Puerto Rico & Caribbean) our Residential team worked with the Royal major humanitarian or environmental crises. enhances employee contributions and distributes • Earthquake (Mexico City) Borough of Kensington & Chelsea (RBKC) funds through a network of pre-approved • Wildfires (Northern and Southern California) partner organizations that focus on disaster relief housing team to help find accommodations for Plan International In response, the CBRE Disaster Relief Foundation those displaced by the fire. Our Capital Advisors In 2014, CBRE’s EMEA business entered into a and rebuilding communities in need. made a one-time contribution of $250,000 and Building Consultancy lines of business, who partnership with international children’s charity In 2017, CBRE responded to an unprecedented toward relief efforts. CBRE employees generously are retained by RBKC, also worked with our Plan International. In January 2017, we five natural disasters in North America from donated more than $290,000, the most ever Hotels team to help identify local hotel owners embarked on a new project together called August to December, including: given by our employees to a single fundraising able to offer rooms for those affected. Safer Cities. This ambitious two-year project 31 32 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WHO WE ARE | COMMUNITIES & GIVING H OW WE O PE R ATE will help create a safer living environment for Although we have completed our fundraising partnership can be found on our U.K. website, for people in need and allows our professionals thousands of vulnerable girls in Nairobi, Kenya. for Sierra Leone, we are continuing to work and the impact of the partnership is described in to use their leadership skills to deliver measurable Our funds will support fundamental change with 485 of these girls to help them become this Impact Report. results in their communities. In 2017, 560 U.S. such as making public transport safer for girls, qualified teachers. More information on Following the successful partnership with Shelter, employees volunteered nearly 4,500 hours to improving local infrastructure and funding girls CBRE’s partnership with Plan International in December 2017, CBRE U.K. staff voted for a rebuild private residences and community and boys support groups. With the help of our can be found here. new charity partner, Action for Children – centers. More than $253,000 was donated by CBRE Global Workplace Solutions team in We are honored that in 2017 the CBRE and Plan an organization that helps thousands of the CBRE Foundation to support these projects. Kenya, we are also exploring a CBRE mentoring International partnership won the Managing disadvantaged children across the U.K. In 2018 In 2017, the CBRE Foundation gave more than program for some young people in the area. Partners’ Forum (MPF) Management Excellence and 2019, we aim to raise £500,000 for Action $340,000 to hundreds of organizations that our In May 2017, six CBRE colleagues travelled to Awards: Best Community Engagement award. for Children to support more than 700 children employees personally supported financially Nairobi with Plan International to learn more in the care system. through our Matching Funds Program. about the Safer Cities project. They met some of U.K. Partnerships Since its inception in 2001, the Birthday Cakes the young people we are aiming to help and saw the shocking reality of living in one of the In February 2015, CBRE U.K. staff chose Shelter AMERICAS & More for Homeless Children program has to be our first U.K. charity partner. By the end of delivered more than 11,500 cakes, including poorest parts of Kenya. CBRE continued to make a significant impact the partnership in December 2017, we had 1,467 cakes delivered in 2017. Through this across the United States through the efforts of The Plan International partnership involves raised £1,028,524 to help people facing poor grassroots initiative, employees hand-deliver our individual offices supporting meaningful CBRE colleagues in more than 100 offices and housing and homelessness. This achievement personalized cakes to homeless children to help causes in their local communities as well as four 30 countries participating in fundraising and funded Shelter advisors in nine of their Service them celebrate their birthdays. initiatives – Shelter Program, Matching Funds other activities. In 2017, CBRE and our Centres and helped more than 5,500 families Program, Birthday Cakes & More for Homeless Over the past seven years, CBRE has provided employees donated nearly €400,000 to Plan find a home. Children and National Shoe Collection. CBRE over 110,000 pairs of shoes to people in need International. Additionally, CBRE provides pro In addition to fundraising and volunteering, also continues to offer U.S. employees two days around the world through our National Shoe bono support across Plan International’s global CBRE donated 275 hours of pro-bono support paid time off during the year for their Collection program. In 2017, 59 CBRE locations real estate portfolio, adding further tangible to Shelter as part of the company’s aim to make participation in certain volunteer opportunities. collected nearly 9,500 pairs of shoes that were value to the organisation. a long-term difference. CBRE’s team used its Established in 2010 in partnership with national donated to Soles4Souls. Safer Cities is an extension of the significant expertise on a range of projects across Shelter’s housing nonprofits Rebuilding Together, Many large and small charitable activities were work we have been doing with Plan International portfolio, identifying property savings of more HomeAid and Habitat for Humanity, the also organized throughout the region, including since 2014 in Sierra Leone. CBRE teams across than £3.7 million over five years. As a result of CBRE Shelter Program continued as the flagship in Mexico and Canada, by locally engaged EMEA raised over £1 million for Sierra Leone this partnership, CBRE won the Property and program for CBRE Cares in the U.S. The CBRE Cares committees. from 2014-2016, giving an education to a Construction category in the Business Charity program is designed to improve housing options generation of children, particularly girls. Awards in 2017. More information on the 33 34 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WHO WE ARE | COMMUNITIES & GIVING H OW WE O PE R ATE APAC CBRE Hong Kong proudly served as lead sponsor of the Barclays MoonTrekker for the As the largest philanthropic event in APAC, the 5th consecutive year, raising HKD 90,000 for 10-kilometer Walk for a Wish supports CBRE’s The Nature Conservancy. 80 CBRE competitors commitment to social responsibility by bringing from Hong Kong, Singapore and the teams of employees, clients and vendors Netherlands participated in overnight charity together from each business line in order to hikes (30km or 43km) across Lantau Island, raise funds for various charitable causes in each Hong Kong, with the help of more than 20 CBRE participating country. volunteers who stayed up all night to support In 2017, CBRE combined the annual Walk for a their colleagues, both mentally and physically. Wish campaign and Wellness Week, which provided an opportunity for employees to participate in activities that support our environment, our communities and each other. Wellness Week activities included fundraising, volunteering, green, health, fitness and educational initiatives, culminating in our eight annual Walk for a Wish – our largest to date. More than 2,500 employees from 22 locations across APAC took part in more than 150 wellness activities and raised nearly $300,000 for selected causes. Countries throughout the APAC region also organized local charitable initiatives throughout the year. CBRE Pacific was involved in 20 volunteer days as part of our CBRE Cares program, with over 200 staff from New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland and Canberra donating their time to several charities. 35 36 HOW WE OPER ATE CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | ETHICS & COMPLIANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Our Ethics and Compliance program maintains and supports a consistent culture of values laws) and inquiry system, the Ethics HelpLine, Breaches Against Codes that acts as the cornerstone of our global business philosophy and ensures that our that is available 24 hours a day and accessible success is achieved in the right way. In 2017, CBRE was not subjected to significant fines in all languages used by CBRE employees. of Conduct or sanctions for noncompliance with the law or regulations in any country. No legal actions These third-party independent systems are CBRE encourages all of our employees and for anticompetitive or anti-trust behavior were filed against the company in 2017. promoted through our corporate stakeholders to bring issues forward if there is a [206-1, 419-1] communications, office posters and internal concern that someone acting on behalf of CBRE training, and are easily accessible through the is, or may be, doing something that violates our MANAGEMENT Available in 30 languages and approved by our Board of Directors, all employees are required Internet and country-specific toll-free values, policies or the law. When a report phone numbers. regarding a violation of policy or the law is Standards of Business to read, understand, certify annually and adhere The Ethics & Compliance department is received, it is investigated and documented in to our SOBC. Through the certification process, Conduct each employee reaffirms his or her commitment independent from business operations, so accordance with CBRE’s approved investigations [102-16] procedure. to the RISE values and our standards, as well as questions can be posed and advice given in a CBRE is firmly committed to conducting business adherence to several specific policies (e.g., non-attributable, confidential and comfortable In 2017, CBRE received more than 900 reports with the highest integrity and in compliance with harassment prevention, anti-bribery, manner. Additionally, if an allegation of serious through channels such as the Ethics HelpLine, the letter and spirit of the law. We are operating anti-corruption, confidentiality, data privacy). misconduct is logged into the system by an online systems and speaking with members of in a world where the rules that govern business Employees are also encouraged to report any employee or third party, internal investigators the Human Resources, Compliance and Legal conduct are more complex and demanding than suspected material wrongdoing of which they are required to conduct a prompt, thorough Departments. Of the reports that led to an ever. CBRE’s Standards of Business Conduct might be aware. In 2017, 92% of employees and unbiased investigation consistent with investigation into violations of our policy or the (SOBC) is the senior-most policy in the company completed the SOBC certification. internal policies. law, more than 50% resulted in some kind of and guides our everyday operations, brings our remedial measure taken. Uniformity of process and outcomes in an RISE values to life and is a roadmap for our Ethics Helpline investigation is achieved by requiring our continued commitment to excellence in the [102-17] investigators to attend annual training and ANTI-CORRUPTION global real estate industry. CBRE continues to focus significant energy and regular case peer review meetings. [103-1, 103-2, 103-3] The SOBC outlines expectations of employee resources on sustaining our internal avenues for CBRE has a strict non-retaliation policy to Anti-corruption is material to CBRE because our conduct relating to each other; our business inquiries, bringing forth concerns and investigating encourage employees to raise issues and report business is built on trust with our clients and our partners, clients and competitors; our suspected unethical or illegal activities. concerns of misconduct. Retaliation is not reputation for fair and ethical business dealings. corporate resources; and our communities. Led by the Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, tolerated, and any employee who engages in As our SOBC states: “While this reputation has It is the focal point of our culture of ethics and this infrastructure includes a worldwide retaliatory behavior will be subject to disciplinary been built over a century of hard work by compliance and is essential to preserving the anonymous reporting (as permitted by local action, up to and including termination. thousands of employees, it can be harmed by valuable trust placed upon us by our clients. just one employee offering a bribe or kickback 39 40 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | ETHICS & COMPLIANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT in any form. Aside from damaging our as new employees within the first 60 days of Our Anti-Money Laundering Policy establishes clients might conflict (or appear to conflict) with reputation, corruption allegations can lead to employment. In 2017, 22,466 employees the framework for the prevention of money the interests of the service provider or other costly and disruptive government investigations, received anti-corruption training. Additionally, all laundering, terrorist financing and other clients. Examples highlighted in the Sustainability large fines and criminal penalties against CBRE new employees must provide a written sign-off financial crime within our business operations. Accounting Standard for Real Estate Services and the individuals involved.” to comply with the company’s ethics and We are committed to upholding anti-money include dual agency transactions, or This topic is material within our own operations, anti-corruption policies. Finally, all employees laundering laws and regulations, and mitigating transactions where the firm represents both the as well as for our suppliers, from whom we are required to annually reaffirm their personal reputational risk, in all countries where we do buyer and the seller in the same real estate purchase products and services. Although we do commitment to adhering to our Anti-Corruption business. We support full transparency in all brokerage transaction, and transactions not directly manage anti-corruption activities for Policy in their daily activities. CBRE received no business dealings and transactions, and will not associated with properties for which the firm our suppliers and therefore cannot report on it, fines, penalties or settlements in relation to conduct business with customers or business conducted appraisal services. How we respond we work to influence this stakeholder group corruption in 2017. [205-3] partners in a manner intended to disguise or to and manage challenging conflicts is not just a through our Supplier Code of Conduct, which All parts of our business across all regions where hide their identity in the transaction or set of corporate policies and procedures – it’s a details our expectations that suppliers must we operate are assessed for corruption risk on a undertaking, or otherwise has such effect. fundamental factor in defining our success. compete strictly on the basis of the merits of yearly basis. The risk assessment determines the CBRE was not subjected to any legal or their products and services. relative risk of a violation to the mitigation of the PROFESSIONAL regulatory fines or settlements associated with CBRE is committed to building aggressive policies, anti-corruption program and what could be INTEGRITY AND professional integrity or duty of care in 2017. controls, audit systems and training programs to done to further improve its effectiveness. We [IF0403-06] prevent anti-corruption violations, and we are enhanced our anti-corruption program in 2017 CONFLICTS OF In addition to the Standards of Business improving our monitoring processes to better by focusing on improved monitoring of transactions, including the use of data analytics INTEREST Conduct (described earlier in this report) that identify and review potentially questionable [103-1, 103-2, 103-3, IF0403-04, guide our everyday operations, CBRE has transactions. Our Anti-Corruption Policy, to identify “red flags” that may precede IF0403-05] established policies and procedures in each of updated in 2017, is translated into approximately suspicious transactions. By the end of the year, Similar to anti-corruption, professional integrity our operations to identify and manage conflicts 30 languages and is applicable to all CBRE nearly all of our businesses in the Asia Pacific of interest. These policies and procedures are region were being monitored for corrupt is material to CBRE within our operations employees globally. This policy addresses all because our business is built on our reputation the subject of ongoing monitoring and review forms of inappropriate payments to government transactions through data analytics. In 2018, we for fair and ethical business dealings. We are processes embedded within our lines of officials and other entities, including charitable will further expand the data analytics program to businesses. These controls are overseen by our committed to conducting our business with the donations and sponsorships intended to disguise cover countries in the European Union. We have highest ethical standards and complying fully most senior executive officers, who are bribery. We require mandatory anti-corruption also created a new goal to achieve a 50% supported by our Legal and Compliance increase in data analytic monitoring for corrupt with our legal and regulatory obligations. training programs for employees in several Inherent in the commercial real estate services departments. These personnel play a vital role in targeted high-risk countries of operation, as well activities by 2020, using a 2017 baseline. industry are situations where the interests of the formulation of policies and make judgments [205-1] 41 42 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | ETHICS & COMPLIANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT regarding the appropriate resolution of particular conflicts. monitoring and audit plans, supported by our Global Assurance and Advisory department. CBRE recognizes that some laws might have a significant and powerful impact on the quality of COMMUNICATIONS & We have developed an extensive whitepaper Our Board regularly conducts a review of services we offer to our clients and the local TRAINING that describes how and where real and perceived possible conflicts of interest and related-party communities we serve. For these reasons, we CBRE continues to emphasize the critical nature conflicts may arise in our business; acknowledges transactions through the use of questionnaires, continued our public policy initiatives in 2017, of ethics & compliance through training and our responsibilities to our clients and what they director self-reporting and diligence conducted including legislative outreach and targeted media that are both engaging and educational. can expect from us; summarizes the controls we by management. Our Audit Committee lobbying activities in several U.S. states. The Our General Counsel writes “Compliance have implemented to identify and manage oversees management of potential conflicts of general goals of our public policy initiatives are Corner,” a monthly email that covers topics such conflicts; and sets forth a process by which CBRE interest between us and our directors and to educate policymakers and procurement as our SOBC, integrity, conflicts of interest and responds to requests for information, clarification executive officers. Our Policy Regarding officers about the commercial real estate a variety of our corporate policies. or resolution of a dispute regarding conflicts. Related Party Transactions and Corporate industry and to raise awareness of legislative and regulatory developments that affect our “Compliance Corner” is unique in its approach, Additionally, we regularly provide conflict of Opportunities can be found in the Investor industry and local constituencies. as it uses a wide variety of pop culture references interest training to employees. Relations section of our website, and and engaging storytelling to drive home that We have established avenues for our clients or related-party and other transactions involving In 2017, we spent $248,000 on lobbying month’s message. It is also linked to an internal other third parties to report to us any our officers and directors are described on activities related to two issues in the United social media channel that allows employees to circumstance in which they believe a conflict of page 79 of our 2018 Proxy Statement. States. First, in conjunction with other business comment and discuss each topic addressed by interest was not disclosed or managed in a [102-25] groups, we supported an effort in opposition to the periodical. Every edition of “Compliance manner consistent with our own policies or the legislation in California that would have deprived law. Each report received from a client or PUBLIC POLICY & our clients of meaningful choice of service Corner” references the Ethics HelpLine phone number and website and encourages employees providers in certain real estate transactions. prospective client is escalated to the appropriate POLITICAL Second, we supported lobbying related to to report any concerns, violations of policies or personnel within CBRE to be addressed. the law and unethical conduct. Typically, allegations of this nature are treated as PARTICIPATION government contracting administrative issues. [415-1] In 2017, CBRE continued to offer online training reports of serious misconduct under our Ethics & Our public policy outreach and educational on core elements of our ethics and compliance Compliance Program. This requires that they be CBRE has had a policy of prohibiting the use of activities will continue in 2018 through program to all employees. We facilitated training promptly, thoroughly and impartially investigated Company funds for contributions to political engagement of lawmakers by our employees on a wide range of topics, including under the supervision of our Chief Ethics & candidates, parties, campaigns or ballot and others in the commercial real estate anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, harassment, Compliance Officer. If a violation is found, initiatives for many years. We do not make business. These efforts will focus on legislative data privacy and global financial fraud prompt and thorough remedial action is taken. A political contributions – and do not reimburse and regulatory issues that have the potential to prevention. Several areas of ethics and periodic review of conflicts of interest is included employees who choose to make them. directly impact our services. compliance training are also provided to all in the CBRE Ethics & Compliance Program’s 43 44 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | ETHICS & COMPLIANCE ABOUT THIS REPORT new employees and must be completed within commitment to our RISE values and to being a defendable GDPR program by the enforcement • Proactive training programs that reinforce our 60 days of hire. These include SOBC, responsible business. date of May 25, 2018. We have continued to culture and commitment to embed Privacy by harassment prevention, the employee handbook institute our privacy program across the globe, Design and by Default into our business and RISE values. In total, CBRE rolled out over DATA PRIVACY establishing a consistent privacy and security practices and culture; 427,000 seats of online compliance training. culture and minimizing risk. This includes • Ownership of privacy and security outcomes CBRE is committed to ensuring that all developments in a number of components of within our business units through a Privacy personal or sensitive data within our possession HUMAN RIGHTS or control, whether that of our employees, our privacy program, including: Champion program; and Consistent with our values and global nature, vendors or clients, is handled correctly • Implementation of the seven GDPR Principles • Aggressive risk identification, audit and through clear policies, consistent procedures compliance monitoring that includes a CBRE is dedicated to complying with the United throughout its entire lifecycle. We are and practical guidance; proactive country-by-country annual risk Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. committed to respecting and protecting the assessment process, globalized whistleblower We have developed and implemented a privacy of individuals and keeping personal • Systems and procedures to respect and hotline (where permitted), internal information secure by complying with comply with Data Subject Rights; investigations program and a strict dedicated global Human Rights Compliance Program. The cornerstone of the program is our applicable data protection, privacy and • Setting world-class information governance non-retaliation policy. Human Rights Policy, in which we recognize information security laws and regulations. and data security standards, including that we have a responsibility to always respect Our Data Privacy Policy describes CBRE’s methods achieving ISO 27001/27002 certification; human rights in our operations, to promote an regarding the necessary collection, use, disclosure • Global and regional data breach incident prejudice and discrimination, provide fair work and safeguarding of personal information for response plans; hours and wages, and respect the rights of business-related purposes. Our Global Privacy • Systems and procedures to respect and employees to associate freely. Additionally, our Officer is responsible for the oversight of this comply with Data Subject Rights; policy states that CBRE endorses the United policy and the CBRE Global Privacy Program. In • Setting world-class information governance Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 2017, we did not have any substantiated and data security standards, including Human Rights and will work to raise awareness complaints concerning breaches of customer achieving ISO 27001/27002 certification; within our employee population of our privacy or loss of customer data. [418-1] • Vendor security risk assessments and Supplier responsibility to protect human rights. CBRE’s Global Data Privacy Program was highly Code of Conduct; We continue to include human rights in our enhanced during 2017. We began our journey • Regular communications and outreach from annual risk assessment that is conducted in to compliance with the European Union General the Global Data Privacy Officer and senior every country in which we do business. [412-1] Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which management, focused on practical examples We commit to embedding human rights included increases in resources and personnel, of how employees can implement privacy practices into our global culture as an ongoing with the expectation that we would have a and security compliance at a grassroots level; 45 46 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | HEALTH & SAFETY ABOUT THIS REPORT HEALTH & SAFETY Occupational health and safety is material to CBRE because we believe there is nothing Supplier Code of Conduct group through our Supplier Code of Conduct, more important than the health and safety of our employees, contractors and those with which includes details of our expectations for whom we work. Our clients are increasingly demanding world-class safety performance The topic of health, safety and the environment supplier health and safety performance. And as a pre-condition to compete for and retain their business. Our health, safety and is material within our own operations, as well as while CBRE does not have access to health and environment (HSE) vision is to become the safest company in the commercial real estate for our suppliers from whom we purchase safety data for our clients, we work directly with industry and have our HSE success be a competitive advantage. products and services; and with our clients, clients in our Asset Services and Global whose properties we manage every day. Workplace Solutions (GWS) business lines to MANAGEMENT We deliver extensive health and safety training to colleagues in our technical workforce, including Although we do not directly manage health and help them get their spaces certified under [103-2] safety for our suppliers and therefore cannot various health, safety and environmental online and in-person training sessions. report on it, we work to influence this stakeholder management systems. [103-1] We believe that safety is the entry point to We are in the process of enhancing our enterprise building trust with our employees, contractors, clients, visitors and other stakeholders, and we HSE technology solution that we call myHSE. Certifications The technology provides a global platform for Our GWS and Asset Services business lines in multiple regions worldwide are certified to standards work diligently to maintain a strong culture of injury/illness management, audits management, such as the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, ISO 9001 Quality Management safety to ensure a work environment absent of chemical and safety data sheet management, System, OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System, AS 4801 recognized health and safety hazards. risk assessment management, activity Occupational Health and Safety Management System and PAS 99 Integrated Management System. Our global HSE Policy Statement, in effect since management and performance management. Additionally, our corporate operations in the U.K. are ISO 9001 certified. 2015, outlines our commitment to providing a We recognized HSE as a Shared Advantage. safe and healthy workplace for our employees CERTIFICATIONS ISO 14001 ISO 9001 OHSAS 18001 AS 4801 PAS 99 Therefore, our delivery model is evolving to a GWS U.K.     and others who are affected by our activities; shared service structure. The evolving service GWS Ireland    ensuring adequate resources are available to GWS Italy   model ensures every CBRE employee has effectively manage HSE; meeting or exceeding GWS Spain   professional HSE support by integrating HSE GWS Switzerland    regulations, legal requirements and company GWS Germany corporate team members, regional and    standards; measuring and communicating our GWS Netherlands   business line HSE leaders, and client account GWS Sweden HSE performance; and implementing and   HSE resources to allow the delivery of a GWS Denmark  maintaining policies, procedures and systems GWS Singapore    globally consistent approach to managing dedicated to continuous improvement. GWS Australia     HSE risk. GWS New Zealand     As a part of our commitment, our Executive Risk GWS Beijing    Committee provides executive sponsorship, GWS Shanghai  Asset Services India    oversight and support for the CBRE HSE function. Asset Services U.K.   Corporate Operations U.K.  47 48 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | HEALTH & SAFETY ABOUT THIS REPORT CBRE continues to increase the percentage of However, we did not achieve our goal of Fatalities the organization that operates according to reducing TRIR 10%, or a target of 0.54, from internationally recognized and independently 2016 to 2017. Our new goal is to reduce TRIR Work-related employee fatalities are detailed certified environmental, health and safety by 8% to 0.53 from 2017 to 2018. below. Regrettably, in 2016 a CBRE employee management systems. We also work with our who was driving to work was involved in a fatal In 2017, our Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) was motor vehicle collision. We did not have any clients to get their properties certified to the 0.28, compared to 0.30 in 2016 and 0.34 in standards that are meaningful to them. For work-related employee fatalities in 2017. 2015. This also marked the third year in a row example, our Asset Services business line in of improved performance for this metric. The 2014 2015 2016 2017 EMEA has a number of client properties that are 2017 LTIR improved 7% over 2016 and 0 0 1 0 certified to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, PAS 99 represents a 18% improvement in the last two and the ISO 50001 Energy Management System. years. However, we also did not achieve our goal of reducing LTIR 10%, or a target of 0.27, PERFORMANCE from 2016 to 2017. Our new goal is to reduce [103-2, 103-3, 403-2] LTIR by 7% to 0.26 from 2017 to 2018. Near Misses Injury rates for our GWS and Asset Services business lines in 2017 are detailed below. Approximately 100,000 unsafe acts, unsafe conditions, and near misses were reported by ASSET SERVICES TRIR LTIR Americas 1.45 0.51 CBRE employees in 2017. These safety reports EMEA 0.08 0.08 identified a risk and gave CBRE staff the Asia 0.42 0.40 opportunity to eliminate the hazard, preventing Pacific 0.96 0.19 Total: 0.80 0.39 a potential injury. GWS TRIR LTIR Injury Rates Americas EMEA 1.01 0.67 0.29 0.60 In 2017, our Total Recordable Incident Rate Asia 0.15 0.09 Pacific 0.95 0.63 (TRIR) was 0.58, compared to 0.60 in 2016 Total: 0.71 0.34 and 0.72 in 2015. This marked the third year in TRIR = # of OSHA recordable cases multiplied by 200,000 a row that our performance improved. The 2017 hours (# of hours worked by 100 employees in a TRIR improved 3% over 2016 and represents a year)/actual hours worked 19% improvement globally in the last two years. LTIR = # of lost time injuries multiplied by 200,000 hours/actual hours worked 49 50 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY As the world’s largest real estate services firm, we take seriously our role in understanding, and WELL. In 2017, we created a new goal to weekly webinars to employees. Using the EPA addressing and communicating the benefits of resource efficiency in the built environment locate 80% (by square footage) of all CBRE ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager as a and the value of innovative design on employee health and productivity. offices in spaces certified to a green building foundational tool, BEEP educates industry standard (such as LEED, BREEAM, etc.) by 2020. professionals on how to reduce energy MANAGEMENT 24% of our global occupied square footage. An additional 22 Workplace360 offices are The vast majority of our corporate occupancy consumption and costs with proven noand occurs as a tenant in multi-tenant office low-cost strategies for optimizing equipment, CBRE is committed to implementing underway in 2018. buildings. We do not own any properties where people and practices. While this training environmentally sustainable best practices for Each Workplace360 office is a “free address” our offices are located. This occupancy strategy program requirement has been in place for our own operations and to assist our clients in and paperless environment, supported by allows maximum flexibility in our space many years for all property management staff, their efforts to address their environmental leading-edge technology tools and platforms. decisions; however, it complicates our efforts to during 2016 the training curriculum was concerns. Our Environmental Sustainability Assigned offices and workstations are measure, manage and mitigate our resource expanded as required learning for all national Policy describes CBRE’s practices and programs eliminated; instead, up to 15 different types of consumption, as most of the leased locations engineering staff. In total, more than 23,000 that work to reduce our environmental impact workspaces are offered based on carefully feature full building utility meters. To measure attendees had participated in the four-part and drive sustainable real estate practices. calculated employee usage patterns. In these our own use requires the installation of separate weekly training series by the end of 2017. It is our policy to implement environmentally new spaces, we have reduced our footprint utility meters. Globally, 191 offices totaling more While many of our brokers have already made sustainable best practices and to meet both the significantly – avoiding more than 320,000 than 2 million square feet, or approximately sustainability a consistent and regular aspect of letter and the spirit of all environmental laws and square feet globally – while offering greater 49% of our occupied space, have submeters. their practice, we believe all CBRE brokers regulations where we do business. In 2017, we functionality and flexibility. This has resulted in In 2017, we created a new goal to measure should have a fundamental understanding of were not issued any fines in violation of lower energy use and carbon emissions. utility usage in 60% (by square footage) of CBRE this market dynamic. To address this, we environmental regulations or laws, nor have we offices by 2020. developed “The Business of Green for Brokers” been responsible for or party to any significant Occupancy in 2015. This concise training video features our environmental pollution incidents. [307-1] As our Environmental Sustainability Policy states, we give preference to certified green buildings TRAINING clients and brokers describing the various Workplace Strategy for our leased corporate facilities and/or pursue CBRE continues to place a strong focus on motivations for sustainability and the successful outcomes they’ve achieved. In 2016, we In 2012, CBRE began researching the concept interior design and construction certification equipping building staff with the knowledge, expanded availability of the training program to that would become Workplace360, our global using recognized green building standards for proper tools and best practices they need to all employees globally and incorporated it as a workplace strategy initiative. The initiative our relocated or refurbished facilities larger than successfully manage and reduce energy component of the required new hire and launched in the U.S. in 2013 with the opening 20,000 square feet. In total, 118 CBRE offices consumption. In partnership with Building onboarding curriculum for all brokerage staff. of our global corporate headquarters in Los totaling 3.4 million square feet, or approximately Owners and Managers Association International The brokerage sustainability video module was Angeles. By the end of 2017, we had opened 65 77% of our global occupied space, are certified (BOMA), CBRE licenses BOMA Energy viewed more than 5,000 times in 2017. Workplace360 offices worldwide, representing under schemes such as LEED, BREEAM and Efficiency Program (BEEP) training and offers 51 52 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT EMISSIONS & ENERGY Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions and our energy consumption can be found in our annual CDP RESEARCH fact-based outcomes that lessen environmental impact – generating both immediate results and We have calculated our operational carbon climate change disclosure, available on the The Green Building Adoption Index (GBAI), long-term financial benefits through key footprint annually since 2008. In 2016, we set an CDP website. created by CBRE and Maastricht University, was integrated strategies. Our team includes more absolute goal to reduce Scope 2 greenhouse gas designed to document the growth of green than 220 energy and sustainability experts and emissions 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2035, using [305-1, 305-2] building certifications in the 30 largest U.S. experienced professionals. Services provided a baseline year of 2015. We have reduced Scope CARBON FOOTPRINT OF CBRE OPERATIONS1 office markets. Tracking the growth of both EPA include data management, smart buildings 2 emissions 26.3% from 2015 to 2017, so we are 2015 2016 2017 ENERGY STAR and USGBC LEED certifications, systems integration, energy consulting, energy well on our way to achieving our 2025 goal of a Scope 1 30,928 63,414 46,057 this study was the first ever to accurately and procurement solutions, certification services and Scope 2 33,949 29,678 25,010 30% reduction. These reductions were primarily Scope 3 (bus. travel only) 13,161 16,954 18,626 comprehensively measure the rise of these sustainability consulting. In 2017, revenue from achieved through space attrition and efficiencies NOTE: Scope 1 and Scope 3 emissions did not include full environmental recognitions in the commercial energy and sustainability services totaled more gained through our Workplace360 initiative. global data in 2015. real estate market. The analysis provides both than $65.6 million across our United States and In 2017, we set a new absolute goal to reduce PROGRESS TOWARD SCOPE 1 GOAL1 national and individual statistics with supporting EMEA regions. [IF0403-01] Globally, 6,788 Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions 20% by 2016 2017 2026 narrative examinations of each market, allowing buildings under management totaling 1.895 Baseline 2026, using a baseline year of 2016. The baseline Emissions 63,414 comparisons between marketplaces. The fourth billion square feet were provided with energy 46,057 year for this goal is different than our Scope 2 Goal 50,731 annual study was published in July 2017. and sustainability services. [IF0403-02] baseline year because we collected complete In April 2018, CBRE and Maastricht University During 2017, CBRE registered and Scope 1 emissions data for all regions globally PROGRESS TOWARD SCOPE 2 GOAL1 released the inaugural International Green benchmarked a record-breaking 6,197 2015 2016 2025 2035 for the first time in 2016. While it appears that Baseline 33,949 Building Adoption Index (IGBAI), which ranks buildings, representing more than 370.7 million we have already achieved this goal, we know that Emissions 25,010 10 international office markets according to square feet, in the U.S. Department of Energy’s our Scope 1 emissions fluctuate each year due Goal 23,764 their share of buildings certified under various ENERGY STAR program. [IF0403-03] CBRE’s Goal 16,974 to changes in the number of vehicles we own. green certification programs. 349 labeled buildings under management In 2017, our fleet count decreased due to a [302-1] represent 3.5% of all 9,904 U.S. office buildings reduction in the number of owned vehicles ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY CBRE OPERATIONS2 ENERGY AND labeled in ENERGY STAR. We manage another associated with client-managed accounts. We also saw a decrease in average per-vehicle miles Fuel 2015 2016 2017 128,645 261,050 190,502 SUSTAINABILITY 907 properties with a score of 75 or above that are either currently in the ENERGY STAR in our EMEA region. Electricity Heat 67,814 60,329 49,685 16,159 18,552 18,233 SERVICES application process or are eligible to apply. In Our 2016 and 2017 Scope 1, Scope 2 and TOTAL 212,618 339,931 258,420 Our Global Energy & Sustainability team 2017, we made a significant improvement in Scope 3 emissions were third-party verified by provides comprehensive energy and energy efficiency with our core office portfolio, Bureau Veritas. Additional details on our Scope 1, 1 Metric tons CO2 e | 2 MWh sustainability services to our clients, focusing on totaling 1,707 buildings. This portfolio has an 53 54 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT average ENERGY STAR score of 80.3 and cost-effective manner. We assist in implementing presence of harmful materials or contamination, 12 of them were awarded a Green Star, achieved an average reduction in site energy these strategies by using our influence to building interior characteristics and access to signifying best practices for sustainability policies use of 16.2% compared to prior year. [302-5] negotiate favorable pricing and contract terms. public transportation. We routinely engage and active implementation of initiatives to support In 2017, we created the CBRE Climate Change In addition, we monitor the market and track third-party consultants to evaluate the physical those policies. We also increased our average Champion Award, which is presented to Asset strategies through their term. In 2017, this team and environmental characteristics of potential score by 11.3% over our 2016 average score. Services teams for CBRE-managed properties achieved an annualized cost savings of more investments to identify opportunities for GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS that achieve a 10% or greater year-over-year than $6.4 million for our clients. improvements that would reduce a property’s increase in their ENERGY STAR score. In 2018, environmental impact. Our investment teams BREEAM 59 this award was presented to teams at 22 CBRE GLOBAL continue to enhance engagement efforts at our USGBC LEED EPA ENERGY STAR 38 34 properties, resulting in increased tenant CBRE-managed properties. These buildings INVESTORS satisfaction and occupancy. Our governance BOMA 360 3 together resulted in a total greenhouse gas CBRE Global Investors, a wholly owned structure and committees, including our global emission reduction of 10,188 metric tons of CO2e. subsidiary of CBRE, is one of the world’s largest and regional Responsible Investment TRAMMELL CROW CBRE continues to assist our clients in their real estate investment management firms. At Management Committees (RIMCos), ensure a COMPANY CBRE Global Investors, a specific emphasis is disciplined investment process and establishment efforts to achieve green building certifications Trammell Crow Company (TCC), a wholly owned placed on improving the environmental footprint of appropriate risk mitigation measures. around the world. In 2017, our team completed subsidiary of CBRE, has long recognized that of each asset under management. In 2017, the CBRE Global Investors team in EMEA prudent environmental stewardship is a a total of 478 certifications totaling more than 87.6 million square feet. This included 274 LEED As standard operating procedure, CBRE Global began a process to develop an ESG strategy for fundamental social and ethical corporate certifications (Existing Buildings, New Investors requires investment teams to evaluate each of their funds. These strategies include responsibility. As a leader in commercial real Construction and Commercial Interiors) totaling opportunities for green improvements at each ESG goals, monitoring activities and reporting estate development, TCC uniquely understands more than 67 million square feet. Other asset prior to acquisition, and to track efficiency commitments. In 2018, this process expanded to the impact of the built environment on our certifications included WELL, BIU, HQE, during the hold period with clear guidelines that CBRE Global Investors funds in the Americas. communities. BREEAM and NABERS. Since our certification we implement across our global investment CBRE Global Investors achieved excellent results TCC is committed to a) the continued expansion team was formed in 2009, it has completed a programs at all stages – starting with the in the 2017 Global Real Estate Sustainability of its expertise in environmental sustainability, total of 1,197 certifications totaling more than acquisition due diligence process and continuing Benchmark (GRESB) assessment, which b) making sustainability an important part of our 253.5 million square feet. throughout our asset management activities. evaluates the sustainability performance of real business, and c) assuring that our clients and Environmental and social factors considered in estate investment programs. We submitted financial partners have access to TCC’s best CBRE’s Energy Procurement Solutions team investment selection in 2017 included identifies strategies to manage the risks posed assessments for 16 of our directly managed practices in sustainable planning, design and opportunities for potential energy savings, funds and separate accounts worldwide, and construction for each project. Our goal is to by volatile energy markets in the most 55 56 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT build value with comprehensive, integrated building solutions that are attentive to the environment, the economic and physical health of the communities and occupants, and the needs of the investors. TCC currently has 39 LEED and/or WELL APs on staff and more than 50 million square feet of office, industrial, retail, civic and multifamily projects in the pipeline, under construction or completed that are sustainable or in various stages of obtaining LEED certification. Additionally, the TCC Sustainability Task Force works to advance TCC’s thought leadership position on matters related to the built environment. This committed group of individuals is dedicated to ensuring TCC remains a market leader in sustainability and to supporting TCC in achieving its sustainability goals. 57 58 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | PROCUREMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT PROCUREMENT With an annual global spend in excess of $29 billion, CBRE recognizes the opportunity to influence suppliers on a large scale while also mitigating supply chain risks. This includes MANAGEMENT systems to minimize the risk of human rights infringements anywhere in our supply chain. purchases made on behalf of our clients in our Project Management, Global Workplace We expect our suppliers to conduct their Annually, we update our Slavery and Human Solutions (GWS) and Asset Services lines of business, as well as more than 800 contracts operations in an environmentally sustainable Trafficking Statement, which outlines the for our corporate supply chain spend. In 2017, CBRE engaged with more than 88,000 and socially responsible manner. At the same specific steps we have taken across our business suppliers globally. time, we recognize the opportunity to use our to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is global supply chain to promote sustainable not taking place and that we meet the SUPPLY CHAIN marketing, managed print, environmentally sustainable office products and furniture, business practices and support local businesses requirements upon us in line with relevant around the world. The magnitude of the impact legislation. This statement is written in ORGANIZATION energy-efficient IT equipment and cloud data of our supply chain far exceeds our own accordance with the requirements of the UK Given our business model, CBRE’s enterprise storage. Many of our contracts are global, sustainability impact as a firm. For these Modern Slavery Act (2015). supply chain is extremely complex. The supply multinational or cross-business in scope and reasons, our global Supplier Code of Conduct leverage CBRE’s scale for competitive advantage. Our Human Rights Policy recognizes that we chain organization is responsible for the market has been in place since 2016. The Code sets have a responsibility to respect human rights in evaluation, selection and contracting of Additionally, we partner with a broad spectrum of forth fundamental ethical and business conduct our operations, to promote an appropriate suppliers and their ongoing administration and facilities management and project managementrequirements for our suppliers and includes example and to make a positive global impact. performance management in collaboration with related suppliers that are an integrated part of guidance on anti-bribery/anti-corruption, unfair The policy outlines our commitment to CBRE’s business lines and corporate shared how we deliver a comprehensive suite of direct business practices, data privacy and information combating the exploitation of children and services functions. The products and services we real estate services for our clients. The products security, conflicts of interest, labor standards, therefore prohibiting any use of child labor with purchase for internal consumption include and services we purchase to support our clients health and safety, supplier-provided gifts and any vendor, supplier or other third-party information technology products and services include office furnishings, fleet vehicles, janitorial environmental sustainability. We have integrated arrangements. It also states that we will not do (e.g., hardware, software, telecom, printers, products and services, and facility maintenance our Supplier Code of Conduct into our contract business with, tolerate or associate with professional services), marketing materials (e.g., products and related services. [102-9] templates and master services agreements with organizations or entities that condone or are artwork, signage, direct mail, promotional items) strategic and preferred suppliers, and all CBRE Based on our high levels of green spend engaged in the practice of coercing or imposing and facilities products and services (e.g., leasing, businesses and departments have been asked compared to others in our industry in 2017, work with little or no freedom of choice. furniture, maintenance). We also purchase to reasonably monitor their respective suppliers’ CBRE was selected to receive a Leadership in Additional information on our Human Rights services such as accounting, benefits, consulting, adherence and take appropriate measures Greener Purchasing Award for the Real Estate Policy can be found in the Ethics & Compliance legal, human resources, security, safety, travel regarding supplier non-compliance. Sector from Office Depot. This award was only section of this report. and training. The CBRE Corporate Supply Chain We have a zero-tolerance approach to modern given to 19 winners out of Office Depot’s 1,000 In 2017, we continued to expand the use of a team supports the company’s sustainability efforts slavery and are committed to consistently largest customers. We are proud to be helping supplier screening program to validate supplier through solutions that include the responsible reviewing and strengthening our processes and to drive the market for eco-conscious products. recycling and disposal of IT equipment, digital 59 60 CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HOW WE OPERATE | PROCUREMENT ABOUT THIS REPORT compliance with core and optional screening criteria. The program allows CBRE to mitigate SUPPLIER DIVERSITY supplier risk by employing a robust prequalification, In 2017, CBRE awarded $462.6 million to supplier selection and ongoing monitoring certified diverse suppliers for either client or process to provide more transparency and CBRE needs, a 65% increase over 2016. Nearly improve early detection of performance and/or $409 million was spent with diverse suppliers on reputational risks. The program segments behalf of our clients, including $264.1 million on suppliers by risk profile and supplier behalf of our GWS clients and $144.6 million classification to allow for some flexibility in the on behalf of our Asset Services clients. We extent of the screening. The full screening covers purchased nearly $54 million in goods and security, financial, insurance, diversity and other services from diverse suppliers for our corporate checks to limit, if not eliminate, residual risk we use, a 49% increase over 2016. As our enterprise or our clients may face due to non-compliant supply chain organization continues to transform suppliers and subcontractors. In the past three itself into a centralized function for all goods years, CBRE screened more than 38,000 of the and services procurement, we expect to be able more than 88,000 suppliers that we manage for to report our diverse spend data for our Project ourselves and our clients. We have a goal to Management line of business by the end of 2018. screen more than 80% of our Tier 1 suppliers We are continuing to engage with organizations globally by 2021. that can help us identify the most qualified As part of our supplier RFPs and RFIs, we suppliers and improve our supplier diversity. We include a set of environmental, social and are a corporate member of the National governance questions as part of our evaluation Minority Supplier Development Council and award criteria. Firms that score relatively (NMDSC), the Women’s Business Enterprise better than their competitors are considered to National Council (WBENC), the National have better internal processes and monitoring, Veterans Business Development Council and, correspondingly, lower operational and (NVBDC) and the National Gay and Lesbian reputational risks. These scores are also Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC). We regularly reviewed at supplier governance/quarterly attend conferences and events organized by business review meetings to discuss how the these councils annually in an effort to expand supplier plans to improve the scores. our relationships with diverse suppliers. 61 62 ABOUT THIS REPORT CBRE | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT | REPORT OVERVIEW N E X T : GRI CONTENT INDEX ABOUT THIS REPORT REPORT OVERVIEW THIS REPORT provides an overview of the economic, environmental and social impacts of CBRE globally in 2017. This is our eleventh annual Corporate Responsibility Report, with the most recent report (2016 Corporate Responsibility Report) published in August 2017. [102-51, 102-52] Except where noted, the information covered in this report highlights our corporate responsibility initiatives in fiscal year 2017 (January 1, 2017, through December 31, 2017). When available and significant, updates through early 2018 are included. [102-50] Since publishing our 2016 report, there have not been any restatements of information given in previous reports. [102-48] This report has not been externally assured. [102-56] This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. [102-54] Locations of GRI disclosures are included throughout the report using the notation [XXX-XX]. This report contains disclosures recommended in the Real Estate Services Sustainability Accounting Standard (Provisional Standard, March 2016) that was developed by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). These disclosures are located in the SASB Disclosures section within the following pages and throughout the report using the code [IF0403-XX]. This report and future updates can be accessed at cbre.com/responsibility. For questions regarding the report or its contents, contact responsibility@cbre.com. [102-53] 65 66 ABOUT THIS REPORT | GRI CONTENT INDEX N E X T : CONTINUED GRI CONTENT INDEX [102-55] GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE SECTION OMISSION GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURES 102-1 Name of the organization Our Company: About CBRE GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Our Company: About CBRE 102-3 Location of headquarters Our Company: About CBRE 102-4 Location of operations Our Company: About CBRE 102-5 Ownership and legal form Our Company: About CBRE 102-6 Markets served Our Company: About CBRE 102-7 Scale of the organization Our Company: About CBRE 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Who We Are: People and Culture 102-9 Supply chain How We Operate: Procurement 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Our Company: About CBRE 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Company: Governance 102-12 External initiatives Our Company: Memberships and Initiatives 102-13 Membership of associations Our Company: Memberships and Initiatives 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Our Company: A Letter from Bob How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance; 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Who We Are: People and Culture 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance 102-18 Governance structure Our Company: Governance 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Our Company: Governance 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Our Company: Governance 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Our Company: Governance 102-25 Conflicts of interest How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance 102-35 Remuneration policies Our Company: Governance 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Our Company: Governance 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our Company: Stakeholder Engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Who We Are: People and Culture 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our Company: Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Our Company: Stakeholder Engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Our Company: Material Topics 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Our Company: About CBRE 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Our Company: Material Topics 102-47 List of material topics Our Company: Material Topics 102-48 Restatements of information About This Report: Report Overview 102-49 Changes in reporting Our Company: Material Topics 102-50 Reporting period About This Report: Report Overview 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report: Report Overview 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report: Report Overview 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About This Report: Report Overview 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About This Report: Report Overview 102-55 GRI content index About This Report: GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance About This Report: Report Overview 67 68 ABOUT THIS REPORT | GRI CONTENT INDEX N E X T : UNGC TEN PRINCIPLES GRI CONTENT INDEX Continued MATERIAL TOPICS Anti-Corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance Occupational Health and Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries How We Operate: Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components How We Operate: Health and Safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach How We Operate: Health and Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, We expect to have data for contractors in the future. We currently do not track GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-2 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related How We Operate: Health and Safety absentee rate. We do not feel that occupational disease rate is relevant to our fatalities business. We do not feel there is value in breaking out injury rate data by gender. Diversity and Inclusion 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries Who We Are: People and Culture GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Who We Are: People and Culture 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Who We Are: People and Culture Who We Are: People and Culture; We currently do not report on indicators of diversity other than gender and age GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Our Company: Governance group. We are considering reporting on other indicators of diversity in the future. Professional Integrity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance ADDITIONAL TOPICS Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 and monopoly practices How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization How We Operate: Environmental Sustainability GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services How We Operate: Environmental Sustainability 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions How We Operate: Environmental Sustainability GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions How We Operate: Environmental Sustainability GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations How We Operate: Environmental Sustainability We do not report details on new employee hires and we do not break GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Who We Are: People and Culture out employee turnover by employee demographics. We consider this information confidential. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance We currently do not track performance review data by gender or GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-3 and career development reviews Who We Are: People and Culture employee category. Operations that have been subject to human rights GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 reviews or impact assessments How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 customer privacy and losses of customer data How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 and economic area How We Operate: Ethics and Compliance 69 70 ABOUT THIS REPORT | UNGC TEN PRINCIPLES N E X T : SASB DISCLOSURES UNGC TEN PRINCIPLES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE LOCATION Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and How We Operate: Ethics & Compliance PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. How We Operate: Ethics & Compliance Labour PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; How We Operate: Ethics & Compliance; Who We Are: People & Culture PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; How We Operate: Ethics & Compliance PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and How We Operate: Ethics & Compliance PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. How We Operate: Ethics & Compliance; Who We Are: People & Culture Environment PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; How We Operate: Environmental Sustainability PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and How We Operate: Environmental Sustainability PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. How We Operate: Environmental Sustainability Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. How We Operate: Ethics & Compliance 71 72 ABOUT THIS REPORT | SASB DISCLOSURES N E X T : FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS SASB DISCLOSURES CBRE supports the mission of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), which creates industry-specific sustainability accounting standards that help companies disclose financially material, decision-useful environmental, social and governance (ESG) information to investors. In 2017, CBRE became a founding member of the SASB Alliance. This is the first year that CBRE is disclosing data using the provisional SASB standards. We identified the Real Estate Services standard as applicable to our company. The following table contains our disclosure on the topics included in that standard. Activity metrics that may assist in the accurate evaluation and comparability of disclosure may be found in the CBRE Group, Inc. 2017 Form 10-K and throughout this report. SASB DISCLOSURES CODE ACCOUNTING METRIC 2017 DISCLOSURE Sustainability Services IF0403-01 Revenue from energy and sustainability Revenue from energy and sustainability services totaled more than $65.6 million across our United States and EMEA regions. services [Note that while we also provided energy and sustainability services throughout our APAC region, we do not have data for that region at this time.] IF0403-02 (1) Floor area and (2) number of Globally, (2) 6,788 buildings under management totaling (1) 1.895 billion square feet were provided with energy and sustainability services. buildings under management provided with energy and sustainability services IF0403-03 (1) Floor area and (2) number of CBRE registered and benchmarked a record-breaking (2) 6,197 buildings, representing (1) more than 370.7 million square feet, in the U.S. buildings under management that Department of Energy’s ENERGY STAR program. obtained an energy rating [Note that while we also supported clients with obtaining energy ratings in other regions around the world, we do not have data for those regions at this time.] Transparent Information & Management of Conflict of Interest IF0403-04 Brokerage revenue from dual agency CBRE received $92 million in the United States and $63 million in the Pacific region from brokerage revenue from dual agency transactions. Please see a discussion of transactions how we assure the professional integrity and duty of care of our workforce in avoiding conflicts of interest in the Ethics & Compliance section of this report. [Please see pp. 14-15 of the SASB Real Estate Standard for the definition of “brokerage revenue from dual agency transactions.” Note that while we generated brokerage revenue from dual agency transactions in other regions around the world, we do not have data for those regions at this time.] IF0403-05 Revenue from transactions associated CBRE received $3 million in the United States and $16 million in the Pacific region from revenue from transactions associated with appraisal services. Please see a with appraisal services discussion of how we assure the professional integrity and duty of care of our workforce in avoiding conflicts of interest in the Ethics & Compliance section of this report. [Please see pp. 15-16 of the SASB Real Estate Standard for the definition of “revenue from transactions associated with appraisal services.” Note that while we generated revenue from transactions associated with appraisal services in other regions around the world, we do not have data for those regions at this time.] IF0403-06 Amount of legal and regulatory fines $0 and settlements associated with professional integrity or duty of care 73 74 ABOUT THIS REPORT | FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report may contain forward-looking statements, the achievement or success of which involves risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any such risks or uncertainties materialize or if any of the assumptions proves incorrect, the results of CBRE Group, Inc. could differ materially from the results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements we make. Please refer to our most recent quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q, and our most recent annual report filed on Form 10-K, and in particular any discussion of risk factors or forward-looking statements therein, which are available on the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov), for a full discussion of the risks and other factors that may impact any forward-looking statements that may be included in this report. Except to the extent required by applicable securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update or publicly revise any of the forward-looking statements that may be included here. 75 76 cbre.com/responsibility
