Everyone Connected KPN Integrated Annual Report 2017 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Everyone connected Contents We make life more free, fun and easy by anniversary in 2017, connects vulnerable groups KPN at a glance Financial report connecting people. We’re passionate about in society, such as elderly people or sick children, Introduction by the CEO 2 Consolidated Financial Statements 76 offering secure, reliable and future-proof with the world around them. In our online Our main achievements 4 Corporate Financial Statements 123 networks and services, enabling people to be annual report (www.kpn.com/annualreport), Review of the year 5 Other Information 131 connected anytime, anywhere, whilst at the we take a closer look at this in a documentary same time creating a prosperous and more about the significance of social contact in a Who we are and what we do Appendices sustainable world. digital world. Our purpose and the world around us 6 Appendix 1: Alternative performance measures 139 We connect people through our products and Our strategy and activities 8 Appendix 2: Overview and connectivity of non-financial 142 services, as well as by supporting socially Our value creation model 10 information Our capitals to operate 13 Appendix 3: Transparency 146 responsible initiatives. The KPN Mooiste About this report  146 Contact Fonds, which celebrated its 10th Stakeholder engagement and materiality determination 151 The long-term value we create Appendix 4: Glossary of terms 157 The value we create for our stakeholders 14 Customer value 14 Digital appendices Integrated products and services 16 State-of-the-art networks and ICT infrastructure 20 For an overview of our social and environmental figures, Sustainable employability 22 GRI Content Index and list of top risks, please see Shareholder value 24 www.kpn.com/annualreport. The value we create for society 29 Innovation29 Reliability32 Pages of the Report by the Board of Management 1-53 Sustainability34 Our long-term impact on society 41 “I try not to use “I really can still my phone communicate normally How we safeguard long-term value on public transport.” with the outside world.” Corporate governance 42 Compliance & risk 46 Composition of the boards 52 Supervisory Board Report 58 Remuneration Report 64 Our reporting approach in 2017 Ranked as the telecommunications industry leader on the DJSI In preparing this Integrated Annual Report, we have taken World Index and included for the sixth consecutive year. the principles of the International Integrated Reporting Council Included in CDP’s Climate A List for the second year. (IIRC) into account. For the CSR information included in this KPN’s Integrated Annual Report 2016 won the European Excellence report, we followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Award for the best Integrated Annual Report & CSR report. Standards Option: Comprehensive. We have detailed our Our 2016 report was built around our nine most material topics. reporting approach in Appendix 3. For our 2017 report, we have used our value creation model to structure our reporting. The section, The long-term value we KPN participates in several sustainability benchmarks, like the create describes how our strategy and activities lead to value Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), Carbon Disclosure creation for our stakeholders and society by using our assets. Project (CDP) and the Transparency Benchmark (TB). Our In ‘How we safeguard long-term value’ we describe our “KlasseContact ambition is to maintain a leading position in these benchmarks. governance framework and the main topics that our Board of feels just like This way, we keep improving our performance by comparing it Management and Supervisory Board dealt with in 2017. with that of peers. An overview of KPN’s performance in different Throughout the report we provide detailed performance data. I’m at school.” indices during 2017: The Financial Report includes the Financial Statements. 2 1 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Introduction by the CEO Introduction by the CEO Customer first, improving business TV being watched, KPN is investing significantly in the capacity One of our best-known projects is KlasseContact. This project performance, financially healthy, of the network to improve the quality and stability even more. A new decentralized Metro Core network at 161 locations forms uses technology that allows chronically ill children to take part in lessons ‘live from home’ or from a hospital. So despite their and leader in sustainability the backbone of our network, enabling us to bring content closer to our customers. We will continue optimizing our 4G network the introduction of LTE-M will make it suitable for all illness, they remain in contact with their classmates. The KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds has been around for ten years kinds of Internet of Things (IoT) applications. For all now, which is why the Integrated Annual Report showcases the ICT is fascinating. It’s developing at an increasingly rapid pace. Smartphones first appeared in conceivable IoT applications and issues, we believe we can now fund’s activities. Furthermore, in 2017 we received 1,883 2007; now there are 2.6 billion worldwide. You can use them in many different ways time and realize a solution via KPN’s various IoT networks. voluntary contributions on many different projects. place are no longer an issue. Working, relaxing with Spotify or Netflix, using apps, social media, We are continuously examining how technology can help Saying farewell you name it. In addition, new technological applications improve the quality and security of our address the topics and challenges facing society today and I would like to thank all my colleagues for their cooperation and tomorrow. We collaborate with main suppliers to accelerate wish them every success in providing KPN’s customers with life considerably. For example, the freedom that heart patients experience when their heart innovation via the KPN Ventures external investment fund and excellent service and continuing to surprise them in a positive rate is remotely monitored. Or sensors that permanently measure the solidity of embankments. our KPN New Business department. This joint approach way. And of course I would like to thank you, the customer, enables us to benefit and learn from the speed with which shareholder or reader of this document, for your trust in a startups can innovate, while they benefit from the brand name company that is, I feel, a Dutch national icon. and marketing capabilities of KPN. In 2017, this new approach KPN may connect devices, but it’s really people that we Those experiences are now moving closer together. This is led to a variety of innovations in the domain of SmartLife, connect, making their lives more free, fun and easy. Our reliable reflected in our Net Promoter Score (NPS), which is higher Smart Cities and eHealth. and energy-efficient networks and data centers ensure fast and than ever before. stable connections at home, at work, on the move and in Contribution towards a sustainable society emergency situations. Every day, our expert employees look for By working in an agile manner, we have been able to respond As the green connector par excellence, KPN has the ability to opportunities to further improve. far more quickly to market and technological developments. use technology to help create a safe and healthy future for This fits perfectly with our ambition to become the best service society. With that strong conviction, my colleagues and I have A resilient KPN provider in the Netherlands. We want our employees to provide pursued bringing about sustainable change. Since 2011, we In April 2018, I will hand over to my successor, Maximo Ibarra. our customers with the best service, products and networks, so have switched over entirely to green electricity. As of 2015, our I have served KPN for a total of 34 years, including two terms as we need to continuously challenge ourselves. From customer operations have been climate neutral and we have featured in CEO, working with great pleasure and passion, in a sector that is service, shops, webcare and mechanics to ICT staff, account the top 10 of the Telecom sector in the Dow Jones continuously changing. I am proud that KPN is in good shape in management and corporate departments, we all have to make Sustainability World Index for six consecutive years. What’s all respects. Customers are significantly more satisfied than they a difference. more, I am very proud that in 2017 we came in first in our were years ago. We have succeeded – at a challenging time for category on this prestigious list of the world’s most sustainable the sector – in making the company stronger, more flexible and Financially strong and constantly innovating companies. But we have even greater ambitions, so we are financially healthy. We have improved our reputation KPN delivered a solid performance last year. Our strong pressing ahead. In 2025, we want our network operations to be throughout the years and are among the top 3 European operating and commercial performance provided the virtually 100% circular. telecom companies in this respect. We maintained our market foundation for a solid financial position. The growth in positions in the Netherlands, despite strong international customer numbers illustrates our strong performance. In the We are keen to create long-term value that also contributes to competitors and at the same time managed to become the Consumer segment, we have more postpaid customers and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Through our strategy, most sustainable telecom company in the world. That is a households with fixed-mobile bundles, more broadband we contribute significantly towards the Industry, Innovation considerable achievement, for which I would like to thank a customers and interactive TV customers, while our SME and Infrastructure (SDG 9), Sustainable Cities and Communities large number of dedicated colleagues. segment has experienced strong growth of multi play (SDG 11) and Sustainable Production and Consumption (SDG customers. 12) goals. We also make a noticeable contribution towards Best service provider through simplification and digital many other goals. transformation Stringent cost control in all segments and the ongoing Technology is an essential part of who we are and what we do. simplification of our organization, systems and product Connecting everyone in the Netherlands Everything we want to achieve for our customers and society portfolio also contributed to a strong financial position. Something else I look back on with pride is the success of the has an effect on our own business operations. The KPN A structurally lower cost level resulted in run-rate savings of KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. This is where the human side of Simplification program and the associated digital EUR 110 million compared with the end of 2016. Our free cash technology really comes into its own. The purpose of our Eelco Blok CEO transformation ensure that we work in an increasingly uniform flow continued to grow too, and totaled EUR 745 million (excl. foundation is to reconnect people for whom social contact with manner across all our channels. Telefónica Deutschland dividend) in 2017. the world around them is not easy, such as the elderly, the chronically ill and autistic children. We now have one single face, making us recognizable to all our Hybrid access strategy including fiber roll-out, VDSL upgrades customers. For example, the shop experience used to be and continued mobile investment ensure our infrastructure Unfortunately, solitude is a growing problem, even though different from the online one, and the online experience was remains best in class. Also, with customer demand and online means of communication are readily available. So we try to find different from a conversation with a customer service agent. behavior changing and much more on-demand and streaming ways to ensure that everyone can participate in a society in which new technological developments are having an ever Watch Eelco share his views: greater influence on our lives. www.kpn.com/annualreport 2 3 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Our main achievements Our main achievements Review of the year Strong progress in execution of our strategy What we did in 2017 In 2017, we proved to be well positioned to adjust to the dynamics of our environment, as reflected in our main achievements. Aligned with our strategic focus areas, the key figures below show that we continue to deliver value in financial, commercial and operational areas. Customer satisfaction Reputation ¹ Data usage Net Promoter Score in the Netherlands RepTrak Pulse score Usage of total data traffic² Average 4G download speed mobile network January – March April – June 2015 3 2015 70.8 2015 2.6 Tbps 2016 6 2016 67.4 2016 3.4 Tbps 2017 8 2017 70.5 2017 4.7 Tbps 2015 50 Mbps Record number of mobile data used on New Year's Eve. KPN commenced a EUR 200 million share buyback program. 2016 51 Mbps KPN acquired DearBytes, thereby expanding its managed New mobile line-up with increased data bundles and ‘roam Energy consumption Converged services 2017 58 Mbps security activities. like home’ launched for all KPN customers. KPN won Tweakers' Best Mobile Provider 2016/2017. KPN complied with the newly applicable legislation on In petajoule Households in fixed-mobile bundles4 KPN acquired cloud and ICT services provider Divider. handset credits in the Netherlands. Energy consumed by KPN Postpaid customers in fixed-mobile bundles Realized run-rate savings KPN exchanged 6% of its shares in Telefónica Deutschland KPN acquired Solcon, a Dutch provider of internet, fixed and Estimated energy consumption savings Simplification program⁵ for Telefónica shares, which it subsequently sold. mobile telephony, hosting, TV and secure e-mail services for by KPN customers³ KPN moved six of its data centers into a new entity NL|DC, consumers and businesses. 2015 29% / 2015 33% € million which is the new name for KPN colocation data centers. 2015 3.481 2016 37% / 2016 43% 2016 3.382 2017 42% / 2017 51% 2017 3.232 Multi play seats in SME 2015 1.701 2016 1.817 2015 58k 2017 1.926 2016 316k 2017 474k 2015 ~140 2016 ~180 2017 ~110 July – September October – December EBITDA⁶ Free cash flow6,8 Capital expenditure6 KPN entered in a partnership with Tencent to launch the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds celebrated its 10-year € million € million € million WeChat Go SIM card for Chinese tourists in Europe. anniversary. Adjusted EBITDA7 KPN strengthened its position in the public healthcare sector Introduction of new internet & TV subscriptions for small Adjusted EBITDA⁷ margin The Netherlands by acquiring Cam IT solutions. business clients. KPN became main sponsor for the Dutch Premier League KPN welcomed new client deals such as ABN AMRO, PGGM (Eredivisie) and entered into a 4-year sponsorship deal with and Prinses Maxima Centrum. 2015 2,419 the Royal Dutch Football Association (KNVB), supporting Circular manifesto signed by KPN and 7 major suppliers 2015 38.6% football nationwide. striving for circular products and networks as of 2025. 2016 2,428 KPN recognized as most sustainable telecom company KPN strengthened its position as a leading Dutch security 2016 40.0% according to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. services provider by acquiring QSight IT. 2017 2,417 KPN announced that Maximo Ibarra will succeed Eelco Blok 2017 40.8% as CEO as of the 2018 Annual General Meeting. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Bouke Hoving was awarded CIO of the Year 2017. 552 631 745 1,300 1,193 1,139 1 2016 and 2015 figures are restated to the fourth quarterly average, which is in line with the calculation of NPS KPIs. See Appendix 3 for further details. 2 The data demand peak for main traffic streams is based on continuous five minute timeframe measurements. 3 Estimated energy consumption saved by customers from using our ICT solutions. See Appendix 3 for further details. 4 As percentage of broadband customers. 5 Second wave of Simplification program started in 2017. First wave of Simplification program finalized end of 2016. 6 Based on continuing operations. 7 EBITDA adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals. Reconciliations for 2017 and 2016 can be found in Appendix 1. 8 Free cash flow excluding Telefónica Deutschland dividend. 4 5 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Our purpose and the world around us Our purpose and the world around us We make life more free, fun Our market position and easy by connecting people Acting on these changes in society is the decisive factor in the success of our business and in strengthening our market and operational processes. It holds great opportunities, particularly because KPN is a large player in the ICT market. The following position as a leading supplier of ICT services. Digitalization summary of our SWOT provides a brief overview of our perceived Virtual reality, remote medical diagnoses, motion-dependent street lighting and autonomous affects KPN at its core: our networks, interface with customers capabilities within the environment in which we operate. cars. Digitalization is changing our society as we move towards an increasingly connected future. We are passionate about offering secure, reliable and future-proof networks and services, enabling people to be connected anytime, anywhere, while at the same time creating a more prosperous and more sustainable world. The world around us KPN in Dutch society ICT is omnipresent in people’s daily lives. More and more KPN plays an important role in shaping the technological progress people are using computers and robots at work, boundaries of Dutch society. While we cannot predict the future, we can between work and private life are being eroded and social imagine what it could look like and to a certain extent foresee Strengths Weaknesses interaction increasingly takes place through apps and other how it might unfold. A solid digital infrastructure provides a digital means. Innovation accelerates. ICT facilitates an basis for the digitalization of our society. If there’s no Integrated services and broad consumer market portfolio to Extensive customized business market portfolio and economy directed towards shared value. ICT plays an connection, then there’s no ICT. Therefore, KPN’s underlying provide attractive combinations of fixed, mobile and ICT processes for large enterprises. important role in reducing the ecological footprint, making network for modern society is like blood vessels for the human services for our customers. Solid, but still complex IT systems and processes. society more sustainable. The world is becoming increasingly body. Advanced telecommunications networks throughout Challenging dynamic market changes, due to complex and interconnected. the Netherlands to provide high-quality service, including heavy organizational structure. With our fixed and mobile network, our ICT infrastructure and critical communication nationwide. Complex market segment structure. Three major developments have fundamentally changed our our data centers, we provide the means to connect. New Strong competences in network and cybersecurity to industry in the past decades: the introduction of mobile phones, technologies contribute greatly to realizing progress at large. protect our customers’ data. the internet and digitalization. These major changes require a Issues in society relating to such things as health, education, Highly skilled and motivated employees. high level of systematic, future-oriented and innovative work, sustainability and safety which affect us all, will benefit Increased customer satisfaction. thinking. Digitalization in particular drives rapid change across from new technologies. ICT and security play a vital role in various sectors. This consequently shifts consumer needs. dealing with these challenges by bringing together people, Concern for digital safety and privacy is becoming more and companies, governments and organizations to create solutions. more important. The growing dependency on ICT is turning With our innovative products and services, our networks and digital products and processes into attractive targets for cyber skilled workforce, we contribute to society. We increase our criminals. In addition, there is a desire for personalized, simpler impact by using our capabilities to their full potential. products and services, anytime and anywhere. For businesses, these developments may have disruptive effects on Our succesfull initiative KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, which interactions with their customers, the streamlining of celebrated its 10th anniversary, is one example of how we live organizational processes and the way business models work. up to our aspirations. With this foundation, we successfully Opportunities Threats At the same time, it impacts the development of products and launched a long-term initiative of social inclusion, working with services. In an increasingly dynamic and competitive landscape, social partners to encourage the social interaction of vulnerable New propositions to communicate, collaborate and Fierce competition from international network providers KPN strives to differentiate its services by delivering highgroups in our society. consume media lead to increasing customer demand. and OTT players. quality and innovative products and providing the best Need for innovative partnerships and scalable solutions Increasing threats to the confidentiality, integrity and customer service. Read and see more about the challenges Dutch society faces that address social challenges arising from trends like availability of KPN networks, systems or customer data. and our response in this Integrated Annual Report and in the climate change, urbanization and the aging population. Regulatory decisions in the EU and the Netherlands. Besides technological changes, also changes in laws and videos online. Technological developments in infrastructure, software and Disruptive technologies and new business models that we regulation such as the abolishment of roaming charges in virtual networks and the Internet of Things. need to adapt to. the EU and implementation of handset credit legislation Leverage data and analytics capabilities to create value in . Dependency on large suppliers. affect customer behavior and our business models. the current business model and develop new business models. 6 7 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Our strategy and activities Our strategy and activities We simplify, grow and innovate Our core activities Our core activities stem from our responsibility for KPN’s Delivering connectivity It is our ambition to become the best service provider in the Netherlands. In realizing this, operational activities for the Dutch networks (both fixed and We deliver connectivity services to end-users. We do this by we need to serve our customers with the best digital experience through investing in a new mobile) and ICT infrastructure for services provided to KPN’s making sure that we continue to correctly route calls, data and consumer, business and wholesale customers in the video streams between and towards the users of our networks. portfolio, technologies and integration of the best networks. This is captured in the three Netherlands. For the end-users, it’s all about the quality of the output which pillars of our strategy through which we intend to maximize the value we create for our is determined by the functioning of our core services. Building and maintaining the infrastructure customers, employees, shareholders and society, and at the same time maintain a solid KPN builds and maintains its infrastructure in a continuous, Serving the customer financial position. iterative process with help from suppliers addressing coverage, We serve our customers throughout the customer journey, both capacity, speed, quality, continuity and safety requirements. commercially for billing purposes and operationally for service Consequently, KPN’s main investments and expenses are delivery purposes. Our service consists of all interaction between conducted to build and maintain its infrastructure. the customer and KPN for the duration of the relationship. Grow Simplify We increase value Innovate We streamline our portfolio for the customer and We innovate for the Our services and standardize our work KPN through best customer experience, processes. customer-focused for today and in the future. Consumer investments. We are committed to offering KPN’s retail customers a broad range of services in the areas of communication, information, entertainment and commercial services through single-play and multi play offerings. The services we offer across our different brands include fixed and mobile internet, TV and telephony. To provide our customers with an We broaden and deepen our customer We virtualize and automate our excellent digital customer service, we relationships by continuously processes, infrastructure and services want them to be able to deal with developing innovative services that where possible and desirable. We almost everything online. As such, we meet customer needs. By increasing the cooperate with many different partners are streamlining our portfolio and efficiency of our operations and aiming to provide our customers with Business improving our customer experience by for optimal use of our network, we are innovative services. We guarantee the KPN offers its business customers (small, medium and implementing more efficient work maximizing the value of our assets. We secure connection of our clients and large enterprises) a complete portfolio of services from processes. To respond faster to market invest in new technologies, products Dutch society with our integrated different brands from fixed and mobile telephony and conditions, we are standardizing our and services, and build new business networks, multiple data centers and a internet to a range of end-to-end solutions in infrastructure, operations and aligning joint services models and revenue streams for the low impact on the environment. workspace management, cloud, security, data network and and co-operation within the value chain. future. We enhance our relevance by data center services. creating a positive social impact. Our core values Our core values are: customer, together and simplicity. They an agile organization, as well as our approach towards form the essence of our organizational culture. Our behavior leadership development and our code of conduct. changes together with the changing environment within and outside KPN. Our ambition is to become the best service Long-term behavioral changes are only possible in a working provider in the Netherlands, key to which is customer centricity. culture that values open and honest feedback. Our leadership Our customers demand higher standards when it comes to the enables this culture and provides the right example. We are learning quality and speed of our services and products. This requires a by allowing mistakes and to detect them and amend them Wholesale & iBasis continuously agile and flexible KPN organization. In our KPN day-by-day. KPN stimulates employees to be authentic and We provide connectivity solutions to KPN’s wholesale partners eXperience framework Greenprint, we translated the behavior values different opinions to achieve shared goals. Teamwork is via our fixed and mobile networks. Through iBasis, KPN is a we expect from our employees and managers in our working crucial when it comes to the success of KPN. By cooperating to leading international wholesale voice carrier in terms of environments into an understandable language. This is improve our customer processes, we can safeguard the minutes carried and a worldwide provider of LTE connectivity supported by our KPN Kompas, which defines the principles of long-term continuity of our business. This makes us proud. services for mobile operators. 8 9 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Our value creation model Our value creation model We connect everyone and everything in an innovative, reliable and sustainable way By offering innovative products and services, Our valuable assets: Business model: Value for our stakeholders: Value for society: we provide the means for customers to transition Capitals to operate Why / How / What Direct result of our business model Effects of output business model towards a more digital environment. We help consumers design their digital life in a free, Mission/Vision fun and easy manner. We support companies We are the green connector. Innovation in their digital transformation to simplify client We connect everyone and everything in an innovative, We create a future with humaninteractions and business processes. reliable and sustainable way. oriented digital technology. Customer base Integrated products To properly understand the ways in which we impact society, and demands and services we have identified the value we create for our stakeholders and society as well as our impact, using the six capitals model of the International Reliability Ambition Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) integratedreporting.org. Becoming the best service We provide a safe digital society. provider in the Netherlands, We have visualized what impact our organization has on Dutch with the best people, the best society and highlighted the assets which are most valuable to our products, the best services and the best network. business model and provide the necessary input for performing Partnerships & our core activities. We do this by following our strategy and suppliers Sustainability Customer We facilitate ensuring a responsible operation. The value we create for our value growth ICT stakeholders is the direct result of our business model. Our Strategy with a rewarding business outcomes ensure we can create long-term value for Simplify contribution to society, which in turn helps us contribute to the realization of the Grow society. Innovate UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Our Integrated Annual Report follows the structure of this value Networks, IT infrastructure Long-term impact on society: creation model, providing insights into our results, the value and mobile spectrum State-of-the-art networks we created in 2017 for our stakeholders and the long-term value and ICT we create for society. Our report is structured to show how our Core activities infrastructure activities contribute to a more free, fun and easy life. Delivering connectivity Serving the customer To investigate the topics that are most important from both Building and maintaining the infrastructure our business perspective and our stakeholders’ perspective, we annually perform a materiality assessment. Appendix 3 Skilled workforce describes this process and presents the most material topics in the materiality matrix. Furthermore, the connectivity table in Appendix 2 shows how the most material topics are linked to our Governance Shareholder value value creation model and how they are reported on in this report. Solid financial basis Compliance Sustainable Risk & control employability Green energy 10 11 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Our capitals to operate Our capitals to operate Jan Kees de Jager CFO  Brief overview of our valuable assets “Our solid financial performance forms a We allocate our six key assets or transform them to maximize the value we create for our strong basis to accelerate organization, our stakeholders and society at large in the short and the long-term. innovation built on our entrepreneurship Customer base and demands Network, IT & mobile spectrum combined with an increasing number of We value our customer base. In the Netherlands, KPN continuously innovates and upgrades partnerships with we have a leading market position in telecom the capacity of its state-of-the-art integrated industry, with commitments to millions of network and ICT infrastructure to serve KPN’s startups.” customers. These commitments are important to us because consumer, business and wholesale customers. customer demand for our services and products constitutes our license to operate. We are welcoming new customers on a Capital expenditures EUR 1,139m daily basis: from mobile to interactive TV, from broadband users Average 4G download speed mobile network 58 Mbps to customers entering into fixed-mobile bundles and from Usage total data traffic 4.7 Tbps business customers to wholesale customers. We continuously Frank van der Post CCO seek for ways to improve the products and services we offer. Solid financial basis CCO: Postpaid customer base 5,580k “We support our customers in CCO: Broadband customer base 3,062k Capital providers provide us with the digital transformations. Our Consumer: Interactive TV customer base 2,116k necessary capital for our capital-intensive Consumer: Fixed-mobile households 1,253k business. We aim to realize a return on new and innovative ICT Business: multi play seats 474k investment that outperforms the cost of services lead to high customer Wholesale: fixed lines  931k capital while solidifying our financial position. satisfaction and generate Market capitalization EUR 12.2bn additional revenue streams in Skilled workforce Net debt/EBITDA ratio 2.5x both the consumer and Credit Ratings Moody’s/S&P/Fitch Baa3/BBB-/BBB Our people create and represent our brands. business segments.” With a diverse population of professionals, young talent, interim employees, our Green energy workforce is equipped to anticipate to changing market needs and offer maximum added value. From our shop assistant to As a company at the heart of society, KPN has our webcare specialist, from our field engineer to our senior made a conscious decision to care for the managers. All our employees work day in, day out to make KPN environment. We use 100% green electricity the best service provider in the Netherlands. for our operations which include networks, Joost Farwerck COO data centers, offices and shops and charging stations for cars. Full-time domestic personnel 13,021 We consumed 3.232 PJ in 2017 compared to 3.382 PJ in 2016 FTEs in Commercial segments despite the substantial rise of volume of data communication “We continue our efforts to (incl. serving the customer) 6,026 transported via our networks explore and deliver smart FTEs in Operations segments (incl. building infrastructure and delivering connectivity) 5,788 Green electricity consumption  100% solutions, built on fixed-mobile FTEs in Other (incl. SSO and corporate center) 1,207 Energy consumption 3.232 PJ convergence to enable easy access to existing and Partnerships and suppliers new services even in the most remote areas.” KPN is always looking for new partnerships and partners with inspiring visions to create new business. We work with suppliers with whom we  can explore strategic goals and improve our supply chain. Partnering innovative startups & entrepreneurs ~60 KPN Ventures Fund size EUR 70m Note: All figures on this page are presented as of 31 December 2017. 12 13 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for our stakeholders The value we create for our stakeholders Customer value development and innovation of our services. In the lab’s in-house interview setting, we quickly gain insights through services and to promote KPN’s main partnership with the Dutch Eredivisie and Fox Sports. interviews and co-creation sessions with our customers. We ask their opinions, test the usability of our solutions and prototypes TEAMKPN Sportfonds of our ideas. Since the opening in April 2017, we have welcomed Not all national team sports get the same opportunities, Customer satisfaction has grown to an all-time high, based on our Net Promoter Score. This over 600 customers to the eXperience lab. despite some great achievements. The TEAMKPN Sportfonds indicates that our investments in high-quality products, services and simplicity are valued by has been set up especially to support these promising teams. Our support of sports teams with limited resources, like the our customers. Nevertheless, customers’ needs are continuously changing. We therefore invest Reputation national men’s volleyball team, means they can keep their in our employees to be trained and motivated to have the customer as the starting point for all Olympic dream alive. KPN made great strides in 2017 in terms of how it is appreciated actions and decisions to drive further improvements. by the general public in the Netherlands. With a score of 70.5¹, Arts and culture we reached a high level of the RepTrak Pulse for the seventh KPI Result 2017 Result 2016 consecutive year. We are number 3 on the top 30 ranking of KPN main sponsor of the Rijksmuseum Dutch companies in the industry-adjusted ranking of the The collection of the country’s most important museum is a 13 10 Reputation Institute and we are in the top 3 of the European source of pride and a national treasure. As the museum’s main NPS Consumer (Mobile & Residential) Telcos’ ranking. sponsor, KPN contributes to making the Rijksmuseum’s artwork accessible for everyone in the Netherlands, both at the NPS Business -1 -3 KPN has shown significant improvements since 2012 in the drivers of reputation that were selected by the Board of museum and digitally. In late 2017, we launched a state-ofthe-art Rijksmuseum app that provides guided tours through NPS NL 8 6 Management as the most crucial from a strategic and reputation point of view. Some of those drivers are included in the reputation targets of the Long-term Incentive Plan. the museum and includes high-resolution images of the entire collection. NPS KPN Fixed Mobile1 25 N/a The Royal Concertgebouw Music connects people. That’s why we support the Royal 1 Represents customers with a fixed subscription and indicates that they also have a mobile subscription of KPN. Sponsorship Concertgebouw in Amsterdam with our ICT products and services. Via the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds, we also help We connect people through high-quality products and services, vulnerable groups in society get acquainted with classical KPN eXperience and through sponsorship too. We believe safeguarding cultural music. heritage contributes to the loyalty, goodwill and preference We create the intended customer experience with the aim of Also, we have improved our Customer Service for business of the Dutch public for our brand. Therefore, we support typical Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen making life more free, fun and easy. Therefore, we focus not customers. Last year business customers joined us through Dutch sports such as speed skating and soccer, arts and It is KPN’s intention to become the official ICT partner of the only on product development, but even more on customer MijnKPN Grootzakelijk, the portal for large business customers, cultural institutions such as the Rijksmuseum, Koninklijk Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen Depot, which will be ready journeys. Good customer service starts with motivated which enables them to easily do business online with KPN. Concertgebouw and Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen. in 2020. In 2017, we were lead sponsor of the Mad about employees who want to go the extra mile and see the customer Another initiative for our business customers is the Surrealism retrospective exhibition, which included worldas the starting point for all our actions and decisions. KPN has improvement of our KPN ÉÉN service offering, a complete and Our sponsorship strategy in the Netherlands is our way of famous artwork by Dali and Miro. employees with passion and expertise who are keen on flexible ICT portfolio. As a result, we see a strong improvement creating additional value for Dutch society. We feel that it’s working together to get the very best results. To support this in the NPS of that Customer segment. important to put our knowledge, technology, employees and culture, KPN eXperience coaches continuously initiate real financial contributions at the disposal of society in order to conversations about this subject. In 2017, more than 300 KPN We are making good progress at becoming the best service make life more free, fun and easy for all Dutch citizens. eXperience ambassadors helped to guide their teams towards a provider, with KPN customer satisfaction at an all-time high. better customer experience. Also, we managed to improve our reputation benchmark Sports sponsorship position. Nevertheless, we will continue to focus on improving our customer journey even further. It is our goal to offer our Speed skating Customer loyalty customers a seamless experience whenever they contact us, KPN is the main sponsor of the Dutch speed skating team. We regardless of the channels that they use. have sponsored the Royal Dutch Skating Association (KNSB) Customer loyalty depends on how customers experience our since 2010. Sponsoring the national team and related activities services and perceive their interactions with KPN. The extent Customer feedback helps strengthen our connection with Dutch society. to which people intend to recommend us is a good indication In becoming the best ICT service provider, we continuously of how well we are doing. To remain attractive to existing and seek our customers’ feedback to improve our products and Soccer new customers, we continued to simplify our products and services. By extensively and continuously making use of KPN concluded a four-year contract with both the Royal Dutch processes in 2017 and kept focusing on providing an excellent feedback, we have the opportunity to directly collect the Football Association (KNVB) and the Dutch Premier League customer experience. We satisfied a number of our customers customer’s feedback after they use our services. In 2017, KPN (Eredivisie). As soccer is the most popular sport in the by directly granting customers 50 GB data on their mobile took the next step by involving customers early on in product Netherlands, KPN likes to associate itself with the sport. The device so they remain connected whenever they experience development by opening the KPN eXperience lab in goals of the partnerships are to increase brand preference and 1 T his figure is the fourth quarterly average, which is in line with other problems with their inHome services. Amsterdam, where we involve customers almost daily in the awareness, and NPS, to upsell and cross sell KPN products and calculation methods such as NPS KPIs. See Appendix 3 for further details. 14 15 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for our stakeholders The value we create for our stakeholders Integrated products and services Changing behavior As of 1 May 2017, the Financial Supervision Act has made mobile cross-sell opportunities for IT services, such as workspace management and cloud & security services. In LE & Corporate, phone users more cautious about taking out loans to buy phones, the bundling effect was less prevalent. and increasingly opting for SIM-only subscriptions. We responded with moves such as reintroducing lower priced Nokia handsets Cybersecurity and cloud Our consumer base is growing thanks to our efforts to provide better customer in the Netherlands. By offering these handsets, the customer Cybersecurity is a crucial focus for all companies and part of the quality, to deliver integrated solutions and to simplify our product portfolios. can avoid the EUR 250 threshold entering into a handsetbusiness market solutions KPN offers. We are continuously credit contract, a check on income and financial obligations and expanding our range of high-quality security services to business New business opportunities and revenue streams are constantly explored and a registration with the Bureau for Credit Registration (BKR). customers. In 2017, we further strengthened KPN’s position as a invested in to maintain our leading position as a supplier of ICT services. leading security services provider in the Netherlands with the Another change to consumer behavior, stemmed from the acquisitions of QSight IT, a leading managed security services abolition of EU roaming costs in 2017, which led to a significant and DearBytes, a public cloud consultancy provider. increase in data use by people traveling in the EU. Consumer TV frontrunner Last year we acquired Divider, a specialist in cloud services We enhanced our iTV proposition, with the introduction of 4K for multi-branch organizations such as retailers that are using Our ambition to be the best service provider also applies to the in our premium proposition. After integrating Netflix into our Business software-defined networking. We also acquired Cam IT competitive Consumer segment. With customer-centric platform last year, we introduced Netflix billing and Replay TV Solutions, an IT services provider for the healthcare and public propositions offering freedom of choice, ease of use, control this year, which enables people to watch almost all programs In all segments of the business market, KPN continues to sector in the Netherlands. When we acquire such companies, and excellent service, we aim to realize this ambition. With that from Dutch channels from the previous seven days. migrate customers to integrated solutions and new we make a plan how to ensure that we derive the full benefit of as our basis, we focused in 2017 on service quality, fixed-mobile A new trend is that consumers only want to pay for what they technologies. Whatever the size of the company, we aim to their expertise, capabilities and entrepreneurial attitude. convergence, being the best-in-class content aggregator in TV actually use. Heeding that demand, we unbundled Spotify and deliver total solutions that make the best use of our portfolio of and enhancing products and services for consumers at home. some channels as a standard feature from our premium fixed and services, from fixed and mobile telephony and internet Customers continued moving from on-premise data storage to mobile propositions, while reducing the fee for these packages, to end-to-end solutions in infrastructure, workspace KPN data centers or KPN’s Managed Hybrid Cloud, which flexibly Quality service and making additional paid packages available for those who do management, data network and data center services. combines our award-winning data centers with the integrated Improvements in our products and services led to a rise in want extra TV channels or Spotify. We continue to simplify our portfolio, having started last year solutions of leading international third-party IT companies. customer satisfaction (NPS) to +13 in 2017 from +10 in 2016. with phasing out products and services. We are focusing on As a consequence of our improved service, calls to KPN call WiFi at home moving clients from legacy network services like Private Branch Adding value to data centers decreased by 29%. The NPS among customers Providing good WiFi at home remains a key priority for the Exchange (PBX) to flexible and scalable solutions such as Connectivity has always been our core business. We are with a fixed-mobile combination (KPN brand) was especially consumer market. To boost WiFi quality for customers, we software-defined network services. For our legacy portfolio on increasingly combining connectivity with knowledge, and so high at +25. started an in-home hardware upgrade program, installing fixed voice and broadband, we aim to migrate our customers adding value for our clients to the data we gather. One example We achieved this through our long-term Quality Time program. extenders in customers’ homes. to a future-proof portfolio before 2020. We also generated is online marketing firm DTG, which became a customer of Started several years ago, this program compises of a growth in IT services (such as security and workspace KPN’s Managed Hybrid Cloud in 2017. dedicated multidisciplinary team that is constantly monitoring Focus on value management), Internet of Things (IoT) and multi play. We also and improving the quality of the entire service chain. This was Our continued focus on the high-value segment of the market included business parks in our program to roll out high-speed Talking Traffic, created by KPN and our partners for the combined with a focus on improving customer journeys to through our leading KPN brand helped grow our customer broadband via our hybrid access strategy. Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment, enables ensure our processes are optimal from a customer point of view. base and service revenues. Revenue-generating units (RGUs) intelligent solutions that provide road users with real-time per household rose to 2.19 from 2.16 in 2016 and average Easy to deal with traffic information. Last year we trialed Talking Traffic with two Fixed-mobile convergence revenue per household increased to EUR 43 (2016: EUR 41), We want KPN to be easy to do business with and are trucks on the A4 motorway, with smart technology aimed at Fixed-mobile convergence continued to grow amid strong mainly driven by a changing mix towards more bundled increasingly digitalizing our operations so customers can generating fuel savings. market demand. For the main KPN brand, adoption was again households and the effect of the price increases effective as of interact more easily with us. Key to this is how accessible we are strong in 2017, with the household base growing 12%. Just like 1 July 2017. via touchpoints such as our website and helpdesk. We began New business the KPN, XS4ALL and Telfort brands, we also launched a measuring this last year on a small scale through the Customer Besides our standardized solutions we also offer tailor-made fixed-mobile proposition for Simyo. Effort Score. Our NPS among business customers improved last solutions for larger corporate clients. We were pleased to both Revenue-generating Average revenue per year to -1. To support customer satisfaction, we launched a sign up new customers and extend or expand existing The total number of fixed-mobile households rose to 1.3 million units per household household proposition for small businesses with fewer than five contracts. KPN signed several large deals with business by end 2017 from 1.1 million at end 2016, representing 42% of employees (self-employed and SoHo). This is based on our customers such as ABN AMRO, to whom we provide the broadband customer base (2016: 37%). The number of Consumer proposition, which makes small business eligible for connectivity and security services. Revenues from new services postpaid customers in fixed-mobile bundles grew to 1.9 million, fixed-mobile benefits in KPN Compleet and provides them with increased 17% in 2017, driven by KPN’s leading position in the equivalent to 51% penetration of the postpaid base (2016: 43%). Of the KPN brand postpaid base, 65% is now part of a fixed2.19 € 43 business features such as a dedicated customer service desk, approximately 2,000 small businesses signed up by end 2017. Dutch market for security and IoT. mobile bundle (2016: 56%). The Digital Dutch Bundled services in 2017 KPN organized The Digital Dutch, an interactive event In 2017, KPN added 113,000 IPTV and 85,000 broadband 2016: 2.16 2016: € 41 We realized strong growth in our fixed-mobile services in the for business customers, for the second year in a row. The event customers to its base. This includes the addition of 17,000 IPTV business market, especially among SMEs, where the uptake was designed to help businesses from SMEs to large corporates and 47,000 broadband customers through the consolidation of of our flagship product KPN ÉÉN accelerated significantly. to seize digital opportunities and apply IT solutions to serve ICT service provider Solcon per Q3 2017. KPN ÉÉN is an integrated solution that leverages our leading their own customers even better. The event was highly rated, position in connectivity and provides attractive upsell and confirming the appeal this topic holds for our clients. 16 17 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for our stakeholders The value we create for our stakeholders Wholesale Wholesale mobile Wholesale fixed iBasis Average revenues Number of minutes connections connections per minute in billions Wholesale provides connectivity solutions to KPN’s fixed and iBasis, a wholly-owned KPN company, supports carriers and in cents of EUR mobile wholesale partners via KPN’s fixed and mobile networks. other service providers by offering seamless connectivity To meet the strategic goals of simplify, grow and innovate, KPN and analytical services for voice, data and IoT services. enters into complementary (international) partnerships with both mobile and fixed customers. Changing market dynamics In 2017, iBasis continued to build its customer base in 3.8 18.7 Partnerships international LTE connectivity services, securing new key 775k 931k In 2017, KPN entered into new partnerships with parties such customers and establishing itself as one of the top brands in as Truphone and NLE and joined the Next Generation the industry. iBasis was voted the best IPX (LTE data) provider 2016: 4.1 2016: 20.9 Enterprise Network Alliance-ngena in the fixed connectivity 2016: 778k 2016: 1,001k in the world and was ranked as one of five Tier 1 LTE domain. Together with Tencent, China’s largest internet connectivity providers by independent research. LTE Data and software company, and Sunway, a leading internet video Signaling revenue increased by more than 80% in 2017, while operator, KPN launched the WeChat Go SIM card for Chinese LTE signaling volume has more than doubled due to the larger tourists travelling to Europe. customer base and increasing use of data by mobile end-users. The implementation of ‘roam like home’ in the EU has Product development significantly contributed to this growth. KPN strives to further simplify its wholesale product portfolio. In 2017, KPN continued the migration of wholesale customers The ongoing decline in the wholesale voice carrier market from regulated unbundled local loop (ULL) services to and the loss of committed traffic from certain customers led commercially agreed virtual unbundled local access (VULA) to pressure on revenues and volumes. In 2017, iBasis benefitted and wholesale broadband access (WBA) services and remains from temporary arbitrage opportunities in the global voice committed to enable providers to deliver broadband speed to market, helped by its routing capabilities, leading to a their end customers. Furthermore, we stimulated migration significant margin uplift. from traditional voice to IP voice services. Recognizing the continued pressure on international voice Market dynamics minutes due to changing end-user behavior and the growing Fixed Wholesale revenues were impacted by lower international use of free IP peer-to-peer calling, iBasis has launched voice traffic, partly offset by a positive net intake of WBA and initiatives to simplify the network, its organization and further VULA services. Mobile Wholesale revenues were impacted by enhance billing and routing capabilities. These initiatives competitive dynamics such as price pressure in the Dutch mobile contributed to a significant lower cost base in 2017 and will market leading to lower revenues from MVNOs. Wholesale contribute further in 2018 and beyond. mobile data increased, resulting in a strong increase in data usage of 67% which offsets the decrease in wholesale call iBasis solidified its position as one of the leading companies volumes (minutes) of 6%. ‘Roam like home’ regulation within in international VoLTE services, implementing the first the EU increased visitor roaming revenues by 51%. commercial connection for international VoLTE services Focusing on operational excellence supports KPN’s strategy to between KPN in the Netherlands and SK Telecom in South remain and enhance its position as a hub for international Korea. connectivity with voice, roaming, content delivery and peering. It also helps in becoming the preferred enabler for digital Providing analytics-based services platforms such as WeChat. iBasis offers operators a range of advanced analytical tools called InVision, which enable customers to actively manage service quality, identify revenue opportunities and better serve their subscribers. InVision’s capabilities were expanded to include LTE data services and will continue to develop in order to serve customers in our mobile and IoT arena. Enabling next-gen digital services In 2017, iBasis further developed its services for IoT providers concentrating on an innovative and industry leading E-SIM solution. A launching customer signed in February 2017 and this has led to a new revenue stream. 18 19 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for our stakeholders The value we create for our stakeholders State-of-the-art networks and Migration to new IT platforms ICT infrastructure After migrating KPN-branded mobile consumers and all our fixed consumer KPN customers to new IT platforms in 2016, we also migrated mobile wholesale customers, mobile business market customers and prepaid mobile Telfort customers. We In order to deliver good customer value, we continuously upgrade, rationalize and will decommission the legacy mobile IT systems in early 2018. standardize our networks and infrastructure. New technologies KPI Result 2017 Result 2016 In 2017, we updated our VoiceMail platform for both fixed and Average 4G download speed 58 Mbps 51 Mbps mobile telephony services applying to consumer and business customers. For mobile Android users we introduced Visual Voicemail, which means that you can see all voicemail Usage of total data traffic1 4.7 Tbps 3.4 Tbps messages in an overview and you can return a call by pressing a button. Weighted downtime (compared to last year YTD)2 -38% +55% In 2016, we activated voice over LTE (VoLTE) on our 4G data network, using the same high-speed infrastructure for both 1 The data demand peak for main traffic streams is based on continuous five minute timeframe measurements. data and phone calls. Voice calls are transmitted in ‘packages’ 2 Weighted downtime = Combined downtime of platforms and systems within our Network organization. in the same way as emails and other data. Calls are connected quicker and the sound quality is better. Continuous investment in high-quality and KPN entered into a partnership with Van Happen Containers, reliable networks active in the field of waste processing. KPN Things provides Van Happen Containers with an end-2-end solution with The internet is an essential part of people’s daily lives and they KPN has activated the new Internet of Things (IoT) network IoT-devices, connectivity by LoRa network and an IoT data depend on our infrastructure to keep them connected, whether LTE-M at several locations in the Netherlands. The LTE-M platform. By implementing this IoT solution containers are it’s to work, shop or to socialize. To ensure the best customer network is complementary to the existing nationwide LoRa made smart, and customers can be served more efficiently. experience, KPN continuously innovates and upgrades the network and is expected to be rolled out nationwide in 2018. Real-time information shows where containers are located and capacity of its best-in-class integrated network and ICT The major difference between LTE and LTE-M is power for how long. This information makes the invoicing process for infrastructure. efficiency, LTE-M enables battery-powered devices to send the end customer more transparent and reduces pressure on and receive data. With LTE-M, KPN completes its IoT Van Happen Containers’ administrative organization. Access to network connectivity offer. The high coverage of FttH/FttC within KPN’s network allows KPN to deliver next generation access to the majority of Dutch From May till October 2017, KPN tested the new service Sneller Simplifying and securing our network households. The high number of fiber connections running to Internet Buitengebied (product name for Fast Internet in Rural Dutch homes, streets, mobile sites and business parks puts Areas), a combination of DSL and LTE technology in one In 2017, we completed an upgrade program in our core network. KPN in an excellent position to benefit from the latest access high-speed internet service. Test results showed that 87% of We rolled out a decentralized content delivery network technologies. 76% of Dutch households now have possible the participants are satisfied with the internet speed offered. As (D-CDN) on our 161 Metro Core locations to bring business access to speeds of at least 100 Mbps. We changed the focus of 1 November 2017, Sneller Internet Buitengebied can be content services closer to the customer. Routing IPTV traffic to: (1) the large cities where we started with FttC roll-out, (2) offered to customers in rural areas. We will approach 2,500 KPN through D-CDN represents approximately 35% traffic spend business areas where we upgrade the connection of business customers in selected rural areas to use this service. savings. Furthermore, Life Cycle Management programs are in customers and (3) rural areas where we started with a pilot place and continued in 2017. We began the phase-out of using a combination of DSL and LTE technology. Because of In the second half of 2017, we increased our efforts to upgrade traditional telephony services and will scale this up in 2018. this change in our focus, we introduced a KPI to measure total capacity on hundreds of our mobile sites to absorb the vast We switched off and decommissioned old equipment to data traffic, rather than the amount of Dutch households with growth in mobile data usage by our customers while keeping simplify the network and improve efficiency. In 2017, this saved possible access to speeds of at least 100 Mbps. quality of service on par. The growth of total data traffic, is a 30 GWh in energy. striking indicator for the growth of our business. The average 4G download speed was 58 Mbps by the end of We improved our iTV quality to a very high level that we 2017. More than speed, however, we focused on enhancing the Digitenne maintained since September. We are also ranked number 1 in quality of our 4G LTE connections, especially voice quality. We In 2016, KPN obtained a new license for digital ether television the Netflix speedindex since September 2017. erected new masts to increase coverage and capacity to enhance (Digitenne) until 1 February 2030 from the Radiocommunications user experience and improve capacity of the LTE network. KPN Agency (Agentschap Telecom) for free. This guarantees continuity In 2017, there were 8 large outages affecting more than 100,000 continued to roll out carrier aggregation in 2017 and made for hundreds of thousands of Digitenne customers. Due to the customers and smaller outages taking relatively long to resolve. VoLTE services available to an increased number of customers. implementation of the new broadcast standard DVB-T2, KPN will start exchanging all leased Digitenne TV tuners in 2018. 20 21 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for our stakeholders The value we create for our stakeholders Sustainable employability Facilitating development To facilitate personal development and remain employable in the reappointments. To reach this target, we implemented future, we have been providing individual employability budgets additional policies and measures. and will continue to do so. Personal development is further supported by our job-related training and the KPN Academy, Gender diversity in senior management increased slightly in We are adjusting our way of working to ensure our people have the right skills for an agile way our advanced online portal where employees can find 2017 to 20% female from 19% in 2016. In middle management, of working. By facilitating personal development, the competences and skills of our workforce information about available training and education. In this way, 16% were female in 2017 (2016: 17%). For the company as a they can strengthen their skills and position on the labor market, whole, 23% of the workforce was female in 2017 (2016: 24%). continuously evolve and collectively they support our strategy and answer customer needs. enhancing their prospects to move into a new role, either at KPN or elsewhere. We also created new ways for our employees to We reached out to specialized recruitment companies, KPI Result 2017 Result 2016 develop competencies in areas such as digitalization and data organized mentee programs for talented women and analytics, enabling our business to quickly adjust to the established an internal network of women. We prefer to Overall percentage of women at KPN in the Netherlands 23% 24% increasingly rapid changes in technology and global markets. We facilitate this by making a wide range of courses available. include women in the shortlist for vacancies from scale 12. KPN believes meeting the targets will be accelerated when the diversity targets become part of the short-term incentives Employee survey score for engagement 80% 77% Our Future Work program intends to raise awareness among employees about the importance of their own development (STI plan) for senior management by making it part of the discretionary factor. This revised STI policy was introduced in Sustainable employability: and sustainable employability. It helps them develop plans to fall of 2017 and will be first measured and practiced over the % of employees with a new external job after active participation in an outplacement program 83% 87% invest in their skills, vitality and resilience. full year of 2018. Vacancies above salary scale 12 are only allowed to be filled when the shortlist compiles at least 50% Engaging talent female candidates. In addition, a minimum of 1 out of 3 in the We strengthened our recruitment efforts to attract the people we appointed functions should be executed by a woman. Serving our customer We expect this agile way of working to be introduced in other need to realize our agenda of growth and innovation. We again business units as well – whenever this makes sense from a ran a recruitment campaign in Dutch media and toured Dutch KPN is committed to creating an inclusive workplace where Our people are one of our valuable assets. From back office business and customer perspective – and believe it will have a universities and college campuses to recruit talented graduates. lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people can be employees and colleagues in our sales force to our field positive impact on both our Net Promoter Score (NPS) and As our society becomes ever more international, and given the themselves and are valued. Our LGBT platform KPN Pride engineers and service managers, everyone at KPN works to engagement scores. We evaluate our approach in collaboration highly competitive labor market we operate in, we also look addresses LGBT issues directly related to working at KPN. deliver the best possible service and products to our with our works councils. abroad for talented people with the skills and ideas we need to Workplace Pride, a non-profit organization promoting LGBT customers. Our KPN eXperience program guides our achieve our strategic goals. inclusion in the workplace, ranked KPN as an ambassador. employees’ activities, based on the premise that we put our In 2017, we proceeded with the partial relocation of KPN offices Together with Workplace Pride and Leiden University, KPN customers first. In 2017, our workforce comprised 13,838 which started last year. Approximately 600 staff moved from In the annual survey among highly skilled professionals also supports the Workplace Pride Chair, an academic chair for employees (13,021 FTE). The Hague to our new head office in Rotterdam as part of conducted by Intermediair magazine in 2017, KPN was ranked research and teaching in LGBT topics. plans to use office space more efficiently and create modern the number one Dutch telecom provider they would most like hubs that put into practice the new way of working. to work for. KPN’s overall ranking in 2017 was 20. Other diversity networks are: Still Going Strong (55+), Enhance agility and collaboration YoungKPN, Colourful KPN (employees with a migration Sustainable employability Our employee engagement survey showed that 86% (2016: background), Pretty Smart (highly intelligent employees), Driven by our mission to become the best service provider, As part of building a future-proof workforce, we seek to promote 84%) of employees said they take pride in the company. G3 (accepted, appreciated, valued: successful employees we want to enhance customer focus in 2018. We plan to sustainable employability. We therefor stimulate and support due to their uniqueness). experiment with new methods of collaboration across people so they continue to develop themselves. This way they Changing leadership culture departments in order to explore how these new ways of can work to the best of their abilities, creating value for the Introducing a different way of working requires a different Health and vitality working could have a positive effect on customer experience. company and strengthening their position in the labor market. management style. We expect managers to help their teams to We believe healthy workers are more engaged, can cope more In 2018, we want to make further progress towards more work well together, rather than merely supervising and effectively with everyday stress and are better prepared for efficient and agile ways of working because we believe that this Our ambition to build an agile way of working is leading to a directing employees. Managers should also act as coaches, their future. We offer programs such as stress management is most helpful in creating value for our customers faster and at changing workforce. This is reflected in the way we are able to encouraging employees to develop themselves and allowing workshops and mindfulness training. At XS4ALL, we also a lower cost. attract people with new capabilities from the labor market and them to take on more responsibilities. We are introducing a promote healthy working conditions and a healthy lifestyle create new opportunities for our employees. We adjusted our revised process of leadership potential assessment, through our Fit4all initiative. We believe these efforts enhance One of these experiments is the forming of so-called tribes. company model to ensure we have people with the right skills contributing to building an open and honest feedback culture. vitality and contribute to increased employability. These are defined as groups of employees working on a to help us on our journey to become the best service provider. common purpose. Tribes may comprise up to 150 people from As we continue to simplify our business and deliver quality Diversity and inclusion different parts of the organization. The general idea is that improvements, which is one of our strategic priorities, FTEs in Diversity refers to all the unique characteristics of humans people in a tribe identify customer needs in their specific some areas decrease. At the same time, we need people with contributing to results. We believe boosting diversity will help business segment and work closely together on serving those new skills and competencies to support our strategy. For us build the agile teams we need to achieve growth and needs. In organizational theory, tribes should have a high level instance, we need data scientists, agile coaches, gamers, innovation and prevent insufficient competency in KPN’s of autonomy, should be less hierarchical, have shorter cybersecurity specialists, and more IT specialists. As such, workforce. KPN aims to employ 30% women in its workforce at communication lines and can take decisions quickly and we support employees who may lose their position to acquire all levels. This also applies to the composition of the Board of independently. In 2018, we hope to achieve good results with different skills, enabling them to find a new role inside or Management and Supervisory Board, excluding this new way of working. outside KPN. 22 23 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for our stakeholders The value we create for our stakeholders Shareholder value revenue growth from integrated solutions, IT related services and IoT. In SME, the continued growth in multi play seats drove New services revenues increased 17% y-on-y in 2017, driven by KPN’s leading position in the Dutch market for IoT. multi play revenue growth (37%). Traditional fixed-only revenues declined by 18% as the impact of ongoing rationalization and In Wholesale, adjusted revenues decreased by 7.6% y-on-y in 2017, migrations to integrated solutions was partly offset by price mainly due to lower regulated tariffs (MTA/FTA) and less KPN is committed to creating value for its shareholders by executing its strategy. This led to adjustments to this portfolio. Single-play wireless revenues low-margin international traffic, partly offset by a positive net solid operational and financial results in 2017, supported by a simplified and lean cost structure were down 20% due to regulation and a declining mobile-only intake of WBA and VULA services. Mobile Wholesale revenues customer base following migrations to KPN ÉÉN SME (Multi were impacted by competitive dynamics in the Dutch mobile and a growing free cash flow in combination with innovative investments. play) and KPN ÉÉN LE (Customized solutions). market leading to lower revenues from MVNOs. Revenues from Customized solutions grew by 0.9% y-on-y, The negative impact of incidentals on revenues in 2017 KPN Group Result 2017 Result 2016 supported by migrations from single-play wireless. Revenues from (EUR 2m) was due to the release of revenue-related provisions Network & IT services declined by 1.0% y-on-y. Lower revenues in Wholesale. In 2016, the positive impact of incidentals Adjusted EBITDA € 2,417m € 2,428m from network services were offset by growth in IT services, (EUR 26m) related to revenue-related provisions in Wholesale. such as hardware and workspace management. Capex € 1.14bn € 1.19bn Free cash flow1 € 745m € 683m EBITDA The Netherlands € million 1 Excluding the Telefónica Deutschland (TEFD) dividend and the one-off cash optimization actions of EUR 52m in 2016. 40.0% 40.8% Financial performance 2,411 +45 +11 2,398 +30 In 2017, KPN commissioned an investor perception study, which Adjusted revenues and other income The Netherlands were +49 reflects its ongoing commitment to take on board the views of 2.5% (EUR 148m) lower y-on-y in 2017. Consumer Mobile the investor community. The study concluded that free cash revenues decreased by 2.5% y-on-y due to the impact from -148 flow potential and shareholder returns are considered as regulation. Residential revenues grew by 2.2% driven by an important investment appeals. Investors also indicated their increasing ARPU per household and ongoing base growth. appreciation of KPN’s focused strategy and solid Board of Mobile service revenue declined by 2.1%, mostly due to the Management. However, the performance within the Business impact from regulation (roaming and MTA tariffs) and the segment and limited drivers for top-line growth weighed on increased SIM-only inflow as a result of the introduction of new perceptions of KPN as an investment and while investors handset credit legislation on 1 May 2017. Adjusted Revenues Cost of goods Personnel IT/TI Other Adjusted value shareholder returns, some also called for a less geared EBITDA 2016 & services expenses operating EBITDA 2017 balance sheet. Adjusted revenues in Business declined by 4.8% y-on-y expenses in 2017 due to regulation, lower revenues from traditional Note: All KPN Group figures presented are based on KPN’s services and mobile price pressure. This was partly offset by continuing operations. Adjusted EBITDA for The Netherlands decreased by 0.4% EBITDA for The Netherlands was impacted by restructuring costs (EUR 10m) y-on-y mainly as a result of roaming regulation. of EUR 76m (2016: EUR 41m). The net negative impact of incidentals was EUR 25m (2016: EUR 46m net positive impact). Revenue and other income The Netherlands Cost of goods and services were positively impacted by lower The adjusted EBITDA margin for The Netherlands increased to € million subscriber acquisition and retention costs (SAC/SRC) 40.8% (2016: 40.0%), supported by a rigorous cost focus in all 6,026 +9 compared to 2016. This was partly offset by higher roaming areas of the business. costs, higher content costs in Consumer and increased hardware and IT licenses in Business. Lower SAC/SRC was Financial review iBasis +10 5,878 mainly the result of handset credit legislation effective on 1 May Adjusted revenues at iBasis decreased by 19% y-on-y in 2017 -111 2017. Following this introduction, KPN has witnessed increasing (including a 1.2% unfavorable currency effect), driven by lower -56 SIM-only inflow, higher upfront payments for handsets, and a traffic and price pressure in the international wholesale voice shift towards less expensive handsets. carrier market. The adjusted EBITDA margin in 2017 of 3.4% The Simplification program is delivering significant quality was somewhat higher y-on-y (2016: 2.7%). improvements and structural savings in personnel expenses and IT/TI costs and other operating expenses. KPN’s targeted For information on financial and operational performance per Adjusted Consumer Business Wholesale Other (incl. Adjusted household marketing approach, driven by smart analytics, has segment, see Note 3 to the Financial Statements. revenues  eliminations) revenues  resulted in fewer marketing expenses. Together with lower 2016 2017 costs for housing and facilities, these were the main drivers of lower other operating expenses. 24 25 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for our stakeholders The value we create for our stakeholders Financial review KPN Group Solid financial position Tax In 2017, the following main developments and projects were relevant to KPN from a tax perspective: Operating profit Net debt to EBITDA KPN’s Corporate Tax Department (CTD) is responsible for KPN concluded a new agreement (covering 2017-2020) with Group operating profit (EBIT) was in line with 2016 (-0.2% Net debt amounted to EUR 6.0bn at the end of 2017, which was KPN’s overall tax position and optimal use of subsidy the Dutch tax authorities on the impact of the new legislation y-on-y) at EUR 882m as lower EBITDA was largely offset by EUR 0.8bn lower compared to the end of 2016. The free cash opportunities. KPN adheres to its tax strategy and policy with regard to the innovation box regime; lower depreciation and amortization charges. flow generated during the year and proceeds from the sale of (see ir. kpn.com). In line with this strategy and policy, our Tax KPN lost a legal procedure against the Netherlands Telefónica Deutschland shares were partly offset by dividend Control Framework (TCF) is continuously monitored and Enterprise Agency (RVO) on the application of the WBSOFinancial income and expenses payments, the EUR 200m share buyback program and the EUR optimized. A cornerstone of the TCF is our long-lasting facility (Act for the Stimulation of Research & Development) Net finance expenses decreased 42% in 2017 to EUR 241m. 67m coupon for the perpetual hybrid bond. At the end of 2017, covenant with the Dutch tax authorities to self-assess and for 2013. The impact is limited since we did not yet take this This was mainly due to EUR 160m additional finance expenses net debt to EBITDA was 2.5x (2016: 2.8x). This includes the transparently discuss KPN’s current and potential future tax facility into account for the part subject to legal proceedings; in Q3 2016 due to the bond tender and EUR 73m lower interest equity credit on the hybrid bonds representing 0.4x net debt to issues. This covenant is based on mutual trust and transparency. KPN redefined its VAT control framework based on Reliable costs on senior bonds in 2017 as a result of lower gross debt, EBITDA. The average coupon on senior bonds declined y-on-y Financial Reporting (RFR) principles; and partly offset by EUR 40m lower dividends received on KPN’s to 3.9% (2016: 4.1%). KPN also organized a stakeholders’ dialogue, including NGOs, stake in Telefónica Deutschland in 2017 compared to 2016. on the topic of ‘gewoon eerlijk belasting betalen’ (fair taxation). Income taxes Capital allocation and shareholder In 2017, KPN recognized a tax expense of EUR 157m (2016: remuneration Cash taxes (€ million) The following tax KPIs apply for 2017 EUR 96m). KPN’s effective tax rate for 2017 is 24.5% (2016: 20.6%) mainly due to reversals related to previous years and Over the last years, KPN has invested significantly in its recognition of liquidation losses in 2016. KPN continues to network infrastructure, products and customers, resulting in VAT: Wage tax: Eff. tax rate qualify as an innovative company and therefore benefits from high-quality fixed and mobile networks and improved 680 (58%) 293 (25%) (ETR) 24.5% 670 (57%) 338 (29%) in 2016: the innovation box tax regime, a facility under Dutch corporate customer satisfaction ratings across all segments. KPN will 20.6% income tax law whereby profits attributable to innovation are continue to focus on improving the customer experience by Other: Total tax: taxed at an effective rate of 5%. The effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 23% in 2018-2019. See Note 8 to further investing in capacity, reliability and stability of its integrated network. KPN generates FCF (after capital 10 (1%) 6 (1%) 1.163 (100%) 1,178 (100%) Normalized the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information expenditures), which forms the basis for its policy related to ETR 22.2% Social Dividend Tax: EBIT Cash tax rate on KPN’s tax position. regular dividends. security: 66 (6%) in 2016: 21.6% tax rate 23.0% (CTR) 2.0% 114 (10%) 54 (5%) in 2016: in 2016: Net profit KPN intends to grow its regular dividend in line with its FCF 110 (9%) 23.2% -10.7% Net profit for 2017 (continuing operations) increased by EUR growth profile. KPN intends to provide a sustainable and 115m to EUR 485m, mainly driven by EUR 176m lower net growing regular dividend in line with its FCF growth profile. 2017 finance expenses in 2017. The profit for 2016 from discontinued KPN intends to pay a regular dividend per share of EUR 11ct in 2016 operations (EUR 430m) consisted mainly of the result on the respect of 2017, subject to Annual General Meeting (AGM) of The reported difference between the effective tax rate and the sale of BASE Company (EUR 369m). Shareholders’ approval. An interim dividend of EUR 3.7ct per cash tax rate is mainly caused by the use of available tax losses. share was paid in August 2017. In respect of 2018, a regular The reported amount of corporate income taxes paid relates to dividend per share of EUR 12ct is intended. taxable profits that could not be offset against these losses, e.g. Capex corporate income tax payable by entities not part of a tax KPN remains committed to an investment-grade credit profile group. The EBIT tax rate is lower than the statutory rate mainly Capex came to EUR 1,139m in 2017, a decrease of EUR 54m and expects to utilize excess cash for operational and financial due to the innovation box facility. compared to 2016 (EUR 1,193m). Capital intensity is still flexibility, (small) in-country M&A and/or shareholder relatively high due to investment programs in hybrid access to remuneration. In 2017, KPN completed a EUR 200m share larger cities and business parks, and in capacity of the mobile buyback program. In May 2017, KPN received a dividend from Tax overview for continuing operations per country and core networks. its stake in TEFD of EUR 70m for 2016, which KPN distributed Profit before Other tax to KPN shareholders as a special interim cash dividend Total tax excl. Corporate Corporate Corporate cash flow Property (EUR 1.7ct per share). KPN intends to pass-through potential In € million unrelated associates and income Effective income tax cash tax mainly VAT plant and Employees Free cash flow dividend received from TEFD to its shareholders. or FTE income¹ joint ventures tax expense tax rate cash flow payable & payroll equipment end of year 2017 6,157 650 -144 22% -13 5 1,155 5,793 13,020 Free cash flow (FCF) for 2017 was EUR 74m higher y-on-y at NL 2016 6,524 499 -92 18% 51 -1 1,171 5,949 13,265 EUR 815m. Excluding the EUR 70m dividend received from Outlook 2018 (continuing operations, IFRS15 compliant) Telefónica Deutschland (2016: EUR 110m), FCF for 2017 was 2017 437 -2 -12 n.m. 1 7 7 17 203 US EUR 745m compared to EUR 683m in 2016 taking the EUR 52m Adjusted EBITDA in line with 2017; 2016 501 -20 -3 -15% – 1 7 20 209 cash optimization actions for 2016 into account as well. The Capex ~EUR 1.1bn; 2017 2 -7 -1 -14% -1 -1 1 1 52 increase was mainly driven by EUR 54m lower Capex and EUR Free cash flow (excluding TEFD dividend) growing; and Other 2016 5 -12 -1 -8% -1 – – – 56 99m lower interest paid. This was partly offset by EUR 13m tax Additional cash flow via dividend from stake in Telefónica Total 2017 6,596 641 -157 24.5% -13 11 1,163 5,811 13,275 paid in 2017 versus EUR 50m tax received in 2016. Deutschland. Total 2016 7,030 467 -96 20.6% 50 – 1,178 5,969 13,530 1 Unrelated income is the total of revenues and (other) financial income.. 26 27 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for our stakeholders The value we create for our stakeholders The value we create for society Forward-looking Through offset of available losses in the Netherlands, KPN expects March 2017, limiting the market regulation for dual calls Innovation to pay limited amounts of income tax for the coming years. Based (ISDN2). A decision to regulate call termination tariffs for on current projections, KPN expects to fully utilize its realized fixed and mobile based on the ‘pure BULRIC’ approach and unrealized losses well within the expiration limits. KPN will recommended by the European Commission came into effect continue to extend and optimize its VAT control framework. on 12 July 2017. Appeals regarding the tariff regulation in this Customer demand and our ambition to simplify and grow are the main drivers for decision were refused by the court. innovation. We apply proven technologies in existing products and services and are Regulation affects our business Spectrum licenses partnering with startups and scale-ups to promote innovation through a wealth of The preparations for an auction in 2019 of the 700, 1400 (Lband) events. Our innovations make people more comfortable in their homes, increase KPN is subject to sector-specific regulation and enforcement and 2100 MHz bands have started, but no formal decisions on thereof by regulatory authorities, such as the Netherlands the auction procedure are available yet. Although the 3.5GHz healthcare efficiency and make cities smarter. Authority for Consumers and Markets (ACM). As described in band at European level is seen as the primary band for 5G, in KPI Result 2017 Result 2016 the chapter ‘Compliance & risk’, KPN’s Risk Management and the Netherlands it is not clear when this band will be available € 134m € 115m Control System is designed to minimize the risk of non-compliance for 5G use. Severe restrictions on the use of this spectrum Revenues from new services with regulation. apply to prevent interference with the use of this band by an earth satellite station of the Dutch Ministry of Defense. European developments; the Digital Single Market strategy Regulation of the electronic communications markets is largely Act on Financial Supervision M2M subscribers (#SIMs) ~3.6m ~2.5m based on European legislation. The EU’s roaming and open The Dutch Supreme Court ruled in 2014 that ‘all-in’ mobile internet access regulations are directly applicable in all member telephone subscriptions that include a monthly payment for a states. The application of the regulation of operators with mobile handset are a form of consumer credit, thus ruled by the We continuously apply proven technologies to existing and 2015, it has invested in 13 European technology companies significant market power is done nationally, but under Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wft). As of 1 January 2017 all new products and services to fulfill changing customer needs. both directly and indirectly through its fund-in-fund coordination of the European Commission. This still affects KPN’s marketing communication on handset-credit complied We do this both in-house and, increasingly, by partnering with investments in the CottonWood Technology Fund and Keen KPN in some fixed markets and on fixed and mobile call with the Act. The remaining set of measures came into effect innovative technology companies to turn promising ideas into Venture Partners. In addition, KPN has a Startup Liaison team termination services. Licensing regimes for frequencies are on 1 May 2017, This relates to: 1) a separate credit-contract, 2) commercial products and services that will improve lives. As that scouts both national and international innovative based on national law. Increasingly, also other regulation (such a check on income and financial obligations for credits above well as creating value for society, innovation improves customer technology companies and works as an entry point for startups as privacy law and content-related law) has an impact. EUR 250 and 3) registration with the Bureau on Credit satisfaction and loyalty. and scale-ups to connect with KPN and to find the right Both the European Parliament and the European Council have Registration (BKR) for credits above EUR 250. KPN does not contacts within the KPN organization to discuss a potential approved amended versions of the draft ‘European Electronic charge any interest for these propositions, when including cooperation. In 2017, more than 80 deals were made with Communications Code’ in 2017. These institutions are now handset credit. All sales people (in shops, call centers and Open innovation startups from pilot-projects, investments by KPN Ventures, negotiating the amended proposals and are expected to reach indirect channels) were trained and tested on their knowledge co-creating propositions, distribution partnerships or providing agreement by July 2018 at the earliest. Implementation of the of these specific rules, thus ensuring that credits are contracted We partner with others to accelerate innovation, mainly through infra/data or security solutions by KPN. new rules in national law should not be expected earlier than responsibly and the customer’s interest is put first. our investment fund KPN Ventures and at KPN's New Business We foster an open culture and an agile way of working. We mid-2020. division. This collaborative approach brings mutual benefits: constantly challenge ourselves to come up with new ideas we benefit from the drive and creativity of entrepreneurial to create new value for customers and improve our way of International roaming on mobile networks talent and learn from the speed at which startups can experiment, working. Like the startups we work with, our approach is to Since 15 June 2017 national retail tariffs must be applied for while they benefit from KPN’s industry expertise, professional think big, but keep experiments small and learn quickly. roaming within the EU/EEA. Only for traffic exceeding defined network and our channels to customers. ‘fair use’ criteria, or after approval of the National Regulatory We organize a wealth of events promoting innovation, such as KPN Ventures Authority when national tariffs are not sustainable with meetings where startups and scale-ups pitch their innovations, KPN Ventures accelerates outside-in innovation by investing ‘roam-like-home’, surcharges not exceeding the regulated speed-dating, co-creation workshops, expert sessions and in promising startups and scale-ups. We use our expertise to wholesale rates are allowed. The roaming regulation will expire hackathons. Last year we launched the KPN Startup Circus, support and stimulate their growth, and learn from ambitious on 30 June 2022 and only changes if amended or replaced a large international event where 30 startups from 11 countries young companies. In 2017, the KPN Ventures team executed prior to that date. presented their innovations to KPN experts and executives. five direct investments, including in the German company Personal MedSystems, developer of the CardioSecur mobile Market analysis decisions in the Netherlands We were recognized as one of the only 12 European ‘Corporate ECG technology, Rotterdam-based Sensara, which offers a The decision related to the markets for unbundled access to Startup Stars’ by the European Commission' Startup Europe monitoring solution for elderly care, German smart intercom fixed networks came into effect on 1 January 2016. On these Partnership (SEP). Furthermore, KPN received one of the three maker Nello and the Belgium-headquartered data science markets (virtual) access obligations, tariff regulation (partly by 'Corporate Startup Investment Awards’. Our EUR 70 million company Sentiance. safety caps based on the 2011 tariff levels) and margin squeeze corporate venture capital fund KPN ventures, invests in We indirectly invested in sustainable cooling technology tests were imposed on these markets. Upon completion of the strategically related startups in areas such as smart homes, company SoundEnergy, via the Cottonwood Technology Fund, VodafoneZiggo joint venture, ACM started a review of this cybersecurity, digital healthcare, data & analytics applications, and participated in two follow-up investments in portfolio decision. A draft for a new decision is expected to be published over-the-top services and cloud computing. Since its start in companies Actility and EclecticIQ. in Q1 2018 for national consultation. A decision by the ACM regulating fixed voice telephony markets came into effect on 1 28 29 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for society The value we create for society KPN Technology Labs Thanks to the LoRa network of KPN they can be monitored -V  itaal Thuis: We introduced KPN Vitaal Thuis, a lifestyle Our KPN Technology Labs bring together multidisciplinary and managed from a distance. Another innovation example monitoring app that helps carers trace the activity of elderly teams of KPN experts, customers, developers and suppliers is our partnership with the Dutch army to create MilSenz, people living alone. eHealth company Sensara has to turn ideas into concrete products and services. The labs a sensor that registers movement in war zones or potential developed a sensor solution that tracks activity, signals combine technical innovations with existing network war zones. This sensor, developed in a period of just two changes in behavior and informs carers via an app if there infrastructures, and develop new technologies. We then test months, was shortlisted for the Digital Transformation of the are any deviations from normal patterns. This extends the these innovations with the general public in our field labs, Year award at the Computable Awards 2017, and has sparked period elderly people can live independently and safely in which we also prefer to set up with partners. Examples of interest from other sectors where surveillance plays a role. their own homes, and provides ease and reassurance. innovations that are the result of the KPN Technology Labs include LoRa and voice over WiFi. We are currently testing Last year, the IoT academy reached 3,850 people in 260 S martLife: With KPN SmartLife, we offer a series of smart 5G internet. companies and trained 160 developers in LoRa technology. connected home services through a single app. We are continuously experimenting with new devices, partners and KPN New Business C  ybersecurity: We expanded our cybersecurity portfolio with propositions to find the right value for our customers. As KPN New Business creates value for our consumers and the complementary acquisitions of DearBytes and QSight IT, more and more customers grow familiar with connected business customers by developing, launching and growing a which added high-quality threat prevention and detection devices in and around their homes, we believe this innovation new portfolio. Cubes is KPN New Business’ incubator for the capabilities to our service offering to various market segments. helps make people feel more comfortable and safer in their development and launch phases. Cubes works using a threedaily lives. step model: seeking the right opportunities; qualifying the Also, our operational technology monitoring service enables value for customers, partners and KPN; and finally developing us to service Industry and Utilities clients, and it positions us  he New Way of Living and Working (NWLW): Technology T the technology and the business model together with as a future service provider for IoT security monitoring in a is having an impact on the way we are working, on the customers. Projects that have been incubated successfully are market that is yet to be established. content of work and makes green working possible. In subsequently moved to the growth phase at this stage. previous years we focused on enabling the NWLW of our Technologies that successfully make it through all these steps D  igital Identity and Transactions (DIT): We see an employees by shifting the attention from steering on then enter the growth phase. The most important New increasing demand for digital identity and transaction attendance towards steering on outcome. This resulted in Business innovations developed together with partners in services, driven by the digitalization of the society and the an average participation of 77% of KPN employees. The 2017 were: continuous growth of e-commerce. Last year we acquired percentage of employees who feel they can work according payment service provider capabilities and are now offering the NWLW has unexpectedly declined. I nternet of Things (IoT): We have expanded our state-ofpayment solutions to customers. Combining these capabilities A possible reason can be that employees who work in Agile the-art IoT connectivity with KPN Things to a scalable total with our existing identity portfolio is the start of a broad suit of teams, which often requires physical participation, have the solution. KPN Things helps clients to quickly and easily implement DIT services that will help clients gain trust in digital trade impression that it replaces the NWLW. The NWLW affected IoT solutions and get the most out of data generated by IoT, relationships, facilitate financial transactions and enable the the way the office is used. We introduced hubs; attractive enabling them to monetize its value in the fastest and best exchange of value in the digital age. offices at key locations in the Netherlands. In 2017, we also way possible. These data-driven solutions offer customers started to implement new office software which improved the full combination of data generation, aggregation and S mart Cities: Our nationwide IoT network (LoRa, 2G, 3G and collaboration at a distance. There is still much to win if we analytics, based on IoT and other data sources. 4G) is stimulating smart innovations for cities as we connect work on integrated solutions in a joint effort with our IT, people, machines and objects to generate data. Smart HR and Real Estate Services (RES). KPN therefore focuses We have partnered with Luxemburg-based B Medical applications can then help improve traffic flow, reduce the more on the use of technology to reduce commuting and Systems to monitor vaccine conditions during transport to cost of refuse collection, guide motorists to empty parking unnecessary traveling between hubs by making new ensure a stable quality of the vaccines from the manufacturer spots and improve air quality – all of which makes cities more collaboration tools available and by stimulating the use to the patients. We also added geolocation to our LoRa attractive places to live and work. of public transportation. We also continue to inspire our offering, enabling customers to easily and efficiently track customers to innovate their way of working with the latest and trace all kind of assets such as bicycles, containers and KPN is working with the city of Amsterdam on projects technologies. machinery based on the network’s capabilities. including smart street lighting. Our data platform and connectivity are contributing to intelligent projects. These Last year, we initiated an impact study on the NWLW. In 2017, Together with KPN, Medizon is working to make AED include a smart energy solution, in which energy is exchanged we evaluated the outcomes and the method used and started cabinets smart. By linking sensors installed in the cabinets to between solar panels, charging stations for electric vehicles an update of the calculations. the LoRa network, Medizon can monitor the devices 24/7. and the grid, and smart parking solutions in the city of Thanks to this innovation in healthcare, Medizon can monitor Rotterdam. the status of AEDs much better, make sure that more AED’s are operational, and prevent that community responders are e Health: Our eHealth applications use technology to help sent to the wrong AED cabinet, which helps to save lives. keep healthcare affordable and accessible for patients and healthcare providers, making patients safer and healthcare DHL Express is piloting the DHL Cubicycle, a customized more efficient. Our eHealth solutions include cardiology tool cargo bicycle which can carry a container with a load of up Hartritme Diagnostiek, digital workplace Werkplek voor de to 125 kg (one cubic meter in volume) for inner-city deliveries. Zorg, and ZorgCloud, which healthcare providers use to work and exchange information in a secure digital environment. 30 31 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for society The value we create for society Reliability Simpler privacy statement In line with our KPN strategic goal to simplify, we started We believe our proactive approach to security contributed to streamlining our overview of how we process customer data. safeguarding our system from potential harm during the In 2018, we intend to simplify our privacy statements to make it WannaCry ransomware attack in May 2017. This attack caused clearer to customers how KPN uses different types of data. major damage to many organizations across the world, but did We want everyone to enjoy the benefits of connectivity without having to worry Looking forward, we plan to make a one-minute subtitled film not affect our systems. about being hacked or having their privacy violated. As the communication devices about privacy at KPN and will also make a braille version of our privacy statement available. How we enhance security for society and data systems our customers use become increasingly interconnected and At KPN, we share our knowledge with the outside world to help sophisticated, so do the threats to cybersecurity and privacy. This means we improve security in society. Our experts speak at security continuously monitor the security landscape to ensure we protect not only ourselves Security conferences around the globe to share the insights and results of our work. Our Chief Information Security Officer is a faculty and our customers, but also society as a whole. Our security policy is based on the security life cycle concept: member of Singularity University, a Silicon Valley think-tank prevent, detect, respond and verify. We have a strategy and that offers educational programs and acts as a business policy team for prevention, a REDteam of ethical hackers to incubator. Last year, we continued our efforts to share security KPI Result 2017 Result 2016 proactively detect, a Computer Emergency Response Team and continuity insights with the wider public during our Guest 99% 96% (CERT) to respond, and a team of senior security officers to Hacker programs, ensuring insights from inspiring security % of customers helped (within eight hours) who were unintentionally infected by malware verify and implement security measures. Our Security speakers become widely available. In addition, 2017 was the Operations Center (SOC) and CERT monitor our systems and fifth consecutive year KPN was the main partner for the Dutch % of Dutch people that believe their data is safe with KPN 70% 70% networks 24/7 and provide rapid response to resolve any vulnerabilities detected. Alert Online campaign. We continued our work on the EU Steering Committee in Revised policy Quantum Technologies, which is part of the EUR 1 billion EU Privacy Safeguarding privacy by design Since our security policy was first launched in 2013 it has been flagship program to address, amongst others, security issues It is important that employees are aware of privacy rules. All KPN updated every quarter, becoming more detailed. After four related to quantum computer technologies. Customers must be able to trust us to handle their data with employees are required to complete our compliance and years of incremental changes, we thoroughly updated our great care, always with their interests at heart. The proliferation integrity e-learning Spot On, part of which covers privacy. We plan security policy in 2017. Following our own review and feedback Together with Cisco and McAfee, we launched Cyber Central in of devices collecting data makes it imperative that people’s to introduce a more specific privacy training in 2018. All new from KPN stakeholders, we relaunched it internally last year. 2017. Cyber Central is a forum that helps customers better personal information is kept safe. Our customers rightly expect products must safeguard users’ privacy by design. Last year, understand and address cybersecurity issues. We hosted a this of us and it is a responsibility we take very earnestly. In we developed tooling for and began testing what we call a Enhancing security for our customers ‘Girlsday’, where we introduced girls aged 10-15 to technology. 2017, 70% of customers said they believe their information is privacy impact assessment. This is a questionnaire for KPN We launched a pilot in 2017 to help our customers to better This is part of the JetNet program aimed at interesting more girls safe with KPN (2016: 70%). employees who wish to develop new products or processes defend themselves against Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) in technical education. We also continued to organize activities involving personal data, or adapt the use of an existing product anomalies. An anomaly typically occurs when other parties, for high school students to teach them basic security skills. GDPR or process. This will become a compulsory step in KPN’s such as criminals, hijack BGP traffic. By redirecting BGP traffic, In 2017, we stepped up our preparations for the introduction of change management process, ensuring KPN staff is sufficiently they can harm other companies. Research is required to Detecting and resolving security breaches the Europe-wide General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). aware of the privacy impact in everything they do. This should quantify this problem, so we initiated the pilot to monitor BGP Last October, Belgian investigators reported a vulnerability in This law, which will take effect on 25 May 2018, imposes much be fully implemented by 25 May 2018. traffic to seek anomalies globally and analyze them so we can the security protocol (WPA2) used for WiFi. In cooperation with stricter requirements on the way companies process data and identify the attacks. This should enable us and our customers the Netherlands’ National Cyber Security Center (NCSC) and use and store customer information. Under GDPR, for example, Lawful intercept to act at a very early stage to counter a BGP attack. The pilot is other industry players, Dutch telecom and internet providers the onus will be on KPN to prove we are always in control with We respect our customers’ right to privacy. At the same time, scheduled to finish in 2018. investigated the impact on the use of WiFi. Research showed that regard to data protection. we are legally obliged to disclose certain information, initially routers provided by KPN to its customers are not vulnerable to obtained by intercept, to national investigation agencies. Our In 2016, we began securing KPN’s email system to protect this and have the latest update. We are in the process of setting up a data processing register infrastructure must facilitate this and we must cooperate with law customers from fraudulent emails. During this project, which – one of the main GDPR requirements. This registry will log enforcement agencies as specified in the Telecommunications Act. was completed in 2017, we set up a new mail platform, reducing In 2017, 19,921 processed virus notifications were detected where and which personal data are being processed, for what spam and phishing emails coming from KPN.com domains. based on information from trusted partners. In 98.8% of cases, purposes, This will help us gain a better overview and control of We treat this obligation seriously. A liaison office is available We also enhanced network security by strengthening our our KPN Abuse team could act on information within eight data processing and associated privacy controls. 24/7 to facilitate interaction with law enforcement for all KPN system for vulnerability management. hours to help customers infected by malware, exceeding our brands. We assess incoming warrants and carry out various 98% target. KPN’s GDPR implementation program is led by a multi­ checks to filter out any uncertainties. If we discover any Strengthening our proactive approach disciplinary team headed by our Privacy Office. The team discrepancies, we reject the warrant, inform the agency We strengthened our capabilities to be more proactive, setting For 2018, we plan to continue our efforts to enhance security, includes experts in compliance and governance, commercial involved and follow the relevant procedures. In 2017, a up CISO Lab and a new R&D unit to develop security solutions working on a list of 11 IT security priorities with a particular use of data, technology, program and project management and mismatch was found in 1.4% of the warrants received. Of the currently unavailable on the market. In 2017, CISO Labs focused focus on aspects such as implementing endpoint protection on key business owners. interception orders 99.5% concerned telephone numbers, on the secure transfer of large files. We incorporated threat KPN servers. 0.1% related to email addresses and in 0.4% of the cases we hunting in our threat intelligence process and fine-tuned our were ordered to intercept IP addresses. threat intelligence reporting. 32 33 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for society The value we create for society Sustainability (cars and emergency power) are compensated with Gold “KPN is committed to the principles of a Standard projects and forest compensation projects. circular economy, which emphasize recycling Since 2014, we have measured and reported the CO₂e emissions and longer product lifespans” in our supply chain. To be able to report on real figures, instead In 2017, our operational excellence programs led to a saving of EUR 2m, partly due to of using a model, we discussed emissions in the chain with some the energy reduction activities in our networks and fuel savings of our leased cars. of our suppliers. Based on these real figures we defined projects The International Telecommunication Union (ITU). is preparing to reduce the CO₂e in the chain in the future. a guideline for the ICT industry based on KPN’s circular manifesto. According to DJSI and CDP, we are a world leader in our industry that takes corporate actions on climate change. In addition, we have started a program to become a Making KPN more circular Networks and datacenters KPN understands that a circular economy is more than just Our fixed and mobile networks use the majority of our virtually circular company by 2025. In this bold ambition our suppliers play a key role. recycling resources. We share the responsibility for migrating to electricity consumption (76%). By removing or replacing old In a sustainable society, everybody can take part. We deploy our services to connect renewable and finite resources with our suppliers and equipment with energy-efficient models and improving cooling, all people, even when contact is not self-evident. customers and are aware that we can make an important we saved 30 GWh in 2017, which is 4% of our network and data impact on society. Given that responsibility, we started a center energy consumption. This more than compensates for program to further integrate circular economy within KPN to the additional energy usage due to the network expansions KPI Result 2017 Result 2016 reach our ambition of having close to 100% circular operations and improved quality and speed of fixed and mobile network. by 2025. This is in line with the Dutch government’s ambition to Energy savings by customers as % of KPN Group energy usage 60% 54% reduce raw material use by 50% by 2030. Our implementation strategy will include KPIs and a monitoring dashboard to Our data centers are already energy efficient, so it becomes more difficult to realize large improvements. In total, the energy % reduction of energy consumption KPN Group compared with 2010 24% 20% support reaching our ambitions. Developing the roadmap is also included. Already 53% of our equipment and materials are efficiency has increased by 15% compared to 2010, so we have not completely met our target of 15.5%. By using more outside % realized improvements on corrective action plans 82% 77% currently reused or recycled. We reached one of the first milestones of this program in 2017, air for cooling instead of water we reduced both energy and water consumption. To realize negative CO₂e emissions we are exploring ways to reuse waste heat. We are working on Number of suppliers that signed the circular manifesto 7 Scope and targets 2017 / 2025 defined when we signed our circular manifesto with seven of our strategic suppliers in networking and office equipment. exchanging warm and cold temperature in a ring in Aalsmeer with a local school, an agricultural farm and a swimming pool. # of elderly facilitated to live independently 11,466 11,371 This aims to achieve circular results in an ecosystem by adjusting product design, for example using recycled covers and recycled scarce materials. We intend to sign the circular Together with the city of Almere, we are exploring the possibilities of bringing district heating to the newly built Nobelhorst neighbourhood in Almere, using the heat from the (1,109) 100% (978) 100% % chronically ill children provided with a KPN Klasgenoot (#) manifesto with at least another eight suppliers in 2018. NL|DC datacenter. Environmental performance period. This is better then our target for 2017, due to additional energy savings in our networks, data centers, offices and cars. To respond to increasing customer expectations and be Our strategy to become a circular company prepared for stricter legislation around climate change, we KPN has been climate neutral since 2015. If we had not used have continued our efforts, focusing not only on CO₂e green energy, our gross location-based CO₂e emissions would (equivalent) reduction, but also on energy reduction. Our total have been 335kTon CO₂e. To be climate neutral we use 100% energy reduction since 2010 is 24%, even though the volume of green electricity generated by local wind farms and biomass our ICT services has almost increased tenfold in the same plants. Other CO₂ emissions (15%) due to gasoline and petrol CO₂e-emissions own operations Scope 1 and 2 (in kTon)¹ Gross CO₂e Location based Net CO₂e Market based 2010 base year 2016 2017 2010 Base Year 2016 2017 Reduce: Use of virgin materials Extend: Use products Recycle: High-end second life Scope 1 NL 59 34 33 59 0 0 Virtualization longer and better of products and materials Dematerialization Lifespan extension Reuse Scope 2 NL 345 314 300 79 0 0 Reused products Rates of utilization Recycling Total NL 405 348 333 139 0 0 Recycled/biobased materials Reduce incineration and landfill Total KPN Group 430 351 335 164 0 0 1 Underlying energy data are disclosed in Appendix 6. 34 35 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for society The value we create for society For 2018, we aim to reduce our Power Usage Efficiency (PUE) “Our environmental efforts are focused Our engineers took part in a pilot to use bikes in busy city of the fuel 46,000 cars use in a year. Additionally, our LoRa by 15.5% compared to 2010. A part of our data center services is on reducing our environmental footprint centers, instead of cars to reduce the exhaust of particulate network allows for energy-efficient IoT applications for our related to colocation, which is where we rent out space for our matter and CO₂. In addition, we leased two electric cars and customers such as traffic control for bridges and intelligent customers to place their own ICT. The way our customers fill despite exponential data growth” 10 biogas cars to start transforming our fleet. waste bins and Smart City initiatives. We maintain our ambition their space with ICT equipment influences KPN’s PUE. Data for 2020 to realize savings equal to >80% of KPN Group’s centers used for hosting services can be more energy efficient KPN continues to support the sustainable mobile phone In 2017, we reached an inflow of 7% fossil fuel-free car in our energy use, based on our new services using IoT and LoRa. as we can influence the ICT ourselves and the PUE. Fairphone, which now also allows for the camera to be updated lease fleet for both employees and engineers. For more information on our Smart City initiatives, see page 30. separately. We also offer refurbished phones via our Telfort Energy consumption compared to data communication brand. We provide smartphones that have more recycled Ambition for 2030 and beyond Title growth content and a more circular design, which will enable circularity KPN has joined the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTI). In petajoules In petajoules for our consumers. We also work with international lobby Our CO₂e-reduction objectives were approved by SBTI which 4.0 1,200% groups, such as the GSMA, ITU and GeSI, to try to influence means they are in line with the international climate goals of equipment suppliers to make their devices more sustainable, the Paris Agreement. These targets not only cover our own 3.2 958 960% better designed for the circular economy and easier to recycle. energy consumption, but also reduce the CO₂e emissions in the 692 supply chain both during production and the use phase of our 2.4 720% We improved the energy efficiency of the modems and set-top customers. We aim to remain climate neutral until at least 2050 439 boxes our customers use for our services. Although the and reduce KPN’s absolute energy consumption by 55% in 1.6 480% 263 number of devices increased, the CO₂e emissions reduced. 2030 compared to the 2010 baseline. This includes decreasing close to 0.8 79 159 240% With the approach advocated in our circular manifesto, we aim energy consumption in our networks by 60% compared to 2010 and switching to 100% CO₂-neutral cars from 2025. 2025 100% 27 circular 0 0 to decrease the use of virgin materials in the products we buy 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 2030 from our manufacturing partners. We aim to reduce the emissions of our supply chain from Cars suppliers to customers by 20% in 2025 and by 50% in 2040 Data centers Real estate compared to 2014. To reduce our impact on materials, we aim Networks Our focus is on ensuring that the buildings we rent are flexible in to be close to 100% circular by 2025. Datacommunication growth (%) both function as well as lay-out. One thing we did to achieve In the future, we want all additions to our networks and data this was opt for a number of walls in Rotterdam that can be easily placed and re-placed so that we can change the layout of The potential of ICT to reduce 0 CO₂ emissions centers to be fully circular. Data transport will continue to our offices. Besides flexibility, we aim for circularity in other parts environmental impact from new cars increase and we aim to accommodate this more efficiently by of our interior as well. A part of our square meters in use is migrating to cloud solutions and network function covered by carpet tiles with recycled content. In addition, part ICT has a significant role to play in activities to combat climate virtualisation. Some routers and switches can be reused in our of our furniture is reused or recycled. change and its global impact. According to the Global networks, as well as metal server racks in our data centers. We e-Sustainability Initiative’s #SMARTer2030 report on the are also able to upgrade our fixed infrastructure to enable high We are also looking into BREAAM requirements for sustainable Netherlands, ICT could contribute to a saving of 74 million tons bandwidths without having to deploy new materials like fiber. The idea behind the circular manifesto, is that the equipment offices. Our offices have saved 57% on energy compared to 2010 by optimizing workspace and implementing an energy of CO₂e and 5.6 billion liters of fuel in the Netherlands by 2030. As KPN’s own operations are climate-neutral, all our services 2030 -55% ? energy use we buy from our suppliers is designed in such a way that they savings program. To improve circularity, we are introducing are low-carbon services. Moreover, our customers can reduce can easily be separated in reusable parts or recyclable usage optimization through a SmartBuilding concept in our their own energy consumption and CO₂e emissions by using our materials. Gaining the knowledge of which plastics can be new corporate headoffice. We also recycle carpets and furniture services. By using our cloud services, video conferencing and recycled or separated is key to achieve that objective. We use together with office suppliers. audio conferencing, for example, our business customers can certified partners to improve waste treatment and based on the meet and collaborate online, reducing the need for office space information provided decrease the usage of virgin materials in Fleet and the need to commute, which in turn lowers traffic and the future by using products/materials that have been designed to be recycled (i.e. with a life cycle perspective in mind). From 2025 onwards, we aim to only lease fossil fuel-free cars. In the meantime, we will reduce the maximum CO₂e emissions therefore energy consumption, CO₂e emissions and particulate matter. -50% of our vehicles by switching to car models with cleaner engines By 2020, we want our services to help our customers to save 2040 CO₂ emissions in the supply Products that emit less particulate matter. We exceeded our 2017 target more energy than 80% of the energy consumption of KPN. chain Most client-related products are modems, TV set-top boxes or to reduce car fuels for our leased cars by 40% compared to We measure this 'avoided' energy consumption by calculating mobile handsets. For modems and TV set-top boxes, 2010. We realized a 43% reduction. As part of the NWLW the impact on our consumer and business customers of standardization is a great way to ensure reuse and upgrading. program we encourage our employees to work at home and by specific products and services (see Appendix 6, table 8). The We intensified our program for collection, reuse and recycling doing so reduce greenhouse gas emissions from commuting. calculations are based on measured data, available statistics, for this category. In 2017, we collected about 85%, exceeding Given the higher availability of full electrical cars with a longer recognized studies and expert judgments. In 2017, we realized our target to collect 80%. Our customers can choose to have range, for all employees entitled to a company lease car, it is 60% savings, which exceeds our target of 56%. Using these Figures and calculation methodology: Detailed environmental figures including intensity figures, targets and avoided energy consumption by our their mobile handsets repaired through our repair service or now possible to select a fully electrical vehicle. services helped our customers to save about EUR 70 million in customers can be found in Appendix 6: Environmental figures. Calculation insurance service, if they opted for this. energy costs. The majority of these savings are due to reduced methods are explained in Appendix 3. Overview of major KPI’s are shown in car fuel consumption (40 million litres). This is the equivalent Appendix 2. 36 37 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for society The value we create for society Sustainability throughout the supply chain to demonstrate more quickly what their products and services could offer KPN. 85% We work closely with our suppliers to improve the quality and 2012 2017 environmental friendliness of our equipment and products, Sustainability initiatives to save costs and to reduce the environmental footprint of our Working with our suppliers, we implemented the following KPN activities. Our business partners share our commitment to a initiatives in 2017 to improve the sustainability of the supply chain: + sustainable future and adhere to international agreements, JAC laws and regulations related to good working practices. Sustainable solution 1: We replaced the full printed terms and conditions in the SIM 42% In 2017, we continued our program to simplify our supply Packs we sell with a concise leaflet. This leaflet meets all legal 2017 chain and align the suppliers we work with, including startups, requirements, providing an outline of the terms and conditions entrepreneurs and smaller companies. This has contributed and referring readers to our website for a full version. By doing to sustainable savings that are included in our run-rate this, the environmental savings for our SIM Pack KPN postpaid simplification savings. One area of procurement we are paying CM were as follows: close attention to is KPN’s transition into a more circular Corrective action plans Mobile workers survey business model. KPN’s goal is to be close to 100% circular in Climate change (CO₂-Eq) Down 50% If audits show suppliers are non-compliant, a corrective action In cooperation with JAC, KPN conducted a survey last year 2025, and to achieve this we need the support of our suppliers. plan (CAP) is drawn up to address the issues raised in the audit among the employees of a supplier who manufactures mobile As part of this, we are looking at ways our suppliers can help Total energy use (MJ-Eq) Down 53% report. The supplier’s management is responsible for reporting devices. This gave KPN unfiltered feedback on the employees’ extend the lifespan of equipment and products and make them Water use (ltr) Down 61% improvements until they comply. In 2017, KPN's suppliers working conditions at the manufacturing site. The mobile more recyclable, and we stimulate them to use recycled closed 82% of all outstanding corrective actions related to workers survey was conducted at the same time as the on-site Land use (m2a) Down 57 % contents in their products. audits conducted in 2014, 2015 and 2016 (77% in 2016, 58% in audit, allowing us to compare management’s answers with 2015), which means we met our target. We aim to achieve 70% those of individual employees at different levels in the In 2018, we will continue to encourage innovation and Sustainable solution 2: of the improvements in CAPs in 2018. company. This survey provided a much fuller picture of how proactively steer the business towards suppliers with inventive We started refurbishing and reusing set-top boxes and V8 employees experience their working conditions than an audit. and sustainable products and solutions that can improve our modems. Starting in 2017, our supplier Drake & Farrell changed CAPs set clear deadlines and we aim to close all corrective own customer offering. its repair process, refurbishing all set-top boxes of the types 2260 actions within 12 months. Although all our suppliers are JAC event and 2952 and V8 modems submitted for repair, so they can be committed to implement all CAPs, we have found that some In 2017, KPN hosted the annual JAC Seminar, a meeting where Our procurement process reused. This increases their lifespan from five years to eight years. issues are hard to resolve within one year. In 2014-2016, 53% of JAC members, key partners and suppliers discussed how to raise Suppliers can have a direct impact on the extent to which we As a result, we have cut the amount of waste and the need to still unresolved issues concerned business ethics and awareness of the trends and challenges regarding corporate can operate as a circular company. As such, we take their purchase new equipment. From January-December 2017, environment such as greenhouse gas emissions from energy responsibility in the supply chain. Discussion topics included environmental performance into account. Our procurement 24,450 of these types of set-top boxes were repaired for reuse. use. Whenever KPN is not comfortable with the submitted how to promote a circular economy and capacity building. process is based on a competitive comparison of suppliers and evidence and improvements, we suggest conducting a re-audit. applies economic, technical and CSR criteria to select suppliers. Supplier audits Supplier Code of Conduct and human rights KPN encourages its suppliers to improve their environmental Corrective Action Plans based on audits In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and To ensure compliance with our quality standards, all our footprint and their standards regarding health, safety, security conducted by KPN Human Rights, KPN is committed to respecting the 10 guiding procurement staff attended a training session last year on and working conditions. For more information on how we 2017 2016 2015 2014 principles relating to freedom of expression, the protection of environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks and to seek to reduce CO₂ emissions and introduce a circular way human rights by states and the respect of human rights by familiarize themselves with requirements set by our industry of working in the supply chain, see chapter Environmental Business ethics 11 7 19 18 operators. In our Supplier Code of Conduct, which forms the organization Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), as well as the performance. Discrimination 1 – – 4 basis of our agreements with suppliers, we ask them to operate latest developments regarding circular criteria in procurement. in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations. We promote safe and fair working conditions together with our Disciplinary practices – 2 – – Our procurement process also includes an assessment of all partners in JAC – an association of international telecom Environment 12 18 15 19 We expect our suppliers to apply the Supplier Code of Conduct new contracted suppliers, classifying them based on the operators that aims to verify, assess and develop corporate in order to comply with all relevant laws, regulations and potential social and environmental risk their operations, social responsibility in the supply chain. JAC monitors suppliers Freedom 1 1 2 2 standards in all of the countries in which they operate and to products and services represent. We assess this risk based on and conducts on-site audits to ensure they comply with JAC Health & safety 27 31 45 34 go beyond compliance to applicable laws, drawing upon three parameters: supply chain guidelines. internationally recognized standards, taking responsibility to Labor – 2 5 3 Geographical areas; continually improve social and environmental conditions and Spend; and In 2017, KPN worked together with JAC to audit 42% of our Unlawful labor 1 – 8 6 ethical behavior. We also expect our suppliers to ensure that Potential environmental impact of a supplier’s operations, high-risk Tier I, Tier II and Tier III suppliers, which was well products supplied to KPN do not contain conflict minerals or Wages & compensation 3 6 5 1 products or services. above our 35% target. We plan to increase audits in 2018 in their derivatives. cooperation with JAC. From 2012-2017, 85% of our high-risk Working hours 15 16 9 12 We identified 53 high-risk suppliers in 2017. High-risk suppliers are suppliers were audited in the following countries: Argentina, Other 1 – – – We adapted our Supplier Code of Conduct last year to comply audited by independent external auditors once every 2-4 years. Brazil, China, Czech Republic, Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, Thailand with international standards, revising our commitment to work Last year, we also saw the introduction of a shorter and Vietnam. Total 72 83 108 99 through an innovative development in products and/or services procurement process Proof of Concept procedure. Not only that offer environmental and social benefits, are low energy and does this support KPN’s innovation strategy, it allows startups help reduce CO₂ emissions across the entire value chain. 38 39 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices The value we create for society The value we create for society Our long-term impact on society Social inclusion KPN supports the SDGs KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds Including people in the labor market In 2017, the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds (KPNMCF) celebrates Our training program for customer service professionals with a its tenth anniversary. Our corporate foundation connects relatively poor position in the labor market saw 100% of people in need of social contact, such as the elderly, people trainees completing the program continue to graduate at MBO The value we create contributes to the realization of the United Apart from our contribution to SDGs 9, 11 and 12 as explained in with autism or chronically ill children. We use our KPN level (secondary vocational training) in 2017. Within three Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030. In the table below, our non-financial objectives and targets also technology and employees and make financial contributions to months, 60% of them found a job.. Our ambition to become a 2017, we have reconsidered the relevance of the SDGs while contribute to other SDGs, albeit in a less impactful way. In several Dutch NGOs and social partners in order to connect circular company has a social impact as well. In processing redefining our value creation model this year. By creating value Appendix 2: Overview and connectivity of non-financial these vulnerable groups to society. In 2017, we received 1,883 returned equipment, one of our suppliers will employ people for our customers and society, KPN is committed to information, we show how our CSR targets and KPIs contribute voluntary contributions on many of our projects. with poor job prospects, who will be dedicated to work for KPN. contributing most to SDG 9 (Industry, innovation and to the SDGs. Also, we mentor top students with a migration background to infrastructure), 11 (Sustainable cities and communities) and 12 10th anniversary help give them access to the labor market. (Responsible consumption and production). In 2018, we will You can find more information on the SDGs and our activities On 21 September 2017, the KPNMCF kicked off its tenth increase our efforts and further align the SDG sub-targets in to on corporate kpn.com/globalgoals. The numbers in the anniversary festivities by hosting a conference together with its Including disabled and elderly people our own KPIs to gain more insight in our contribution to the graphics refer to the official SDG numbering and do not depict partner Coalitie Erbij on the growing issue of loneliness. About We developed special remote controls with bigger, clear SDGs. KPN’s ranking. 350 people attended the conference in the auditorium of the buttons for the elderly and visually impaired customers. With Rijksmuseum. KPN Teletolk, we help deaf, speech-impaired and hearingimpaired people to communicate with each other and with people In 2017, the KPNMCF organized several events for socially with normal hearing. isolated people at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam and in Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam. The Loneliness among the elderly is a major social problem and foundation also organized a theatre tour with Willeke Alberti partly due to the growing aging population. In order to reduce Link to the value we SDG SDG goal KPN strategic relevance Our support that traveled to five theaters across the country. loneliness among the elderly, KPN together with the National create Elderly Fund developed an app to engage elderly people. The Zilverlijn elderly and volunteers find each other through the app and Build resilient To connect everyone in a reliable  State-of-the-art We continuously innovate and upgrade the infrastructure, way, we aim to make our ICT networks and ICT capacity of our best-in-class integrated network We also continued to work with the National Foundation for the agree to meet. After less than four months, over 500 requests promote infrastructure future proof. KPN infrastructure and ICT infrastructure. We invest and work to Elderly on our Zilverlijn project, which tackles loneliness among were posted and 250 meetings took place between lonely sustainable builds the infrastructure in a Privacy strengthen our core network and fixed and elderly people. Every week, KPN volunteers call lonely seniors. elderly people and volunteers. In 2018, KPN will further develop industrialization continuous, iterative process with Security mobile network capacity and to safeguard They do this from the so called Zilverlijn bus, which stops at the application in order to reduce the isolation for as many and foster help from suppliers, to keep up privacy and enhance security for society. innovation. with demand in bandwidth and several KPN offices for several days. All connections are made elderly people as possible. changing societal needs prompted with KPN techniques and tools. by digitalization. Including children by helping them to be safe online Make cities To connect everyone in an Integrated products Our new technologies and digital solutions make KlasseContact We launched a campaign to help parents with children getting inclusive, safe, innovative way, we continuously people more comfortable and safe in their and services KlasseContact has been connecting chronically ill children to their first smartphone. The campaign with the tagline ‘How do resilient and explore how our technology can Innovation homes, prevent online fraud, increase the their classrooms and school friends for over ten years. It is run I survive my first mobile?’ uses the site Eerstemobiel.nl to sustainable. help address the themes and State-of-the-art efficiency of businesses and healthcare and in partnership with the educational organization EDventure. In educate young people on issues such as etiquette, social challenges facing society today networks and ICT reduce traffic by facilitating the New Way of and tomorrow. infrastructure Living and Working, make cities smarter and 2017, 1,109 children received and/or used the KPN Classmate pressure, bullying, privacy and the costs of a mobile phone. Social Inclusion cleaner, and connect ill children with classmates. digital device. A successful communication campaign in 2017 TV channel Nickelodeon will run a six-part series to help for our KlasseContact program improved the awareness of the educate schoolchildren on the subject. By the end of 2017, KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds' most important project. we discontinued the children’s app Mybee because there are Ensure To connect everyone in a  nvironmental E Our own operations are climate-neutral and all sustainable sustainable way, we are ambitious performance our services are low-carbon services. Moreover, similar apps available with strong content and not enough consumption to limit negative impact of our our customers can reduce their own energy Sustainable suppliers Papageno Foundation people were using it. and production (and our suppliers’ and consumption and CO₂ emissions by using our In 2017, we started a new initiative with the Papageno Foundation, patterns customers’) activities, products services. which helps people with autism. Research has shown that Including people who have difficulties fulfilling payment and services on the climate and We have started a program to become a circular the environment. company by 2025, influence our suppliers and music therapy helps to build better connections with society, obligations implement solutions for a more sustainable so we are facilitating the design of an app and online platform KPN is a member of the coalition of creditors that is looking supply chain. that allow these people to get music therapy through their for solutions to help the growing number of customers with smartphones. payment arrears and debts. We run a program for customers that have difficulties affording our services and aim to facilitate Social entrepreneurship and being a good employer and promote good personal financial management among Many (governmental) customers add social criteria to their these customers. Sometimes the comprehensibility of our contracts in order to stimulate the market for social impact. correspondence appeared to be an issue. In order to avoid KPN conforms to these criteria and has a strong intrinsic problems with low literacy, KPN uses language level B1 in the motivation to include people with a distance to the labor letters that we send them. market. We stimulate both our customers and suppliers to create such possibilities, too. 40 41 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  orporate governance Corporate governance Stable steering in a dynamic environment least a value of EUR 50m have the right to propose items for the agenda. Every shareholder has the right to attend a Purchase of shares in the company’s own capital and issuance of new shares General Meeting of Shareholders in person or through written With the general aim of flexibility in financing of the company, proxy, to address the meeting and to exercise voting rights. the General Meeting of Shareholders authorized the Board of The corporate governance framework of KPN is based on our strategy and in line with Management to purchase shares in the company’s own capital the requirements of the Dutch Civil Code, the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code as Obligations to disclose holdings and decided to reduce the issued capital through cancellation Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wft), legal of own shares held by the company by a number determined well as applicable securities laws. Furthermore, the company is governed by its Articles of entities as well as natural persons must immediately notify the by the Board of Management. Association and internal procedures, such as the by-laws of the Board of Management Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM) when a shareholding reaches, exceeds or falls below certain thresholds The General Meeting of Shareholders furthermore designated and the Supervisory Board. of the issued capital. The AFM incorporates these notifications the Board of Management as the body authorized to issue in the public register, which is available on its website. Read ordinary shares and to grant rights to subscribe for ordinary more in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for shares, and to restrict or exclude statutory pre-emptive rights Legal structure of the company General Meeting of Shareholders the KPN shareholding as at 31 December 2017. of existing shareholders upon such issuance or granting of rights. The General Meeting of Shareholders holds all powers that Royal KPN N.V. is a public limited liability company established have not been granted to other company organs. It has the Please see ‘Composition of the boards’ starting on page 52, for The above authorities and decisions are limited to a maximum under the laws of the Netherlands, with ordinary shares listed authority to appoint members of the Supervisory Board upon information on the composition of the Board of Management of 10% of the issued capital as of 12 April 2017, and are on Euronext Amsterdam. The Articles of Association of KPN binding nomination by the Supervisory Board and to dismiss and the Supervisory Board, insider transactions and share applicable until 12 October 2018. Resolutions by the Board were last amended on 23 June 2016. the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders ownership by the members of the Board of Management and of Management implementing the above are subject to the is also entitled to adopt the Financial Statements, release the Supervisory Board. approval of the Supervisory Board. KPN has a two-tier management structure with a Board of members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board Management and a Supervisory Board. KPN qualifies as a from liability, determine the dividend, determine the ‘large company’ (structuurvennootschap) within the meaning remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board and of the Dutch Civil Code and applies the relevant rules of Dutch approve the remuneration policy and share (option) plans for Shareholders corporate law. The Board of Management is entrusted with the Board of Management. Furthermore, a number of decisions the management of the company. The Supervisory Board are subject to the approval of the General Meeting of oversees strategic and commercial policymaking by the Board Shareholders, including decisions entailing a significant change of Management and the way in which it manages and directs in the identity or character of the company or its business and KPN’s operations. In the performance of their duties, the various corporate matters such as proposals to amend the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Articles of Association of the company, to (de-) merge or to Board are guided by the interests of the company and the dissolve the company, or to issue shares or reduce the issued enterprise connected therewith and take the relevant capital of the company. stakeholder interests into account. The Board of Management is accountable to the General Meeting of Shareholders in Within four months from the end of every fiscal year, the Board Shareholders appoint Supervisory accordance with Dutch legislation. of Management prepares Financial Statements accompanied Board members upon nomination by an Integrated Annual Report. The Financial Statements are of the Supervisory Board See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for submitted to the Supervisory Board for approval. The details on KPN’s legal structure. Supervisory Board subsequently submits the approved Supervisory Board Financial Statements for adoption to the AGM of Shareholders, which is to be held within six months from the end of the fiscal Shareholders year. At the same time, the Board of Management submits the approved Financial Statements to the Central Works Council Share capital, listings and indices for information purposes. Adoption of the Financial Statements KPN’s authorized share capital totals EUR 720m, divided into 9 does not automatically discharge the Board of Management or billion ordinary shares of EUR 4ct each and 9 billion preference the Supervisory Board from liability. This requires a separate shares B of EUR 4ct each. As of 31 December 2017, a total of resolution by the General Meeting of Shareholders. 4,202,844,404 ordinary shares were outstanding. Since 13 June 1994, KPN’s ordinary shares have been listed Other General Meetings of Shareholders are held as often as Supervisory Board appoints on Euronext Amsterdam (ticker: KPN). KPN has a Level I ADR the Supervisory Board or Board of Management deem Board of Management members program, which allows investors to trade KPN ADRs in the necessary. The Board of Management and the Supervisory United States on the Over-The-Counter market (ticker symbol: Board determine the agenda of the General Meetings of Board of Management KKPNY). KPN shares are included in a number of leading Shareholders. Shareholders who individually or collectively indices, including: AEX, EURO STOXX Telecommunications represent at least 1% of the issued capital or who, according to Index and STOXX Europe 600 Telecommunications Index. the Official Price List of Euronext Amsterdam, represent at 42 43 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  orporate governance Corporate governance Supervisory Board Board of Management our policies, but respect the existing agreement with Mr. van Foundation Preference Shares B KPN der Post which includes a severance payment of 18 months (Stichting Preferente Aandelen B KPN) The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial The Board of Management manages KPN’s strategic, commercial, base salary during his first term of appointment (as was policymaking by the Board of Management and the way in financial, CSR and organizational matters. The members of the accepted under the previous version of the Dutch Corporate KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time, which it manages and directs KPN’s operations. Members of Board of Management are appointed and dismissed by the Governance Code). to the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation), the Supervisory Board are appointed by the General Meeting Supervisory Board. The by-laws of the Board of Management to acquire a number of preference shares B in KPN, which have of Shareholders upon binding nomination by the Supervisory contain, among other things, rules regarding the members’ An overview of all principles and best practices of the Dutch the same voting rights as ordinary shares, not exceeding the Board. The Central Works Council has an enhanced right to duties, powers, working methods and decision-making and Corporate Governance Code as well as KPN’s application total issued number of ordinary shares, minus one share and recommend persons for nomination to the Supervisory Board conflict handling. The by-laws are available on KPN’s website. thereof in accordance with the ‘comply or explain’ principle is minus any shares already issued to the Foundation. Upon for up to one-third of its members. The Supervisory Board available on KPN’s website. exercise of the call option, 25% of the nominal value of EUR 4ct must nominate the recommended persons unless it is of the Corporate Social Responsibility governance per Class B preference share needs to be paid by the opinion that any such person would be unsuitable to fulfill the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is within KPN embedded Conflict of interest Foundation. According to its Articles of Association, the duties of a Supervisory Board member, or such appointment in accordance with the organizational structure. CSR themes at The handling of conflicts of interest between the company statutory goal of the Foundation is “to protect KPN’s interests would cause the Supervisory Board to be improperly KPN are defined and approved by the Board of Management and members of the Board of Management or Supervisory (which includes the interests of stakeholders, such as constituted. Pursuant to a specific arrangement with América including ambitions and KPIs. Every CSR theme is assigned to Board is governed by Dutch law, the relevant provisions of the customers, shareholders and employees), by, among others, Móvil, América Móvil has, as a major shareholder, a right to a theme owner, a member of the senior management who is Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the by-laws of the protecting KPN from influences that may threaten the designate one person to be nominated by the Supervisory responsible for stakeholder dialogue, targets, progress and respective board. continuity, independence and identity”. Consequently, in the Board for appointment as a member of the Supervisory Board. results. Every five weeks, these theme owners together discuss event of any circumstances where the company is subject to how to align initiatives and review progress against targets. A board member is required to immediately report any influences as described above and taking public security According to the Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board This Steering Committee is chaired by KPN’s CSR Manager, (potential) conflict of interest that is of material significance to considerations into account, the board of the Foundation must consist of at least five and not more than nine members. who is responsible for the overall reporting, approach and the company and/or to the member concerned, to the may decide to exercise the call option, with a view to enabling Members of the Supervisory Board resign according to a coherency. At least once a year the CEO attends this meeting. chairman of the Supervisory Board (or, in case of the chairman, the company to determine its position in relation to the schedule set by the Supervisory Board. A member steps down Four times a year, CSR data is included in the overall set of to the vice-chairman of the Supervisory Board). The relevant circumstances as referred to above, and seek alternatives. at the first AGM of Shareholders following its four-year term in business KPIs that is reported to and discussed with the Board board member shall not take part in discussions or decisionThe board of the Foundation is of the opinion that under office. In accordance with the Dutch Corporate Governance of Management. The CSR Manager reports to the Director making on a subject in which he has a conflict of interest. normal circumstances it should not exercise its voting rights for Code, members of the Supervisory Board can be reappointed Corporate Communication & CSR, who is responsible for the Decisions to enter into transactions in which there are conflicts longer than a limited period. once, and thereafter for a maximum of two terms of two years, communication to the Board of Management. of interest with members of either board that are of material stating reasons for such further reappointment. To ensure business commitment, managers of all departments significance to the company or such member require the The members of the board of the Foundation are J.H. Schraven The Supervisory Board has determined its ‘profile’, defining the involved in one of the themes take part in the Steering approval of the Supervisory Board. (Chairman), A.P. Aris, P. Wakkie, J.E.F. Klaassen and basic principles for its composition. All nominees for election to Committee for that CSR theme. Those committees, headed by F.J.G.M. Cremers. The Board of Management has concluded the Supervisory Board must fit this profile. According to this the theme owner, coordinate activities and report the CSR data. There were no conflicts of interest in 2017. that the board of the Foundation is independent from KPN in profile, the Supervisory Board must be composed in such a way In order to obtain sufficient outside reflection, an Advisory Board accordance with parts c and d of the first subsection of article that members of the Supervisory Board are able to operate consisting of external experts discusses CSR issues four times For the In Control Statement and Responsibility Statement, see 5:71 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act. independently of each other and of the Board of Management. a year, since 2011, with the KPN in Society Steering Committee. page 51. The profile is available on KPN’s website. The views of the board of the Foundation, summarized above, have been published on the Foundation’s website The by-laws of the Supervisory Board comprise, inter alia, rules Compliance with the Dutch Corporate External auditor (www.prefs-kpn.nl). regarding the members’ duties, powers, working methods and Governance Code decision-making, what decisions by the Board of Management The external auditor is responsible for the audit of the financial it must approve, training and conflict handling. The by-laws are The Dutch Corporate Governance Code was fully revised and statements. The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints the available on KPN’s website. then confirmed by the Dutch government in 2017. KPN actively external auditor on a yearly basis, upon a proposal by the contributed to the debate leading to the revised code and Supervisory Board. The external auditor reports to the Board of Committees of the Supervisory Board supports the principles of sound corporate governance as set Management, the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Audit out therein, most notably the concept of long-term value to discuss findings pertaining to their agreed upon procedures Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominating and creation. In 2017, we aimed to implement all best practices of of the quarterly financial results and audit of the annual Corporate Governance Committee, and the Strategy and the the code, where these are applicable to us, and as far as not financial results. The external auditor attends the AGM of Organization Committee. These committees assist the already applied. We updated the by-laws and terms of Shareholders to answer questions pertaining to the Combined Supervisory Board in its decision-making and report their reference of our boards and committees, broadened our risk Independent Auditor’s Report as included in the Integrated findings to the Supervisory Board. The tasks of these management activities as further explained in the chapter Annual Report. The Audit Committee approves every committees are laid down in charters, which are available on ‘Compliance & risk’ and enhanced explanations on our engagement of the external auditor, after pre-approval by the KPN’s website. Further information on the activities of the long-term value creation and culture, e.g. throughout this report. internal auditor, to ensure the external auditor’s independence. committees in 2017 can be found in the section Supervisory All Audit Committee meetings were attended by the external Board Report starting on page 58. We currently comply with almost all best practices, with the auditor. For the role of internal audit, see page 50. exception of best practice 3.2.3 regarding severance payments, where we agree to the best practice of a maximum severance payment of one year’s base salary and have adopted that in 44 45 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  ompliance & risk Compliance & risk Compliance & risk The Business Control Framework (BCF) contains all corporate policies and guidelines that are mandatory for all of KPN’s and systems as much as possible. We implement strict policies to keep our customer data private, safe and secure. segments and entities. Financial risks: We strive for the right balance between a KPN requires all employees and encourages external parties prudent financing policy, sufficient investments in the to (anonymously) report any misconduct by KPN employees business and fair shareholder remuneration. KPN is Deploying effective risk management is a key success factor for realizing our strategic (or suspicion thereof). Our whistleblower policy complies with committed to an investment-grade credit profile. Read more objectives as it provides reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss. For this the Dutch Whistleblower Act. in Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. We periodically measure the state of organizational culture, Compliance risks: we are committed to full compliance with reason, KPN has implemented Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. The underlying compliance and integrity as perceived by our employees and relevant laws and regulations and have a zero tolerance methodology is based on relevant criteria as set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring report results as well as plans for improvement to top and approach to bribery and corruption, fraud and all other forms senior management, and initiate responses, if deemed of (illegal) misconduct. Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Key components of the systems are necessary. Financial reporting risks: we have effective control discussed in more detail below. The Board of Management has a discretionary authority frameworks in place to minimize the risk of material to adapt the variable compensation of senior executives, misstatements and errors in our financial statements. Maintaining effective Internal Risk Management and Control main risks that could hinder the realization of the strategic based on their demonstrable efforts in promoting a culture of Systems require a continuous and iterative process involving objectives and defines and implements countermeasures to compliance and integrity. several steps. A strong risk culture and control environment mitigate such risks, taking into account the risk appetite. 4. Assess risks and countermeasures forms an important foundation of our control systems. After Periodically, KPN’s performance, the top risks, setting the strategy, the Board of Management defines its countermeasures, trends and incidents are reported to and 2. Objective and strategy setting KPN has implemented effective Internal Risk Management and willingness to accept risks (risk appetite) in the pursuit of discussed with the Board of Management, which defines Control Systems to manage its main risks. The main part of strategic objectives. Management subsequently assesses the further remedial actions if necessary. KPN’s objectives and strategy are described on page 8. During these systems comprise seven KPN Internal Control Systems, the objective and strategy setting process, top management that cover the most relevant risk areas for KPN, as summarized takes into account the company’s known risks and in the table below: opportunities, and its risk appetite (see next step). The 1 2 3 objectives and strategy are discussed with the Supervisory Board. Control System Control system objective Implement Objective Maintaining sufficient liquidity for Define risk Liquidity Management and Financial strong and strategy continuity purposes and maintaining appetite Framework risk culture setting 3. Define risk appetite financing flexibility Year Plan & Year Outlook Creating shareholder value Pursuing any business objective inevitably leads to taking risks. Risks can jeopardize achieving those objectives in various Maintaining customer service 5 4 ways. Each type of risk encountered is being dealt with in a Network Service Levels delivery levels Report Assess risks manner that matches the risk appetite of the Board of top risks, and counterManagement. The risk appetite is the total residual impact of RFR GRIP Framework Maintaining investor trust trends and measures incidents Our Internal Risk Management and risks that KPN is willing to accept in the pursuit of its (strategic) Compliance Frameworks Maintaining licenses to operate Control Systems and methodology objectives. The risk appetite per strategic objective or risk area is determined annually by the Board of Management. These Measuring strategic success & Main non-financial KPIs risk areas comprise themes such as financial, operational, integrated reporting 1.Implement a strong risk culture actively detecting and investigating any alleged strategic, compliance and (information) security themes. Overall, IT Security and Continuity Mitigating cyber threats (control environment) misconduct and taking appropriate disciplinary action if KPN’s risk appetite did not materially change compared to misconduct is substantiated; previous year. KPN strives for a business culture in which compliance and monitoring that all staff (both internal and external) Strategic objectives integrity are self-evident for all employees. This is, among completed the e-learning training for the Code; and by Risk areas with a low-risk appetite, and hence a low acceptable Every year, we assess the top risks at Group (top down others, realized by the following actions: structural reporting of incidents to the Board of residual risk require strong risk management and strong approach) and Segment level (bottom up) and, if necessary, we In 2016, KPN issued a new Code of Conduct (the Code). The Management and (at least annually) to the Supervisory internal controls. Risk areas with a high-risk appetite require implement countermeasures to mitigate them within the Code applies to all KPN employees, including the Board of Board. relatively less risk management and internal control effort. defined risk appetite. We conducted risk assessment Management, the Supervisory Board and temporary staff. It To strengthen the tone at the top and in other management Our main risks and our response to those risks are summarized workshops with our Commercial and Operations segments, as describes how we work in an open, transparent, honest and levels, we conducted Fraud Risk Assessments, including a risk on page 49 of this Integrated Annual Report. well as with selected staff functions in the Corporate Center. socially responsible way. We communicate the Code on our assessment on attitude and behavior, and provided integrity corporate website (ir.kpn.com), our intranet, via a mandatory training upon request. KPN has a prudent risk appetite, which can be described per The business objectives are detailed in a strategic business e-learning for all our employees and via online learning To emphasize desired company culture and behavior – risk category as follows: plan. Every quarter, segments perform a ‘most likely’ forecast interventions (‘Workouts’) that target specific segments of and create awareness in the business – we developed a Strategic risks: in the pursuit of our strategic objectives, KPN four to six quarters ahead on their main financials and key the population. We have a stringent approach to bribery and communication and training program on compliance and is willing to accept reasonable risks in a responsible way, performance indicators (the rolling forecast). Segments update corruption, fraud and all other forms of (illegal) misconduct, integrity subjects. Information that is important to share taking into account our stakeholders’ interests. main risks and opportunities, resulting in a bandwidth of including facilitation payments. The effectiveness of, and because of (or due to a change in) applicable policies, laws or Operational risks: KPN is committed to a high quality of outcomes around expected performance. Each month, compliance with, the Code is structurally assessed by: regulations – or because of a necessity or demand in customer service resulting in an increasing NPS. We aim to segment management discusses their actual performance with business (risk or need based) – is shared by e-learning, limit the number of interruptions in our networks, services the Board of Management. workshops or classroom training. 46 47 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  ompliance & risk Compliance & risk Operational objectives Risk category and Main countermeasures KPN has business continuity plans in place to safeguard the The Disclosure Committee examines all reports and documents Strategic objective Risk Risk appetite (summary) Impact continuity of services to customers and critical systems and containing financial information that are intended for external Grow Increased competition from Strategic risk O ffer fixed-mobile services High: the described risk could processes. To manage our information security and privacy publication, to ensure that these fairly present KPN’s financial current competitors or new and competitive price/ lead to lower profitability as risks, we implemented the KPN Security Policy as part of the position and results. market entrants, or new KPN is willing to accept portfolio combinations well as lower market shares. disruptive technologies. reasonable risks in a Invest in quality of service In the longer run, it could BCF (for more details, refer to the separate Privacy and responsible way. and improve NPS impact our continuity. Security paragraphs on pages 32 and 33). Compliance objectives Trend: Our Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) framework comprises Introduce new innovative Monitoring KPI: products We have implemented ISO standards in designated areas to an integrated framework that oversees risks mainly related Market shares improve operational processes. Additionally, we continuously to compliance with telecommunications, competition, financial simplify services and processes. We implemented quality services (e.g. credit) and privacy legislation. Additionally, Simplify, Grow Damage, service interruptions, Operational risk M  onitor performance of Medium; the incidents could improvement plans such as ‘First Time Right’ and continued to we monitor compliance with Solvency II requirements operational issues in KPN’s technical infrastructure and negatively impact KPN’s technical infrastructure and IT. KPN is committed to a high IT customer satisfaction, focus on improving Net Promoter Scores (NPS). Risks related (KPN Insurance). For compliance risks, relevant processes quality of customer services Strengthen and simplify the reputation and profitability. to climate change and compliance with new environmental and controls have been implemented and are continuously Trend: and to limit disruptions as IT/TI legislations are incorporated in our risk management and monitored. For risks related to our regulated business much as possible. Back-up and recovery plans Monitoring KPI: control system. For example, flooding risks are managed in (as designated by ACM to have significant market power), in case of emergencies NPS NL (e.g. ‘be alert’ procedures) Weighted downtime reduction KPN’s business continuity strategy. With our climate neutral compliance controls are tested by dedicated staff all year round. performance for our own operations and continued focus on Simplify, Grow Threats to the confidentiality, Operational risk  ontinue and reinforce C High; the incidents could lead absolute energy reduction, we are in a very good position to integrity or availability of strategic security programs, to loss/theft of customer data, meet new regulations and customers’ expectations (read more 5. Report top risks, trends and incidents KPN’s networks, systems or KPN is committed to limit such as Permanent higher costs, penalties and in the Sustainability chapter on page 34). (customer) data caused by incidents as much as possible Vulnerability Management reputational damage. Segment management provides the Board of Management cyberattacks or terrorism. and implements strict policies Continued implementation This risk could impact our Our main suppliers comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct. with a quarterly assurance letter regarding the reliability of to keep our customer data of the KPN Security Policy continuity. Trend: private, safe and secure. Continue and strengthen Via this code, suppliers confirm that they support and respect their financial reporting, the effectiveness of their internal Security Operations Center Monitoring KPI: the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and controls over financial reporting, risk management and PHOSI (Potential Harm Of operate in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations (e.g. compliance with telecommunication laws, internal policies and Security Incident) by preventing discrimination, child labor or forced labor, and by other laws and regulations. Twice a year, Corporate Control # data leakages recognizing and respecting the environment in their business reports top risks and countermeasures to the Board of Grow Non-compliance with Compliance risk S trengthening the Medium; the risk could affect operations). Compliance with environmental law is covered by Management, including main improvement actions, if any. regulation, including privacy effectiveness of the KPN’s future operations and our ISO14001 certificate. and tax regulations. New KPN is committed to full compliance organization and profitability. Summary of main risks and countermeasures regulatory decisions in the EU compliance with relevant laws internal controls Financial objectives In the table on the right page a summary is given of KPN’s main and the Netherlands. and regulations. Proactive internal Monitoring KPI: compliance investigations Fines KPN’s Corporate Treasury department manages risks related to risks and countermeasures, including the expected trends and Proactive stakeholder and # incidents reported to Trend: cash positions, finance agreements, credit ratings, currency and impact. It also lists the KPIs that are used to monitor the reputation management regulators interest exposures, and non-life insurance (see Note 12 to the development of the risks and the realization of our risk including dialog with Consolidated Financial Statements). Treasury has defined appetite. The KPIs are frequently monitored in KPN’s planning regulators policies with clear boundaries for these risks. Compliance with and control cycle and discussed in the Board’s business reviews Innovate Frequency auctions in the Strategic risk P  reparation of auctions by High; KPN may have to pay a these policies is monitored frequently. with segment management, including improvement actions Netherlands could entail high experienced KPN team and high price for the required where necessary. costs. KPN is willing to accept external experts; simulation spectrum. As part of KPN’s tax strategy, the Corporate Tax Department reasonable risks in a of auctions This risk could impact our recommends the most tax-efficient and responsible approach For a more extensive list of our risks and countermeasures, Trend: responsible way. Investigate alternative continuity. combinations of spectrum in the interest of all stakeholders, while adhering to KPN’s tax see Appendix 8 included in the digital version of this Integrated and advanced techniques to Monitoring KPI: policy and complying with all relevant tax laws and regulations. Annual Report available on our website (www.kpn.com/ meet required technology N.A. This determines KPN’s overall tax risk appetite. As KPN annualreport). proactively engages with (Dutch) tax authorities, tax exposures Innovate, Grow Lack of new business Strategic risk K  PN innovation initiatives, High; lack of innovation could (if any) are contained and under control. Besides a potential initiatives to compensate new business as well as lead to lower profitability as tax exposure, reputational risk is always part of the declining existing business. KPN is willing to accept strategic partnerships well as lower market shares. reasonable risks in a Small in-country M&A and In the longer run, this risk consideration to apply a particular tax-planning idea. responsible way. KPN Ventures to form could impact our continuity. Trend: partnerships with innovative Financial reporting objectives companies. Monitoring KPI: Our internal controls for Reliable Financial Reporting (also Revenues new business known as RFR GRIP Framework) ensure that material misstatements in KPN’s Financial Statements are prevented or detected in a timely manner. Each quarter, Risk Management risk is increasing (worsening) risk is stable risk is decreasing (not as bad) and KPN Audit assess the overall effectiveness of the controls before publication of the quarterly figures. 48 49 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  ompliance & risk Compliance & risk As set forth by section 3 sub 1.c of the Non-financial Description and evaluation of the internal Risk Statement by the Board of Management and Responsibility information disclosure decree (Besluit bekendmaking nietManagement and Control Systems Statement financiële informatie) of 14 March 2017, KPN identified and As set forth by principle 1.2 of the Dutch Corporate Goverance assessed its main risks regarding environmental, social and Code 2016 and related best practice provisions, KPN Statement by the Board of Management personnel matters, human rights and anti-bribery and has designed and implemented Internal Risk Management and The Board of Management is responsible for the effectiveness of the design and operation of corruption. For more details on these risks, see Appendix 3. Control Systems, to identify and manage the risks associated KPN’s Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. These have been designed to manage with the company’s strategy and activities. During 2017, the risks that may prevent KPN from achieving its objectives. However, these Internal Risk Internal Audit a project team of Corporate Control and KPN Audit described Management and Control Systems cannot provide absolute assurance that material KPN’s internal audit function, KPN Audit assesses – in line witrh and systematically assessed the effectiveness of these systems. misstatements, fraud and violations of laws and regulations have been avoided. The Board of Dutch Corporate Governance requirements – the design and A summary of the main internal risk management and control Management reviewed and analyzed: effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control systems is provided in the preceding paragraphs. Systems (refer to page 46) and provides assurance to both the The strategic, operational, financial, financial reporting and regulatory and compliance risks, as Board of Management and the Audit Committee concerning During the assessment of the design and operating discussed in section Summary of main risks and countermeasures on page 48 and 49; and the ‘In Control status’ of KPN’s organization and processes. effectiveness of the systems, certain weaknesses and The design and operational effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control improvement actions were identified and implemented. Systems, as discussed on pages 46 to 50 of this Integrated Annual Report. Moreover, KPN Audit conducts ad hoc financial, information However, none of these were classified as a major failing, technology and operational audits and special investigations. as referred to in best practice provision 1.4.2 sub iii. For example, The results of this review and analysis were shared with the Audit Committee and Supervisory KPN Audit conducts its activities in a manner based on a KPN changed and strengthened its permanent vulnerability Board and discussed with KPN’s external auditors. continuous evaluation of perceived business risks, and has full management (protecting its systems against cyberattacks) and unrestricted access to all activities, documents/records, and the calculation method of certain non-financial KPIs With reference to best practice provision 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the properties and staff. The Chief Auditor reports to KPN’s CEO. (improving their reliability). chapter ‘Compliance & risk’, including Appendix 8, in this Integrated Annual Report, the Board of Quarterly KPN Audit reports are submitted and discussed with Management states that, to the best of its knowledge: both the Board of Management and the Audit Committee. During 2017, KPN was subject to five penalty cases for breaches i. this Integrated Annual Report provides sufficient insights into major failings in the effectiveness KPN Audit liaises extensively with the external auditor, inter of the law, all relating to telecommunication law. The penalties of the Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. There are no major failings to report; alia based on International Standard on Auditing 610. were all imposed before 2016. A final decision is still pending ii. the aforementioned systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial reporting, as for four cases, the penalties for which amount to EUR included in the Financial Statements on pages 76 to 130, does not contain any material Governance of risk management and compliance – three 9,573,000. EUR 8,640,000 of this was preliminarily paid in inaccuracies; lines of defense accordance with Dutch regulations. iii. based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial reporting, as included in Although the Board of Management is ultimately responsible the Financial Statements, is prepared on a going concern basis; and for risk management and compliance, it is business iv. this Integrated Annual Report states those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant management’s duty to effectively identify, assess and manage to the expectation of the company’s continuity for the period of twelve months after the the main risks of the company, in line with the steps discussed preparation of this report. in the previous paragraphs (first line of defense). The Risk Management and Compliance department (second line) are Responsibility Statement responsible for the design of the risk management and With reference to section 5.25c paragraph 2c of the Financial Markets Supervision Act, the Board compliance policies and to support and challenge business of Management states that, to the best of its knowledge: management in their assessment and management of top risks. KPN Audit (third line) performs, where necessary, independent The Financial Statements of 2017 give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial reviews on the design and operational effectiveness of the position and profit or loss of KPN and its consolidated companies; and Internal Risk Management and Control Systems. The main The Integrated Annual Report gives a true and fair review of the position as at 31 December results of both the risk assessments and the evaluation of the 2017, the development during 2017 of KPN and its group companies included in the Financial internal risk management and control systems, are shared with Statements, together with a description of the top risks KPN faces. the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and discussed with the external auditor. The Hague, 23 February 2018 Eelco Blok Frank van der Post Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Commercial Officer Jan Kees de Jager Joost Farwerck Member of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operations Officer 50 51 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices R  eport by the Supervisory Board Composition of the boards Board of Management E. Blok Mr. Blok is the Chairman of F.H.M. van der Post Mr. van der Post is a member of the the Board of Management and Board of Management and Chief The Board of Management manages KPN’s strategic, commercial, financial, CSR and Chief Executive Officer. Commercial Officer. organizational matters. The Board of Management currently consists of four members. All members of the Board of Management comply with clause Mr. Blok was appointed as a member of the Board of Management Mr. Van der Post began his career in the hospitality sector in 2:132a of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of on 1 June 2006, and was responsible for KPN’s Fixed division 1985. His positions included that of general manager at the positions in a supervisory or management board that a director until 1 January 2007. Until 1 February 2010, he was Managing American and Amstel Hotels in Amsterdam for may hold. Director of the Business, Getronics and Wholesale & Operations InterContinental Hotels, where he worked in a variety of segments (including iBasis). As of 1 February 2010, Mr. Blok international assignments. assumed responsibility for KPN’s international operations, In 2005, he joined the Jumeirah Group in Dubai, a chain of Composition of the Board of Management comprising Mobile International and iBasis, KPN’s wholesale luxury hotels in the Middle East and Asia. In 2008, he was international voice traffic carrier. He assumed the additional appointed Chief Operating Officer for the group. In 2011, role of Chief Operating Officer in October 2010. He was he switched from the hospitality to the aviation industry, Name Position Year of birth Start of term End of current term appointed Chief Executive Officer in April 2011. becoming executive director and board member of British Airways, where he was responsible for brands & marketing, E. Blok Chairman of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer 1957 June 2006/2010/2014* 2018 Mr. Blok joined KPN in 1983 and has had various management products and the customer experience, including cabin crew J.C. de Jager Board member and Chief Financial Officer 1969 September 2014 2018 positions, including as director of KPN’s Carrier Services, and the London Gatwick BA unit. Corporate Networks and Fixed Net Operator, and he was F.H.M. van der Post Board member and Chief Commercial Officer 1961 March 2015 2019 responsible for Corporate Strategy & Innovation. More recently, he was Chief Operating Officer of KPN’s former Fixed division. J.F.E Farwerck Board member and Chief Operating Officer 1965 April 2013/2017* 2021 He was co-chairman of the National Cyber Security Council until October of this year. Since 18 April 2017, Mr. Blok is member of * Reappointment the Supervisory Board of PostNL N.V. Mr. Blok will resign from office at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2018, having served two terms as Chairman of the Board of Management and a total of 12 years as a member of that board. Mr. Blok will be succeeded by Mr. Ibarra. J.C. de Jager J.F.E. Farwerck Mr. de Jager is a member of the Mr. Farwerck is a member of the Board of Management and Chief Board of Management and Chief Financial Officer. Operating Officer. From 2007 to 2012, Mr. de Jager was a member of the Dutch Mr. Farwerck started working at KPN in 1994 and held senior government, first as State Secretary for Finance (from 2007 management positions in various divisions. He has been to 2010), thereafter as Minister of Finance (from 2010 to 2012). responsible for all of KPN’s activities in the Netherlands as As Minister of Finance, Mr. de Jager’s responsibilities Managing Director Netherlands since February 2012, and has encompassed the budget, general financial and economic policy, held responsible for the operating activities of KPN as Chief supervision of financial markets and cooperation with international Operating Officer since September 2014. Mr. Farwerck is a financial institutions. As State Secretary for Finance, Mr. de Jager member of the executive committee of VNO-NCW, a member was responsible for many change processes, among others of the board of Nederland-ICT, of the board of The Hague within the Dutch Tax and Customs Administration. From 1992 Security Delta, and of the board of Of FME, as well as a member to 2007, Mr. de Jager founded and was Managing Partner at of the Cyber Security Council. He is also a member ISM eCompany, an eBusiness solutions company, for which he of the Strategic Advisory Board TNO. He is Chairman of the acted as special advisor after resigning from the Dutch Cabinet board of the KPN Group company iBasis. until he was appointed to the board of KPN in September 2014. Mr. de Jager is a member of the board of Stichting AECA Nederland and the chair of the Economic Board Zuid-Holland. 52 53 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  omposition of the Boards Composition of the boards Supervisory Board P.A.M. van Bommel Mr. van Bommel is currently a E.J.C. Overbeek Mr. Overbeek is Chief Executive member of the Board of Officer of HERE Technologies. Management and CFO of ASM Having spent nearly 30 years in the The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial policymaking by the Board of International N.V. and, as part of that ICT industry, Mr Overbeek has gained Management and the way in which it manages and directs KPN’s operations. KPN’s position, also a non-executive extensive experience in the global director of ASM PT (Hong Kong). digital and communication industry. Supervisory Board currently consists of eight members. Furthermore, he is a member of the Supervisory Board of Prior to joining HERE Technologies, he held several Neways Electronics International N.V. management roles at Cisco, including leading the global At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 12 April D.W. Sickinghe services organization and the Asia-Pacific, Japan & China 2017, Mr. C.J. García Moreno Elizondo and Mr. D.J. Haank were Mr. Sickinghe was appointed Before his appointment as CFO at ASMI, Mr. van Bommel was region. Mr. Overbeek is a Dutch citizen. re-appointed as members of the Supervisory Board. At an Chairman of the Supervisory Board CFO at Odersun, CFO at NXP and CFO at various divisions of Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of 4 September on 15 April 2015. Philips. Mr. van Bommel is a Dutch citizen. 2017, Mr. E.J.C. Overbeek was appointed as member of the J.C.M. Sap Supervisory Board. Mr. Sickinghe is Managing Director Ms. Sap occupies several All members of the Supervisory Board comply with clause of Fortino Capital (Belgium). C.J. García Moreno Elizondo supervisory and other functions, 2:142a of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of Furthermore, he is Chairman of the Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is including chairing the Supervisory positions in a supervisory or management board that a director Supervisory Board of Van Eeghen & currently CFO of América Móvil. Boards of the GGZ affiliate Arkin, may hold. Co (the Netherlands), member of the board of uniBreda He holds several supervisory and the Netherlands Public Health (Belgium) and member of the board of Guberna (Belgium). advisory positions, including those Federation and Fairfood Two vacancies will arise at the closure of the Annual General of member of the Board of Grupo International. Ms. Sap is also a Meeting of Shareholders in 2018, as Mr. Sickinghe and Mr. Sickinghe was previously Chief Executive Officer and Financiero Inbursa and Nacional member of the Supervisory Board of KPMG N.V. Mrs. Zuiderwijk will step down as they will reach the end of their member of the Board of Telenet N.V. (Belgium) in the period Financiera. He is also a member of four-year term of office. 2001-2013. Prior to that, he held various management positions the Supervisory Board of Telekom Austria Group. In addition, she is a partner at Camunico, a consultancy firm in at Hewlett-Packard (Switzerland), NeXT Computer (France), the field of sustainable management. Between 2008 and 2012, Mr. Spanbroek, General Counsel and Company Secretary, Wolters Kluwer (the Netherlands) and was founder of Software Prior to joining América Móvil, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo held Ms. Sap represented the Dutch Green Party, GroenLinks, in the acts as secretary to the Supervisory Board. Direct (France). Mr. Sickinghe is a Dutch citizen. positions at among others the Mexican Ministry of Finance as lower house of the Dutch parliament, the last two years of which the Director General of Public Credit and at the Swiss Bank she was party leader. Before that, she worked as an economist Corporation Warburg as executive director and managing in the fields of science, policy and business. She was, inter alia, director. Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is a Mexican citizen. head of the Incomes Policy department at the Ministry of Social Composition of the Supervisory Board Committees Affairs and Employment. Ms. Sap is a Dutch citizen. Nominating End of Strategy & & Corporate D.J. Haank Year of current Organization Governance Audit Remuneration Mr. Haank is the former CEO of C.J.G. Zuiderwijk Name birth Start of term term Committee Committee Committee Committee SpringerNature, from which he Mrs. Zuiderwijk chairs the Board of D.W. Sickinghe resigned on 31 December 2017. Management of the Chamber of 1958 9 April 2014 2018 X X X He is a member of the Supervisory Commerce. She is currently a member (Chairman Supervisory Board) Council of the Dutch broadcast of the Supervisory Board of APG 12 April 2012 association AvroTros. and is also a member of Forum P.A.M. van Bommel 1957 2020 X 13 April 2016* Smart Industry and of the NL2025 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 1957 10 April 2013 2021 X Before his appointment at Springer, network. 12 April 2017* Mr. Haank was the CEO of Elsevier Science and Executive Board 7 April 2009 Member of Reed Elsevier PLC. Mr. Haank is a Dutch citizen. Mrs. Zuiderwijk worked for PinkRoccade in various management D.J. Haank (Vice-Chairman) 1953 10 April 2013* 2021 X functions from 1993 to 2003. Thereafter, Mrs. Zuiderwijk 12 April 2017* chaired the board of the Hilversum hospital and, following the P.F. Hartman merger with the Gooi Noord hospital, the Board of the Tergooi P.F. Hartman 1949 15 April 2015 2019 X X X Mr. Hartman spent 40 years hospitals. Mrs. Zuiderwijk was also a member of the Innovation working for KLM, the last seven Platform of the Dutch government (from April 2007 to May E.J.C. Overbeek 1967 4 September 2017 2021 X of those as CEO. In 20132017 he 2010) and a member of the Care Innovation Platform of the was the vice-chair of the Dutch Ministry of Health (from April 2008 to May 2010). Mrs. J.C.M. Sap 1963 15 April 2015 2019 X Supervisory Board of Air France Zuiderwijk is a Dutch citizen. KLM Group. He is currently the chairman of the Supervisory Board C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 1962 9 April 2014 2018 X X X of Fokker Technologies Group and of Texel Airport N.V. and a member of the Supervisory Board of Constellium B.V. Mr. X Chairman X Member * Reappointment Hartman is a Dutch citizen. 54 55 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  omposition of the Boards Composition of the boards Insider transactions Stock ownership Board of Management 1 Number of ordinary shares 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 KPN employees that have access to inside information because the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are of their employment, profession or duties, including all furthermore subject to reporting obligations to the AFM. E. Blok 983,331 750,907 members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, are subject to the Code of Conduct ‘Inside Information’. This The following table provides an overview of transactions J.C. de Jager 319,383 232,410 Code of Conduct comprises rules for the possession of and in 2017 by members of KPN’s Board of Management and transactions in KPN securities by such employees. Members of Supervisory Board. F.H.M. van der Post 194,502 126,967 J.F.E. Farwerck 211,086 116,071 Date Name Transaction Price per share 1 February E. Blok Bought 35,000 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 2.70 1 S hares held by current members of the Board of Management (including vested shares in lock-up period). Share ownership relates to ordinary shares. In 2011, a share ownership recommendation was introduced whereby the members of the Board of Management are encouraged to acquire company shares equal to 1 February J.F.E. Farwerck Bought 15,000 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 2.69 one times the annual fixed compensation for members of the Board of Management (excluding CEO) and two times the annual fixed compensation for the CEO (see Note 5). Retained vested shares as part of the LTI will be included in the share ownership recommendation. 1 March F.H.M. van der Post Vested 53,093 conditional KPN shares (1/4 of the conditional KPN shares awarded on 1 EUR – March 2015 as compensation payment) into 33,767 ordinary KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax). Stock ownership Supervisory Board 10 April E. Blok Vested 68.75% of the 501,575 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2014 into 177,424 EUR – Number of ordinary shares 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 ordinary KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax). D.W. Sickinghe 380,000 380,000 10 April J.C. de Jager Vested 68.75% of the 245,871 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2014 into 86,973 EUR – ordinary KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax). P.A.M. van Bommel 114,000 114,000 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo – 80,820 10 April J.F.E. Farwerck Vested 68.75% of the 226,201 conditional KPN shares awarded as LTI 2014 into 80,015 EUR – ordinary KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax). D.J. Haank 24,351 24,351 13 April E. Blok Award of 412,889 conditional KPN shares. EUR – 13 April J.C. de Jager Award of 210,492 conditional KPN shares. EUR – 13 April F.H.M. van der Post Award of 226,684 conditional KPN shares. EUR – 13 April J.F.E. Farwerck Award of 202,396 conditional KPN shares. EUR – 2 May E. Blok Bought 20,000 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 2.66 1 September F.H.M. van der Post Vested 53,095 conditional KPN shares (1/4 of the conditional KPN shares awarded on 1 EUR – March 2015 as compensation payment) into 33,768 ordinary KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax). 56 57 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices R  eport by the Supervisory Board Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report: put KPN into a very strong position, as we can all see today. Shareholders The year 2017 Eelco deserves a lot of credit for his relentless focus on execution and enormous personal drive. His leadership and commitment to the success and evolution of KPN has been For shareholders, 2017 showed robust returns, including the regular dividend, pass through of the dividend received from impressive. Above industry-average investment in networks, our stake in Telefónica Deutschland and a EUR 200 million simplification, digitalization and service have led to much share buyback program. KPN’s total shareholder return (share 2017 brought another year of solid results for the company, both operationally and financially, stronger customer loyalty and reputation, providing a solid price performance and returns) outperformed the relevant despite a strong and diverse competitive landscape. Fixed-mobile convergence continued to platform for growth. Furthermore, through a number of smart European Telecoms indices, but underperformed the broader acquisitions Eelco has brought important innovation to KPN. market indices, such as the AEX Index. In its deliberations and deliver strong results in the Consumer segment, whereas the Business segment transformation We are grateful to Eelco for bringing his leadership, dedication decisions, the Supervisory Boards aims to take due account of is gradually progressing. The continued ambition to become the best service provider across and perseverance to KPN. He has been instrumental in the our shareholders’ interests at all times, and throughout the year innovation at KPN and the renewal of our company culture. we have had a number of contacts with shareholders in order all sectors in the Netherlands resulted in increasing Net Promoter Scores, a key indicator of to understand their concerns, listen to their inputs and benefit customer satisfaction and loyalty. The Simplification program not only helped to better focus As part of the arrangements around his resignation, Eelco Blok from their expertise. An investor perception study and to improve the quality of our service, but also lead to structurally lower cost levels. will receive a severance payment of one year’s base salary, commissioned by the Board of Management was discussed in a which fits the company’s remuneration policy and the Dutch Supervisory Board meeting and provided valuable inputs on Throughout the year, the Supervisory Board reviewed the progress on the execution of the Corporate Governance Code. the views of our shareholders. plans, and challenged both the plans and the results where relevant. Corporate governance The boards Strategic themes relevant themes such as energy consumption, privacy & The new Dutch Corporate Governance Code, as presented in Composition security and healthcare, where KPN can make a real impact in late 2016 and formally adopted by the Dutch government in In its evaluation of 2016, the Supervisory Board concluded In its meetings and in particular through the Strategy & Dutch society. The goal to become largely circular by 2025 has 2017, emphasizes the need to focus on long-term value it could benefit from more knowledge of, and experience in, Organization Committee, the Supervisory Board regularly the board’s full support. And of course we congratulate het creation for the company. The implementation of the new code the digital and communication industry. With the appointment discussed the key strategic themes of the company, including Mooiste Contact Fonds on its 10th anniversary. was discussed by the Supervisory Board on multiple occasions, of Edzard Overbeek in September 2017 we have strengthened the Business segment transformation, the competitive with strong support for the main focal points of the new code, our profile in this respect, and now have a composition that we landscape, network roll-out and investments in content. including the enhanced attention for long-term value creation, believe to suit the needs of the company today. We will It furthermore discussed opportunities for mergers and CEO succession broad attention for risk management and culture as a key however continue to review our own composition and acquisitions within the expressed framework of ‘small, in contributor to the integrity of the company. The Supervisory functioning over time, in order to ensure we continue to have country M&A’. It most notably reviewed and approved the In October, the Supervisory Board announced the intended Board amended its own practices on a number topics to the right knowledge, experience and diversity for the acquisition of QSight IT, which strengthens KPN’s position as appointment of Maximo Ibarra as the new CEO of the company, comply with the latest insights on good governance and, at the performance of our tasks. For an overview of the current skills a leading Dutch security services provider. The Supervisory following the end of Eelco Blok’s second term in that position same time, was pleased to find that the company’s existing and competences, please refer to the skills matrix. Board furthermore discussed the best use of the stake in at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2018. practices were already for a large part compliant with these Telefónica Deutschland and approved the swap of part of that The announcement followed a period of intensive and insights. In its December meeting, the Supervisory Board At the end of the 2018 AGM, both Mrs. Zuiderwijk and Mr. stake for shares in Telefónica SA, which were subsequently thorough deliberation by the Supervisory Board on the approved new by-Laws and Terms of Reference for both Sickinghe are due to step down from the Supervisory Board, sold. The subsequent EUR 200m share buyback program also company’s strategy and challenges for the coming period, the Boards and the Supervisory Board’s committees, incorporating having reached the end of their first term in the office. The received the Supervisory Board’s support. desired profile for the company’s CEO in light thereof, and the the changes in the Code. position of Mrs. Zuiderwijk is subject to the enhanced right of evaluation of candidates to fit that profile. This process lead to recommendation of the Central Works Council, which In a separate meeting, the Supervisory Board discussed the the final conclusion to appoint Maximo Ibarra as the new CEO. The Supervisory Board continued its open dialogue with the recommended her reappointment. Based on the skills matrix, views of the Board of Management on the vision for the Central Works Council, and was proud that KPN was rewarded the Supervisory Board believes Mrs. Zuiderwijk fits the profile company in the longer term, and the strategic choices to be The Supervisory Board believes Maximo Ibarra to be a widely the Driehoek 3D award for the cooperation between the of the Supervisory Board and the desired skills, and therefore made in this respect. We particularly value such open respected and dynamic leader with a proven track record in the Central Works Council, the Board of Management and the happily accepts the recommendation. For the position of Mr. exchanges on critical long-term themes, and believe this adds telecommunications industry and a deep understanding of Supervisory Board. Sickinghe, key requirements include knowledge of an important value to the debate between the Supervisory Board customer needs. As CEO of Wind in Italy, Maximo has experience in the telecommunications industry, international and the Board of Management. successfully led the merger between Wind and H3G, creating experience, financial market expertise and strong leadership. Wind Tre, a leading integrated mobile and fixed player in the The committee concluded that a reappointment of Mr. Italian market. We are excited to appoint him and convinced Sickinghe would best fit this profile. The Central Works Council Corporate social responsibility that with his wealth of experience and a demonstrated ability supports the nomination. to lead, Maximo will be able to navigate KPN into its next phase. The Supervisory Board was extremely pleased by the recognition for KPN’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) The Supervisory Board is very grateful to Eelco Blok for his activities, e.g. as the Industry Leader in the Dow Jones tremendous contribution to the company during his full career Sustainability Index, and by being recognized on the A-list of of 34 years. Eelco has been a member of the Board of the Carbon Disclosure Project. Over the past years, CSR has Management for 12 years, of which seven as its chairman and become an integral part of KPN’s strategy through highly CEO. During his successful tenure as CEO, he has been able to 58 59 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices R  eport by the Supervisory Board Report by the Supervisory Board C.J. D.W. D.J. P.A.M. van García C.J.G. P.F. J.C.M. E.J.C. Meetings Skills / Characteristics Sickinghe Haank Bommel Moreno Zuiderwijk Hartman Sap Overbeek The Supervisory Board met on 13 occasions, of which 8 were Supervisory Board and per Committee is provided in the table Business leadership x x x x x x x regularly scheduled. Most meetings took – at least partly below. place with the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board Industry knowledge (Telco) x x x however also held closed (parts of) meetings without members All members had adequate time available to prepare Industry knowledge (IT) x x x of the Board of Management attending, including around the themselves and give the required attention to the matters at Commercial x x x x x CEO succession. Also outside of formal board meetings, hand. In the event members could not join a meeting, the members of the Supervisory Board were in frequent contact. Chairman discussed the matters at hand before and after the Operational x x x x The overall attendance at the Supervisory Board meetings was meeting, in order to obtain the input and views of all Employment / social relations x x x 92%. An overview of attendance per member of the Supervisory Board members. Society / government relations x x x Corporate social responsibility x Name Board (13) Audit (4) SOC (3) RemCo (5) NomCo (8) Financial markets x x x x Van Bommel 100% 100% Finance, audit & risk x x x x x Garcia Moreno 77% 50% Financial experts (Dutch Corporate Governance x x Hartman 100% 100% 100% 100% Code) International experience x x x x x x Haank 100% 100% Overbeek¹ 86% 0% Executive / Non-executive Sap 100% 100% (Full-time) Executive position at another company x x x x x x Sickinghe 92% 100% 100% 100% Mainly non-executive role x x Zuiderwijk 77% 100% 100% 100% Diversity Total 92% 83% 92% 100% 100% Male x x x x x x 1 M  r. Overbeek joined the Board in the course on the year, and attended 5 out of 6 board meetings, but could not attend the one meeting of the SOC that was held since he joined. Female x x As for the composition of the Board of Management, the most For upcoming vacancies, we aim to make further progress in important matter at hand was a decision on the position of the reaching at least a 30% female representation. In this context it CEO, as already explained above. In addition, as the four-year is noted however that, in case of potential reappointments, the Independence Audit Committee term of office of Mr. de Jager will expire in the course of 2018, Supervisory Board would first determine whether the existing At all times, the composition of the Supervisory Board was The Audit Committee had four regularly scheduled meetings, the Supervisory Board has also considered his reappointment member would be (proposed for) reappointment and aim for such, that the members were able to act critically and all of which were also attended by the CFO, the external auditor as CFO. Given his past performance and the expectations of his further female candidates only if the existing member will not independently of one another, the Board of Management and Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY), the Internal Auditor and contribution to the future of the company, the Supervisory be reappointed. Given that consideration, we believe the any particular interest involved, as provided for under best the Director Corporate Control and partly attended by the Board concluded that it intends to reappoint Mr. de Jager for a diverse composition of the Supervisory Board can be reached practices provisions 2.1.7 to 2.1.9 of the Dutch Corporate Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The committee also met second four-year term. The Supervisory Board thereby by 2022 at the latest. As for the positions in the Board of Governance Code. Throughout the year, seven members of the separately with EY, which was appointed by the Annual General particularly valued his experience within KPN, his financial Management, this will highly depend on future vacancies and Supervisory Board, including the Chairman, were independent Meeting of shareholders as KPN’s independent external expertise, his entrepreneurial experience, his extensive opportunities. The Supervisory Board supports KPN’s diversity from the company within the meaning of these provisions. Mr. auditor. experience gained during his career in both the private and policy (see page 23), which should in time also lead to more García Moreno Elizondo, who was appointed upon the public sector, as well as his operational leadership in the internally promotable female candidates. nomination of America Móvil, is not considered independent The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed in particular all technology sector and his effective and open leadership style. under provision 2.1.8 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. financially relevant matters that were presented to the Shareholders will be informed of this intention at the AGM in The Supervisory Board devoted fair time to its own permanent Supervisory Board, most notably the Annual Report, the April 2018. education, in particular around the new Dutch Corporate See Note 21 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for quarterly results, (the financial and risk-related aspects of) the Governance Code, but it also received an introduction on information on related party transactions. strategic plan and the outlook for 2018. It had a specific focus The Supervisory Board remains committed to ensuring that the quantum computing for instance. The Supervisory Board on the effectiveness and outcome of the internal control Supervisory Board and Board of Management will consist of at evaluated its own performance in its meeting in January 2018, framework and the risk management systems of the company, least 30% female and at least 30% male members, thereby and concluded that it was generally satisfied with its own Committee Reporting for which it received and reviewed reports by the Internal serving the interest of a balanced composition of the boards. performance, noting in particular strong and collegial Auditor, the Compliance Office and the Disclosure Committee. When searching for candidates for available board seats, cooperation amongst its members. As items for further The Supervisory Board has established four Committees: The Each quarter, the Audit Committee also discussed in detail the including the expansion of the Supervisory Board and the CEO improvement it noted obtaining relevant information from the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee (RemCo), the matters included in the board report of the external auditor EY. succession in 2017, special attention has been given to company, sufficient outside-in views and expertise and a Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee (NomCo) At the start of the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the 2017 identifying female candidates. However, in both cases, based balanced and efficient agenda setting between the committees and the Strategy and Organization Committee (SOC). The main plans of the internal and external auditors, addressing the key on the profile for the position at hand, a male candidate finally and the full board. considerations and conclusions of each Committee were topics for their audits. proved to be the best choice for the company. shared with the full Supervisory Board. 60 61 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices R  eport by the Supervisory Board Report by the Supervisory Board The Audit Committee also kept close oversight on KPN’s in the execution of the policy to be fully compliant. It discussed Financial Statements Final remarks financing policy and profile and the related proposals for the most relevant manner to report on pay ratios within the dividends, a share buyback program and bond redemptions. company, as set out in the remuneration report. The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 We exist by virtue of our customers. Our employees and Also, the Audit Committee discussed the options to monetize were prepared by the Board of Management and approved by management make us who we are. Our business partners part of the Telefonica Deutschland stake (and related use of The Committee furthermore prepared the remuneration the Supervisory Board. The Report of the Independent Auditor, enable us to reach our goals together. Our shareholders and proceeds) and monitored the execution thereof (through e.g. package for the new CEO, including the proposed base salary, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY), is included in the ‘Other bondholders trust us with their financial resources to allow us a swap in and subsequent sale of Telefónica shares). for final decision-making by the Supervisory Board. Information’ on page 131. to finance our business. We aim to be an engaged member of During an annual evaluation meeting with the individual Dutch society at large. The Audit Committee furthermore discussed other topics that members of the Board of Management, it took note of the The Supervisory Board recommends that the Annual General were within its scope of attention, most notably compliance, views of their members on their own remuneration. Meeting of Shareholders adopts these Financial Statements. The Supervisory Board is grateful to all stakeholders for their fraud management and tax matters, and paid specific attention to When engaging external experts, the Committee ensured that the contribution to our company. such topics as IT/TI/Cybersecurity, changes in IFRS regulations expert was independent from the consultant used by the Company and the execution of the new design of the finance organization. and acted solely on the instructions of the Committee on a Duco W. Sickinghe, Chairman basis in which conflicts of interest were avoided. Finally, the Audit Committee reviewed the performance Further details on the remuneration policy are provided in the Peter A.M. van Bommel evaluation of EY (and was satisfied with the results) and also chapter ‘Remuneration Report’ starting on page 64. Carlos J. García Moreno Elizondo performed a self-assessment by means of an extensive Derk J. Haank questionnaire. The overall outcome of the evaluation was Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee Peter F. Hartman positive and some attention points were defined. The Audit The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee met on Edzard J.C. Overbeek Committee also reflected on the impact of the new Dutch eight occasions in 2017. It reviewed both the composition of the Jolande C.M. Sap Corporate Governance Code on its functioning. Board of Management and the Supervisory Board and lead the Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk annual evaluation of the performance of the individual Strategy and Organization Committee members of the Board of Management. The Strategy and Organization Committee held three meetings in 2017, which were also attended by several members of the As for the Board of Management, the Committee lead the Board of Management and staff. process and deliberations of the Supervisory Board around the CEO succession, as set out above. Among other things The committee worked with the Board of Management to the committee prepared the desired profile of the CEO, and evaluate aspects of the company’s current and potential engaged an external consultant to search for candidates, strategy, where relevant in preparation of decisions in the full which it subsequently evaluated. It presented the Supervisory Supervisory Board. The topics discussed were chosen by the Board with options for decision-making. In light of future Committee based on suggestions by Management or the board composition, it also performed a review of the senior Committee itself, and included such topics as the competitive management of the company. landscape, the transformation of business market, (TV) content and the hybrid access strategy. The Committee on a regular The Committee furthermore evaluated the potential basis reviewed relevant M&A developments and was kept reappointment of Mr. de Jager, who will reach the end of his updated on the progress of KPN Ventures. By discussing such first term of appointment in September 2018. Given his past topics, the committee enabled the full Board to gain an even performance and the expectations of his contribution to the better view of the impact of choices made on the company, future of the company, the Committee concluded it was in the hence improving the Supervisory Board’s oversight, while best interest of the company to recommend the reappointment having in-depth discussions with relevant members of staff. of Mr. de Jager for a further four-year term. Remuneration Committee As for the composition of the Supervisory Board itself, the The Remuneration Committee met on five occasions during Committee steered the process leading to the appointment 2017. The CEO attended (parts of) the committee meetings. of Mr. Overbeek, as well as the proposed reappointment of The Committee assisted the Supervisory Board in establishing Mr. Sickinghe and Mrs. Zuiderwijk, who are due to step down at and reviewing KPN’s pay policy to ensure that members of the 2018 AGM. As the latter process involved two members of the Board of Management are compensated consistently with the Committee, the Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board that policy. was also involved in this process. Please refer to the section of the Composition of the Boards above for a further explanation The committee defined the level of pay-out for individual of the reasons for these nominations. members of the Board of Management as part of the STI plan 2016 and LTI grant 2014, and determined the financial and The Committee furthermore monitored the implementation of non-financial targets and performance criteria for the STI and LTI the new Dutch Corporate Governance Code in the company, plans 2017. It reviewed the remuneration policy against the new and amongst others prepared the review of the new by-laws Dutch Corporate Governance Code and made minor amendments and Terms of Reference of the Boards and the Committees. 62 63 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Remuneration Report Remuneration Report A. Executive remuneration at a glance The pay mix for executives consists of the following four elements: Component Form Fixed/variable Drivers Base salary Cash Fixed Experience and responsibility Introduction KPN’s remuneration policy; a balanced approach between market competitive standards and long-term Benefits (primarily pensions) Funded by cash contributions Fixed Market-competitive standards We are committed to preserving your confidence and trust by value creation presenting an accountable and transparent implementation of The objectives and principles of KPN’s remuneration policy are Short-Term Incentive (STI) Cash Variable Performance – assessed through annual financial and non-financial targets our remuneration policy. based on a balanced approach between market competitive standards, the ratio between fixedand variable pay (with a Performance – assessed through relative TSR (peer group), Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Conditional shares Variable free cash flow, earnings per share and non-financial parameters KPN’s core values are Customer, Together and Simplicity which focus on long-term value creation) and the economic and form the essence of our organizational culture. Considering social contribution of the company linked to the non-financial these core values and also being aware of the public debate parameters of the variable pay: surrounding the topic of executive remuneration, we strive to The ratio between fixed and variable pay balance our core values and all stakeholder interests in our The ratio between fixed and variable pay is influenced by the Objectives: Principles: remuneration programs. We thereby emphasize on shortand extent to which targets are met. The following pie charts long-term value creation through pay-for-performance based Market competitive standards: represent the pay mix for both the CEO and the other board on financial and non-financial targets and benchmarked members in case of an on-target performance. The different median pay levels. This ensures a strong alignment with the Attracting, motivating and retaining pay mix for the CEO (when compared to the other executives) Paying at market-median level the necessary leadership talent company’s annual performance goals and long-term value reflects the outcome of the benchmark reference. creation strategy based on addressing the needs and Complying with best practice in corporate Enhancing transparency and challenges of society. governance clarity KPN’s remuneration levels Differentiating by experience KPN’s remuneration levels are benchmarked against other Supporting a work environment where The Remuneration Committee’s (the Committee) tasks are laid inspiring leadership is the norm and responsibility, while companies in order to ensure that KPN’s total level of down in the terms of reference of the Committee. The promoting internal fairness compensation based on the pay mix is in line with KPN’s Committee assists the Supervisory Board with establishing, Ratio base/variable pay (focus on long-term value creation): remuneration policy and objectives, as described above. In implementing and reviewing the company’s remuneration order to benchmark pay levels, KPN uses an employment peer policy to ensure that members of the Board of Management Driving performance that generates group of companies against which KPN competes for talent. are compensated in consistence with that policy. long-term sustainable and profitable Paying for performance The peer employment group consists of AEX-listed and growth European sector-specific companies. The advice of Korn Ferry The Chairman and members of the Remuneration Committee Encouraging customer satisfaction and Rewarding a customer centric Hay Group, an independent external consultant, is used by the are appointed by the Supervisory Board. The Committee loyalty, agility and innovation approach Committee to ensure an objective benchmark for KPN’s currently consists of Mr. Hartman (Chairman), Mr. Sickinghe Economic and social contribution: remuneration policy and levels of remuneration. and Mrs. Zuiderwijk. Creating economic value by addressing the Balancing all stakeholder needs and challenges of society interests Remuneration policy Compensation Compensation policy policy CEO CEO OtherOther Executives Executives Base Base Base Base STI STI STI STI Overview LTI LTI LTI LTI 30% 30% 36% 36% Executive Duties of t he Executive Supervisory Board pay 42% 42% 40% 40% remuneration at a Committee remuneration. policy glance policy – overview A B C D 28% 28% 24% 24% In-depth insight into Highlights of KPN’s Insight into the KPN’s remuneration Highlights of KPN’s remuneration policy and duties of the policy for the Boardof pay policy for the actual remuneration Committee Management and Supervisory Board execution thereof 64 65 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Actual remuneration Board of Management B. Duties of the Committee Strategic Goals of ‘Simplify Grow Innovate’ In thousands of EUR. See the section ‘Personnel Expenses’ section in the Consolidated Financial Statements for full disclosure of remuneration cost under IFRS principles. Actual remuneration 2017 shows elevated levels compared to the last year, a confirmation Duties of the Committee of the fact that the company has delivered results, outperforming its ambitions on both financial and non-financial aspects over the The Committee assists the Supervisory Board with: past 3-year’s period, creating (long-term) value for all stakeholders. Establishing and reviewing the company’s remuneration Actual vested LTI policy (based amongst other things, on national and Short-term targets Long-term targets over results in Pension cost and international benchmark standards); Name Year Base STI the past 3 years social security Total Ensuring that members of the Board of Management Eelco Blok 2017 850 859 1,870¹ 269 3,848 are compensated consistently with that policy; and Reviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes Financial Financial 2016 850 531 1,031² 264 2,676 to the pay of the Supervisory Board. Non-financial Non-financial Jan Kees de Jager 2017 643 367 917¹ 124 2,051 Members of the Supervisory Board regularly liaise with 2016 625 238 505² 122 1,490 senior management below Board of Management level. Reward Reward In performing its duties, the Committee is assisted by an Cash Conditional shares Frank van der Post 2017 700 363 1,474¹-³ 180 2,717 external remuneration consultancy firm (i.e. Korn Ferry Hay 2016 700 266 318⁴ 171 1,455 Group). The Committee is fully independent in the execution Principles of KPN’s remuneration policy of its assigned responsibilities and ensures that the external KPN’s remuneration policy is guided by the following main Joost Farwerck 2017 611 332 843¹ 144 1,930 remuneration consultancy firm acts on the instructions of the principles: Committee and on a basis by which conflicts of interest are 1) Paying at market-median level: this is achieved through 2016 575 239 465² 139 1,418 avoided. Further information on the activities of the committee benchmarking against an employment market peer group in 2017 can be found in the Report by the Supervisory Board. consisting of companies with which KPN generally 1 Final measurement of the 2015 share grant was conducted in 2018, which leads to 172.86% vesting of the shares in April 2018. The amounts give an indication of the underlying value of the shares that will vest in April 2018 based on the closing share price of KPN at 15 February 2018 (EUR 2.56). competes for talent; 2 Final TSR measurement for the 2014 share grant was conducted in 2017, which led to vesting of shares in April 2017. The estimated numbers in the 2016 2) Pay-for-performance: target remuneration aims at 30–40% Remuneration Report are restated with the actual value at vesting with exception for Mr. van der Post as no 2014 share plan was granted to him. C. Executive remuneration policy – overview of pay in base salary, and 60–70% in variable pay in order to 3 In March and September 2017, part of the long-term compensation of Mr. van der Post vested as agreed at his appointment as Board member in 2015. 4 In March 2016, part of the long-term payment of Mr. van der Post vested as agreed at his appointment as Board member in 2015. maintain a strong alignment with the company’s annual Objectives of KPN’s remuneration policy financial performance goals and long-term value creation The essence of our organizational culture is aimed at delivering strategy; results. KPN’s remuneration programs therefore emphasize 3) Differentiating by experience and responsibility: Incentives aligned with strategy and sustainable KPN’s internal pay ratio variable pay and long-term value creation. this is achieved through alignment of the pay with the performance growth In line with the revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code responsibilities, relevant experience, required competence The focus of KPN’s strategy is on accelerating upand (2016), KPN takes into account the internal pay ratios within Sustainable performance growth and performance of individual jobholders. Consequently, cross-sell in bundles, growth in TV and IT services, finalization the organization when formulating the remuneration policy. The performance measures of the shortand long-term there can be substantial differentials in pay levels, despite of business transformation and further improving customer In light of transparency and clarity, KPN applies a methodology incentive plans are aligned with sustainable performance employees having similar job titles; and experience. Combined with a flexible and simplified integrated to calculate the internal pay ratio that is IFRS-driven (i.e. linked growth. The focus is on both financial and non-financial targets 4) Balancing all stakeholder interests based on a transparent network and operating model KPN continues to expand its to KPN’s Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). in order to support creation of economic value by addressing remuneration policy. superior access position by deploying innovative technologies. the needs and challenges of society. Examples of such Together, this leads to an optimized financial framework and a KPN’s internal pay ratio is calculated as the total CEO non-financial performance measures are: customer satisfaction, These principles apply to all levels of senior management. growing dividend. The goals and objectives of this strategy are compensation divided by the average employee compensation loyalty and customer base, reputation targets and energy The company’s remuneration policy is compliant with the reflected in the shortto medium-term targets and long-term (total personnel expenses divided by the average number of reduction targets. The alignment of KPN’s remuneration policy relevant legal requirements and the principles of the revised targets, which are used to compensate senior management for FTE)5. Consequently, KPN’s calculated pay ratio in 2017 is 36 with its strategic goals is reflected in the following overview. Dutch Corporate Governance Code. their performance. The performance measures also strengthen (2016: 33). sustainable performance growth by focusing on both financial Composition of employment market peer group and non-financial performance indicators. For further details see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial and market assessment Statements. To ensure the overall competitiveness of KPN’s remuneration Level of variable compensation aligned with the levels, these levels are benchmarked against an employment company’s risk profile market peer group. The Committee uses one peer group KPN aligns incentives with its long-term strategy, but it also consisting of AEX-listed companies and European sectorneeds to focus on short-term success in order to achieve specific companies. The following table shows the current further growth. The company’s risk profile is embedded in the composition of KPN’s employment peer group: 5 KPN has temporary employees, who are not included in the published FTE short-term and long-term incentive structure which numbers. A like-for-like comparison is established by adjusting costs for measurement is assured by KPN’s standards of internal control “additional labor capacity” and “own work capitalized” in the calculation of over financial reporting. the average employee compensation. 66 67 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Employment peer group Performance incentive zone Short-term Incentives (STI) The target ranges for financial and operational performance AkzoNobel NV BT Group Plc comprise: A ‘threshold’ below which no incentive is paid; Component Short-term incentives DSM NV Cap Gemini NV An ‘on-target’ performance level at which an ‘on-target’ incentive is paid; and Form of compensation Cash Heineken NV Portugal Telecom SA A ‘maximum’ at which the maximum incentive is paid. ‘On-target’ incentive equals 90% of base salary for the CEO and 60% of base salary for the other members of the Board of Value determination Management. Randstad Holding NV Proximus SA The STI is designed to strike a balance between the company’s Targets typically are EBITDA, free cash flow, revenue and various measures of customer and employee satisfaction, customer risk profile and the incentive to achieve ambitious targets. The Targets loyalty and customer base. A circuit breaker is applicable as a minimum requirement for pay-out of the STI non-financial RELX NV/Plc Swisscom AG pay-out methodology is based on a separate pay-out approach parameters.If this minimum requirement is not achieved, the non-financial parameters of the STI will not generate a pay-out. for each of the financial and non-financial targets. The Royal Ahold Delhaize NV Vodafone Group Plc Supervisory Board’s ability to apply a discretionary factor Pay-out at threshold 25% of the ‘on-target’ incentive (i.e. 22.5% of base salary for the CEO and 15% of base salary for the other members of the Board ranges between 0.7 (reducing the incentive by 30%) and 1.3 performance of Management). Pay-out below threshold performance: 0% of the ‘on-target’ incentive. Royal Philips NV Unilever NV/Plc (increasing the incentive by 30%). With this discretionary factor, the Supervisory Board is able to express the assessment Discretionary factor A factor between 0.7, reducing the incentive by 30%, and 1.3, increasing the incentive by 30%. The Committee regularly reviews the peer group to ensure that of the overall individual performance of each member of the Pay-out capped at 150% of the ‘on-target’ incentive (i.e. 135% of base salary for the CEO and 90% of base salary for the other its composition is still appropriate. The composition of the peer Board of Management. The Supervisory Board has agreed a set Scenario maximum members of the Board of Management). group might be adjusted as a result of mergers or other of non-financial KPI’s with each individual member of the Board corporate activities. The relative size of KPN is taken into of Management. The performance based on these KPI’s will be account when determining whether KPN’s pay levels are in line evaluated by the Committee annually and discussed with the Long-term Incentives (LTI) with the market-median levels. individual Board members at the end of each year. The outcome of this discussion will be used by the Supervisory Base salary Board as a reference to determine the discretionary factor. Component Long-term share-based compensation The Committee determines appropriate base salary levels based on KPN’s relative positioning in the peer group taken Discretion both upwards and downwards can be applied by the Form of compensation Shares into account the underlying principles of the remuneration Supervisory Board if the outcome of the STI scheme would policy. Each year, the Supervisory Board considers whether produce an unfair result or if the outcome would not be Value determination1 CEO: based on 135% of base pay. Other members of the Board of Management: based on 90% of base pay. circumstances justify an adjustment in base salary within the considered to reflect the basic objectives and principles of pay market-competitive target range for individual members of the as outlined in this section. For 25% based on relative TSR versus peer group, for 25% on free cash flow, for 25% on earnings per share, for 12.5% on Targets sustainability/environmental targets and for 12.5% on stakeholder/customer targets. Vesting of non-financial targets will be Board of Management. subject to achieving a cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three years (i.e. qualifier for vesting). Actual pay-out levels Short-term Incentives (STI): 70% financial and 30% Based on the financial and non-financial targets set by the On-target 100% of the granted shares vest. non-financial targets Supervisory Board at the beginning of the year free cash flow (weighting 30%) performed above maximum while the targets Scenario maximum Position 1 in TSR peer group and maximum performance of financial and non-financial targets: 200% of the granted shares vest. General EBITDA (weighting 25%), customer base (weighting 15%), Net At the beginning of each year, the Supervisory Board sets Promoter Score (weighting 15%) and revenue (weighting 15%) financial and non-financial target ranges for the Board of performed, each, between threshold and target level. 1 Based on the average share price of the first trading day after the AGM. Dividend paid during the vesting period will be included in the value determination. Management. These ranges are based on the company’s business plan. At the end of the year, the Supervisory Board reviews the company’s performance against the target ranges. Long-term Incentives (LTI): 75% financial and 25% It is considered that comparing KPN’s TSR with a wider group Members of the Board of Management are eligible for an non-financial targets of companies (either geographically or with other industries) is annual cash incentive only if company performance is at or not meaningful. Variations in returns would most likely be above the predetermined ranges. General attributed largely to macro-economic events and/or sector shifts In addition to the base salary and the short-term annual cash rather than to variations in management actions. Therefore, Objectives: focus on both financial and non-financial targets incentive described above, a long-term incentive based on benchmarking TSR achievements relative to other, similar The objective of this STI scheme is to ensure that the Board of performance shares is used to ensure that the interests of the companies emphasizes rewarding for specific KPN performance. Management is well incentivized to achieve company members of the Board of Management are aligned with those performance targets in the shorter term. Specific details on of its long-term (or prospective) shareholders and to provide The non-financial parameters set are based on energy targets cannot be disclosed for performance measures, as this an incentive for members of the Board of Management to reduction and a reputation dashboard. See the relevant would require providing commercially sensitive information. continue their employment/service agreement relationship sections of this Integrated Annual Report for detailed The Committee uses scenario analysis to estimate the possible with the company. information about energy reduction and reputation. The outcomes and decides whether a correct risk incentive is set performance period of the LTI plan is set at three years. Vesting for the members of the Board of Management with respect to The number of shares granted under this plan is based on a is, in principle, also subject to the condition that the member of the overall level of pay and pay differentials within the percentage of base pay as shown in the LTI table. The vesting the Board of Management has not resigned within three years company. methodology is based on a separate vesting approach for each of the date of the initial grant. The Committee uses scenario of the financial and non-financial targets. analysis to estimate the possible outcomes of the value of the 68 69 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Remuneration Report Remuneration Report shares vesting in coming years and decides whether a correct Performance incentive zone solid relative financial performance and the strong All members of the Board (including the CEO) are appointed risk incentive is set for the members of the Board of In line with the design of KPN’s LTI plan, the target performance on non-financial metrics such as energy for a period of four years, which is in line with the requirements Management with respect to the overall level of pay and pay performance ranges for vesting of the LTI plan comprise a reduction and reputation. The targets for the LTI plan 2015 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. differentials within the company. threshold below which no shares vest, an on-target were set at the grant date in 2015. During the vesting period performance level at which shares vest at on-target and a 2015-2017 KPN was able to offset the revenue pressure and Severance arrangements See Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a maximum at which the shares vest at the maximum level. delivered stable adjusted EBITDA as well as growing free cash Severance payments for the CEO and members of the Board of further description and valuation of the option and share plans. flow and growing dividend per share. This solid performance is Management are aligned with the revised Dutch Corporate Once vested, the shares will have to be held for a minimum also reflected in KPN’s third relative position in terms of TSR Governance Code (2016) and equal one-year base salary. For Performance-measuring and peer group performance period of two years. An exception to this rule is made for shares performance in the peer group of 12 European Mr. van der Post, an exception to this policy was agreed, with a The following table provides an overview of KPN’s performance that are sold to cover income tax obligations in relation to the telecommunications companies. severance payment of 18 months base salary only during his first peer group to determine KPN’s relative shareholder return for vested shares typically the value taxed as income equals term of appointment, as accepted under the Dutch Corporate LTI plans. the number of shares vested multiplied by the share price at In 2017, KPN became the industry leader in the category Governance Code in place at the time of his appointment. the time of vesting. An external remuneration consultant Telecommunications of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Companies included in the peer group calculates the end-of-year TSR peer group position and the Index (DJSI). This strong performance, including a year-onnumber of shares vested based on this target, and makes year reduction in energy consumption despite an exponential BT Group Plc Tele2 AB certain that calculations are performed objectively and increase in data traffic, is reflected in KPN’s sustainability independently. The TSR is calculated based on the threeperformance during the vesting period 2015-2017. Next to that, Deutsche Telekom AG Telekom Austria AG month average share price at the start and end of the customer satisfaction in the Netherlands (NPS) improved performance period. during the vesting period 2015-2017 from on average -3 at the Orange Belgium SA Telia Company AB end of 2014 to on average +8 at the end of 2017. In addition, Discretion both upwards and downwards can be applied by the KPN’s reputation as concluded by the Reputation Institute Orange SA Vodafone Group Plc Supervisory Board if the outcome of the LTI incentive scheme (the world’s leading research and advisory firm for reputation) Proximus SA Swisscom AG would produce an unfair result or if the outcome would not be improved further during the vesting period. considered to reflect the basic objectives and principles of pay TDC A/S KPN NV as outlined in this section. Claw-back clause The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to The LTI plan rules contain a change of control clause, which recover variable pay awarded on the basis of incorrect financial Vesting Vesting provides for immediate vesting at 100% (irrespective of the or other data. Position Position schedule schedule actual performance at that moment, whether higher or lower) and lifting of the blocked period normally applicable, to enable Benefits Position 1 200% Position 5 100% the member of the Board of Management to dispose of their Pensions Position 2 175% Position 6 75% shares in the situation of a change of control. The immediate Members of the Board of Management are eligible for a vesting at 100% will be pro rata for the time passed in the plan defined contribution pension plan with a contribution based Position 3 150% Position 7 No vesting during the vesting period of three years (i.e. 1/3 in year one, 2/3 on the fiscal defined contribution table that corresponds to and below in year two, full in year three). a retirement age of 67, an annual accrual rate of 1.875% and a Position 4 125% pension accrual capped at EUR 103,317 base pay. Board Actual pay-out levels members receive a fixed gross allowance equal to the associated pension contribution paid by the company prior to The table above provides the vesting schedules of the TSR Weighting Outcome Vesting 2015 for the base pay part above EUR 103,317. part in the LTI plans. Please note that the peer group used for percentage relative TSR reflects the relevant competitive market in which TSR 25% 150% 37.50% Additional arrangements KPN competes for investor preference. As such, it is different The additional arrangements, such as life insurance coverage, from the employment market peer group, which is used to EPS 25% 200% 50% expense allowances, use of smartphones and company car determine pay levels for the CEO and members of the Board of provisions needed for the execution of their roles, are broadly Management. The peer group may be adjusted if an individual FCF 25% 141.42% 35.36% in line with other companies of similar size and complexity, company no longer qualifies as a relevant peer company. The as well as with market practice. vesting schedule for financial and non-financial targets other Energy 12.5% 200% 25% than TSR is: threshold performance 25%, on-target Loans performance 100% and maximum performance 200%. Reputation 12.5% 200% 25% Company policy does not allow loans or guarantees to be granted to members of the Board of Management. Total vesting 172.86% Terms of employment The LTI plan 2015 vests in April 2018 and final TSR Members of the Board of Management have a service measurement for the 2015 LTI share grant was conducted as per agreement for a definite period of time with the exception of February 15, 2018. Mr. Blok, who has an employment contract for an indefinite The vesting of the LTI plan 2015 is primarily based on both the period of time. 70 71 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Remuneration Report Change in composition of the Board of Management Following the EGM on 6 December 2017, the Supervisory Board The table below shows the pay-out to Supervisory Board will appoint Mr. Maximo Ibarra as member and chairman of the Members and fixed Committee fees on an annual basis. Board of Management of KPN as of the AGM on 18 April 2018. Mr. Ibarra will earn a base salary of EUR 935,000 per year and Amounts in EUR Annual fees is also eligible for KPN’s short-term variable cash incentive and KPN’s long-term variable incentive. To ascertain a smooth Chairman Supervisory Board 100,000 transition, he will be engaged for transition activities and professional services as of the announcement date Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board 70,000 (20 October 2017). For this, as approved by the EGM on 6 December 2017, Mr. Ibarra will receive monthly advisory fees Member Supervisory Board 60,000 totaling EUR 195,000 in cash, EUR 200,000 in cash subject to a retention period and EUR 200,000 in shares subject to a Chairman Audit Committee 20,000 retention period. Member Audit Committee 10,000 Outlook for 2018 The current remuneration policy will be reviewed in 2018 to Chairman Strategy & Organization Committee 12,500 ensure that the underlying principles continuously support KPN’s shortand long-term strategy, with a specific focus on Member Strategy & Organization Committee 7,500 simplicity and long-term value creation. Any material adjustments (if any) will be subject to prior approval by the Chairman Remuneration Committee 10,000 General Meeting of Shareholders in April 2019. Member Remuneration Committee 5,000 Chairman Nominating & Corporate Governance 10,000 Committee D. Supervisory Board pay policy Member Nominating & Corporate Governance 5,000 Committee The Committee is responsible for reviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes to the pay of the Supervisory Board. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Any recommended changes to Supervisory Board pay must be (Personnel expenses) for details on actual remuneration of the submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders for approval. Supervisory Board. Members receive an additional fee if a meeting is held in a country other than the member’s country of residence. Peter F. Hartman (Chairman of the Remuneration Committee) Shareholdings in the company held by Supervisory Board Duco W. Sickinghe members serve as a long-term investment in the company and Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk help to align their interest with those of KPN’s other shareholders. No Supervisory Board member is granted shares as a form of pay. As a policy, the company does not provide loans or guarantees to its Supervisory Board members. 72 73 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 76 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 77 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 78 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 80 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 81 General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement 82 Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss  89 Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 99 Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 119 Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss 123 Corporate Statement of Financial Position 124 Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements 126 Other Information Combined Independent Auditor’s Report 131 Annex to the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report 138 74 75 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Consolidated Statement of Other For the year ended 31 December Comprehensive Income € million Notes 2017 2016 For the year ended 31 December Revenues [4] 6,497 6,801 Other income 1 5 € million Notes 2017 2016 Total revenues and other income 6,498 6,806 Profit for the year 483 800 Cost of goods & services 1,923 2,131 Other comprehensive income, net of tax Personnel expenses [5] 1,151 1,175 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions Information Technology / Technical Infrastructure 502 517 are met: Other operating expenses [6] 616 554 Net gain or loss (-) on cash flow hedges [15] 14 -85 Depreciation, amortization and impairments [10/11] 1,424 1,545 Currency translation differences [15] – 20 Total operating expenses 5,616 5,922 Fair value adjustment available-for-sale financial assets [12] 16 -263 Operating profit 882 884 Net other comprehensive income/ loss (-) to be reclassified to profit or loss 30 -328 in subsequent periods Finance income 69 112 Finance costs -338 -641 Other financial results 28 112 Items of other comprehensive income not to be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Financial income and expenses [7] -241 -417 Retirement benefits remeasurements 12 -57 Share of the profit/ loss (-) of associates 1 -1 Net other comprehensive income/ loss (-) not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent 12 -57 periods Profit before income tax from continuing operations 642 466 Income taxes [8] -157 -96 Other comprehensive income/ loss (-) for the year, net of tax 42 -385 Profit for the year from continuing operations 485 370 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 525 415 Profit/ Loss (-) for the year from discontinued operations [2] -2 430 Profit for the year 483 800 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax, attributable to: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests – 7 Equity holders of the company 525 408 Profit attributable to equity holders of the company 483 793 Non-controlling interests – 7 525 415 Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to equity holders of [9] the company for the year in EUR Total comprehensive income/ loss (-) attributable to equity holders of the company arises from: Basic (continuing operations) 0.10 0.07 Continuing operations 527 -22 Diluted (continuing operations) 0.10 0.07 Discontinued operations -2 430 Basic (discontinued operations) – 0.10 Diluted (discontinued operations) – 0.10 Basic (total, including discontinued operations) 0.10 0.17 Diluted (total, including discontinued operations) 0.10 0.17 76 77 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Assets Equity and Liabilities € million Notes 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 € million Notes 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Non-current assets Equity Property, plant and equipment [10] 5,811 5,969 Share capital 168 171 Intangible assets [11] 3,341 3,250 Share premium 8,445 8,651 Associates 21 24 Other reserves -393 -451 Available-for-sale financial assets [12.1] 20 1,909 Retained earnings -5,951 -5,859 Derivative financial instruments [12.3] 168 298 Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities 1,089 1,089 Deferred income tax assets [8] 947 1,091 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company 3,358 3,601 Trade and other receivables [13] 141 61 Non-controlling interests – – 10,449 12,602 Total equity [15] 3,358 3,601 Current assets Non-current liabilities Inventories 61 47 Borrowings [12.2] 7,578 7,897 Trade and other receivables [13] 762 766 Derivative financial instruments [12.3] 328 197 Income tax receivables [8] 1 – Deferred income tax liabilities [8] 1 – Available-for-sale financial assets [12.1] 1,071 – Provisions for retirement benefit obligations [16] 218 262 Other current financial assets [12.1] 329 140 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [17] 103 89 Cash and cash equivalents [14] 856 1,179 Other payables and deferred income [18] 62 62 3,080 2,132 8,290 8,507 Assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale 1 2 Current liabilities Trade and other payables [18] 1,782 1,839 Total assets 13,530 14,736 Borrowings [12.2] 18 735 Derivative financial instruments [12.3] – 1 Income tax payables [8] 16 4 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [17] 66 49 1,882 2,628 Total liabilities 10,172 11,135 Total equity and liabilities 13,530 14,736 78 79 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Equity Equity For the year ended 31 December attributable attributable to holders of to equity € million Notes 2017 2016 perpetual holders NonProfit before income tax from continuing operations 642 466 Subscribed Share Share Other Retained capital of the controlling Total € million Notes ordinary shares capital premium reserves earnings securities company interests equity Adjustments for: Balance at 31 December 2015 4,270,254,664 171 9,847 -125 -6,000 1,089 4,982 69 5,051 – Net financial expense [7] 241 417 – Share-based compensation [5] 6 7 Profit for the year – – – 793 – 793 7 800 – Share of the profit/ loss (-) of associates -1 1 Other comprehensive income for – Depreciation, amortization and impairments [10/11] 1,424 1,545 – – -328 -57 – -385 – -385 the year – Other non-cash income and expense 4 -23 Total comprehensive income for – Changes in provisions (excluding deferred taxes) -4 -68 – – -328 736 – 408 7 415 the year Changes in working capital relating to: Share-based compensation [5] – – – -10 – -10 – -10 – Current assets -26 42 Sold treasury shares – – 14 – – 14 – 14 – Current liabilities -43 -163 Paid coupon perpetual hybrid Dividends received [12.1] 71 110 – – – -51 – -51 – -51 bond (net of tax) Income taxes paid/received -13 50 Dividends paid – – – -460 – -460 -26 -486 Interest paid -349 -460 Capital repayment [15] – -1,196 3 – – -1,193 – -1,193 Net cash flow from operating activities 1,952 1,924 Acquisitions – – – -89 – -89 -57 -146 Other – – -15 15 – – 7 7 Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets [12.1] 890 31 Total transactions with owners, Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (net of acquired cash) -165 -37 – -1,196 2 -595 – -1,789 -76 -1,865 recognized directly in equity Disposal of subsidiaries and associates (net of cash) 3 3 Investments in software -307 -276 Balance at 31 December 2016 4,270,254,664 171 8,651 -451 -5,859 1,089 3,601 – 3,601 Investments in other intangible assets -1 -26 Investments in property, plant and equipment -832 -917 Profit for the year – – – 483 – 483 – 483 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 2 10 Changes in other current financial assets [12.1] -190 435 Other comprehensive income for – – 30 12 – 42 – 42 Other -7 1 the year Total comprehensive income for Net cash flow from investing activities -607 -776 – – 30 495 – 525 – 525 the year Dividends paid -513 -487 Share-based compensation [5] – – – -7 – -7 – -7 Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bonds -67 -67 Sold treasury shares – – 12 – – 12 – 12 Proceeds from borrowings – 1,235 Share buyback and cancellation -67,410,260 -3 -206 – – – -209 – -209 Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives [12] -872 -2,137 Capital repayment [15] – -1,193 Paid coupon perpetual hybrid Share repurchase [15] -209 – – – – -51 – -51 – -51 bond (net of tax) Other -4 -72 Dividends paid – – – -513 – -513 – -513 Net cash flow from financing activities -1,665 -2,721 Other – – 16 -16 – – – – Total transactions with owners, -67,410,260 -3 -206 28 -587 – -768 – -768 Total net cash flow from continuing operations -320 -1,573 recognized directly in equity Net cash flow from operating activities from discontinued operations -2 -7 Net cash flow from investing activities from discontinued operations -3 1,183 Balance at 31 December 2017 4,202,844,404 168 8,445 -393 -5,951 1,089 3,358 – 3,358 Total net cash flow from discontinued operations -5 1,176 Changes in cash and cash equivalents -325 -397 Exchange rate differences -1 – Net cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1,178 1,575 Net cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 852 1,178 Bank overdrafts 4 1 Cash and cash equivalents [14] 856 1,179 80 81 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements General Notes to the Consolidated Financial compared to previously reported under IAS 18 due to the standalone selling price, regardless of the actual contract Statements reclassification of handset revenues and different accounting treatment of handset sales through the indirect channel as explained in more detail below. The transition to IFRS 15 will pricing. The revenue recognition profile will change with upfront recognition of revenue for the installation service and a corresponding reduction in ongoing wireline service have no impact on the cash flow from operations and on the revenue over the contract period. The difference between [1] General information For 2017, only the amendment to IAS 7 Statement of Cash overall contract profitability. the amount of revenue recognized and the amounts charged Flows has had an impact on KPN. The amendment of IAS 7, to the customer will be recognized as a contract asset. Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN or the company) was incorporated effective as of 1 January 2017, requires additional disclosures on Main differences between IAS 18 and IFRS 15 in 1989 and is domiciled in the Netherlands. KPN is registered changes in assets and liabilities arising from financing activities, See the tables on page 84 for the IFRS 15 impact on KPN’s Transition phase of projects for business customers: at the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague (file no. 02045200). including disclosures of cash flow and non-cash flow Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 2017 and on KPN’s Under our current accounting policy transition costs relating The address of KPN’s registered office is Maanplein 55, 2516 CK, movements (see Note 12). Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In March 2018, to fixed-price contracts involving managed ICT services are The Hague. KPN’s shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam. KPN will issue a more detailed analysis of the impact of the capitalized and subsequently amortized to profit or loss on a Future implications of new and amended standards and restatements by segment. The most significant differences with straight-line basis during the period the services are KPN is a leading telecommunications and ICT provider in the interpretations KPN’s current accounting policies include the following: provided. Under IFRS 15, these transition costs are already Netherlands, offering fixed and mobile telephony, fixed and The IASB has issued several new standards and amendments recognized in the P&L during the project phase and also mobile broadband internet and TV to retail consumers. KPN is with an effective date of 1 January 2018 or later. Only those with Postpaid mobile contracts via KPN shops and website: corresponding revenue is recognized earlier if the transition market leader in the Netherlands in infrastructure and network an expected material impact on KPN’s financial performance Under our current accounting policy, revenue related to the project is a separate performance obligation to which costs related ICT solutions to business customers. KPN provides and/or the presentation thereof are discussed. sale of handsets in postpaid mobile contracts is recognized and revenues are allocated. wholesale network services to third parties and operates an up to the non-contingent cash received upfront, i.e. the IP-based infrastructure for international wholesale customers IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ amount the customer pays for the handset when it is Variable consideration: through KPN’s US-based subsidiary iBasis. This new standard introduces new guidance on the recognition delivered to the customer. Under IFRS 15, additional revenue Revenue for variable consideration, including revenue related and measurement of revenues and also provides a model for will be allocated to the handset at the start of the contract. disputes, is currently recognized when it is probable that The Financial Statements were approved for issuance by the sale of some non-financial assets that are not an output of The amount of revenue is calculated based on the relative these will flow to the company and under IFRS 15 only when both the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management on a company’s ordinary business activities. KPN will adopt IFRS standalone selling price of the handset, regardless of the it is highly probable. As a consequence, such revenue may be 23 February 2018 and are subject to adoption by the Annual 15 retrospectively and will restate the 2017 financial information actual contract pricing. As an example, compared to the recognized later when this higher threshold is met. General Meeting of Shareholders on 18 April 2018. for comparison purposes in the 2018 Consolidated Financial current accounting policies, a postpaid subscription with a Statements. In 2018, KPN will record a cumulative transitional handset will result in recognition of higher non-service Recognized contract assets will be included in the calculation adjustment at 1 January 2017, the date of initial application. revenues upon delivery of the handset to the customer and of the provision for expected credit losses under IFRS 9 as [2] Summary of significant accounting policies lower subscription fees (service revenues) during the set out on page 85. In 2017, KPN implemented for IFRS 15 a IT solution for collecting subscription period. On adoption of IFRS 15, this change Basis of preparation and integrating data from various sources. New IFRS 15 related will pull forward revenue in the periods being restated, and There will be a corresponding effect on income tax in relation The Consolidated Financial Statements of KPN have been processes and controls are implemented. Teams consisting of KPN will recognize a contract asset for all open contracts at to the above impacts. prepared: members of the core project team and representatives from 1 January 2017. in accordance with International Financial Reporting Finance and Business functions, IT and source system experts Consumer credit legislation: Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS) and have validated the results. The core project team has ensured Postpaid mobile contracts via third parties: As of 1 May 2017, KPN is legally required to treat a handset with the statutory provisions of Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch that IFRS 15 is well understood and implemented consistently Under IFRS 15 handset-related dealer fees result in an combined with a postpaid subscription as a consumer loan Civil Code; across the company. unbilled receivable on the statement of financial position under the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wft, Wet op het under the historical cost convention, except for availablethat will decrease when instalments are billed to the financieel toezicht) if the consumer customer repays the for-sale financial assets and financial assets and financial Key impact of IFRS 15 end-customer, i.e. handset-related fees will no longer be handset in monthly instalments and the credit amount is liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value In 2017, KPN completed the analysis of the cumulative expensed as incurred as part of the costs of goods and above EUR 250. The separate legal entity KPN Finance B.V. through profit or loss; and transitional adjustment as at 1 January 2017. Accounting for all services (see Note 6). The handset instalment payments are is the contract party in the loan agreement in both direct and on a going concern basis. customer contracts in progress but not yet completed or no longer accounted for as service revenues, but netted indirect channels. The outstanding consumer loans in KPN starting after the date of application has been analyzed and against the receivable. Under our current accounting policy, Finance B.V. amount to EUR 114m at 31 December 2017. Summary of significant accounting policies revised for IFRS 15 impact, if any. The following impact of IFRS transaction-related dealer fees are expensed as incurred as These consist of EUR 1m unconditional receivables classified The general accounting policies as applied are described 15 will be visible in the 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements. part of the costs of goods and services. Under IFRS 15, in ‘Trade and Other Receivables’ and EUR 113m for below. Significant accounting policies are described in the The revenue profile of approximately 60% of KPN’s revenues is transaction related dealer fees paid to acquire or retain conditional receivables that are not yet invoiced and are Notes to these Consolidated Financial Statements. impacted by the transition to IFRS 15. Under IFRS 15, service subscribers are capitalized and recognized on a straight-line eliminated upon KPN group consolidation under IAS 18. revenues will be EUR 317m lower in 2017, mainly driven by the basis over the contract term of the underlying customer contract. As set out above, IFRS 15 considers this a contract asset for Changes in accounting policies and disclosures reclassification of handset sale revenues to non-service both consumer and business customers. As of 1 January 2018, KPN applies new standards and amendments issued by the revenues and proceeds from handset sales via partners in the Installation service consumer customers: the contract with consumer customers for the instalment International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), when indirect channel no longer being recognized as service Under our current accounting policy, no revenue is payments of the handset has changed in both direct and effective and endorsed by the European Union. KPN has not revenues. Based on our analysis equity as at 1 January 2017 will recognized if the installation service is provided free of indirect channels, resulting in an unconditional IFRS 9 early adopted any of these standards. increase by EUR 222m, and at 31 December 2017 by EUR 127m. charge. Installation services offered to consumer customers receivable. Taken into account the low interest rates and Net income for the year 2017 will decrease with EUR 95m and are generally considered a separate performance obligation. contract duration, these receivables do not include a EBITDA with EUR 113m under IFRS 15. From 2018 onwards, we Under IFRS 15, revenue is then allocated to the installation significant financing component. expect that service revenues will be at a structurally lower level service at the start of the contract, based on its relative 82 83 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 impact on KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ This standard introduces new requirements for classification This standard introduces on balance sheet accounting for (almost) 2017 IFRS 9 IFRS 15 2017 € million, unless indicated otherwise As published Adjustment Adjustment Restated and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting of all leases. For lessees, the distinction between financial leases financial instruments and is effective as of 1 January 2018. (‘on balance’) and operating leases (‘off balance’) is removed Service revenues 6,208 – -317 5,891 KPN will adopt IFRS 9 retrospectively (except hedge whereas for lessors, these two types of leases remain in place. Non service revenues 289 – 182 471 accounting which will be applied prospectively) and will restate Other income 1 – – 1 the 2017 financial information for comparison purposes in the KPN is preparing for decisions on interpretations of the IFRS 16 Total 6,498 – -135 6,363 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2018, KPN will accounting standard. As the new KPN accounting policies have record a cumulative transitional adjustment at 1 January 2017 not been finalized yet, no reliable estimate of the impact is Cost of goods & services 1,923 – -35 1,888 to revise historical financial data. available. Personnel expenses 1,151 – – 1,151 IFRS 9 impacts the valuation of certain contract assets which IFRS 16 requires the lease liability to be recognized at IT/TI 502 – – 502 will be recognized as a result of IFRS 15. discounted value and, among other factors, requires that the Other operating expenses 616 – 13 629 likelihood of early terminations or expected use of renewal Depreciation, amortization & impairments 1,424 – – 1,424 The most significant differences of IFRS 9 with KPN’s current options are taken into account as well. Therefore, the amounts Total operating expenses 5,616 – -22 5,594 accounting policies are: KPN will recognize as lease liability and right of use asset upon transition are not expected to be equal to the currently Operating profit 882 – -113 769 Available-for-sale financial assets: reported off balance sheet obligation related to operating Fair value movements recorded in OCI are no longer recycled leases as disclosed in Note 20. IFRS 16 will increase KPN’s Finance income and expenses -241 – – -241 through the P&L (other financial results) for all assets EBITDA due to the replacement of operating lease expenses Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures 1 – – 1 recognized on the balance sheet as of 1 January 2018. This with amortization charges of the lease assets and the interest means that a decrease in the fair value which is considered expenses related to the lease liabilities. The impact on net Profit/Loss (-) before income tax from continuing operations 642 – -113 529 permanent or a sale of these assets will no longer impact the profit is expected to be limited. The ‘on balance’ recognition P&L. There was no permanent decrease in fair value in 2017. of KPN’s lease liabilities is not expected to have an impact on Income taxes -157 – 18 -139 KPN’s financing arrangements which do not contain any Profit/Loss (-) for the period from continuing operations 485 – -95 390 Provision for trade receivables and contract assets: financial covenants. Profit/Loss (-) for the period from discontinued operations -2 – – -2 In addition to the provision for overdue trade receivables Profit/Loss (-) for the period 483 – -95 388 measured under the current accounting policy, a provision is KPN is implementing an IFRS 16 solution within its IT landscape. recorded for the expected loss on trade receivables and The majority of KPN’s lease contracts is captured in one of KPN’s Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to equity holders for the period (in EUR) contract assets not yet overdue. four main lease management systems. These lease management systems will interface IFRS 16 relevant contract data to KPN’s Basic (continuing operations) 0.10 – -0.02 0.08 Hedge effectiveness testing of the cross-currency swaps and central IFRS 16 calculator (part of the IFRS 16 solution). Leases at Diluted (continuing operations) 0.10 – -0.02 0.08 interest rate swaps: subsidiary companies are also prepared for inclusion in the IFRS Basic (discontinued operations) 0.00 – – 0.00 Cross-currency basis spreads are no longer included in the 16 calculator. All of KPN’s lease contracts are under review and Diluted (discontinued operations) 0.00 – – 0.00 risk designation. This may lead in the future to differences in data hereof is enriched, either in the lease management the amounts recorded for hedge ineffectiveness. systems or directly in the IFRS 16 calculator, for required IFRS Basic (total, including discontinued operations) 0.10 – -0.02 0.08 16 data such as appropriate discount rates. Diluted (total, including discontinued operations 0.10 – -0.02 0.08 See table on page 84 for the IFRS 9 impact on KPN’s reported 2017 results and the Corporate Statement of Financial Position. IFRS 16 has been endorsed and will be effective as of 1 January 2019. KPN will not early adopt this standard in 2018. KPN IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 impact on KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position intends to apply IFRS 16 using the full retrospective approach. 1 January 1 January 31 December 31 December 2017 IFRS 9 IFRS 15 2017 2017 IFRS 9 IFRS 15 2017 € million As published Adjustment Adjustment Restated As published Adjustment Adjustment Restated Trade and other receivables 766 -7 -5 754 762 -7 -5 750 Contract assets¹ – – 325 325 – – 269 269 Contract costs – – 42 42 – – 33 33 Deferred income tax assets 1,091 2 -63 1,030 947 2 -45 904 Total assets 14,736 -5 296² 15,027 13,530 -5 249² 13,774 Total equity 3,601 -5 222 3,818 3,358 -5 127 3,480 Contract liabilities – – 77 77 – – 124 124 Total equity and liabilities 14,736 -5 296³ 15,027 13,530 -5 249³ 13,774 1 Under IFRS 9, a provision for expected credit losses will be recorded on the IFRS 15 contract assets. This transition impact is presented as part of the IFRS 15 impact. 2 Total assets figures include IFRS 15 adjustments regarding other line items of EUR -3m as of 1 January 2017 and EUR -3m as of 31 December 2017. 3 Total equity and liabilities figures include IFRS 15 adjustments regarding other line items of EUR -3m as of 1 January 2017 and EUR -2m as of 31 December 2017. 84 85 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Basis of consolidation [3] Segment reporting KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of results of its subsidiaries and incorporate KPN’s share of the a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign The Netherlands The main restatements are: results from associates. entity and translated at the closing rate at the reporting date. Commercial comprises the segments Consumer and Business. KPN moved six data centers, focused on offering colocation Operations represents the segments Wholesale and Network, services, to a separate entity (‘NL|DC’) within Wholesale. Subsidiaries are all entities directly or indirectly controlled by KPN. Subsidiaries Operations & IT (NOI). For general information on these As per KPN’s policy, intercompany revenues are minimized; Control is defined as the power over an entity, i.e. the ability to For consolidation purposes, the results and financial position of segments read more in chapters Shareholder value, Integrated therefore revenues generated by NL|DC via the sales channel govern the financial and operating policies, resulting in obtaining subsidiaries are translated to euro at closing rate of the date of Products & Services and State-of-the art networks and ICT of Business remain recorded at Business. The related the gains or losses from the entity’s activities. Subsidiaries are fully the financial position (assets and liabilities) or at the average infrastructure. The Netherlands’ Other segment includes the expenses moved from NOI to Wholesale. consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by KPN exchange rates applicable for the specific reporting period results of KPN’s Corporate Center and eliminations. Reallocation of certain isolated customer related expenses and are deconsolidated from the date on which KPN’s control (income and expenses). All resulting exchange differences are from the cost of goods and services at Business to IT/TI at ceases. All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealized recognized in OCI. iBasis NOI as a better fit with the nature of these expenses and the results on transactions with subsidiaries are eliminated. Through iBasis, KPN is a leading player in the international way these are managed. Statement of Cash Flows wholesale voice market in terms of minutes carried. iBasis offers Operating expenses for certain new business activities were Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change The Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the indirect a comprehensive portfolio of voice termination and data moved from NOI to Business, where the related revenues of control that do not result in loss of control are accounted method. Cash flows denominated in currencies other than EUR services for many of the world’s largest fixed and mobile were already recognized. for as equity transactions. Gains or losses on disposals to are translated at average exchange rates. Cash flows relating to operators, as well as voice over broadband. non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. interest and taxes on profits and tax deductions relating to Segment performance interest on perpetual hybrid bonds are included in the cash Other activities KPN has limited the intercompany transactions and Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale flow from operating activities. The consideration paid in cash Other activities comprise KPN Holding, remaining activities settlements to those relevant for determining the tax return Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for for acquired subsidiaries is included in the cash flow from abroad and eliminations. of KPN, for instance intercompany settlements with several sale as well as liabilities directly associated herewith are stated investing activities net of cash acquired. Cash flows resulting subsidiaries, and those necessary for the capitalization of at the lower of carrying amount (book value) and fair value less from the disposal of subsidiaries are disclosed separately, net of Changes organizational structure project costs. costs of disposal if their carrying amount is recovered cash sold. Investments in property, plant and equipment, which Comparative financial information for 2016 has been restated principally through a sale transaction rather than through are financed by financial leases, are not included in the cash to reflect a number of developments in KPN’s internal The EBITDA of Consumer, Business and Wholesale represents continuing use. If fixed assets are transferred to held for sale, flow used in investing activities. management reporting. In terms of 2016 operating expenses, the contribution margin of these segments and the EBITDA of depreciation and amortization ceases. A disposal group the main impact is visible in lower operating expenses for NOI NOI consists mostly of operating expenses. Due to the fact that classifies as a ‘discontinued operation’ based on its significance Significant accounting estimates, judgments and and higher costs for the Wholesale segment. KPN neither allocates interest expenses to segments nor to the KPN Group. assumptions made by management accounts for taxes in the segments, the disclosure is limited to These are evaluated continuously and are based on historic operating profit for the year. Some results (and cash flows) may continue to arise following experience and other factors, including expectations of future the unwinding of remaining positions of E-Plus (sold in 2014) events thought to be reasonable under the circumstances. For an explanation of incidental transactions included in and BASE Company (sold in 2016). In 2017 the result from Actual results may deviate from the estimates applied. Revenues, Other income and EBITDA, see Appendix 1. discontinued operations amounted to EUR -2m and in 2016 Estimates are revised when material changes to the underlying EUR 430m, of which EUR 367m result on disposal (minus assumption occur. Geographical information transaction costs) of BASE Company and EUR 63m tax (continuing operations, excluding deferred taxes and derivative financial instruments) adjustments E-Plus. The accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions deemed significant to KPN’s financial statements relate to: Foreign currency translation The Netherlands The Americas Other Total Determination of deferred tax assets for losses carry forward The Financial Statements are presented in euro (EUR), which is and provisions for tax contingencies Note 8 € million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 KPN’s presentation currency and functional currency. All amounts Non-current assets 9,264 11,129 67 81 2 2 9,333 11,212 are rounded to millions unless stated otherwise. Determination of value in use of cash-generating units for goodwill Note 11 impairment testing Intangibles 3,294 3,195 47 55 – – 3,341 3,250 Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into euro PPE 5,791 5,945 20 23 – 1 5,811 5,969 using the exchange rates applicable at transaction date. At Assessments of exposure to credit risk and financial Note 12.4 market risks reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Revenues & Other income 5,849 6,023 648 778 1 5 6,498 6,806 foreign currencies are translated to euro using the rates at The ‘more likely than not’ assessment required to determine reporting date. Exchange rate differences are recognized in whether or not to recognize a provision for idle cables, Notes profit or loss except when these differences are related to 17, 20 which are part of a public electronic communications network qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges in which case the exchange rate differences are recorded in OCI. Exchange rate differences on non-monetary In preparing the Financial Statements, KPN has applied the assets and liabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or concept of materiality to the presentation and level of loss from that asset or liability. Exchange rate differences arising disclosures. Only essential and mandatory information is from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, disclosed which is relevant to an understanding by the reader of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as of these Financial Statements. hedges of such investments are recognized in OCI. 86 87 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Segmentation 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Statement Commercial Operations Total The Other KPN Group of Profit or Loss € million Notes Consumer Business Wholesale NOI Other3 Netherlands iBasis activities3 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss [4] Revenues [5] Personnel expenses External revenues1 [4] 3,133 2,154 540 18 3 5,848 648 1 6,497 Other income – – – 2 – 2 – -1 1 Inter-division revenues 19 44 136 1 -174 26 57 -83 – € million 2017 2016 € million 2017 2016 Total 3,152 2,198 676 21 -171 5,876 705 -83 6,498 Rendering of services 6,208 6,566 Salaries and wages 879 872 Operating expenses [5/6] -1,183 -1,005 -214 -1,072 -102 -3,576 -681 65 -4,192 Sale of goods 283 214 Retirement benefits 88 77 EBITDA2 1,969 1,193 462 -1,051 -273 2,300 24 -18 2,306 Other revenues 6 21 Social security contributions 114 106 DA&I [10/11] -182 -65 -20 -1,141 -5 -1,413 -10 -1 -1,424 Total revenues 6,497 6,801 Additional labor capacity 117 158 Operating profit 1,787 1,128 442 -2,192 -278 887 14 -19 882 Own work capitalized -112 -105 Other 65 67 Total assets 4,821 2,853 892 9,640 -6,970 11,236 288 2,006 13,530 Accounting policy: Revenues Revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration Total personnel expenses 1,151 1,175 Total liabilities 4,890 2,832 883 9,531 -15,556 2,580 164 7,428 10,172 received or receivable for the sale of goods and services. Revenues are presented net of value-added tax, rebates In addition, there were employee redundancy costs which Segmentation 2016 (restated) and discounts and after eliminating sales within the are not included in personnel expenses but in other operating Commercial Operations Group. Revenue is recognized when it is probable that expenses. See Note 17 ‘Provisions for other liabilities and the economic benefits associated with a transaction will charges’ for information on employee redundancy costs. Total The Other KPN Group flow to KPN and the amount of revenue and associated € million Notes Consumer Business Wholesale NOI Other3 Netherlands iBasis activities3 Consolidated costs can be measured reliably. Statement of Profit or Loss Number of own personnel (FTE) per 31 December 31 December External revenues 1 [4] 3,121 2,255 625 15 5 6,021 779 1 6,801 segment 2017 2016 Rendering of services includes fees for usage of KPN’s Other income – – 1 2 -1 2 – 3 5 network and facilities, for example monthly subscription Consumer 2,518 2,726 Inter-division revenues 22 54 134 – -181 29 88 -117 – fees, and revenues from customer specific ICT solutions. Business 3,511 3,302 Total 3,143 2,309 760 17 -177 6,052 867 -113 6,806 Revenue is recognized upon rendering the service. Wholesale 221 215 Operating expenses [5/6] -1,263 -929 -252 -1,125 -81 -3,650 -844 117 -4,377 Revenue from IT development is recognized using the Network Operations & IT 5,583 5,747 EBITDA2 1,880 1,380 508 -1,108 -258 2,402 23 4 2,429 percentage-of-completion method. iBasis 295 323 DA&I [10/11] -208 -76 -20 -1,168 -15 -1,487 -57 -1 -1,545 Other 1,147 1,217 Operating profit 1,672 1,304 488 -2,276 -273 915 -34 3 884 Sale of goods includes proceeds from hardware sales. Total FTE 13,275 13,530 Revenue is generally recognized when the product is Total assets 4,225 2,751 898 9,782 7,325 24,981 334 -10,579 14,736 shipped to the customer. Total liabilities 4,352 2,730 888 9,523 -14,844 2,649 198 8,288 11,135 Share plans Contracts with customers that include multiple KPN has granted shares (equity-settled) and share-based 1 External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 2 Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. deliverables (e.g. handset sale combined with a mobile awards (cash-settled) on its shares to members of the Board of 3 Including eliminations. telecommunications contract) must be separated into Management and senior management: the Performance Share individual elements, each with its own separate revenue Plan (PSP). The conditionally granted PSP award will vest after contribution. The amount of revenue is then determined three years if the employee is still employed by KPN. Vesting is based on the relative fair value. If the fair value of the based on individual vesting of 25% relative TSR versus peer delivered item exceeds the cash received at the time of group, 25% Free Cash Flow, 25% Earnings Per Share, 12.5% on delivery, revenue is recognized up to the non-contingent sustainability/environmental targets and 12.5% on stakeholder/ cash receivable. customer targets. Vesting of non-financial targets will be subject to achieving a cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three years (i.e. a qualifier for vesting). The list of companies included in the peer group and the vesting schedule can be found under ‘Long-term Incentives’ in the ‘Remuneration Report’ section. The main features of the awards granted under the PSP and Restricted Share Plan to KPN management are summarized on the next page. 88 89 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Holding period The fair value of each award at the grant date is determined using the following assumptions: after vesting Board of Management Senior Management Maximum term Settlement type 1 Vesting period of/until € million 2017 PSP 2016 PSP 2014 X X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years X 3 years Cash 3 years – Risk-free interest rate based on euro government bonds for remaining time to maturity of 2.7 years -0.1% -0.1% 2015 X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years Expected dividend for KPN (based on one year’s historical daily data preceding the date of award) 2.6% 2.5% X 3 years Cash 3 years – Expected volatility (PSP grant based on 2.7 years’ historical daily data) used for TSR 26.3% 27.8% X (CCO)³ 4 years Equity² 4 years – Share price at date of award (closing at grant date) EUR 2.79 EUR 3.45 2016 X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years X 3 years Cash 3 years – 2017 X X 5 years Equity² 3 years 2 years The following paragraphs provide detail on the actual X 3 years Cash 3 years – remuneration of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. Please refer to the Remuneration Report 1 The cash-settled share awards will be settled in cash and no holding restrictions apply. An exception to the holding period for equity-settled plans is made for the executive pay policy. with respect to shares that were sold upon vesting to cover the tax obligation on the vested shares. After vesting, the holder is able to sell a number of unconditional granted shares only up to the amount necessary to settle the wage taxes liability relating to the profit made on the stock compensation plan. Wage tax in the Netherlands is generally 52% of the total vested amount.. 2 Including deferred dividend. Details of actual remuneration 3 In April 2015, KPN’s Chief Commercial Officer, Mr. Van der Post was granted shares which partially vest in 2016, 2017 and 2019 if he is still employed by KPN. For this plan, no other performance measures are applicable. The remuneration of the Board of Management representing the costs incurred by the company measured under IFRS The total compensation expense associated with the share principles. plans was EUR 11m in 2017 (2016: EUR 7m) and the related liability (for cash-settled shares) on 31 December 2017 was Pension costs3 & Salary STI1 LTI: Share awards2 social security Total EUR 13m (2016: EUR 12m). This liability is included under Other Name Year (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) payables and deferred income. For the 2014 Share Plan and share-based awards, the service conditions were met in the E. Blok 2017 850,000 859,222 1,082,299 269,492 3,061,013 year 2017. The intrinsic value at vesting was EUR 8m. 2016 850,000 530,840 998,976 263,673 2,643,489 J.C. de Jager 2017 642,917 366,604 544,618 123,750 1,677,889 The following table presents the number of shares and 2016 625,000 237,590 514,575 122,078 1,499,243 share-based awards in thousands under the share plans. F.H.M. van der Post 2017 700,000 362,866 700,798 179,962 1,943,626 2016 700,000 266,100 647,640 170,828 1,784,568 Total Granted/ Total Granted/ Total -of which: 31 Dec additional Exercised/ 31 Dec additional Exercised/ 31 Dec NonJ.F.E. Farwerck 2017 610,833 332,477 498,478 143,876 1,585,664 2015 vesting1-2 Vested Forfeited 20163 vesting2 Vested Forfeited4 20173 vested 2016 575,000 239,400 454,324 139,475 1,408,199 2014 Share-based awards Sr. Man. 2,948 241 – -315 2,874 – -1,976 -898 – – Total current members 2017 2,803,750 1,921,169 2,826,193 717,080 8,268,192 2014 Shares BoM/Sr. Man. 1,503 123 – -161 1,465 – -1,007 -458 – – 2016 2,750,000 1,273,930 2,615,515 696,054 7,335,499 2015 Share-based awards Sr. Man. 2,091 189 – -64 2,216 – – -143 2,073 2,073 1 Actual STI relates to performance in the current year but paid out in the following financial year. Please refer to the ‘Short-Term Incentives’ section in the 2015 Shares BoM 865 78 – – 943 – – – 943 943 Remuneration Report section for the actual pay-out levels per target in 2017. 2 The amounts in the table represent the cost recognized for shares in 2017 and 2016 based on their fair values at grant date. The fair value of the share-based 2015 Shares CCO 195 13 -49 – 159 – -106 – 53 53 award is recorded as cost over the vesting period. Please refer to the ‘Long-Term Incentives’ section in the Remuneration Report section for a further 2016 Share-based awards Sr. Man. – 2,529 – – 2,529 – – -170 2,359 2,359 explanation. The amount for Mr. Van der Post includes his long-term compensation in cash. 3 In the pension costs, the costs for survivor’s pension, disability coverage, administration as well as the gross allowances are included. The fixed gross allowance 2016 Shares BoM – 900 – – 900 – – – 900 900 (for the base pay part above EUR 100,000) in 2017 was EUR 171,000 for Mr. Blok (2016: EUR 171,000), EUR 76,000 for Mr. De Jager (2016: EUR 76,000), 2017 Share-based awards Sr. Man. – – – – – 1,205 – -40 1,165 1,165 EUR 119,000 for Mr. Van der Post (2016: EUR 119,000), and EUR 82,000 for Mr. Farwerck (2016: EUR 82,000). 2017 Shares BoM – – – – – 2,347 – -41 2,306 2,306 1 On the basis of a 100% grant. The equity-settled share numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be granted in additional shares. 2 At grant date, the fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo Simulation model except for the restricted shares. In April 2017, the fair value was EUR 2.43 (2016 grant: EUR 3.17) for the 2017 share-based award (cash-settled) and EUR 2.68 (2016 grant: EUR 3.17) for the 2017 equity-settled share grant for the Board of Management (excluding deferred dividend). 3 At 31 December 2017, the fair value of each cash-settled share-based award was measured, using recent strategic plans, forecasts and a Monte Carlo Simulation model, based on the most recent available share price of KPN and its performance compared with peer companies at the moment of valuation (i.e. closing share prices as at 31 December 2017). At 31 December 2017, the fair value is EUR 4.89 (2016: EUR 4.24) for the 2015 share-based award, EUR 2.29 (2016: EUR 2.52) for the 2016 share-based award and EUR 2.50 for the 2017 share-based award. 4 At the end of 2017, KPN held the 3rd position with respect to the 2015 share grant and at the end of 2016, KPN held the 6th position with respect to the 2014 share grant. This position and the outcomes of the other targets of this plan leads to 172.86% vesting in April 2018 of the 2015 share grant. Final TSR measurement for the 2015 share grant was conducted in February 2018. 90 91 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements The following table summarizes the shares/share-based awards granted to members of the Board of Management. [6] Other operating expenses the performance of the audit or review of KPN’s financial statements., such as revenue and IT-related assurance services Number of shares/share-based awards In 2017, Other operating expenses comprised, among others, and regulatory-related assurance services. a net addition to the restructuring provision of EUR 86m (2016: Pre-tax market Granted Pre-tax fair value on vesting EUR 45m). For more details, see Note 17. as of Granted As of value on date or end of Accounting policy: Operating expenses 1 January Vested or forfeited 31 December grant date lock-up in 2017 End of lock-up Auditor’s fees Operating expenses are divided in direct cost (cost of goods Grant date 2017 in 2017² in 2017¹-² 2017 (EUR)³ (EUR) period The fees listed below relate to the services provided to KPN and services) and indirect cost (IT/TI, personnel expenses E. Blok 13/4/2017 – – 412,889 412,889 1,106,543 – 13/4/2022 and its consolidated group entities by Ernst & Young and other operating expenses). 14/4/2016 361,297 – – 361,297 1,050,319 – 14/4/2021 Accountants LLP, as well as by other Dutch and foreign-based EY individual partnerships and legal entities, including their tax Cost of goods and services are costs incurred in the context 16/4/2015 378,878 – – 378,878 1,104,904 – 16/4/2020 services and advisory groups: of a sales transaction and include subscriber acquisition 10/4/2014 501,575 -369,632 -131,943 – 1,090,141 1,030,646 10/4/2019 and retention costs and traffic expenses. These costs are J.C. de Jager 13/4/2017 – – 210,492 210,492 564,119 – 13/4/2022 expensed as incurred. The cost of a handset is expensed 14/4/2016 177,106 – – 177,106 514,862 – 14/4/2021 € million 2017 2016 when the handset is sold (as incurred), both as individual 16/4/2015 185,724 – – 185,724 541,618 – 16/4/2020 sale or as component of a multiple deliverable arrangement Financial statements audit fees 4.0 3.8 in combination with a subscription. 26/9/2014 245,871 -181,193 -64,678 – 534,383 505,220 10/4/2019 Other assurance fees 0.8 1.0 F.H.M. van der Post 13/4/2017 – – 226,684 226,684 607,513 – 13/4/2022 IT/TI stands for Information Technology and Technical Total audit fees 4.8 4.8 14/4/2016 198,359 – – 198,359 576,645 – 14/4/2021 Tax fees 0.2 0.2 Infrastructure. IT expenses relate to KPN’s IT environment 16/4/2015 208,012 – – 208,012 606,614 – 16/4/2020 and include licenses and maintenance expenses for Total 5.0 5.0 1/3/2015⁴ 159,283 -106,188 – 53,095 566,177 447,500 N/a. software and/or IT hardware when not directly related to a sales transaction. TI expenses are expenses related to J.F.E. Farwerck 13/4/2017 – – 202,396 202,396 542,421 – 13/4/2022 The total fees of Ernst & Young Accountants LLP charged to KPN’s fixed and mobile networks. 14/4/2016 162,938 – – 162,938 473,674 – 14/4/2021 KPN and its consolidated group entities amounted to EUR 16/4/2015 170,867 – – 170,867 498,290 – 16/4/2020 4.8m in 2017 (2016: EUR 4.8m). The financial statements audit Personnel expenses include all expenses related to KPN’s 10/4/2014 226,201 -166,697 -59,504 – 491,633 464,802 10/4/2019 fees include the fees for professional services rendered for the workforce, both related to own employees and external audit of KPN’s annual financial statements and the annual personnel. 1 The shares granted to the Board of Management represent 30% of the total number of shares and share-based awards granted in 2017 to all employees. statutory financial statements of subsidiaries or services that The 2017 grant numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. 2 The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be additionally granted in shares. are normally provided by the auditor in connection with the Other operating expenses include expenses related to 3 Value is calculated by multiplying the number of share awards by the fair value at grant date. audits. The other assurance fees include the fees incurred for marketing and communication, billing and collection, 4 Next to the vesting of shares, also EUR 148,750 vested of Mr. Van der Post’s long-term cash compensation. assurance and related services that are reasonably related to housing and facilities. 5 All shares are in the vesting period or lock-up period and are conditional. See page 57 for stock ownership of members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. [7] Financial income and expenses Supervisory Board € million Notes 2017 2016 Finance income included a dividend received from Telefónica The table below shows the actual fee received by each member Finance income 69 112 Deutschland of EUR 70m (2016: EUR 110m). Interest on of the Supervisory Board. Interest on borrowings -327 -402 borrowings decreased by EUR 75m, which was mainly related Accounting policy: Share-based compensation Interest on provisions for retirement benefit to a lower gross debt position. Interest on borrowings included Membership Committee For equity-settled plans, the fair value of shares granted to [16] -7 -7 a non-cash amount of EUR 12m (2016: EUR 17m) relating to obligations Amounts in € fee 2017 fee 2017 Total 2017 Total 2016 employees is measured at grant date. For cash-settled debt issue costs and similar costs, which are amortized over Interest on other provisions -4 -10 D.W. Sickinghe 100,000 22,500 122,500 123,929 plans, the fair value of the liability for the awards granted is Tender premium – -222 the remaining life of the respective bonds using the effective D.J. Haank 70,000 12,500 82,500 84,643 remeasured at each reporting date and at settlement date. interest rate method. Finance costs -338 -641 The costs of share-based compensation plans are P.A.M. van Bommel 60,000 20,000 80,000 77,143 Result on sale of equity instruments [12.1] 30 – determined based on the fair value of the shares and the In 2016, KPN completed a tender offer, in which KPN C.J. García Amortizable part of hedge reserve [15] -16 -10 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 number of shares expected to vest. On each balance date, repurchased an aggregate principal amount of EUR 1.0bn Moreno Elizondo Amortization discontinued fair KPN determines whether it is necessary to revise the 39 114 across five Eurobonds with maturities between 2017 and 2024. value hedges C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 60,000 17,500 77,500 77,500 expectation of the number of shares that will vest. The fair The bond tender resulted in a EUR 160m loss in 2016 (tender Derivative financial instruments P.F. Hartman 60,000 22,500 82,500 80,357 value is recognized as personnel expense in profit or loss [12] -28 -28 premiums of EUR 222m and EUR 4m accelerated amortization not qualified for hedge accounting J.C.M. Sap 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 over the vesting period of the shares against an increase in recorded in Finance costs and EUR 66m gain from Exchange rate differences 3 -2 equity in case of equity-settled share-based compensation discontinued fair value hedges recorded in Other financial E. Overbeek 15,000 1,875 16,875 – Other – 38 plans and against recognition of a liability in case of results). In 2016, line item Other in Other financial results Total 485,000 116,875 601,875 583,572 cash-settled share-based compensation plans. Other financial results 28 112 included a gain of EUR 29m from the sale of KPN’s stake in Total -241 -417 Jasper Wireless. 92 93 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [8] Taxation Net DTA of the Dutch fiscal unity with regard to the book loss on the sale of E-Plus € million Net DTA Realized Unrealized Offset by DTL Net Loss The Netherlands See Note 19 Business combinations and other changes in The tax book loss, which is recognized as a result of the sale of consolidation for the impact of the acquisitions, which are 31 December 2015 911 518 500 -107 3,644 E-Plus in 2014, offsets KPN’s taxable income in the Netherlands separately liable for income taxes and for which no loss carry Movement 2016 -7 -48 1 40 -28 in the current and coming years. Dividends received, not forward is available. qualifying as specific capital repayments, and/or capital gains 31 December 2016 904 470 501 -67 3,616 realized (proceeds above tax book value) on KPN’s Income tax expense Movement 2017 -155 -161 – 6 -620 shareholding in TEFD are subject to Dutch corporate income tax. The summary of the remaining tax book loss is provided € million 2017 2016 31 December 2017 749 309 501 -61 2,996 on the next page. Current tax -27 -9 KPN has an agreement with the Dutch tax authorities with Deferred tax positions: respect to the application of the Dutch innovation box tax Deferred taxes -130 -87 regime. This is a facility under Dutch corporate income tax Deferred tax assets Tax loss & Unrealized law whereby profits attributable to innovation are taxed at Income tax (charge)/benefit from other carry liquidation Bonds & Restriction on Fiscal Offset -157 -96 continuing operations € million forwards losses hedges depreciation goodwill Other1 by DTL Total³-⁴ an effective rate of 5%. This tax rate will increase to 7% as from 31 December 2015 596 552 45 188 58 132 -502 1,069 2018. The application of the innovation box resulted in a benefit of EUR 14m over 2017 (2016: EUR 17m). The reconciliation from the Dutch statutory tax of 25% (2016: Income statement benefit/(charge) 64 -34 102 -28 -10 -54 47 87 25%) to the effective tax rate of 24.5% (2016: 20.6%) is explained Transfer to current tax -124 – – – – – – -124 Reggefiber Group mainly consists of one fiscal unity (which is in the table below. The tax expenses increased with EUR 61m Tax charged to OCI² – – 29 – – 1 – 30 Other (exchange, reclassification, not part of KPN’s main fiscal unity) and has pre-fiscal unity tax from EUR 96m in 2016 to EUR 157m in 2017, mainly due to an 29 – – – – – – 29 change in consolidation) losses carry forward. At 31 December 2017, a DTA of EUR 54m improved PBT (EUR 43m more tax expenses), less available 31 December 2016 565 518 176 160 48 79 -455 1,091 (2016: EUR 72m) was recorded, of which EUR 20m (2016: future tax benefits due to tax (rate) adjustments in the US of Income statement benefit/(charge) -89 -17 -8 -19 -10 52 46 -45 EUR 36m) relates to recognized tax losses carry forward. EUR 5m (included in deferred tax related to current year) and Transfer to current tax -94 – – – – – – -94 the implementation of the transition tax in the US of EUR 7m. Tax charged to OCI² – – -5 – – 2 – -3 Other (exchange, reclassification, -2 – – – – – – -2 change in consolidation) 641 (2016: 467) 31 December 2017 380 501 163 141 38 133 -409 947 1 Other deductible temporary differences include revenue recognition of EUR 71m (2016: EUR 15m). KPN entered into negotiations with the Dutch tax authorities to align the revenue recognition with IFRS15 (read more in Note 2). Such a redefined approach as per 2017 may result in a temporary difference as from 2017 onwards, without implications on cash taxes to be paid for periods ending FY17. This temporary difference will be reversed upon implementation of IFRS 15. -160 (25%) -157 (24.5%) 2 Tax charged to OCI relates mainly to the hedge reserve. (2016: -117; 25%) (2016: -96; 20.6%) 3 Of which EUR 131m to be recovered within 12 months (2016: EUR 117m). -7 (1.0%) 0 (0.0%) 4 Recoverability depending on future taxable results. -7 (1.0%) -3 (0.5%) -1 (0.2%) (2016: 0; 0.0%) (2016: 5; -1.1%) (2016: 0; 0.0%) (2016: 0; 0.0%) +7 (-1.1%) (2016: -3; 0,6%) (2016: 2; -0.4%) +14 (-2.2%) Deferred tax liabilities Taxable temporary differences (2016: 17; -3.7%) Offset against Software DTL Accelerated Goodwill deferred € million development recapture1 depreciation depreciation PPA³ Other tax assets Total² 31 December 2015 183 107 121 46 52 40 -502 47 Income statement (benefit)/charge -16 27 -59 16 -5 25 47 35 Tax charged to Equity – – – – – -17 – -17 Tax charged to OCI – -95 – – – – – -95 Profit before Taxes at Tax rate Not taxable Innovation tax Transition Deferred Deferred tax Other Income tax income tax Dutch differences of income, facilities tax US tax related to related to benefit/ Other (exchange, reclassification, -3 28 – – 3 2 – 30 from statutory foreign non deductible current year prior years current year (charge) from change in consolidation) continuing tax rates operations expenses and continuing operations operations 31 December 2016 164 67 62 62 50 50 -455 – liq. Losses excluding Income statement (benefit)/charge -15 -18 -40 16 -7 7 46 -11 associates and joint Tax charged to Equity – – – – – -17 – -17 ventures Tax charged to OCI – 12 – – – – – 12 Other (exchange, reclassification, – – – -8 29 -4 – 17 change in consolidation) 31 December 2017 149 61 22 70 72 36 -409 1 1 This relates to the unrealized capital gains on the stake in Telefónica Deutschland which are considered taxable in the Netherlands (recapture rule). 2 Of which EUR 1m to be recovered within 12 months (2016: EUR 0m). 3 See Note 19 Business combinations and other changes in consolidation for the impact of the acquisitions. 94 95 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Tax loss carry forward Accounting policy: Taxation differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 profit will be available against which the temporary Maximum Recognized Maximum Recognized Current income tax differences can be utilized. Tax loss carry deferred deferred Tax loss carry deferred deferred The current income tax charge is calculated in accordance € million forward tax asset tax asset forward tax asset tax asset with the prevailing tax regulations and rates, taking into DTLs are recognized for all taxable temporary differences Koninklijke KPN – corporate tax1 1,385 346 346 2,026 507 507 account non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses. except when they arise from the initial recognition of The current income tax expense reflects the amount for the goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a Other 177 46 34 258 72 58 current reporting period that KPN expects to recover from business combination and, at the time of the transaction, Total KPN Group 1,562 392 380 2,284 579 565 or pay to the tax authorities. Current income tax related to affects neither the profit or loss reported in the Statement of items recognized directly in equity/OCI is recorded in equity/ Profit or Loss nor the taxable profit or loss. Also, no DTLs are OCI and not in profit or loss. KPN’s management periodically recorded for taxable temporary differences associated with 1 Part of the tax book loss which is recognized as a result of the sale of E-Plus to TEFD is included in this amount. Of the remaining total tax book loss of initially evaluates positions taken in the tax returns regarding investments in subsidiaries and associates when the timing EUR 4bn, EUR 1.2bn is recorded in the DTA for tax loss carry forward and EUR 2bn is recorded in the DTA for unrealized liquidation losses. The offset of losses situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled with future profits is limited to 9 years. interpretation and establishes provisions when deemed and it is probable that the temporary differences will not appropriate. reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax positions are stated at nominal value and are measured at the corporate Expiration of the available tax loss carry forward and recognized tax assets Deferred income taxes income tax rates KPN expects to be applicable in the year Deferred income tax positions are recognized for temporary when the asset is realized or liability is settled based on 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and enacted or substantially enacted tax laws. Maximum Recognized Maximum Recognized their carrying values. DTAs are recognized for deductible Tax loss carry deferred deferred Tax loss carry deferred deferred temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax DTAs and DTLs are netted if there is a legally enforceable € million forward tax asset tax asset forward tax asset tax asset credits and any unused tax losses. DTAs are recognized only right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities 2018 – – – 2 – – to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will and the DTAs/DTLs relate to income taxes levied by the 2019 3 1 1 5 1 1 be available against which the temporary differences can be same taxation authority on the same taxable entity or if, in utilized. Both the recognized and unrecognized DTAs are case of different taxable entities, there is an intention either 2020 2 1 1 21 5 5 reassessed on each reporting date based on available to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis, or to 2021 9 2 2 22 5 5 projections. If future taxable profits are insufficiently realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously, in 2022 16 4 4 N/a N/a N/a available, derecognition may become inevitable unless each future period in which significant amounts of deferred Later 1,531 384 372 2,233 568 554 certain exceptions can be applied. DTAs are recorded for tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or Unlimited 1 – – 1 – – deductible temporary differences associated with recovered. investments in subsidiaries and associates and are recorded Total KPN Group 1,562 392 380 2,284 579 565 only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary 96 97 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [9] Earnings per share Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to Notes to the Consolidated Statement of The following table shows the income and share data used in the calculations of the basic and diluted EPS. equity holders of the company for the year in € 2017 2016 Financial Position € million and number of shares 2017 2016 Basic (continuing operations) 0.10 0.07 [10] Property, plant and equipment Profit for the year from 485 370 continuing operations Diluted (continuing operations) 0.10 0.07 Statement of changes in property, plant and equipment Other tangible Profit for the year from Plant and non-current Assets under -2 430 Basic (discontinued operations) 0.00 0.10 discontinued operations € million Land and buildings equipment assets construction Total Profit for the year 483 800 1 January 2016 525 5,230 38 208 6,001 Diluted (discontinued operations) 0.00 0.10 Profit attributable to non-controlling Investments 40 861 13 11 925 -7 interests  asic (total, including discontinued B 0.10 0.17 Depreciation -67 -902 -15 – -984 Deduction for perpetual capital securities -51 -51 operations) Impairments and retirements -4 -12 – -8 -24 Adjusted profit (loss) attributable to  iluted (total, including discontinued D Other -5 1 -5 – -9 432 742 0.10 0.17 ordinary shareholders of the company operations) Change in consolidation – 60 – – 60 Weighted average number of Closing net book value 489 5,238 31 211 5,969 4,225,436,268 4,259,762,228 subscribed ordinary shares Cost 1,866 9,553 89 211 11,719 Dilution effects: options and non-vested Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the 4,748,779 3,581,632 Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,377 -4,315 -58 – -5,750 shares weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to 31 December 2016 489 5,238 31 211 5,969 Weighted average number of assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. Investments 42 712 14 70 838 subscribed ordinary shares including 4,230,185,047 4,263,343,860 Share options and non-vested shares are regarded to have dilution effects potential dilutive effects on the ordinary shares. Depreciation -63 -902 -15 – -980 Impairments and retirements -3 -8 – -14 -25 Coupons on the perpetual capital securities are deducted from Other – -3 1 – -2 the profit attributable to equity holders, since the perpetual Change in consolidation 1 5 4 1 11 hybrid bonds represent equity but do not constitute profit Closing net book value 466 5,042 35 268 5,811 attributable to ordinary holders. Cost 1,880 9,500 98 268 11,746 Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,414 -4,458 -63 – -5,935 In the total basic earnings per share EUR 0.03 (2016: EUR 0.02) 31 December 2017 466 5,042 35 268 5,811 tax expense is included. The book value of property, plant and equipment (PPE) of operating lease programs amounted to EUR 109m (2016: which KPN as the lessee is the beneficial owner under financial EUR 174m). The non-cancellable future minimum lease lease programs amounted to EUR 59m (2016: EUR 32m). payments receivable related to these operating leases for 2018 The book value of PPE of which KPN is the lessor under are EUR 2m, which matures within one month. Accounting policy: PPE defined as the higher of an assets’ fair value less costs of PPE are valued at cost less depreciation and impairment. The disposal and its value in use. cost include direct costs (materials, direct labor and work contracted out) and directly attributable overhead costs. Estimated useful lives of the principal PPE categories: Asset retirement obligations are capitalized as part of the cost of tangible fixed assets and expensed as either PPE category Depreciation period depreciation over the assets’ estimated useful life or as Land No depreciation impairment charges. Buildings 14 to 33 years Network equipment 3 to 7 years PPE are depreciated using the straight-line method, based on Network infrastructure 10 to 30 years estimated useful life, taking into account residual value. Land Vehicles 10 years is not depreciated. PPE are reviewed for impairment Office equipment 4 to 10 years whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of the assets concerned may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed at by which the assets’ book value exceeds its recoverable least annually and adjusted if appropriate. Interest is amount. Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that capitalized as an increase in PPE if the construction of assets the impairment no longer exists. The recoverable amount is takes a substantial period of time and the amount is material. 98 99 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [11] Intangible assets Key assumptions CGU Terminal sales growth¹ Capex intensity EBITDA margin Discount rate Statement of changes in intangible assets with finite lives and goodwill Consumer 2017 0% 20% – 23% 48% – 60% 7% – 8% Computer Software in Customer € million Goodwill Licenses software development relationships Other Total Business 2017 0% 10% – 17% 30% – 37% 7% – 8% 1 January 2016 1,428 1,180 463 93 260 26 3,450 Wholesale 2017 0% 21% – 35% 55% – 64% 7% – 8% Investments 38 – 326 -50 – – 314 iBasis 2017 0% 0% – 1% 2% – 4% 9% – 11% Change in consolidation – – – – 16 – 16 1 Estimates after 10 years Amortization – -143 -307 – -29 -7 -486 Impairments -45 – -5 -1 – – -51 Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions Subsequent PPA, exchange rate differences 7 – – – – – 7 Since the headroom of the Dutch CGUs is more than sufficient, A negative sensitivity for an individual assumption would not and other no sensitivity analysis is disclosed for these CGUs. A reasonable directly result in an impairment, considering the margin of EUR Closing net book value 1,428 1,037 477 42 247 19 3,250 possible change in assumptions would not result in an impairment. 12m between the recoverable amount (approximately EUR The following table gives an indication of value change of iBasis 75m) and the carrying amount of iBasis, but then headroom Cost 2,237 2,083 1.021 42 351 73 5,807 as at the end of 2017: would be reduced to nil. Accumulated amortization/impairments -809 -1,046 -544 – -104 -54 -2,557 Value change iBasis 31 December 2016 1,428 1,037 477 42 247 19 3,250 € million -0.5pps +0.5pps Investments 106 24 296 11 2 – 439 Terminal sales growth (2) – (4) 2 –4 Change in consolidation¹ – – 14 – 57 6 77 Capex intensity 10 – 12 (10) – (12) Amortization – -85 -291 – -27 -7 -410 EBITDA margin (10) – (12) 10 – 12 Impairments – – -9 – – – -9 Discount rate 3–4 (3) – (4) Subsequent PPA, exchange rate differences -5 – – – – -1 -6 and other Closing net book value 1,529 976 487 53 279 17 3,341 Accounting policy: goodwill and intangibles with Internally developed and acquired software, not being an Cost 2,325 1,385 994 53 406 76 5,239 finite lives integral part of property, plant and equipment, is capitalized Accumulated amortization/impairments -796 -409 -507 – -127 -59 -1,898 The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair on the basis of the costs incurred, which include direct costs 31 December 2017 1,529 976 487 53 279 17 3,341 value of the identifiable net assets acquired in a business and directly attributable overhead costs incurred. combination is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill on acquisitions 1 The change in consolidation mainly include the customer bases of QSight IT, DearBytes, Solcon and Cam IT. of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill Other intangible assets such as customer relationships and on acquisition of associates is included in investments in trade names acquired in business combinations are associates. capitalized at their fair values at acquisition date and are amortized using the straight-line method over the economic Goodwill per CGU Goodwill impairment tests Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment useful life. 31 December 31 December The annual impairment test as at 31 December 2017 did not testing. The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of € million 2017 2016 indicate that the book value of KPN’s goodwill is not CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever Consumer 769 764 recoverable. At 31 December 2017, the market capitalization of business combination. Goodwill is carried at cost less events or changes in circumstances indicate that the book Business 679 578 KPN was significantly higher than the book value of its equity. accumulated impairment losses and tested for impairment value of the asset may not be recoverable. An impairment Wholesale 40 40 A test has been performed of the recoverable amount of the annually or whenever there is an indication that goodwill loss is recognized for the amount by which the book value iBasis¹ 41 46 book value of each cash-generating unit (CGU), based on their may be impaired. Goodwill is impaired if the recoverable of the licenses exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairments Total 1,529 1,428 value-in-use, which was determined by using the discounted amount is lower than the book value. The recoverable are reversed if and to the extent that the impairment no cash flow method. Key assumptions used in the cash flow amount is defined as the higher of the fair value less costs longer exists. 1 The change in goodwill relates to exchange rate differences. projections are estimated EBITDA, Capex, change in working of disposal and the value in use of the CGUs concerned. capital and pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC) Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed in the Intangible assets not yet available for use are tested annually and are not significantly different from those used in prior year. event that circumstances that triggered the impairment for impairment or whenever KPN has an indication that the The cash flow projections are management’s best estimate have changed. intangible fixed assets may be impaired. For example, based on the most recent business plans and extrapolation to licenses are tested as part of a CGU as licenses do not terminal values. The WACC is calculated using a Capital Asset Licenses and software are valued at cost less amortization generate independent cash flows. Pricing Model. and impairment. Amortization is calculated using the For all four CGUs, the annual impairment tests in 2017 and straight-line method over the economic useful life and The amortization period of the intangible assets with finite 2016 resulted in positive headroom as at 31 December 2017 and commences at the date that services can be offered lives are for licenses 5 to 20 years, software 3 to 5 years and 31 December 2016. (available for use). other intangible assets 4 to 20 years. 100 101 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [12] Financial assets and financial liabilities Fair value estimation Accounting policy: Level 1: Fair value of instruments traded in active markets and AFS financial assets and financial assets at FVPL Summary of the financial assets and liabilities at carrying amount and fair value, classified per category. based on quoted market prices. Level 2: instrument is not AFS FA include equity investments which, after initial 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 traded in an active market and fair value is determined by using measurement, are subsequently measured at fair value. € million Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value valuation techniques based on maximum use of observable Unrealized gains or losses are recognized in OCI. When the Financial assets FVPL market data for all significant inputs. Level 3: one or more of the investment is derecognized, the cumulative gain is significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the recognized in P&L. When the investment is impaired, the Other current financial assets [12.1] 329 329 140 140 fair value is estimated using models and other valuation cumulative loss is also recognized in P&L. A significant or Derivatives [12.3] 168 168 298 298 methods. The valuation of available-for-sale unlisted securities prolonged decline for recognizing an impairment on Loans and receivables is based on a discounted cash flow model. available-for-sale equity instruments is defined by 20% or Trade and other receivables [13] 521 521 430 430 9 months measured at reporting date. Financial assets at [12.1] Financial assets FVPL are recognized at fair value with net changes in fair Cash and cash equivalents [14] 856 856 1,179 1,179 value presented as finance costs / income. These assets Available-for-sale financial assets [12.1] 1,091 1,091 1,909 1,909 Available-for-sale financial assets are classified as current or non-current depending on the Total financial assets 2,965 2,965 3,956 3,956 The decrease of the available-for-sale financial assets (“AFS FA”) expected timing of realization. was mainly due to the sale of part of the stake in Telefónica Financial liabilities FVPL Deutschland (TEFD). On 13 March 2017, KPN exchanged 6% of Derivatives [12.3] 328 328 198 198 TEFD shares with a fair value of EUR 740m for approximately [12.2] Financial liabilities Loans and borrowings 1.4% of Telefónica’s share capital. Subsequently, KPN sold the Borrowings [12.2] 7,596 8,479 8,632 9,548 Telefónica shares during the first half of 2017, resulting in Borrowings EUR 741m proceeds. In addition, KPN sold 25.5 million TEFD The carrying amounts and fair value of borrowings are as Trade and other payables [18] 1,328 1,328 1,403 1,403 shares (0.9%) through various transactions during the fourth follows: Total financial liabilities 9,252 10,135 10,233 11,149 quarter of 2017. The fair value of KPN’s 8.6% stake in TEFD was 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 EUR 1,071m per 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 1,867m for a Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Fair value measurement hierarchy as at 31 December 2017 (€ million) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total € million amount value amount value 15.5% stake). In 2017, a net gain of EUR 49m in the fair value of Financial assets at FVPL the stake in TEFD has been recorded through Other Eurobonds EUR 3,903 4,194 4,641 4,994 Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 3 − 3 Comprehensive Income. In 2017, KPN received a dividend from Eurobonds GBP 1,504 1,884 1,557 1,952 Derivatives (interest rate swap) − 165 − 165 TEFD of EUR 70m (2016: EUR 110m) which has been recorded Global Bonds USD 1,070 1,152 1,202 1,275 as Finance income. Available-for-sale financial assets Hybrid Bonds (GBP and USD) 946 1,064 1,030 1,113 Listed securities 1,071 − − 1,071 In 2017, KPN sold its 11% equity share in Tecnocom, a listed Other borrowings 173 185 202 214 Unlisted securities − − 20 20 Spanish ICT services company for an amount of EUR 38m to Total borrowings 7,596 8,479 8,632 9,548 Total assets 1,071 168 20 1,259 Indra Sistemas SA. The gain on the sale of EUR 30m has been – of which: current 18 18 735 736 recorded as Other financial results (Note 7). Financial liabilities at FVPL – of which: non-current 7,578 8,461 7,897 8,812 Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 293 − 293 Other AFS FA include minority stakes of which the largest is Derivatives (interest rate swap) − 35 − 35 Actility SA, a provider of network solutions and managed The fair value for Eurobonds, Global Bonds and Hybrid Bonds information systems for the Internet of Things market with a is based on the listed price of the bonds. Other borrowings Total liabilities − 328 − 328 carrying value of EUR 7m (2016: EUR 3m). include financial lease obligations, cash collateral received on derivatives, bank overdraft and other loans. Fair value measurement hierarchy as at 31 December 2016 (€ million) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Other current financial assets Financial assets at FVPL Other current financial assets include investments in shortKPN’s weighted average interest rate on the borrowings Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 84 − 84 term money market funds for EUR 329m (2016: EUR 140m), outstanding before swaps at 31 December 2017 was 5.2% Derivatives (interest rate swap) − 214 − 214 which are held at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL). These (2016: 5.2%), including EUR hybrid bonds, classified as equity. funds have low volatility, with an investment objective of The weighted average interest rate after swaps was 4.5% Available-for-sale financial assets preservation of principal. (2016: 4.6%). Excluding all hybrid bonds, the average interest Listed securities 1,902 − − 1,902 rate on the senior bond portfolio after swaps at 31 December Unlisted securities − − 7 7 2017 was 3.9% (2016: 4.1%). Total assets 1,902 298 7 2,207 Financial liabilities at FVPL Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 142 − 142 Derivatives (interest rate swap) and other − 56 − 56 Total liabilities − 198 − 198 102 103 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Bonds [12.3] Hedging activities and derivatives fixed interest rates in foreign currency to fixed rates in euro. On 17 January 2017, KPN redeemed the 4.75% coupon Eurobond KPN uses derivatives solely for the purpose of hedging The hedges are until maturity of the underlying senior bonds, 2006-2017 with a remaining outstanding principal amount of underlying exposures. or until the first call date in case of the hybrid bonds. EUR 720m, in line with the regular redemption schedule. 31 December 31 December For these hedges, KPN meets the criteria of, and also applies, € million 2017 2016 cash flow hedge accounting. The effectiveness of the hedges Hybrid bonds Assets 168 298 are determined at inception and on a quarterly basis. KPN uses Nominal Nominal € Coupon Classification Redemption First call date Swapped Credit rating the cumulative dollar offset method for its cash flow hedges Liabilities -328 -198 related to cross-currency swaps. Part of KPN’s derivatives EUR Hybrid Bond 1,100 1,100 6.125% Equity Perpetual 14 Sep 2018 N/a BB/Ba2 Total derivatives -160 100 portfolio contains reset clauses or collateral postings at GBP Hybrid Bond 400 460 6.875% Liability 14 Mar 2073 14 Mar 2020 Fixed 6.78% BB/Ba2 of which: designated in a hedge pre-agreed dates (see Note 12.4 ‘Liquidity risk’). USD Hybrid Bond 600 465 7.000% Liability 28 Mar 2073 28 Mar 2023 Fixed 6.34% BB/Ba2 relationship -291 -59 of which: other derivatives not Bonds denominated in EUR designated in a hedge relationship 131 159 In 2011, Eurobonds with maturities on 21 September 2020, 4 October 2021, and 30 September 2024, were swapped to a KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, Accounting policy: Borrowings floating rate based on three-month Euribor using elect to defer payments of interest on each of the three hybrid After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are The ineffective portion of the fair value hedges and cash fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. Subsequently in May 2015, bonds. Arrears of interest must be paid if dividends are paid on subsequently carried at amortized cost; any difference flow hedges recognized in the P&L during 2017 resulted in a KPN swapped the floating rate exposure on these bonds to a ordinary shares, in the event of early redemption, and for the between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the loss of EUR 1m (2016: EUR 1m loss). fixed rate for the remaining maturity of these bonds and GBP/USD hybrid bonds at final maturity. KPN does not redemption value is recognized in the P&L over the period discontinued fair value hedge accounting for the recognize accruals for coupon payments on the EUR hybrid of the borrowings using the effective interest method. The Derivatives positions are reported on a gross basis. Part of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. The cumulative gain of bond (EUR 67m per year). If an accrual had been recognized, amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any the derivatives portfolio is subject to master netting agreements EUR 224m will be amortized to earnings until maturity of the the amount would have been EUR 20m at 31 December 2017. discounts or premiums on acquisition or issuance and that allow netting under certain circumstances. If netting had bonds. The balance of the unamortized gain was EUR 88m at The three hybrid bonds are for 50% treated as equity and 50% transaction costs. The effective interest rate amortization been applied, the total derivatives asset position would be 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 108m). as debt in KPN’s gross and net debt definitions. is recognized in the P&L as finance costs. EUR 32m and the total derivatives liability position would be Since May 2015, KPN holds the interest rate swaps on these EUR 192m at 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 124m and EUR 24m bonds at FVPL for an amount of EUR 131m per 31 December respectively). 2017 and recorded a loss of EUR 28m in 2017, excluding Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities amortization of discontinued fair value hedges (2016: EUR 28m Derivative financial Bonds denominated in foreign currency loss). € million Borrowings Net liability instruments Bonds denominated in foreign currencies are hedged with The Eurobond maturing on 11 September 2028, has been cross-currency swaps. The currency exposure is hedged by swapped to a floating rate based on six-months Euribor using Balance as of 1 January 2016 9,700 -612 9,088 effectively fixing the countervalue in foreign currency to euro fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps. For this hedge, KPN meets Exchange differences -287 291 4 and by hedging the interest rate exposure by swapping the the criteria of, and also applies, hedge accounting. Movements recorded as net cash flows arising from/used in financing activities: Proceeds from borrowings 1,235 1,235 Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives¹ -1,931 -12 -1,943 Accounting policy: Derivatives and hedging activities Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which is Other financing cash flows -54 -54 Derivatives are recognized at fair value. Gains and losses designated as a fair value hedge, along with the gain or Other non-cash flow movements² -85 287 202 arising from changes in fair value are recognized as finance loss on the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged cost/income during the period in which they arise to the risk, are recorded as finance cost/ income. Changes in the Balance as of 31 December 2016 8,632 -100 8,532 extent that the derivatives have no hedging designation fair value of an effective derivative, which is designated as Exchange differences -253 255 2 or they are ineffective. a cash flow hedge, are recorded in OCI for the effective part, until the P&L is affected by the variability in cash flows of Movements recorded as net cash flows arising from/used in financing activities: Derivatives related to loans are designated as either cash the designated hedged item. The ineffective part of the Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives¹ -749 -20 -769 flow or fair value hedges. KPN applies hedge accounting cash flow hedge is recognized as finance cost/income. If an as this recognizes the offsetting effects on the P&L. underlying transaction has ceased to be an effective Other movements² -34 25 -9 At the inception of transactions, KPN documents the hedge or in case of early redemption of the hedged item, Balance as of 31 December 2017 7,596 160 7,756 relationship between the derivative and hedged item, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively which the nature of the risk being hedged, the strategy for means that subsequent changes in fair value are 1 In the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows this line item includes a payment of EUR 90m in 2017 and a receipt of EUR 32 million in 2016 regarding cash undertaking transactions, whether the hedge relationship recognized in the P&L as finance cost/income. The collateral on derivatives (presented as non-current other receivables) and tender premiums of EUR 222m in 2016. 2 Other movements predominanty are fair value adjustments and in 2016 include the impact of the exercise of the GroupIT option (Derivative financial is expected to be effective and how this is tested. cumulative amount recorded in OCI is released in the P&L. instruments). 104 105 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Maturity analysis of the financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities on 31 December 2017. [12.4] Financial risk management and policies Borrowings Derivatives Financing policy Credit and counterparty risk Trade and KPN strives for the right balance between a prudent financing Credit risk arises from the possibility of asset impairment Derivatives Derivatives other policy, investments in the business and shareholder occurring when counterparties are unable to meet their Interest on Financial Other debt inflow outflow payables and remuneration. KPN is committed to an investment grade credit obligations in transactions involving financial instruments. Bonds and bonds and lease and Cash (including (including accrued € million loans1 loans2 obligations collateral interest) interest) expenses Total profile. It is the policy to utilize excess cash for operational and Capital preservation is KPN’s main priority when investing financial flexibility, (small) in-country mergers and acquisitions excess cash. KPN’s counterparty policy sets limits for the 2018 293 11 63 -269 217 1,168 1,483 and/or shareholder remuneration. maximum exposure per counterparty, which are primarily 2019-2022 2,264 988 29 12 -1,499 1,353 – 3,147 based on credit ratings, investment periods and collateral. 2023 and further 4,925 1,156 27 -3,722 3,532 – 5,918 The Net Debt/EBITDA ratio is one of the drivers for KPN’s The minimum counterparty credit rating (Moody’s equivalent) Contractual cash flows 7,189 2,437 67 75 -5,490 5,102 1,168 10,548 credit rating and is based on the nominal value of borrowings. is A3 for cash balances and for entering into new derivative The difference between carrying value and nominal value of transactions. Cash balances used for working capital purposes 1 Includes the GBP and USD Hybrid Bonds with final maturities in 2073 (redemption value of EUR 951m). The EUR perpetual Hybrid Bond is not included as it has no stated maturity date. borrowings includes: (1) carrying value adjustments resulting can also reside at banks with lower credit ratings. 2 Interest payments on the GBP and USD Hybrid Bonds (EUR 66m per year until the first call dates in 2020 and 2023 respectively) are not included. KPN may, from fair value hedges and (2) in case of foreign currency at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of interest on these hybrid bonds. Any arrears of interest must be paid at the latest bonds, the difference between the nominal amount at the As at 31 December 2017, KPN’s cash balances and short-term at redemption in 2073, the amount of which cannot be reliably measured because of the duration of the hybrid bonds. prevailing spot rate and the swapped nominal amount in EUR. investments were held in bank accounts, bank deposits, money market funds and tri-party repurchase agreements with Part of the derivatives contain reset clauses or collateral prohibiting KPN from entering into any amalgamation, maturities up to three months. The majority of cash balances postings at pre-agreed dates, in order to mitigate counterparty demerger, merger, corporate restructuring or reorganization, 31 December 31 December were invested with counterparties with a credit rating exposure during the life of the swap. These reset clauses will unless prior written consent has been given by a majority of the € million 2017 2016 equivalent to A2 at Moody’s or stronger and the counterparties result in early euro settlement obligations in cash with the lenders or bondholders or the resulting company assumes all Borrowings 7,596 8,632 of outstanding derivatives have a credit rating equivalent to swap counterparty, which could lead to additional cash inflows of the rights and obligations with respect to the loans or bonds. Bank overdraft -4 -1 Baa1 or higher with Moody’s. A credit valuation loss of EUR 1m or outflows before maturity. During 2017, KPN paid net (2016: 1m loss) was recorded related to interest rate swaps or collateral of EUR 111m (2016: paid EUR 46m), according to Market risk Perpetual hybrid bonds 1,100 1,100 cross-currency swaps recorded as fair value and cash flow hedges. pre-agreed settlement schedules. In order to reduce liquidity KPN is exposed to various kinds of market risks in the ordinary 50% equity credit for hybrid bonds -1,013 -1,013 risks, the reset clauses or collateral postings are spread over course of business. These risks include foreign currency Cash collateral paid on derivatives -114 -24 Credit risk on trade receivables is controlled using restrictive different points in time. exchange rate risk and interest rate risk. Difference between carrying value policies for customer acceptance. Credit management is and nominal value -335 -617 focused on mobile services. Before accepting certain new Available financing sources Foreign currency exchange rate risk Adjusted gross debt 7,230 8,077 customers in this segment, the creditworthiness of prospective In addition to the available cash and cash equivalents and Foreign currency risks mainly result from settlement of Net cash and cash equivalents 852 1,178 clients is checked. In addition, KPN keeps track of the payment short-term investments and cash flows from operations, KPN international telecommunications traffic and purchase of assets performance of customers. If customers fail to meet set criteria, has the following committed financing resources available: and primarily consists of GBP and USD exposure. Foreign Short-term investments 329 140 payment issues must be resolved before a new transaction will currency exchange rate risks related to bonds that are not Net Debt 6,049 6,759 be entered into. Revolving credit facility denominated in euro are hedged into euro in line with KPN’s Normalized EBITDA 2,417 2,429 In June 2017, KPN exercised a one-year extension option for its hedging policies. Net Debt/EBITDA 2.5x 2.8x KPN’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only to whollyEUR 1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which brings the owned subsidiaries. At 31 December 2017, KPN had parent maturity of the revolving credit facility to 1 July 2022. The As a result of currency fluctuations, the value of subsidiaries guarantees and bank guarantees outstanding to third parties facility contains another one-year extension option, which could fluctuate and affect the financial position and equity Financial risk management for various Dutch wholly-owned subsidiaries. The carrying could extend the maturity to July 2023. The facility is used for positions from year to year. These translation exposures are KPN is exposed to a variety of financial risks. The overall risk amount of financial assets including cash represents the general corporate purposes and does not contain any financial not hedged. management program focuses on the unpredictability of maximum credit exposure, which amounts to EUR 2,965m at covenants. The facility was undrawn per 31 December 2017. financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 3,956m). On 31 December 2017, Group companies and business operations are obliged to effects on KPN’s financial position and performance. total outstanding bank guarantees amounted to EUR 8m Capital resources covenants hedge their firm commitments and highly predictable Derivatives are used to hedge certain risk exposures (see 12.3). (2016: EUR 8m), which were issued in the ordinary course of KPN’s existing capital resources contain the following anticipated transactions in non-functional currencies by The financial risks are managed by KPN’s Treasury department business. covenants as at 31 December 2017, which could trigger forward contracts. Accordingly, KPN’s Treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Management. These additional financial obligations or early redemption of the matches and manages the intercompany and external policies are established to identify and analyze financial risks, Liquidity risk outstanding indebtedness. All senior bonds issued after exposures using forward exchange contracts. No hedge to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor Liquidity risk is the risk that KPN will not be able to meet its 1 January 2006 (EUR 5.4bn at 31 December 2017) contain a accounting is applied for these hedge instruments. adherence to those limits. KPN’s key financial risks are the following: financial obligations associated with financial instruments change of control clause. KPN may be required to early redeem, Credit and counterparty risk; as they become due. KPN’s approach to managing liquidity is in case certain changes of control occur and within this change At 31 December 2017, more than 99% of cash and cash Liquidity risk; and to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, of control period (max. 90 days) a rating downgrade to equivalents was denominated in the functional currency of the Market risk. under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring sub-investment grade occurs. The hybrid bonds also contain a related entities. More than 98% of the net amount of trade unacceptable losses or risking damage. change of control clause by means of which KPN has the receivables and more than 94% of the amount of trade possibility to repurchase the hybrid bonds at par. A 5% interest payables was outstanding in the functional currency of the step-up applies if a rating downgrade occurs during the related entities. change of control period in respect of that change of control. In addition, many of KPN’s capital resources contain a covenant 106 107 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Interest rate risk and interest rate profile Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash At 31 December 2017, a sensitivity analysis with regard to flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate as a result of interest rate risk on interest-bearing liabilities (excl. cash flow Financial assets changes in market interest rates. Borrowings, derivatives, cash hedges) showed that, ceteris paribus, each adverse change of The following financial assets are subject to offsetting, and cash equivalents are subject to interest rate risk. 100 bps in six-months Euribor would hypothetically not result enforceable master netting arrangements and similar With regard to interest rate risk exposure, KPN periodically in higher interest costs per annum because of the outstanding agreements: evaluates the desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate cash & cash equivalents which also carry a floating interest. Not Offset: Financial liabilities, balancing the benefit of lower interest costs vs. the Financial liabilities Net amount in instruments/Cash variability of cash flows. Any interest exposure longer than one Cash flow hedges € million Gross amount set off balance sheet collateral Net amount year is considered to be fixed. KPN may use derivative financial At 31 December 2017, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with 31 December 2017 instruments to adjust the desired interest rate exposure. As of regard to interest rate and currency risk on the cash flow Cash and cash equivalents 856 – 856 -4 852 31 December 2017, 92% of KPN’s interest-bearing gross debt hedges. KPN applies cash flow hedge accounting on all bonds Derivatives 168 – 168 -48 120 (excluding bank overdraft) was at fixed interest rates (2016: not denominated in Euro. With all other variables held constant, Trade and other receivables 123 -59 64 – 64 100%). KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of changes in interest Total 1,147 -59 1,088 -52 1,036 rates based on various scenarios. This would hypothetically In November 2017, KPN swapped the 1.125% coupon on the result in a higher or lower value on the balance of the hedge 31 December 2016 2016 2028 Eurobond to six-months Euribor to adjust the mix reserve, which is included in equity attributable to equity Cash and cash equivalents 1,179 – 1,179 -1 1,178 of fixed and floating rate interest rate liabilities. holders. In a similar way, KPN calculated the hypothetical Derivatives 298 – 298 -69 229 With a view to the existing and forecasted debt structure, impact of changes in the EUR/USD rate and the EUR/GBP rate, Trade and other receivables 135 -38 97 – 97 KPN could enter into additional future derivatives to further holding all other variables constant. The results of the analyses Total 1,612 -38 1,574 -70 1,504 adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rate liabilities. are shown in the table below, indicating the hypothetical impact on the fair value of the cross currency swaps (excluding the partially offsetting impact on the hedged items): Financial liabilities The following financial liabilities are subject to offsetting, GBP USD Total enforceable master netting arrangements and similar € million agreements: (before tax) Change 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Change in interest rate +1%-point -8 -15 -11 -3 -19 -18 Financial assets Net amount in Not offset: Cash € million Gross amount set off balance sheet collateral Net amount -1%-point 9 17 11 2 20 19 31 December 2017 Change in FX rate +10%-point 70 72 60 81 130 153 Derivatives 328 – 328 -114 214 -10%-point -86 -85 -73 -99 -159 -184 Trade and other payables 151 -59 92 – 92 Total 479 -59 420 –114 306 Prospective effectiveness testing indicates that all cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective. As a consequence, 31 December 2016 the expected impact on the P&L is immaterial. Derivatives 198 – 198 -24 174 Trade and other payables 172 -38 134 – 134 Derivatives held at fair value Total 370 -38 332 -24 308 At 31 December 2017, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis with regard to the fair value of interest rate swaps (excluding the partially offsetting impact on the hedged items) : For the financial assets and liabilities summarized above, each agreement between KPN and the counterparty allows for net € million Change 2017 2016 settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both parties elect to settle on a net basis. Changes in EUR interest rates +1%-point -61 -5 -1%-point 68 5 Accounting policy: For a sensitivity analysis on interest rate risk with regard to Offsetting financial assets and liabilities pensions, read more in Note 16. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported on a net basis on the balance sheet only when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 108 109 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [13] Trade and other receivables [14] Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid instruments, 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 mainly balances on bank accounts, bank deposits, AAA-rated € million Current Current € million Non-current Non-current money market funds and tri-party repurchase agreements, all with initial maturities of three months or less. Trade receivables – gross 423 437 Other receivables 117 27 Provision for doubtful trade receivables -44 -64 Accrued income and prepayments 24 34 The main items causing the decrease in cash and cash Trade receivables – net 379 373 Total 141 61 equivalents were the bond redemption in the first quarter of Other receivables 25 31 2017 partially offset by retained cash flow during the year. Accrued income 259 263 Accounting policy: Cash and cash equivalents Prepayments 99 99 31 December 31 December Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, Total 762 766 € million 2017 2016 deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term Cash 321 490 highly liquid investments with original maturities of three Short-term bank deposits, repurchase months or less. Bank overdrafts are included within The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables 535 689 borrowings in current liabilities. agreements and money market funds approximate their fair value. Trade and other receivables are Total cash and cash equivalents 856 1,179 non-interest bearing. The aging of the gross trade receivables is as follows: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 [15] Equity (total cost of EUR 209m). These shares were subsequently € million Gross Provision Gross Provision Limitations in distribution shareholders’ equity cancelled. Dutch law prohibits KPN from casting a vote on Amounts undue 226 3 241 1 Total distributable reserves at 31 December 2017 amounted to shares KPN holds (treasury shares). The ordinary shares and Past due 0–90 days 107 6 91 9 EUR 3,021m (2016: EUR 3,267m). For further details on preference shares B carry the right to cast one vote each. The Past due 91–360 days 28 12 47 24 non-distributable reserves, see Note C of Corporate Financial ordinary shares are registered or payable to the bearer. More than one year 62 23 58 30 Statements. Shareholders may request the company to convert their Total 423 44 437 64 registered shares to bearer shares but not vice versa. Share capital Authorized capital stock totals EUR 720m divided into nine Share premium billion ordinary shares of EUR 4ct each and nine billion In 2017, the share premium reserve decreased with EUR 206m Accounting policy: Trade and other receivables Loans and receivables are initially recognized at fair value, preference shares B of EUR 4ct each. At 31 December 2017 a due to the cancellation of repurchased shares. The additional Trade and other receivables classify as loans and receivables, and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the total of 4,202,844,404 ordinary shares were outstanding and paid-in capital is exempt from Dutch tax up to an amount of a category of financial assets with fixed or determinable effective interest rate method, less provisions for impairment. fully paid-in. In 2017, 67,410,260 shares were repurchased EUR 9,450m at 31 December 2017 (2016: EUR 9,431m). payments that are not quoted in an active market and The amortized cost value may equal the initial cost value if created by KPN by providing money, goods or services there is no maturity. The amortized cost is calculated by taking directly to a debtor, other than: into account any discounts or premiums on acquisition and those KPN intends to sell immediately or in the short-term, transactions costs. The effective interest rate amortization is Number of Treasury Fair value Currency which are classified as held for trading; and recognized under finance income or finance costs. treasury shares Hedge reserve AFS translation Total Other those for which KPN may not recover substantially all of its € million, unless indicated otherwise shares reserve reserve financial assets reserve reserves initial investment, other than because of credit A provision for impairment is established when there is Balance at 1 January 2016 11,599,450 -132 -268 259 16 -125 deterioration, which are classified as available-for-sale. objective evidence that KPN will not be able to collect all Movements recorded in OCI (net) – – -85 -261 20 -326 amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Sold treasury shares -1,265,159 14 – – – 14 Other – 3 – -17 – -14 Balance at 31 December 2016 10,334,291 -115 -353 -19 36 -451 Movements recorded in OCI (net) – – 14 16 – 30 Sold treasury shares -1,161,443 12 – – – 12 Reclassification – – – 16 – 16 Balance at 31 December 2017 9,172,848 -103 -339 13 36 -393 110 111 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Hedge reserve [16] Retirement benefits Asset volatility: the pension plans’ assets are predominantly invested in equity securities and other return seeking assets 31 December 31 December Retirement benefits are provided through a number of defined and therefore the plans’ funding levels are exposed to equity € million 2017 2016 contribution plans and funded and unfunded defined benefit market risks; Effective portion cash flow hedges¹ -261 -278 plans. The most significant plans are described below. Interest rate risk: a decrease in interest rates will increase the Amortizable part² -192 -193 plans’ liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an Hedge reserve -453 -471 KPN main pension plan increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings; Tax effect 114 118 KPN’s main pension plan covers employees in the Netherlands Inflation risk: in the UK the indexation of the accrued benefits Hedge reserve, net of tax -339 -353 who are subject to KPN’s collective labor agreement and is unconditional and is based on a combination of consumer employees with an individual labor agreement and is externally and retail price indices and therefore the UK plan is exposed 1 The effective portion of cash flow hedges will be recognized in the P&L in line funded through Stichting Pensioenfonds KPN. This plan is a to inflation risk; and with the maturities of the related derivatives (see Note 12.3). 2 The amortizable part of the hedge reserve is amortized over the remaining collective defined contribution pension plan and is accounted Life expectancy: the plans provide benefits for the life of the life of the related bonds (between 2016 and 2030). The impact on the P&L for as a defined contribution plan because KPN has no other members, so increases in life expectancy will result in an will be EUR 17m in 2018. obligation than to pay the annual contribution which is a fixed increase in the plans’ liabilities. percentage of the pensionable base. Other Treasury shares reserve Dividend per share Getronics UK and US KPN has a number of other funded (insured) plans in the KPN purchased shares in its own capital for delivery upon At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on The Getronics US and UK operations were divested in 2008 Netherlands and an unfunded transitional early retirement plan exercise of share options by management and personnel under 18 April 2018, a final dividend of EUR 7.3ct per share will be and 2012 respectively. The closed and frozen pension plans of (provision of EUR 47m as at 31 December 2017, last payment the share option and performance share plans (Note 5). Votes proposed in respect of 2017. In August 2017, KPN paid an the former US and UK operations remained with KPN and are expected in 2021), which are all closed to new entrants. on purchased shares may not be cast and do not count interim dividend in respect of 2017 of EUR 3.7ct per share, in accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The assets of the plans Furthermore, with regard to the insured plans, based on Dutch law, determining the number of votes required at a General total EUR 156m, bringing the total regular dividend in respect are held separately from KPN in independently administered KPN could be required to make contributions if participants of Meeting of Shareholders. In 2017 and 2016, no shares were of 2017 to EUR 11ct per share. These financial statements do funds except for two supplemental executive retirement plans these plans require a value transfer to another pension fund or purchased for the share option and performance share plans. not reflect the proposal for the remaining dividend payable. in the US. The UK plan operates under the regulations of the insurer. However, the risk related to these value transfers is limited In 2017 and 2016, shares were sold in connection with vesting UK Pensions Regulator and the main US plan under the and therefore no provision has been recognized for these plans. grants of the KPN Restricted Share Plan (see Note 5). In May 2017, the dividend received from KPN’s stake in TEFD provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act was distributed to KPN shareholders as a special interim cash (ERISA). The deficit in the plans’ funding must be recovered by Provisions for retirement benefit obligations Treasury shares are accounted for at cost, representing the market dividend of EUR 1.7ct per ordinary share (EUR 72m). Total the investment returns in the plans’ assets and contributions The provisions for retirement benefit obligations consist of the price on the acquisition date. The proceeds at delivery of the dividend in respect of 2017, including the additional interim cash by KPN. The pension plans in the UK and US expose KPN to a net defined benefit liability regarding pension plans and early treasury shares are recognized directly in the other reserves. dividend, will then amount to EUR 12.7ct per ordinary share. number of risks which can have an impact on the future retirement plans which are accounted for as defined benefit contributions by KPN and the liability recorded in its balance plans as described above. See the table on the next page for a Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital In April 2017, KPN paid a final dividend of EUR 6.7ct per share in sheet. The most significant risks are summarized below: specification of the balance sheet position. securities respect of 2016, in total EUR 285m. The total dividend in The EUR 1.1bn hybrid bond with a 6.125% coupon is respect of 2016 was EUR 12.5ct per ordinary share including the subordinated to KPN Group’s senior creditors but ranks above additional interim cash dividend of EUR 2.5ct per share in the ordinary and preference shareholders in the event of the relation to the dividend received from KPN’s stake in TEFD. company’s winding up. This hybrid bond has a perpetual maturity and can, at KPN’s discretion, first be redeemed in September 2018. The hybrid bond is classified as equity (perpetual capital securities). For interest payments and credit ratings, see Note 12.2. Foundation Preference Shares B KPN KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time, to the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation) to acquire preference shares B. For further information about the Foundation, see the chapter Corporate governance. KPN is of the opinion that the call option does not represent a significant fair value due to the fact that the preference shares B, issued after exercise of the call option, bear interest linked to Euribor. 112 113 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Fair value of Net defined Defined benefit obligation² assets benefit liability (asset) The discount rate is based on yield curves of AA corporate CMI 2016 projection with a 1.5% long-term improvement and in bonds with maturities equal to the duration of the benefit the US the RP-2006 with Scale MP-2017. The life expectancy at € million 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 obligations and in the applicable currency. As at 31 December 2017, the age of 65 is expected to increase in the next 20 years by Balance as of 1 January 769 2,039 -507 -1,780 262 259 the (weighted) average duration of the defined benefit approximately two years in the UK and the US. Included in profit or loss: obligation was 14 years. Assumptions regarding life expectancy Operating expense¹ 1 -1,348 3 1,339 4 -9 are based on published statistics and mortality tables that Sensitivity analysis Interest expense (income) 21 57 -14 -50 7 7 include allowances for future improvement in mortality. The The table below shows the approximate impact on the Included in OCI: mortality table used in the Netherlands is the projected table defined benefit obligation of a change in the key actuarial Remeasurements loss (gain): AG 2016 which includes projected improvement rates varying assumptions of 0.5% and in the case of life expectancy of a 19 145 – – 19 145 by year of birth, corrected for fund specific circumstances. The change of one year. Actuarial loss (gain)³ mortality table used in the UK is the 93% of SAPS S2PXA tables Return on plan assets excluding interest income – – -29 -87 -29 -87 Effect of movements in exchange rates -46 -49 32 33 -14 -16 Total -27 96 3 -54 -24 42 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Other: € million Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Employer’s contribution⁴ – – -31 -37 -31 -37 Benefits paid -46 -75 46 75 – – Discount rate -48 54 -54 60 Balance as of 31 December 718 769 -500 -507 218 262 Expected salary increases – – – – 1 Operating expense includes: Amendment gains in 2016 at Voorzieningsfonds Getronics (SVG), liquidated in 2017, due to reduction of the charges for administration expenses (EUR 4m) Expected benefit increases 28 -22 27 -25 and transfer of part of SVG’s assets and accrued benefit obligations to the KPN pension fund on 1 April 2016 (EUR 7m); Amendment gain in 2017 of EUR 1m due to an increase in the retirement age of the transitional early retirement plan; Life expectancy 26 -26 27 -27 Settlement gain in 2016 at SVG of EUR 4m (EUR 1,317m defined benefit obligations minus EUR 1,313m plan assets); and Settlement loss in 2016 of EUR 1m due to lump sum payments to certain participants of the US plan (EUR 22m defined benefit obligations minus EUR 23m plan assets). 2 The measurement date for all defined benefit plans is 31 December. Plan assets 3 The actuarial loss (gain) in 2017 and 2016 consists of demographic assumptions (EUR -8m and EUR -5m), financial assumptions (EUR +20m and EUR +149m) and experience adjustments (EUR +7m and EUR +1m). The assets of all defined benefit pension plans as at 31 4 Includes EUR 3m lumpsum payments in 2017 for (unfunded) supplemental executive retirement plans in the US which are expected to be settled in 2018. December 2017 and 2016 comprise of: 31 December € million 2017 2016 Defined benefit obligations Quoted in active markets: Actuarial assumptions Equity securities 36% 30% The key actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the Fixed income securities¹ 27% 25% defined benefit obligations are as follows: Real estate² 1% 1% Commodities³ 1% 1% 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Derivatives⁴ – – Other⁵ 7% 11% Getronics UK Getronics US Other Getronics UK Getronics US Other Discount rate (%) 2.5 3.6 1.7 2.7 4.1 1.8 Other: Expected salary increases (%) N/a N/a 2.0 N/a N/a 2.0 Fixed income securities¹ 7% 10% Expected benefit increases/indexation (%) 2.1-3.1 N.a. 0.5 2.3–3.3 N/a 0.5 Real estate² 2% 2% Life expectancy for pensioners at the age of 65: Other⁵ 19% 20% Male 23.1 20.7 21.7 23.0 21.7 21.4 Female 24.9 22.7 23.9 25.0 24.2 23.6 1 Including inflation-linked bonds (per Standard & Poor’s rating). 2 As at 31 December 2017, none of the investments in real estate were located in Europe. 3 Includes investment funds which invest in financial instruments related to commodities such as energy, agricultural products and precious metals. 4 Includes interest rate swaps, interest rate swaptions and put options on equity securities. 5 Mainly insurance contracts. 114 115 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Strategic investment policies Accounting policy: Statement of changes in provisions The strategic investment portfolios of the defined benefit plans Provisions for retirement benefit obligations (before hedging) at year-end 2017 were as follows: Total Asset retirement € million Personnel Contractual restructuring obligation Other provisions Total provisions Pension obligations The liability recognized in respect of all pension and early Balance at 1 January 2016 38 41 79 36 41 156 Getronics UK Getronics US Other plans retirement plans that qualify as defined benefit obligation of which: current portion 38 9 47 3 9 59 Equity securities 35% 45% 1% is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of plan assets. KPN uses actuarial Additions 55 3 58 – 33 91 Fixed income securities (including inflation-linked bonds) 35% 25% 0% calculations (projected unit credit method) to measure Releases – -13 -13 -2 – -15 the obligations and the costs. For the calculation, actuarial Usage -70 -9 -79 -3 -15 -97 Other 30% 30% 99% assumptions are made about demographic variables Other movements – – – 3 – 3 Total 100% 100% 100% (such as employee turnover and mortality) and financial Balance at 31 December 2016 23 22 45 34 59 138 variables (such as future indexation and the discount of which: current portion 23 6 29 6 14 49 In both the UK and the US, a roadmap is in place to move to rate). The discount rate is determined by reference to more fixed income exposure as the funded status improves. market rates. These are interest rates of high-quality Additions 90 – 90 9 23 122 The Getronics UK pension fund does not hedge interest rate corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency risks, currency risks and equity risks. The Getronics US pension in which the benefit will be paid and that have terms to Releases – -4 -4 – – -4 fund does not hedge currency and equity risks but partially maturity approximating the terms of the related liability. Usage -65 -6 -71 -1 -21 -93 hedges interest rate risk. A net defined benefit asset may arise where a defined Other movements – – – -1 7 6 benefit plan has been overfunded. KPN recognizes a net Balance at 31 December 2017 48 12 60 41 68 169 As the pension funds mainly invest in the global investment defined benefit asset in such a case only when future < 1 year 46 2 48 1 17 66 funds, a minor part of these investments could be related to economic benefits are available to KPN in the form of a 1 5 year 2 6 8 9 9 26 KPN equities. The pension funds do not have direct investments reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. > 5 year – 4 4 31 42 77 in KPN equities. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately in OCI. Expected contributions and benefits Past service costs, curtailments and settlements are In 2017, the total employer’s contributions and benefit payments recognized immediately in the P&L. for all defined benefit and defined contribution plans amounted The amount of pension costs included in operating Restructuring provisions to EUR 117m (excluding discontinued operations), consisting of expenses with respect to defined benefit plans consist Termination benefits are payable when employment is have been idle for a continuous period of 10 years. Due to the EUR 86m employer’s premiums for defined contribution plans, of service cost, past service costs, curtailments and terminated before the normal retirement date, or whenever fact that the date, when the cables will become idle, is uncertain EUR 15m contributions for funded defined benefit plans and settlements and administration costs. Net interest on an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for and KPN is not able to predict whether and when a landlord will EUR 16m payments for unfunded plans. the net defined benefit liability is presented as part of these benefits. Termination benefits are recognized when place a request for removal, KPN is not able to make a reliable The amount of employer’s contributions in 2018 for the finance costs. KPN is demonstrably committed either to terminating the estimate of the impact and therefore no provision was remaining defined benefit pension plans is estimated to be For pension plans that qualify as a defined contribution employment according to a detailed formal plan without recognized at 31 December 2017 nor at 31 December 2016. EUR 24m for both funded and unfunded plans. The total plan, KPN recognizes contributions as an expense possibility of withdrawal or to providing termination benefits as amount of employer’s premiums to be paid in 2018 for the when an employee has rendered service in exchange for a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Other provisions defined contribution plans is estimated to be EUR 89m. those contributions. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after 31 December are Other provisions relate to various risks and commitments, discounted to present value. onerous contracts, claims and litigations (see Note 20). Other long-term employee obligations employee benefits [17] Provisions for other liabilities and include jubilee or other long-service employee benefits, Accounting policy: Provisions for other liabilities charges long-term disability benefits and, if they are not fully payable and charges within 12 months after the end of the period, bonuses and Provisions for asset retirement obligations, restructuring 31 December 31 December deferred compensation. The expected costs of these benefits costs and legal claims are recognized when KPN has a € million 2017 2016 are accrued over the period of employment using an present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past Restructuring provision 60 45 accounting method similar to that for defined benefit pension events, and it is more likely than not that an outflow of Asset retirement obligations 41 34 plans, except that actuarial gains and losses and past-service resources will be required to settle the obligation and the Other provisions 68 59 costs are recognized immediately in the P&L. amount can be reliably estimated. Total provisions for other liabilities and 169 138 charges Asset retirement obligations Provisions are measured at the present value of of which: non-current 103 89 The provision for asset retirement obligations is based on. management’s best estimate of the expenditure required of which: current 66 49 assumptions of the estimated costs of removal, discount rate to settle the present obligation at balance sheet date. The and estimated period of removal, which vary per type of asset. discount rate used to determine the present value reflects As defined in the Telecommunications Act, the obligation for current market assessments of the time value of money landlords to tolerate cables terminates as soon as those cables and the risks specific to the liability. 116 117 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [18] Deferred income, trade and other Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial payables Statements 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 [19] Business combinations and other The purchase price allocation is provisional. € million Current Non-current Current Non-current changes in consolidation In aggregate, the acquisitions contributed EUR 36m to revenue, Trade payables 631 – 640 – EUR 3m to EBITDA and EUR -2m to net profit of KPN in 2017. If Deferred income 265 39 230 40 Changes in consolidation in 2017 all acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of the year, Accrued interest 161 – 197 – KPN acquired a 100% interest in the following companies revenues of KPN Group would have been EUR 66m higher, Accrued expenses 495 – 502 – in 2017: EBITDA EUR 4m higher and net profit EUR 6m lower. Social security and other taxes payable 211 – 241 – Other payables 19 23 29 22 Name Description Segment Acquisition date Changes in consolidation in 2016 Total 1,782 62 1,839 62 DearBytes B.V. Provider of cyber Business 31 January On 30 June 2016, KPN acquired a 100% interest in Dekatel security services Nederland B.V., provider of telecommunication services mainly Divider B.V. IT provider of specialized Business 23 February for small and medium sized enterprises. On 1 January 2016, Deferred income mainly concerns amounts billed in advance VPN and network KPN obtained control of Glasvezelnet Amsterdam B.V. for fixed fees and subscriptions. solutions Vrieservice B.V. Provider of telecomBusiness 23 March munication services Accounting policy: mainly for small and Accounting policy: Business combinations medium-sized Deferred income, trade and other payables KPN uses the acquisition method to account for business enterprises Deferred income, trade and other payables classify as combinations. The consideration paid is measured at the ‘borrowings’ within KPN’s financial liabilities. For the Solcon Internet services Consumer 29 June fair value of the assets transferred, equity instruments accounting policy, see Note 12. Internetdiensten provider mainly to issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date N.V. consumers of exchange. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities Cam IT Provider of IT services Business 15 August and contingent liabilities assumed are measured at Solutions B.V. to the healthcare and their fair values at the acquisition date. When a business public sector combination is achieved in stages, any previously Qsight IT Holding Providers of cyber Business 11 December held equity interest is remeasured at its acquisition date B.V. and InSpark security services fair value and any resulting gain or loss is recognized in Holding B.V. the P&L. Purchase price allocation of these acquistions: Contingent considerations are recognized at fair value at acquisition date and subsequent changes to the fair value Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed (in € million) are recognized in the P&L. Contingent considerations lntangible assets¹ 77 classified as equity are not remeasured and subsequent Property, plant and equipment 11 settlement is counted for within equity. Other non-current assets 5 For each business combination, KPN elects to recognize Trade and other receivables 26 Net cash and cash equivalents acquired 3 any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share in the acquiree’s net Deferred income tax liabilities -18 assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Non-current borrowings & liabilities -15 Trade and other payables and deferred income -42 The excess of the consideration paid, non-controlling Total identifiable net assets 47 interests recognized and the acquisition date fair value of Cash consideration 148 any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the fair Liability for contingent consideration 5 value of KPN’s share of the net assets acquired is recorded Total consideration 153 as goodwill. If negative goodwill occurs in case of a bargain Goodwill 106 purchase, the difference is recognized directly in the P&L. 1 Including customer bases, valued at EUR 58m. 118 119 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [20] Commitments, contingencies and legal Contingent liabilities [21] Related-party transactions proceedings Legal and tax proceedings KPN considers none of the related-party transactions to be Commitments KPN is involved in a number of legal and tax proceedings that material on an individual basis, except for the transactions with have arisen in the ordinary course of its business, including shareholders. Transactions between Group companies are not commercial, regulatory or other proceedings. Periodically KPN included in the description as these are eliminated in the € million Total 31 December Total 31 December carefully assesses the likelihood that legal and tax proceedings Consolidated Financial Statements. Due by period Less than 1 year 1–5 years More than 5 years 2017 2016 may lead to a cash outflow, and recognizes provisions in such Capital and purchase commitments 845 204 10 1,059 976 cases/matters if and when required. However, the outcome of Transactions with shareholders Rental and operational lease contracts 134 363 278 775 821 legal proceedings can be difficult to predict with certainty, and América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (‘AMX’) published on 13 February Guarantees and other 3 152 155 155 KPN can offer no assurances in this regard. 2018, in its fourth quarter 2017 report, that it owned 21.1% of Total commitments 982 567 440 1,989 1,952 KPN’s ordinary share capital at 31 December 2017. The total In some cases, the impact of a legal proceeding may be more value of sales transactions by the continuing operations of KPN strategic than financial and such impact cannot properly be in 2017 with AMX, its subsidiaries and associated companies quantified. Below is a description of legal proceedings or amounted EUR 10m (2016: EUR 4m) and the total value of contingent liabilities that could have a material impact for KPN. purchase transactions amounted EUR 21m (2016: EUR 13m). The capital and purchase commitments mainly relate to Accounting policy: Leases The total trade receivables and payables at 31 December 2017, minimum contractual obligations with regard to network Leases where KPN as lessor retains a significant portion of VAT benefit amounted EUR 1m and less than EUR 1m respectively operations, mobile handsets and telco services. the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are Revenues at Consumer include a VAT benefit due to a change (31 December 2016: EUR 5m and EUR 4m respectively). classified as operating leases. The assets remain on the in the VAT calculation methodology, the consequence of the The rental and operational lease contracts mainly relate to balance sheet and are depreciated over the assets’ useful introduction of new mobile consumer propositions in August Other shareholding equaling or exceeding 3% of the issued capital: buildings, site rentals, mobile towers and vehicles. The majority life. Lease payments received from lessees are recognized 2016. This has resulted in a lower remittance of VAT from On 17 January 2017, Franklin Mutual Series Fund, Inc. notified of agreements include options for renewal. These options have as revenue on a straight-line basis over the lease period. August 2016 onwards of approximately EUR 3m per month. the AFM that it held 5.00% of the shares and voting rights. not been included in the off balance sheet obligations unless Payments by KPN as lessee under operating leases are Although the view of KPN is not shared by the Dutch Tax On 23 August 2017, Capital Group International Inc. notified they have been exercised. Also, most rental fees are subject to charged to the P&L on a straight-line basis over the Administration, based on the current legislation, KPN the AFM that it held 3.01% of the voting rights. periodic indexation. In addition, the majority of contracts can period of the lease (net of any incentives received from concluded that a positive outcome of this dispute is probable On 20 December 2017, BlackRock, Inc. notified the AFM that be cancelled by KPN only, with a notice period of 12 months. the lessor). If a sale-and-leaseback transaction results in and therefore not recorded a provision. it held 3.98% of the shares and 4.91% of the voting rights an operating lease, the profit or loss is calculated using related to KPN’s ordinary share capital. The minimum non-cancellable sublease amounts expected the fair value of the assets sold and recognized in the Idle cables To KPN’s knowledge, no other shareholder owned 3% or more to be received as at 31 December 2017 amount to EUR 7m P&L immediately. See Note 17 for a contingent liability related to idle cables and of KPN’s issued share capital as at 31 December 2017. KPN did (31 December 2016: EUR 8m). These amounts mainly relate to the accounting policy of provisions. not enter into agreements with AMX or other shareholders subleases of buildings and site sharing arrangements. Leases where KPN as lessee has assumed substantially which could have a material impact on KPN’s Financial The total net costs of rental and operating leases amounted to all risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance Indemnification Statements. EUR 192m in 2017 (2016: EUR 191m) and is (mainly) included in leases. KPN then recognizes the leased assets on the In KPN’s Articles of Association and in a further decision by the other operating expenses. balance sheet at the lower of the fair value and the present Board of Management, which was approved by the Supervisory Transactions with associated companies value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding Board, KPN has indemnified the members and former The total value of sales transactions and purchase transactions Guarantees consist of financial obligations of Group companies rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in members of KPN’s Board of Management and Supervisory by the continuing operations of consolidated KPN companies under certain contracts guaranteed by KPN. A total amount of other long-term payables in the balance sheet. Property, Board, as well as a number of KPN’s officers and directors and with associated companies and other non-consolidated EUR 153m relates to parent guarantees (2016: EUR 155m). plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are former officers and directors, against liabilities, claims, companies in 2017 amounted to approximately EUR 23m resp. depreciated over the shorter of the assets’ useful life and judgments, fines and penalties incurred by such officer or EUR 5m (2016: EUR 16m resp. 7m). The total trade receivables the lease term. If a sale-and-leaseback transaction results director as a result of any threatened, pending or completed and payables as of 31 December 2017, amounted EUR 3m and in a finance lease, any excess of sale proceeds over the action, investigation or proceeding (whether civil, criminal or less than EUR 1m respectively (31 December 2016: EUR 4m carrying amount is deferred and recognized in the P&L administrative) brought by a third party in relation to acts or resp. EUR 1m). over the lease term. omissions in or related to their capacity as officer or director. The indemnification does not apply to claims and expenses Transactions with directors and related parties In case KPN acts as lessor in a finance lease, the reimbursed by insurers, nor to an officer or a director adjudged For details of the relation between directors and the company, transaction is accounted for as a normal sale and the to be liable for willful misconduct (‘opzet’) or intentional see the ‘Remuneration Report’ on pages 64 to 72 of this present value of the lease payments is recognized as a recklessness (‘bewuste roekeloosheid’). Integrated Annual Report. Directors in this respect are defined receivable. The difference between the gross receivable as key management and relate to those having authority and and the present value of the receivable is deferred and responsibility for planning, directing, and controlling the recognized as interest over the lease term. activities of an entity, either directly or indirectly. At KPN, key management consists of the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. The company was not a party to any material transactions, or proposed transactions, in which members of the Supervisory 120 121 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Board or Board of Management or close members of their families had a direct or indirect material interest. [23] Proposed appropriation of result Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss On outstanding Class B preferred shares, a dividend is paid out The total value of sales transactions by KPN’s continuing equal to the average of the 12-month Euribor increased by 1%. For the year ended 31 December operations in 2017 with parties in which members of the If the 12-month Euribor is no longer determined, the dividend Supervisory Board or Board of Management or close members on preference shares will be calculated based on the yield on € million Notes 2017 2016 of their families had a direct or indirect material interest State loans. Subsequently, subject to the approval of the Total revenues and other income – 1 amounted EUR 18m (2016: EUR 14m) and the total value of Supervisory Board, the Board of Management will determine Other operating expenses -9 3 purchase transactions amounted EUR 24m (2016: EUR 7m), what proportion of net income remaining after payment of the Depreciation, amortization and impairments – -2 all in the ordinary course of business. The total trade dividend on any Class B preferred shares will be appropriated Total operating expenses -9 1 receivables and payables 31 December 2017, amounted to the reserves. The part of the profit remaining after the EUR 5m and EUR 4m respectively (31 December 2016: EUR 3m appropriation to the reserves shall be at the disposal of the Operating profit -9 2 and EUR 2m respectively). AGM. At 31 December 2017, no Class B preferred shares were outstanding. Finance income 71 111 [22] Legal structure In August 2017, a regular interim dividend of EUR 3.7ct per Finance costs -328 -625 ordinary share was paid (total amount of EUR 156m). The Other financial results -12 71 Percentage Name of significant subsidiaries Country of ownership/voting Board of Management, with the approval of the Supervisory Intercompany interest (net) -747 -701 and other principal interests incorporation interest Board, will propose to the AGM to pay a final regular dividend Financial income and expenses [A] -1,016 -1,144 KPN B.V.: The Netherlands 100 of EUR 7.3ct per ordinary share in respect of 2017 (total amount of EUR 306m to be increased by dividend on shares issued in Income from subsidiaries¹ 1,251 1,630 iBasis Inc. The Netherlands 100 2018 before the ex-dividend date). Profit before income tax 226 488 KPN Consulting B.V. US 100 Income taxes2 257 305 KPN EuroRings B.V. The Netherlands 100 In addition, the received dividend on KPN’s shareholding in Profit for the year 483 793 TEFD, was distributed in May 2017 as a special interim cash KPN Finance B.V. The Netherlands 100 dividend of EUR 1.7ct per share (total amount of EUR 72m). 1 2016 includes EUR 414m with respect to discontinued operations. Reggefiber Group B.V. The Netherlands 100 This brings the total dividend in respect of 2017 to EUR 12.7ct 2 2016 includes EUR 16m with respect to discontinued operations. Telfort Zakelijk B.V. The Netherlands 100 per ordinary share (2016: EUR 12.5ct). XS4ALL Internet B.V. The Netherlands 100 Distribution of the proposed final dividend requires an amount of EUR 51m to be withdrawn from the distributable part of KPN Mobile N.V.: The Netherlands 100 shareholders’ equity which is proposed to the AGM. KPN Mobile International B.V. The Netherlands 100 Getronics B.V.: The Netherlands 100 [24] Subsequent events Getronics Finance Holdings B.V. The Netherlands 100 KPN has evaluated events up to publication date of these Financial Statements of this Integrated Annual Report and Telefónica Deutschland Holding AG Germany 8.6 determined that no subsequent event activity required disclosure. 122 123 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Statement of Financial Position Equity and Liabilities 31 December 31 December € million Notes 2017 2016 Before appropriation of results Equity Subscribed capital stock 168 171 Assets Additional paid-in capital 8,445 8,651 31 December 31 December € million Notes 2017 2016 Treasury shares reserve -103 -115 Hedge reserve -339 -353 Non-current assets Legal reserves [C] 169 163 Financial fixed assets Retained earnings [C] -6,554 -6,798 Investments in subsidiaries 18,307 33,335 Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities 1,089 1,089 Derivatives 168 298 Profit (loss) current year 483 793 Deferred taxes 990 1,094 Total equity attributable to equity holders 3,358 3,601 Other fixed financial assets 119 1,897 Total non-current assets [B] 19,584 36,624 Provisions Provisions for retirement benefit obligations 46 52 Current assets Other provisions 23 25 Accounts receivable from subsidiaries 155 173 Total provisions [D] 69 77 Current income tax receivable 558 – Other receivables and accrued income 20 24 Non-current liabilities Available-for-sale financial assets 1,071 – Loans [E] [E] 16,807 16,362 Other current financial assets 330 141 Derivative financial instruments 328 197 Cash and cash equivalents 682 1,026 Other long-term liabilities 100 123 Total current assets 2,816 1,364 Total non-current liabilities 17,235 16,682 Total assets 22,400 37,988 Current liabilities Accounts payable to subsidiaries [F] 1,457 16,579 Derivative financial instruments − 1 Other current liabilities [G] 110 844 Accruals and deferred income 171 204 Total current liabilities 1,738 17,628 Total equity and liabilities 22,400 37,988 124 125 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements Finance income includes a dividend received from Telefónica Deutschland (TEFD) of EUR 70m (2016: EUR 110m). In 2017, interest on borrowings decreased by EUR 73m, which was mainly related to a lower gross debt position. The principles for the recognition and measurement of assets [A] Financial income and expenses Intercompany interest (net) mainly includes interest of 8.5% on and liabilities and determination of the result (hereafter an intercompany loan provided by KPN Mobile N.V., part of referred to as ‘Accounting policies’) of the Corporate Financial € million 2017 2016 loans payable to subsidiaries (Note F). Statements of Koninklijke KPN N.V. are the same as those Finance income 71 111 applied to the Consolidated Financial Statements under IFRS (applying the option provided in Article 362 sub 8, Part 9, Book [B] Non-current assets Interest on borrowings -322 -395 2 of the Dutch Civil Code). The Consolidated Financial Other financial fixed Tender premium – -222 Statements have been prepared in accordance with the IFRS € million Group companies Derivatives Deferred taxes assets1 Total Other -6 -8 (see Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Balance at 1 January 2016 31,566 530 1,003 2,309 35,408 Finance costs -328 -625 The expected impact of the new IFRS standards (IFRS 9, IFRS Exchange rate differences 27 – – – 27 15 and IFRS 16) as described in Note 2 of the Consolidated Amortizable part of hedge reserve -16 -10 Income from Group companies after taxes 1,630 – – – 1,630 Financial Statements have corresponding effect on the Amortization discontinued fair value hedges 39 114 Capital contributions 9 – – – 9 Corporate Financial Statements. Derivative financial instruments not qualified for Fair value adjustments – -232 – -382 -614 -28 -28 hedge accounting Other2 103 – 91 -30 164 Investments in consolidated subsidiaries are measured at net Other -7 -5 Total changes 1,769 -232 91 -412 1,216 asset value. Net asset value is based on the measurement of Other financial results -12 71 Balance at 31 December 2016 33,335 298 1,094 1,897 36,624 assets (including goodwill), provisions and liabilities and determination of profit based on the principles applied in the Exchange rate differences -6 – – – -6 Intercompany interest (net) -747 -701 Consolidated Financial Statements. Income from Group companies after taxes 1,251 – – – 1,251 Decrease due to sale – – – -846 -846 Total -1,016 -1,144 Decrease due to settlement² -16,284 – – – -16,284 Capital contributions 23 – – – 23 Fair value adjustments – -130 – 49 -81 Reclassification³ – – – -1,071 -1,071 Other 4 -12 – -104 90 -26 Total changes -15,028 -130 -104 -1,778 -17,040 Balance at 31 December 2017 18,307 168 990 119 19,584 1 The fair value adjustment relates to the stake in TEFD. 2 Decrease relates to the settlement of several intercompany financial current account positions of total EUR 16,284m (see Note F). 3 Reclassification of TEFD from non-current to current available-for-sale financial assets. 4 Deferred taxes mainly relates to the decrease in share price of the stake in TEFD. The deferred tax liability related to TEFD decreased to EUR 61m (2016: EUR 67m). 126 127 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices C  onsolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [C] Equity attributable to equity holders Retained earnings [D] Provisions For a breakdown of equity attributable to equity holders, Movements in retained earnings were as follows: Movements in provisions were as follows: refer to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Retirement the Notes thereto. benefit Other € million 2017 2016 € million obligations provisions Total Legal reserves Balance at 1 January -6,798 -6,869 Balance at 1 January 2016 67 22 89 Legal reserves (net of tax) are presented below: Fair value Profit/loss of previous year 793 638 Revaluation Capitalized reserve Other Coupon perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) -51 -51 Additions/releases to income 3 6 9 reserve Cumulative software available-fornonDividend ordinary shares -513 -460 Additions/releases directly in OCI 5 – 5 property, plant translation development sale financial distributable € million and equipment adjustments costs assets reserves Total Actuarial gain/loss pensions and other postUsage -23 -3 -26 12 -57 employment plans (net of tax) Balance at 31 December 2016 52 25 77 Balance at 1 January 2016 31 16 146 259 54 506 Release/addition legal reserves -6 114 Exchange rate differences – 20 – – – 20 Acquisitions – -89 Additions/releases to income 2 3 5 Addition/(release) retained earnings -7 – -59 – -48 -114 Fair value adjustment available-for-sale Additions/releases directly in OCI 9 – 9 – -249 16 -14 Other – – – -249 financial assets Usage -17 -5 -22 Balance at 31 December 2016 24 36 87 10 6 163 Other -7 -10 Balance at 31 December 2017 46 23 69 Addition/(release) retained earnings -4 – -5 3 12 6 Balance at 31 December -6,554 -6,798 Balance at 31 December 2017 20 36 82 13 18 169 The provisions for retirement benefit obligations relate to early Retained earnings can be reconciled with the Consolidated retirement plans (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statement of Financial Position as follows: Statements). 31 December 31 December [E] Loans Pursuant to Dutch law, limitations exist relating to the € million 2017 2016 Loans include bonds outstanding for EUR 6,477m (2016: EUR distribution of equity attributable to equity holders. Such Retained earnings as per Consolidated 6,680m) and hybrid bonds outstanding for EUR 946m (2016: limitations relate to the subscribed capital stock as well as to -5,951 -5,859 EUR 1,030m), see also Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statement of Financial Position legal reserves required by Dutch law as presented above. The Statements. Revaluation reserve -20 -24 total distributable reserves at 31 December 2017, amounted to Capitalized software development costs -82 -87 EUR 3,021m (2016: EUR 3,267m). Dutch law also requires that in Furthermore, the loans also include loans from subsidiaries for Other non-distributable reserves -18 -6 determining the amount for distribution, the company’s ability EUR 9,384m (2016: EUR 8,652m). This mainly relates to a loan to continue to pay its debt must be taken into account, Reclassification fair value adjustment payable to KPN Mobile N.V., which bears interest of 8.5% and – -29 available-for-sale financial assets including the euro perpetual hybrid bonds which are classified must be repaid in full, including accrued interest, in 2034. as equity under IFRS. Profit for the year -483 -793 The loan is subordinated to the unsecured and unsubordinated Retained earnings as per Corporate creditors of KPN N.V., but ranks ahead of the hybrid capital -6,554 -6,798 The movements in the fair value reserve available-for-sale Statement of Financial Position securities issued by KPN N.V. as long as by their terms these financial assets mainly relates to the value of the stake in TEFD hybrid capital securities are expressed to rank pari passu with (increase in 2017 and decrease in 2016). the preference share of KPN N.V. and the preference shares issued by KPN N.V. (if any). There are no loans from subsidiaries with maturity dates in 2018. [F] Accounts payable to subsidiaries Accounts payable to subsidiaries decreased significantly, mainly due to lower intercompany financial current accounts of total EUR 1,065m (2016: EUR 16,755m) as a result of the settlement of several intercompany financial current account positions which are currently not relevant to continue. Furthermore, it consists of interest to be paid to KPN Mobile N.V. of EUR 200m, intercompany settlement of net current income tax position of EUR 186m and operational financial current account of EUR 6m. The financial current accounts have indefinite duration. The interest is annually determined and based on twelve month Euribor increased by 0.15%, and a risk premium attached by the market to the specific KPN credit risk. 128 129 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Consolidated Financial Statements Other Information [G] Other current liabilities Combined Independent Auditor’s Report 31 December 31 December € million 2017 2016 Dear Shareholders and members of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN), Current portion of loans – 720 Please find below the main conclusions and main features of our audit and review. For the full text of the independent auditor’s Social security and other taxes payable 109 124 report, which includes the assurance report on sustainability, please refer to the next pages. Bank overdrafts 1 – Summary Total 110 844 Conclusions [H] Commitments and contingencies Object of audit or review Outcome of our work performed Commitments by virtue of guarantees amounted EUR 155m (2016: EUR 155m). Financial statements 2017 (consolidated and corporate) True and fair view KPN has issued several declarations of joint and several Sustainability information 2017: liabilities for various Group companies in compliance with CO₂ emission data 2017 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands Reliable and adequate view (reasonable assurance) and the underlying energy data Article 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. These declarations of joint and several liabilities for Group companies are included Sustainability information 2017 in selected chapters and appendices Reliable and adequate view (limited assurance) in a complete list of subsidiaries and participating interests, which is available at the offices of the Chamber of Commerce in The Hague. Other information, including the Reports by the No material misstatements to report Board of Management and the Supervisory Board Directors’ remuneration See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on employee benefits. Main features of our audit & review The Hague, 23 February 2018 What we have done Scope of our work Materiality Key audit & assurance matters Board of Management Supervisory Board Audit of financial statements 2017 Netherlands EUR 45 million, which represents V  aluation (in)tangible assets, incl. (consolidated and corporate) United States of America 2.0% of EBITDA goodwill Eelco Blok Duco W. Sickinghe V  aluation deferred tax assets Jan Kees de Jager Peter A.M. van Bommel IFRS15 R  eliability of IT systems, including Frank van der Post Carlos J. García Moreno Elizondo security and cybercrime Joost Farwerck Derk J. Haank Audit of CO₂ emission data 2017 Netherlands 5% deviation N o areas of specific focus (Scope 1 and 2) own NL operations Peter F. Hartman and the underlying energy data Edzard J.C. Overbeek Review of sustainability information Scope varies per country Specific materiality levels for each  O₂ Scope 3 estimates, energy C for 2017 in selected chapters and element of the sustainability savings by customers Jolande C.M. Sap appendices information in scope R epTrak pulse score, Net Promoter Score Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk Procedures for Other information, Full reports Similar materiality as our audit or N o areas of specific focus including Reports by the Board of review scopes. Management and Supervisory Board 130 131 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Other Information Combined independent auditor’s report on the 2017 financial statements and sustainability  he corporate financial statements, comprising: T States of America we used EY component auditors who are information -T he Corporate Statement of Financial Position as at 31 familiar with local laws and regulations to perform detailed December 2017; audit procedures to obtain sufficient coverage for financial -T he Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss for 2017; statement line items from a consolidated financial statements -T he Notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies perspective. Our conclusions Basis for our conclusions and other explanatory information. Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence We performed our assurance engagements in accordance  he sustainability information in scope consists of: T audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient obtained, we have come to the following conclusions: with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing -R easonable assurance CO₂ emission data 2017 (Scope 1 appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for and the Dutch Standard 3810N, “Assurance engagements and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. The W  ith respect to audit procedures performed; in our opinion, relating to sustainability reports”, which is a specified Dutch underlying energy data as presented on page 34 of the group engagement team has visited the component team. the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair Standard that is based on the International Standard on Integrated Annual Report; view of the financial position of KPN as at 31 December 2017 Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance -L imited assurance The sustainability information in the At other group entities we performed review procedures or and of its result and its cash flows for 2017 in accordance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial following chapters and appendices: specific audit procedures. The group consolidation, financial with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Information”. Our responsibilities under those standards are C hapters: ‘KPN at a glance’, Who we are and what we do’ disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 further described in the section: Our responsibilities in this and ‘The long-term value we create’; the group engagement team at the company’s head office. of the Dutch Civil Code; report. A  ppendices: Appendix 1-7. This includes Appendix 5: These included revenue assurance, purchase price allocation, the corporate financial statements give a true and fair view Social figures, Appendix 6: Environmental figures taxation, fixed assets and goodwill impairment, pensions, of the financial position of KPN as at 31 December 2017 and We believe the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient (including Scope 3 CO₂ emissions) and Appendix 7: GRI derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting and of its result for 2017 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. Content Index, which are available on the website of KPN. share-based payments. We involved several EY specialists to the Dutch Civil Code; assist the audit team, including specialists from our tax, CO₂ emission data 2017 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in Our Independence  he other information, including the Reports by the Board of T valuations, sustainability, actuarial and treasury departments. the Netherlands and the underlying energy data as We are independent of KPN in accordance with the EU Management and Supervisory Board included in the Report presented on page 34 of the Integrated Annual Report Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of pursuant to the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch By performing audit procedures at segment and at corporate present, in all material respects, a reliable and adequate view, public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720 concerning our level as mentioned above, together with the involvement of in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the Verordening inzake de obligation to report about the management board report and specialists, we have been able to obtain sufficient and Standards and the supplemental KPN reporting criteria as onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten other information. appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial disclosed in Appendix 3 of the Integrated Annual Report. (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation information to provide an opinion about the consolidated with respect to independence) and other relevant independence Limitations in our engagements scope financial statements.  ith respect to review procedures performed on the W regulations in the Netherlands. This includes that we do not Unexamined prospective information sustainability information in scope; perform any activities that could result in a conflict of interest The sustainability information contains prospective information, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe with our independent assurance engagement. Furthermore, we such as ambitions, strategy, targets, expectations and Reporting criteria that the sustainability information in scope, does not present have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen estimates. Inherently, the actual future results are uncertain. We in all material respects, a reliable and adequate view of KPN’s beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics)’. do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and The information in the scope of our engagements needs to be policy and business operations with regard to sustainability achievability of prospective information in the sustainability read and understood together with the reporting criteria, for and the thereto related events and achievements for the year information. which KPN is solely responsible for selecting and applying, ended 31 December 2017 in accordance with the GRI Our scope taking into account applicable law and regulations related to Standards and the supplemental KPN reporting criteria as Unreviewed references to external sources reporting. The criteria used for the preparation of the Report disclosed in Appendix 3, ‘Transparency’, of the Integrated Our engagements scope The references to external sources or websites in the and thus relevant for our examination are described below. We Annual Report. The Integrated Annual Report 2017 (hereafter: the Report) of sustainability information are not part of the sustainability consider the reporting criteria used relevant and suitable for KPN consists of the financial statements and other information, information as reviewed by us. We therefore do not provide our assurance engagements.  ith respect to procedures performed based on the W including Reports by the Board of Management and assurance on this information. requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and Supervisory Board, that provides altogether an overview of the Consolidated Financial International Financial Reporting the Dutch Standard 720, we conclude that the other policy, activities, events and performances related to both the Our scope for the group audit of the financial statements Statements: Standards as adopted by the information included in the Integrated Annual Report, financial position and the sustainable development of KPN KPN is head of a group of entities, both in the Netherlands and European Union (EU-IFRS) and Part including the Reports by the Board of Management and during reporting year 2017. The following information in the abroad. The Dutch entities and segments thereby form the 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Supervisory Board: Report has been in scope for our assurance engagements: majority of the business and there are relatively smaller Corporate Financial Statements, Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Is consistent with the financial statements and does not operations in the United States of America. The financial Report by the Board of Code. contain material misstatements;  he consolidated financial statements, comprising: T information of all these entities has been included in the Management and the Supervisory Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 consolidated financial statements. Board: of the Dutch Civil Code. December 2017; Sustainability information GRI Standards (‘comprehensive’ The Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss, Other Our group audit mainly focused on the more significant including the CO₂ emission data option) of the Global Reporting Comprehensive Income, Changes in Group Equity and segments in the Netherlands, including ‘Consumer’ , ‘Business’, 2017 (Scope 1 and 2) and the Initiative (GRI) and the supplemental Cash Flows for 2017; ‘Wholesale’ and ‘NOI’ as well as ‘iBasis’ (United States of America). underlying energy data: reporting criteria developed by KPN The Notes comprising a summary of the significant as disclosed in Appendix 3: Transparency of the Report. These accounting policies and other explanatory information. Due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, we performed criteria include the Greenhouse Gas full scope audit procedures on the financial information of Protocol (WRI/WBCSD). all above mentioned segments. For the segment in the United 132 133 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Other Information Materiality General: Sustainability information: is maintained by the business and continuously tested by KPN internal control framework meets the required criteria and it allows The scope of our assurance procedures is influenced by the Based on our professional judgment we determined materiality Risk Management and KPN Audit. The Management Board us to perform a system based audit in an effective manner. application of materiality. Our assurance engagements aim to levels for each part of the sustainability information as a whole. and Audit Committee are being informed of the outcome of the The key audit matters addressed below are all covered by provide assurance about whether the financial statements and When evaluating our materiality levels, we have taken into tests performed on a quarterly basis. For purposes of our audit, KPN’s internal control framework and have been audited by us the sustainability information in scope are free from material account quantitative and qualitative considerations as well as we assess the adequacy of the framework and we test the work with satisfactory results. For the interest of the reader, we misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. the relevance of information for both stakeholders and the of KPN Risk Management and KPN Audit. We believe that KPN’s highlight the most important elements we focused on in 2017. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the organization. aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the For CO₂ emission data 2017 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations (economic) decisions of users taken on the basis of the Report. in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data we have Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our determined the materiality at 5% deviation. Valuation of (in)tangible assets, including goodwill assurance procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusions. Other information, including the Reports by the Board of Under IFRS, it is required to annually test the We compared forecasted revenue and profit We concur with management that there is no amount of goodwill and intangible assets with an margins for all cash generating units with the need for impairments of goodwill and intangible Management and Supervisory Board: indefinite life for impairment. KPN’s disclosures approved KPN strategic plans. We also verified assets with indefinite life. Financial statements: With respect to the materiality applied to our procedures about goodwill and intangible assets are included the assumptions to which the outcome of the For the audit of the financial statements our considerations performed on the other information in our capacity as auditor in Note 11. impairment test is most sensitive and reviewed regarding the materiality are as follows. of KPN and with the knowledge that we have as auditor to the sensitivity analysis as included in Note 11 of No impairments of goodwill and intangible assets the financial statements. conclude whether the other information would not be with indefinite life were recorded during 2017. We concur with management on the impairments Materiality EUR 45,000,000 appropriate or obviously incorrect; Our audit procedures included, among others, recorded. where the other information contains information that has On assets with finite lives an impairment test has using EY valuation specialists to assist us in also been in scope of our assurance engagements regarding to be performed if indications of impairment exist. verifying the assumptions and methodologies the financial statements or sustainability information, similar used by KPN. Some triggering events were identified, for Benchmark used 2.0% of earnings before interest, tax, materiality for this information has been applied; example in the area of hardware and software depreciation and amortization in other cases, our assessment for materiality was based on that required impairment testing and for which (EBITDA). findings that could influence the decisions of the users minor impairments were recorded. Additional explanation The users of the financial dependent on our evaluation of the relevance of that The impairment tests were important for our statements of a for-profit entity information for these users. audit as the related asset amounts are significant typically focus on operating and the assessment process itself is complex and performance, particularly profit requires judgment. The impairment test includes before tax. Over the past years KPN’s profit before tax heavily Key audit & assurance matters assumptions that are affected by future market or economic conditions. fluctuated, resulting from the impact of the discontinuance of operations Key audit and assurance matters are those matters that, in our and other non-recurring professional judgment, were of most significance in our Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations transactions. Furthermore, we note that in KPN’s external assurance procedures for the financial statements and the Taxes communications, earnings before sustainability information in scope. We have communicated the Deferred tax interest, tax, depreciation and key audit and assurance matters to the Supervisory Board. The At 31 December 2017, the deferred tax assets are Our audit procedures related to the deferred tax We concur with the deferred taxes recorded. amortization (EBITDA) is commonly key audit and assurance matters are not a comprehensive valued at EUR 947 million, related disclosures are assets included, amongst others, using EY tax used to report on financial performance. Considering these reflection of all matters discussed. included in the notes to the consolidated specialists to assist us in verifying and statement of profit or loss in Note 8. interpreting the agreement aspects, we have concluded that (‘vaststellingsovereenkomst’) reached with the EBITDA is the most appropriate and These matters were addressed in the context of our assurance This item was significant to our audit because the Dutch tax Authorities and evaluating the stable benchmark for KPN to base procedures for the financial statements and the sustainability assessment process is complex and judgmental assumptions, such as expected future taxable our materiality upon. The materiality is thereby set at EUR 45,000,000, information in scope as a whole and to conclude thereon, and and is based on assumptions that are affected by income and methodologies used by the company. we do not provide a separate conclusion on these matters. expected future market or economic conditions. using a percentage of 2.0%, which is This entailed reviewing the company’s latest at the lower end of a generally approved strategic plan. We discussed this plan accepted range. Last year we used In previous year ‘Sale of BASE Company N.V.’ has been with management and determined the the same percentage and amount. identified as key audit matter. Since KPN finalized the sale of reasonableness of the assumptions used BASE Company N.V. in 2016 and we completed our audit regarding the recoverability of the deferred tax assets and assessed the plan’s assumptions and We have also taken into account misstatements and/or thereon, this is no longer a key audit matter. Following the sensitivities. possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for the adoption of IFRS 15 by KPN retrospectively and the related users of the financial statements for qualitative reasons. restatement of 2017 financial information, a new key audit matter ‘IFRS 15’ has been included. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in the financial statements in excess of EUR 2.25 million, would be General observation: reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our For the audit of the financial statements, we rely on KPN’s view must be reported on qualitative grounds. internal control framework and its governance. The framework 134 135 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Other Information Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key observations Report on other legal and regulatory Our responsibilities IFRS 15 requirements Our objective is to plan and perform the assurance assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ We reviewed the IFRS 15 restatements of the We agree with the restatements and the will be adopted by KPN retrospectively whereby balances as of 1 January 2017 and 31 December disclosures made in the Integrated Annual Report assurance evidence for our conclusions. 2017 financial information will be restated in the 2017 as well as the disclosures included in the in Note 2. Engagement 2018 financial statements. It will have a significant Integrated Annual Report in Note 2. We were engaged by the Supervisory Board as auditor of Our assurance procedures aimed at obtaining reasonable impact on revenue recognition as disclosed in Note 2. Koninklijke KPN N.V. on 9 April 2014, as of the audit for the year assurance have been performed with a high, but not absolute, In 2017, KPN completed the analysis of the cumulative 2015 and have operated as statutory auditor since that date. level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all transitional adjustment at 1 January 2017 as well material errors and fraud. The assurance procedures performed as the impact on 2017. No prohibited non-audit services to obtain limited assurance are aimed on the plausibility of We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred information and vary in nature and timing from, and are less in Reliability of IT systems, including security, cybercrime and data privacy to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific requirements extent, than for obtaining reasonable assurance. The level of regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. assurance obtained in review engagements is therefore At KPN, processes are highly automated and KPN As part of our audit, we have reviewed the quality In a few instances, we identified situations where continuously invests in simplification and of KPN’s IT systems and the controls embedded controls needed improvement. KPN has set-up substantially less than the assurance obtained in audit improvement of IT systems, which has led to therein with a purpose to express an opinion on remediation procedures that we have also engagements. several changes in 2017 that have been discussed the financial statements. For this purpose, we reviewed and tested with satisfactory results. Responsibilities on page 21. Reliability and security of IT systems performed our own procedures and reviewed and Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered are thereby high on the agenda of KPN and for tested the work done by KPN Risk Management that purpose KPN’s internal control framework and KPN Audit. Since this is highly specialized Responsibilities of Board of Management and the material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could includes several controls to ensure, inter alia, work, our audit team includes IT specialists. Supervisory Board reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users proper identity, access and change management The Board of Management (hereafter: management) is taken on the basis of the financial statements and sustainability of its IT systems. KPN also has a security team in As part of our testing, we reviewed change responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the information. The materiality affects the nature, timing and place focusing on policies, security management management procedures, access management and a team of ethical hackers. This team tests the procedures, the continuity of IT systems and we financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of extent of our assurance procedures and the evaluation of the security of KPN’s IT environment and imitates reviewed the implementation of new IT systems. Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. behavior of hackers to stay continuously up to other information, including the Report by the Board of date with the latest developments and helps KPN Management in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’ in managing their own security risks, including cybercrime and data privacy. Civil Code and the other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book (Regulations for Quality management systems) and 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures For the assurance procedures concerning the sustainability information in scope, we identified the following key assurance matters: Management is also responsible for the preparation of the regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional sustainability information in accordance with the GRI Standards standards and other applicable legal and regulatory Key assurance matter How our assurance procedures addressed the Key observations (Comprehensive option) and the supplemental reporting criteria requirements. matter of KPN, including the identification of stakeholders and the Estimations and assumptions in CO₂ Scope 3 and energy savings by customers determination of material topics. The choices made by management A further description of our responsibilities is included in the Inherent to the nature of information on CO₂, Our review procedures focused on evaluating the We assessed the suitability and consistent use of in respect of the scope of the Report and the reporting criteria Annex to the combined independent auditor’s report. Scope 3 and energy savings by customers is that suitability and consistent application of the the reporting criteria and agreed that are set out in the section entitled “Appendix 3, Transparency” in they are to a large extent based on the use of reporting criteria and assessing the methodologies used are sufficiently disclosed in the Report. The Hague, 23 February 2018 estimates and underlying assumptions reasonableness of the assumptions made. We Appendix 3 including the restatement of have also reviewed whether the disclosures in the comparative figures for Scope 3. integrated annual report are adequate. Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal control Ernst & Young Accountants LLP as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Signed by F.J. Blenderman Disclosure of methodology for RepTrak pulse score (reputation) and Net Promoter Score in the Netherlands (customer satisfaction) The indicators RepTrak and NPS are identified by Our review procedures focused on evaluating We assessed the suitability and consistent use of As part of the preparation of the financial statements, KPN as part of their representation of key whether the methodology is suitable and the reporting criteria and agreed that management is responsible for assessing the company’s ability achievements. The indicators are measured by consistently applied, assessing whether the methodologies used are sufficiently disclosed in third parties. The outcome is influenced by the transparency on the methodology in KPN’s Appendix 3, including the restatement of to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial methodology used by the third party. Integrated Annual Report is sufficient for a proper comparative figures for RepTrak. reporting frameworks mentioned, management should prepare understanding by the reader. the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Management should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s (financial) reporting process. 136 137 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Alternative performance measures Other Information Appendices Annex to the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Appendix 1: Alternative performance Work performed measures We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the assurance engagements performed by a multidisciplinary team, in accordance with Dutch Standards on Auditing and the Dutch Standard 3810N for assurance on sustainability information, ethical requirements and independence requirements. In the discussion of KPN’s financial results, a number of Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA Our audit to obtain reasonable assurance about the financial statements Our review to obtain limited assurance about the sustainability information alternative performance measures (non-GAAP figures) are Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA, together also (consolidated and corporate) included the following: included the following: used to provide readers with additional financial information, referred to as the adjusted results, are derived from revenues Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial Performing an external environment analysis and obtaining an insight in statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit relevant social themes and issues and the characteristics of the organization. that is regularly reviewed by management. These non-GAAP (including other income) and EBITDA, respectively, and are procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used, their figures should not be viewed as a substitute for KPN’s financial adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals. sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not consistent application and related disclosures in the sustainability results as determined in accordance with IFRS, which are Incidentals are non-recurring transactions which are not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one information, including the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by management. presented in KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Also, directly related to day-to-day operational activities at or over omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Obtaining an understanding of the reporting processes for the sustainability the additional information presented is not uniformly defined EUR 5m unless significant for the specific reportable segment. Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order information, including obtaining a general understanding of internal control by all companies, including KPN’s peers. Therefore, the to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but relevant to our review engagement. non-GAAP figures presented may not be comparable with not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Reconciling the relevant financial information with the financial statements. company’s internal control. Obtaining an understanding of the procedures performed by the internal similarly named numbers and disclosures by other companies. Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the audit department of KPN. In addition, readers should be aware that certain information reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by Identifying areas of the sustainability information where material presented is derived from amounts determined under IFRS, but management. misstatements, whether due to fraud or error, are likely to arise, and Concluding on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going performing further procedures aimed at determining the plausibility of the is not in itself an expressly defined GAAP measure. Such concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, sustainability information responsive to this risk analysis. These procedures non-GAAP measures should not be viewed in isolation or as an whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that consisted amongst others of: alternative to an equivalent GAAP measure. may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate level responsible concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to for the sustainability strategy, policies and results. draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information as KPN’s management considers these non-GAAP figures, financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our disclosed in the sustainability information, carrying out internal control combined with GAAP performance measures and in opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the procedures on the data and consolidating the data in the sustainability date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause information. conjunction with each other, most appropriate to measure the the company to cease to continue as a going concern. Reviewing relevant internal and external documentation, on a limited test performance of the Group and its Segments. The non-GAAP Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial basis; and figures are used by management for planning, reporting statements, including the disclosures. An analytical review of the data and trends submitted for consolidation at (internal and external) and incentive purposes. Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying corporate level. transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Evaluating the presentation, structure and content of the sustainability information as a whole, including the disclosures, in relation to the reporting KPN’s main non-GAAP figures are explained below. criteria used. In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for CO₂ emission data 2017 EBITDA (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data we performed following to obtain reasonable assurance: KPN defines EBITDA as operating result before depreciation Obtaining a more detailed understanding of systems and reporting (including impairments) of PPE and amortization (including processes, including where relevant to our assurance engagement, testing impairments) of intangible assets. Note that KPN’s definition of the design, existence and the operating effectiveness of the relevant internal controls during the reporting year. EBITDA deviates from the literal definition of earnings before Conducting more in-depth analytical procedures and substantive testing interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and should not procedures on the relevant data. be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analyses of the A visit to the datacenter in Aalsmeer to validate source data and to evaluate results as reported under IFRS as adopted by the European the design of internal control and validation procedures. Investigating relevant internal and external documentation a test basis to Union. determine whether the sustainability information in the Report is reliable. 2016 We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have € million 2017 (restated) considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed on the other information is less than the scope of those Total revenues and other income 6,498 6,806 performed in our audit of the financial statements. We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the assurance procedures and significant Cost of goods & services 1,923 2,103 findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our assurance procedures. In this respect we also submit an additional report to the audit committee in accordance with Article 11 of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities. The Personnel expenses 1,151 1,175 information included in this additional report is consistent with our audit opinion in this auditor’s report. Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have Information technology / 502 547 determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or Technical infrastructure operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items. Other operating expenses 616 552 We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Total operating expenses (excl. D&A) 4,192 4,377 From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements, the review of the sustainability information in scope and the audit of the CO₂ emission data 2017 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the EBITDA 2,306 2,429 underlying energy data of the current period and are therefore the key audit & assurance matters. We describe these matters in our combined independent auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. 138 139 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Alternative performance measures Appendices The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted revenues for the full year. Simplification savings or Simplification program KPN’s Simplification program is directed at realizing run-rate savings in both capital expenditures (Capex) and Revenues operating expenses (Opex). The Simplification program is FY 2016 FY 2016 aimed at innovation Capex and the operating expense FY 2017 FY 2017 reported adjusted y-on-y y-on-y categories Personnel expenses, Information Technology / € million reported Incidentals adjusted restated Incidentals restated reported adjusted Technical Infrastructure expenses and Other operating Consumer 3,152 – 3,152 3,143 – 3,143 0.3% 0.3% expenses, excluding restructuring costs and incidentals. Through its nature the program will also result in a reduction of Business 2,198 – 2,198 2,309 – 2,309 -4.8% -4.8% FTEs. The baseline for measurement of the second wave Wholesale 676 -2 678 760 26 734 -11% -7.6% Simplification savings is Capex and operating expense levels at the end of 2016. The baseline is adjusted for major changes in Network, Operations & IT 21 – 21 17 – 17 24% 24% the composition of the Group in the years 2017-2019 Other (incl. eliminations) -171 – -171 -177 – -177 -3.4% -3.4% (acquisitions and disposals). The second wave of the The Netherlands 5,876 -2 5,878 6,052 26 6,026 -2.9% -2.5% Simplification program has generated run-rate savings of approximately EUR 110m by the end of 2017. iBasis 705 – 705 867 – 867 -19% -19% Free Cash Flow (FCF) FCF is defined as cash flow from continuing operating activities plus proceeds from disposals of PPE minus Capex Other activities 1 – 1 4 – 4 -75% -75% (investments in PPE and software). Intercompany revenues -84 – -84 -117 – -117 -28% -28% KPN Group 6,498 -2 6,500 6,806 26 6,780 -4.5% -4.1% € million 2017 2016 Net cash flow provided by operating 1,952 1,924 The following table specifies the revenue incidentals in more detail: activities from continuing operations Capex -1,139 -1,193 Revenue incidentals (€ million) Segment FY 2017 FY 2016 Change in revenue related provisions Wholesale -2 26 Proceeds from real estate 2 10 KPN Group -2 26 Free cash flow from continuing operations 815 741 The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted EBITDA for the full year. Net Debt/EBITDA ratio EBITDA In then Net Debt/EBITDA ratio, KPN defines Net Debt as the nominal value of interest bearing financial liabilities FY 2016 FY 2016 excluding derivatives and related collateral, representing the FY 2017 Restruc­ FY 2017 reported Restrucadjusted y-on-y y-on-y net repayment obligations in euro, taking into account 50% of € million reported Incidentals turing adjusted restated Incidentals turing restated reported adjusted the nominal value of the hybrid capital instruments, less net The Netherlands 2,300 -25 -76 2,401 2,402 32 -41 2,411 -4.2% -0.4% cash and short-term investments. The EBITDA in this context is normalized EBITDA, a 12-month rolling total EBITDA iBasis 24 – – 24 23 – – 23 4.3% 4.3% excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and major changes Other activities -18 – -10 -8 4 14 -4 -6 n.m. 33% in the composition of the Group (acquisitions and disposals). The calculation of the Net Debt/EBITDA ratio is provided in KPN Group 2,306 -25 -86 2,417 2,429 46 -45 2,428 -5.1% -0.5% Note 12.4 of the Financial Statements. The following table specifies the EBITDA incidentals in more detail: EBITDA incidentals (€ million) Segment FY 2017 FY 2016 Changes in revenue related provisions Revenues -2 26 Addition to asset retirement obligation Other operating expenses -7 – Change of provisions Other operating expenses -16 6 Release of provisions Other operating expenses – 14 KPN Group -25 46 140 141 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Overview and connectivity of non financial information Appendices Appendix 2: Overview and connectivity of non-financial information High material topics Target Reference P Strategic pillar Theme/ KPI Result 2017 Result 2016 Result 2015 Target 2018 Target 2019 and beyond GRI KPI/ref Impact/SDG Medium material topics 2017 Value for Digital transformation stakeholders Customer value 14 Innovate; Customer loyalty NPS NL 9 8 6 3 11 > 15 in 2020 Marketing and labeling 9. Industry, Leadership & culture NPS Consumer Mobile 13 14 10 9 16 Innovation & NPS Consumer Fixed 13 11 10 9 15 Infrastructure NPS Business: 0 -1 -3 -10 3 NPS KPN Fixed-Mobile 25 Reputation (RepTrak)¹ 70.5 67.4 70.8 Integrated 16 Grow; Revenue-generating units per 2.19 2.16 2.07 Economic performance 11. Sustainable Cities products and Optimize customer household and Communities services value, Best services Average revenue per household € 43 € 41 € 39 Wholesale mobile customers 775k 778k 817k Wholesale fixed connections 931k 1,001k 1,029k iBasis: Average revenues per minute EUR 3.8ct EUR 4.1ct EUR 4.3ct iBasis: Number of minutes 18.7bn 20.9bn 21.4bn State-of-the-art 20 Innovate; Best -Q uality and Weighted downtime (compared to last -30% -38% + 55% -61% -30% c/w 2017 Indirect economic 9. Industry, networks and ICT connectivity reliability of network year YTD) Impacts Innovation & infrastructure % of households with possibility of 78-80% 76% 75% 68% ² ICT infrastructure Infrastructure acces to at least 100 Mbps connection investments Average download speed copper N/a N/a >30 Mbps Average download speed fiber N/a N/a # of customers connected in rural N/a N/a >100 Mbps areas with 4G or combined 4G/DSL 20,000 solutions Average 4G download speed 40 Mbps 58 Mbps 51 Mbps 50 Mbps 58 Mbps in cities Usage of total data traffic 4.7 Tbps 3.4 Tbps 2.6 Tbps Sustainable 23 Innovate; Sustainable employment Overall percentage of women at KPN 25% 23% 24% 25% 27,5% 30% (exact year still to be determined). Employment 5. Gender Equality employability Leadership & culture Diversity and equal opportunity in the Netherlands Diversity and equal 8. D ecent Work and Employee survey score for 75% 80% 77% 77% 80% >75% opportunity Economic Growth Engagement Non-discrimination 4. Quality Education Sustainable employability: % of 82% 83% 87% 83% >80% >80% Labor/management employees with a new external job relations/ after active participation in an Occupational helth and outplacement program safety Training and education Shareholder value 25 Grow: Maximize Economic value Adjusted EBITDA €2,417m €2,428m €2,419m Economic performance value of assets and Free cash flow³ €745m €631m €552m services Capex €1.14bn €1.19bn €1.3bn Value for society Digital transformation Innovation 29 Grow; Build new Innovation and investments Revenues from New services € 134m €115m N/a Indirect economic 8. D ecent Work and revenue streams Impact of products and services M2M Subscribers (#SIMs) ~3.6m ~2.5m ~1.5m impacts Economic Growth % of KPN employees in NL who feel 90% 77% 82% 80% 90% 90% ICT infrastructure 11. Sustainable Cities they can work in line with The New Investments and Communities Way of Living and Working 1 KPN used to report the December score in the Integrated Report. In 2017 this score was 68.6. As from 2017, KPN yearly reports the fourth quarterly average in the Integrated Report, which is in line with the figures of similar KPIs, like the NPS. See Appendix 3 for further details. 2 No new target due to a focus change to download speeds as opposed to coverage. 3 Free cash flow excluding Telefónica Deutschland dividend. High material topic 142 143 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Overview and connectivity of non financial information Appendices High material topics Target Reference P Strategic pillar Theme/ KPI Result 2017 Result 2016 Result 2015 Target 2018 Target 2019 and beyond GRI KPI/ref Impact/SDG Medium material topics 2017 Reliability: 32 Innovate: Best Security % of customers helped (within eight 98% 99% 96% 72% 98.5% 99% >2020 (exact year still to be determined) Customer privacy 9. Industry, Privacy and connectivity Privacy and identity hours) who were unintentionally Secure use of products Innovation security Impact of products and services infected by malware and services & Infrastructure % of Dutch people that believe their 70% 70% 70% 73% 70% 70% until 2020 data is safe with KPN Sustainability: 34 Grow: Build new Environmental performance % Reduction of energy consumption 21% 24% 20% 18% 22% 25% in 2020 / 55% in 2030 Materials 12. Responsible Environmental revenue streams Impact of products and services KPN Group compared to 2010 Energy Consumption and performance Absolute car fuel savings compared to 40% 43% 39% 35% 44% 100% new cars without CO₂ emissions from 2025 Emissions Production 2010 Effluents and waste 13. Climate action Data centers: more energy efficient 15.5% 15% 15% 13% 15.5% 19% in 2020; 2030: on top with top 3 in Europe Environmental compared to 2010 (PUE) compliance Collecting customer equipment (KPN 80% ~85% 74% 62% 85% N  ew equipment in networks offices and for KPN-owned specified) devices circular > 2025 % Reuse and recycling N/a 53% 46% 47% 55% ~100% circular operations and services in 2025 Energy savings by customers as % of 56% 60% 54% 49% 64% >80% in 2020 KPN Group Climate-neutral own operations 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 1 00% until 2050: from 2030 without compensating for car fuels (science-based target) CO₂ reduction in the chain (scope 3) Roadmap 12% N/a N/a Projects to 20% reduction emissions in 2025 compared to 2014; 50% ready reduce reduction Scope 3 emissions in 2040 compared to 2014 (science-based target) Fossil fuel-free cars added to fleet N/a 7% N/a N/a 15% 100% in 2025 (lease pool + engineers) Sustainability: 38 Grow: Sustainable suppliers % realized improvements on 60% 82% 77% 58% 70% N/a Supplier environmental 17. P artnership for the Solutions for a Build new revenue Impact of products and services corrective action plans assessment Goals sustainable supply streams % high-risk Tier I, Tier II and Tier III 35% 42% N/a N/a 40% 40% Freedom of association 12. Responsible chain suppliers audited and collective bargaining Consumption and % Circular procurement 3 suppliers 7 suppliers N/a N/a 15 suppliers ~100% circular for new products from 20254. Bargaining Production Sustainable solutions with impact 4 N/a N/a 4 4 Child labor 1 year including a cost saving Forced or compulsory component for KPN. labour Human rights assessment Supplier social assessment Sustainability: 40 Grow: Build new Community investment # Elderly facilitated to life 15,500 11,446 11,317 N/a 12,500 Self-reliance for ~160.000 end-users in 2020 with smart Non discrimination Reducerd inequalities Social Inclusion revenue streams Digital inclusion independently monitoring services Diversity and equal 11. Sustainable Cities Diversity and equal opportunity % chronically ill children provided 100% 100% (1109) 100% (987) 837 100% 100% opportunity and Communities” Impact of products with a KPN Klasgenoot and services # of people with secure digital access N/a N/a N/a N/a 22,500 In 2020 significant contribution to triple aim Indirect economic 8. D ecent Work and to healthcare (better health, better quality, better value) impacts Economic Growth # of ill people facilitated with 17,500 11,860 12,245 N/a N/a ICT infrastructure 11. Sustainable Cities self-measurement investments and Communities 4 For customer owned equipment a circular alternative will be available. High material topic 144 145 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Appendices Appendix 3: Transparency Requirements EU Directive Subtopic Chapter / Page reference Relevant environmental matters A description of the policies pursued, including due Sustainability, p. 34 About this report (e.g. climate-related impacts) dilligence. Environmental performance, p.34 The outcome of those policies. Sustainability, p. 34 Scope sustainability information report refers to KPN’s performance and not to that of our Environmental performance, p.34 The purpose of the information in this report is to inform our subcontractors, unless stated otherwise. The full scope of the Principle risks in own operations and within value Sustainability, p. 34 stakeholders about our role in society, in connection with our financial information is reported in the Consolidated Financial chain. Environmental performance, p.34 Compliance & risk, p.46 main strategic objectives and targets. We regard as Statements (pages 76 to 138). stakeholders all people and organizations affected by our This report specifically reviews developments and performance How risks are managed. Compliance & risk, p.46 operations or with whom we maintain a relationship, such as in 2017 and is based on topics identified as high material for Non-financial key performance indicators. Sustainability, p. 34 Environmental performance, p.34 customers, employees, shareholders, banks, suppliers, KPN. Aspects of a more static nature (such as our management journalists, partners and social organizations. For more approaches to our CSR themes and our stakeholders) or with Relevant matters with respect for human rights A description of the policies pursued, including due Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38 (e.g. labor protection) dilligence. information on our stakeholder approach for specific less reporting priority (such as our impact on biodiversity and stakeholder groups, see Stakeholder dialogue in this Appendix. the list of external memberships) are included in the GRI The outcome of those policies. Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38 The scope of the information in this report covers the KPN Content Index (www.kpn.com/annualreport) or reported on Principle risks in own operations and within value Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38 Group including subsidiaries in which KPN has a majority corporate.kpn.com/dutch-society.htm. chain. shareholding. The scope has not changed compared with last How risks are managed. Compliance & risk, p.46 year’s report. Unless stated otherwise, references to KPN Reporting criteria non-financial information Non-financial key performance indicators. Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38 should be read as referring to the KPN Group. In this report The Integrated Annual Report is published on 26 February, Relevant matters with respect to anti-corruption A description of the policies pursued, including due Implement a strong risk culture, p. 46 (including the GRI Content Index and social and environmental 2018. We have prepared this report in line with the International and bribery dilligence. Insider transactions, p. 56 appendices published on our website), KPN in the Netherlands Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Integrated Reporting (IR) Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38 refers to all the activities of the KPN Group in the Netherlands. framework. For the sustainability information included in this The outcome of those policies. Implement a strong risk culture, p. 46 Outside the Netherlands, our divisions are iBasis and Ortel report we followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Insider transactions, p. 56 Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38 Mobile. For our non-financial information, we include new Standards Option Comprehensive and self-developed Principle risks in own operations and within value Implement a strong risk culture, p. 46 acquisitions in our report as of the first full year of ownership. reporting criteria as disclosed in this Appendix. We comply with chain. Appendix 8: List of top risks, p. 184-190 Non-financial information for divestments that occurred during the EU Directive Non-Financial Reporting, and integrated all How risks are managed. Implement a strong risk culture, p. 46 the reporting year is excluded for the full year. The data in this elements in our Integrated Annual Report. Non-financial key performance indicators. Implement a strong risk culture, p. 46 Sustainability throughout the supply chain, p.38 EU Directive 2014/95/EU: Non-Financial Information and Diversity information reference table Insight into the diversity (Board of Management A description of the policies pursued. Diversity & inclusion, p.23 and Supervisory board) Report of the Supervisory Board, p.58” Requirements EU Directive Subtopic Chapter / Page reference Diversity targets Diversity & inclusion, p.23 A brief description of the business model The business environment Our purpose and the world around us, p.6 Report of the Supervisory Board, p.58 Our strategy and activities, p 8-9 Our value creation model, p. 10-11 Description of how the policy is implemented Diversity & inclusion, p.23 Our capitals to operate, p. 13 Report of the Supervisory Board, p.58 Organisation and structure Our strategy and activities, p 8-9 Results of the diversity policy Diversity & inclusion, p.23 Our value creation model, p. 10-11 Report of the Supervisory Board, p.58 Our capitals to operate, p. 13 Markets where the undertaking operates Our purpose and the world around us, p.6 Our strategy and activities, p 8-9 The Option Comprehensive of the GRI Standards means that The GRI Content Index specifies the aspect boundaries and Our value creation model, p. 10-11 KPN reports on all general standard disclosures and all specific omitted indicators where relevant (including clarifications). Our capitals to operate, p, 13 standard disclosures related to identified material topics. The This Integrated Annual Report has been prepared in Objectives and strategies Our strategy and activities, p 8-9 process for defining the material topics and report content, as accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. Our value creation model, p. 10-11 well as the list of material topics, is described in the materiality Where available and relevant, the report includes data for Our capitals to operate, p. 13 determination. The results of this assessment (list of material previous years. Quantitative data concerning the workforce and Main trends and factors that may affect the Our purpose and the world around us, p.6 topics for KPN, including their reporting priority) determine financial results set out in this report has been collected using undertaking’s future development which GRI indicators are set out in the Integrated Report and our financial data management system. The remaining data, Relevant social and personnel matters A description of the policies pursued, including due Sustainable employability, p. 22 which indicators are featured only on our website or in our GRI set out in this report, has been collected using a standardized (e.g. HR, safety etc.) dilligence. Content Index. The overview can be found in the GRI Content questionnaire that was completed with data from information The outcome of those policies. Sustainable employability, p. 22 Index in Appendix 7: GRI Content Index. In addition to these management systems by the responsible KPN business units. Principle risks in own operations and within value Sustainable employability, p. 22 GRI Standards, KPN has included the pilot version of the The Internal Audit and Corporate Control departments used chain. Appendix 8: List of top risks, p. 184-190 Telecommunications Sector Supplement, as published by GRI consistency and availability of supporting evidence as the basis How risks are managed. Compliance & risk, p.46 in 2003, in determining material disclosures, resulting in five for their assessment of the data reported at group level. Appendix 8: List of top risk, p. 184-190 additional topics and indicators in the GRI Content Index. For Validation criteria set out in advance were also used to assess Non-financial key performance indicators. Sustainable employability, p. 22 one high material topic, customer loyalty, KPN uses and reports the data. bespoke performance indicators, as outlined in the GRI Index in Appendix 7. 146 147 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Appendices External assurance Scoping and calculation methodologies environmental Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions: In order to provide our stakeholders comfort over the reliability figures Emissions in our upstream value chain (during the production We have improved our calculation method for our Scope 3 of our reporting, we engaged EY as an independent assurance phase of our products, services and equipment at our suppliers) reporting. For categories 1, 2 and 9, we updated the accuracy of provider to perform an assurance engagement with the aim of Calculation and determination of reported emissions Emissions in our downstream value chain (during the use the used inflation factors and we improved our calculation obtaining reasonable assurance on CO₂ emission data 2017 In the Integrated Annual Report, KPN reports the CO₂ phase including recycling and disposal of the products, method to include all spend not only in the reporting year but (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the emissions in the chapter Sustainability and in Appendix 6. services and equipment). also for the 2014 2016 figures. We restated categories 11 & 13 underlying energy data as presented on page 34 of the Reporting is done in accordance with the guidance and for the years 2015 and 2016 using a new more accurate Integrated Annual Report and limited assurance on other standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and the ISO 14064-1 We have used two main methodologies to calculate our Scope reported grid mix for grey electricity in the Netherlands. We sustainability information as disclosed in the following standard. KPN uses the operational control approach when 3 emissions: updated our base year figures (2014) accordingly, but did not chapters and appendices: reporting CO₂ emissions. Carbon dioxide (CO₂) is the most Spend-based method which takes procurement data and adjust our Scope 3 reduction targets: 20% in 2025 and 50% in Chapters: KPN at a glance, Who we are and what we do and relevant greenhouse gas to KPN. Where available, we have calculates the emissions within an environmentally extended 2040 compared to base year 2014. The long-term value we create; taken CH₄ and N₂O into consideration in our greenhouse gas economic input-output (EEIO) model to assess the emissions. Appendices: Appendix 1-7: This includes Appendix 5: emissions information. We use the term ‘CO₂-emissions’ to refer We used actual data covering January to November and Calculation of emission methods, coverage and assurance is Social figure’, Appendix 6: Environmental figures to the greenhouse gas emissions reported on. These are stated extrapolated to full year. described in the table below. (including Scope 3 CO₂ emissions) and Appendix 7: GRI in CO₂ equivalents. The net Scope 2 emissions are market Process-based method which uses quantity-based data to Content Index, which are available on the website of KPN. based and calculated based on the tank-to-wheel (TTW) evaluate the emissions associated with specific activities, e.g. CO₂-emissions factors for renewable electricity. For renewables kWh of energy usage or quantity of materials purchased to The key social and environmental figures, which are available in (wind, biomass, solar) the TTW values are all zero. The CO₂manufacture goods. the Appendices 5 and 6 on www.kpn.com/annualreport, are also emissions of the well-to-tank (WTT) phase are accounted for part of this report. Partly, they provide more detailed numbers in our Scope 3 emissions (category 3 – Fuel and energy related on key figures that reflect on high material topics within the activities). The gross emissions disclosed on page 34 are Location/ Emission factor / Scope CO₂ Standard Scope Coverage Approach Market-based Assurance Green energy report (such as CO₂-emissions and electricity consumption). location based and calculated with grid mix emissions factors. The report contains prospective information, such as ambitions, The KPN emissions report is subdivided as follows: Scope 1 GHG Protocol KPN Group 98% of all KPN Operational control Market based NL: co2emissiefactoren.nl version Scope 1 business units approach Reasonable 9-1-2018 strategy, targets, expectations and projections. Inherent to this Guidance and subsidiaries Non.NL: Gold standard & forest information is that actual future results may be different from Scope 1 – Direct emissions: (Opex/FTE) Limited compensation the prospective information and therefore it may be uncertain. Fuel consumption of the lease vehicle fleet (employees’ Therefore, the assumptions and feasibility of this prospective passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles) Scope 2 GHG Protocol KPN Group 98% of all KPN Operational control Market based NL: co2emissiefactoren.nl version information is not covered by the external assurance. Heating of buildings (gas) Scope 2 business units approach Reasonable 9-1-2018 Consumption of coolants for air conditioning and/or cooling Guidance and subsidiaries Non.NL: 100% green electricity (Opex/FTE) Limited The Audit Committee approved every engagement of the Fuel consumption of emergency power generators external auditor, after pre-approval by the internal auditor, in Scope 3 GHG Protocol Netherlands 98% of all KPN Spend based Location Limited UK DEFRA 2014 Cat: Scope 3 business units (Environmentally based order to avoid potential breaches of the external auditor’s Scope 2 – Indirect emissions: 1, 2, 5, 9 Guidance and subsidiaries Extended Input independence. For EY’s assurance report we refer to p. 131. Electricity consumption of the fixed and mobile networks, (Opex/FTE) Output data datacenters, offices and shops (EEIO) approach) Reporting ambitions District heating Scope 3 GHG Protocol Netherlands 98% of all KPN Process and Location Limited co2emissiefactoren.nl version KPN adheres to several reporting benchmarks, like the Dow Jones District cooling Cat: Scope 3 business units activity based based 9-1-2018 Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Transparency Benchmark. 3, 6, 7, 11, 13 Guidance and subsidiaries (Opex/FTE) By doing this, we keep improving our performance and our way Accuracy Scope 3 GHG Protocol Netherlands 98% of all KPN Not applicable Not applicable Limited Not applicable of reporting by comparing it with that of peers and The accuracy of the electricity consumption data is a key factor Cat: 4, 8, 10, 12, Scope 3 business units for KPN expectations from the industry and other stakeholders. Our in the reliability of the CO₂-emissions calculations. In the data 14, 15 Guidance and subsidiaries reporting ambitions for the following years are to: collection process, a number of factors affect the accuracy of (Opex/FTE) keep reporting in line with the IIRC framework and in the collected data. In general, the data originating from direct accordance with GRI standards; measurements and recordings or invoices including keep reporting on high material topics; measurements from third parties are the most accurate. As our report more on qualitative and quantitative value creation for electricity providers estimate the electricity consumption for a society; and part of our network operations because not in all cases a maintain a leading position in several benchmarks like the monthly meter reading is performed, some uncertainty exists Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Transparency about the accuracy and completeness of our energy Benchmark. consumption. To improve accuracy and transparency we are migrating to remote readable meters. 148 149 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Appendices Calculation methodology avoided energy consumption Because KPN was already in the midst of the process of setting The peak figures included in this report are provided by the by ICT services KPIs, KPN requested the Reputation Institute to report KPN’s KPN Capacity Management department. The data demand The calculation of the avoided energy consumption, CO₂ e reputation scores using the ‘old’ cultural bias adjustment peak for main traffic streams (expressed as data in terabit per emission and the cost reduction for our customers is based on analysis. Hence, this report shows ‘unrebased’ reputation second) is based on maximum loads for these streams models per service. The results are presented on page 37 and scores for KPN. KPN used to report the December score in the measured continuously in five minute timeframes. These in Table 8 of Appendix 6: Environmental Figures. Integrated Report. In 2017 this score was 68.6. As from 2017, streams are KPN i-TV, Netflix, Google and other internet traffic. KPN reports the fourth quarterly average in the In this report all annual data demand peaks refer to Q4 Percentage of avoided Kind of avoidance Integrated Report every year, which is in line with the figures of (October, November and December) of the respective year. Avoided energy consumption energy consumption (most impact) Source KPN measurement Source external information similar KPIs, like the NPS. Teleworking 74% Avoided travel Number of customers Publicly available statistics and (enabled by KPN connectivity) reports from CBS¹; KiM², TNO³ and Telecompaper Net Promoter Score (NPS) Stakeholder engagement and materiality Research including rebound effect We use NPS as the leading indicator to measure customer determination from heating/light at home loyalty. The NPS results included in this report are calculated KPN Audioconferencing 7% Avoided travel Number of audioStatistics and reports and provided by a leading market research company in the Materiality conferencing; average (see above) Netherlands. The annual materiality assessment makes sure we are aware of number participants what happens in our surroundings, where we have impact and per meeting NPS is based on direct customer input, with the key question how we can add focus to our efforts. It is performed to make KPN Colocation 6% Energy savings Energy efficiency KPN Energy efficiency (Housing) datacenter ICT environment customer being whether a customer would recommend KPN to someone sure we report on all relevant topics in this Integrated Report. else.. Depending on the score they give, the customer is The assessment is approved by the Board of Management. KPN Hosting 2% Energy savings Energy efficiency KPN Energy efficiency datacenter ICT environment customer classified as a ‘promoter’ or a ‘critic’. The NPS is calculated by The process consists of three steps: subtracting the percentage of ‘critics’ from the percentage of Dematerialization 7% Energy and raw materials CD and DVD papers avoided Life cycle information products savings by e.g. Spotify, Netflix ‘promoters’. The result is displayed as an absolute number Step 1: Identification of relevant aspects and other topics iTV Cloud solution 1% Energy and raw materials Number of customers, instead of a percentage, within a range of -100 to +100. KPN annually updates a shortlist of relevant topics based on savings energy consumption In this report, all NPS results refer to Q4 of the respective year, internal and external developments. Relevant topics are those KPN Cloud for iTV based on a 3-month rolling average (December 17 is based on with which KPN has or can have an impact, inside the Managed workspaces 0% Energy savings Number of KPN Werkplekken Publicly available data on energy October 17, November 17 and December 17). The NPS organization and in the value chain or society. Where relevant, (KPN Werkplek) consumption laptops and tablets Consumer (Consumer Residential and Consumer Mobile) and topics are further defined and missing topics are added, KPN Video Conferencing 3% Avoided travel Number of videoconferences; NPS Business reflect a weighted average based on sales. The including topics identified during media scans and stakeholder average travel savings per main score for NPS NL is the average of the segments NPS dialogues. Updating the shortlist resulted in incorporating the meeting consumer mobile’, NPS consumer residential’ and NPS topic ‘Non-discrimination’ in the topic ‘Diversity and equal Business. opportunities’. In order to cover the content the following topics are renamed: In the calculation we used actual data covering January to Other calculation methodologies 100 Mbps access Topics name in 2016 Topics name in 2017 November and extrapolated to full year. For some parameters The KPI ‘% Households with possibility of at least a 100 Mbps in the Teleworking calculation different values were published. RepTrak connection’ applies to households with the possibility to get The approach in those cases was to take the average between RepTrak is developed by the Reputation Institute and is used access to internet download speeds of at least 100 Mbit per Tax policy Tax position the lowest reported value and the highest reported value in as a method to calculate the reputation score of companies second. The reported percentage is calculated by dividing the reports and research. This was done for the following worldwide. The RepTrak methodology measures also the number of household connections, to whom this applies, by the Direct economic value Economic value parameters: number of telecommuters, the saved office space drivers of reputation and the consequences for supportive total number of households in the Netherlands. due to teleworking and the extra energy consumption at home behaviour. The Reputation Institute’s policy is to adjust all Internal human rights issues Internal human rights adherence. when working at home (rebound effect). Cost savings were RepTrak scores by standardizing them against the aggregate The download speed that we report is the theoretical speed calculated by multiplying average fuel, electricity and gas distribution of all scores obtained from the Reputation that we should be able to deliver to the service provider. prices published by CBS and Milieucentraal by the estimated Institutes’s Annual Global RepTrak Pulse. Standardization has Due to the focus on value creation in this year’s Integrated avoided net energy consumption. the effect of lowering scores in countries that tend to over-rate The KPI is measured monthly. In this report, the results are Annual Report, the value retention topics, ‘Remuneration’ and These KPN volumes and reference values are based on several companies, and has the effect of raising scores for companies based on the situation at the end of December 2017. This KPI is ‘Compliance and risk’, are not included in the shortlist. sources: in countries that tend to rate companies more negatively. a successor of the KPI ‘% Households with possibility for more Especially since these topics are required topics to report on Actual measurements (by KPN, by customers or other All RepTrak scores are culturally standardized. This means that than 40 Mbps connection’. In all the years that we published from legal reporting requirements. sources); all RepTrak results are comparable across countries, industries these KPIs, we always published December’s figures. During an internal consultation held with employees Publicly available data and statistics from governments, and over time. Every month, the progress on the key attributes representing all sections of KPN, the shortlist is validated. This research institutes, and sector organizations (e.g. CBS, GeSI, that stimulate reputation and supportive behavior is measured. Usage of Total data traffic has led to the addition of the topics ‘Digital transformation’ and ITU, CarbonTrust); The results are based on a minimum of 300 respondents per We use the data demand peak as the key indicator to measure ‘(Digital) knowledge and education’. The topic Privacy and External expertise from consultancy firms Scenario analyses company each quarter. The data collection method is an online continuous growth of data usage within our networks. security was split into the topics ‘Privacy and Identity’ and based on KPN’s savings calculation tool; and interview of 20 minutes. The qualified respondents have to be ‘Security’. The topic ‘Fair marketing communications’ has been Expert judgments (KPN product management and other familiar or very familiar with the company. Per 1 January 2011, renamed ‘Fair marketing and communication’. 1 CBS: (Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek of the Dutch government) sources). Reputation Institute started using an updated cultural bias 2 KiM: Kennisinstituut voor Mobiliteitsbeleid Ministery of Infrastructure and adjustment procedure, whereby the cultural adjustment Environment) analysis was rebased based on the latest reputation scores. 3 TNO: Dutch organisation for applied scientific research 150 151 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Appendices Stakeholder What they expect How we engage Main topics in 2017 Our response group (incl. frequency) Step 2: Determining reporting priority The determining of the materiality involves the following The second step aims to assess the relative impact KPN has processes: Employees Employees expect us to provide To some the changing conditions L eadership that supports our D evelopment of our engineers in the world and the labor market personal possibilities to strive in culture as described in the KPN and retail sales people. with the identified topics on society. The outcome is presented an internal consultation held with employees representing all the dynamic workplace. For them,may feel like a threat. That is a Greenprint. A gile on Tour to support on the graphically in the materiality matrix below and used as sections of KPN in order prioritize the shortlist topics from this translates into natural reaction and we feel it as S trategic Workforce continuous personal both input and validation of our (CSR) strategy, policies and KPN’s perspective; and our responsibility as an employer a tailor-made workplace (physical, Management that focuses on development. approach and reporting scope. KPN assesses all relevant topics desk research in order to prioritize the shortlist topics from technology, learning and to both create awareness of the rationalisation and consequences of the fast development); simplicity in data, F uture-proof individuals and on: (1) the significance of KPN’s impacts and (2) the influence our stakeholder’s perspective. The research is based on a organisation, technology and changing environment and standardisation, contract organisation’ as main theme in on stakeholder decisions. media search and a comparison with several peers, NPS independent sourcing and preparing for the CLA processes; transparency in encourage and enable people to capacity planning. analysis, investors opinion, and input of the advisory board. the organisation and from seize the possibilities it offers. In negotiations. leadership and a recognisable the long run, KPN’s HR function A future-proof organisational culture and values. will more and more be using data design with room for & digital and robotisation & AI to authenticity and diversity. New generations expect create an employee experience in P roactive and valuable people & Materiality assesment data analytics. generational awareness, dynamic response to increasing career perspectives, continuous consumerism that will take shape Integral management of our HR feedback, mentoring and in alternative employment chains in which run and change coaching and empowerment and relations. are balanced. 1. Customer loyalty agility.  erformance management with Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions P 2. Quality and reliability of network room for new ways of working 3. Digital transformation that leads to empowered 4. Security employees. 1 5. Economic value 6 6. Privacy and ldentity R ight sizing of our collective 7 3 2 7. Environmental performance labor conditions to support this. 4 8. Impact of products and services 11 9 Government Government and regulators We proactively engage with A voiding non-compliance  e continued our compliance W 10 8 5 9. lnnovation and investments and regulators expect us to comply with the government and regulators. As efforts through programs such 12 Integrity and transparancy 15 10. Digital inclusion rules and regulations and meet the incumbent in the as optimizing our business 16 13 11. Sustainable employment the requirements for licensing. Netherlands, there are special F or the next three years, ACM 14 control system, external reviews, 12. Community investment Furthermore, they expect us to obligations imposed on us, in wants KPN to continue to grant benchmarking, enhanced 13. Sustainable suppliers be climate responsible and particular to enable competition its competitors access to its 18 compliance training and top 14. Fair marketing communication transparent in our via regulated access to our fixed copper and fiber-optic network. management meetings. We 15. Diversity and equal opportunities communication. Their goal is, network. We engage in a C oncerns have been increasing work continuously to meet 19 20 17 16. Tax position concerning national (cyber) 21 amongst others, to create a level continuous dialog to explain our compliance requirements 17. (Digital) knowledge and education playing field and protect the efforts and results. Furthermore, security throughout 2017. through clear and practical legal 18. lnternal human rights adherence interests of end-users. They we work together with (local) advice, clear operational 19. Electromagnetic fields/radiation expect us to run infrastructure governments on innovation (e.g. procedures, related control 20. Participation in public policy development and services considered as very IoT) projects which result in mechanisms, and clear and safe 21. Biodiversity important to the Dutch economy energy and cost savings. ways to report potential and Dutch society at large and to misconduct. We interact closely Significance of KPN's economic, environmental and social impacts create coverage of high speed with the ACM in relation to networks, wireless and wireline. compliance, incidents and potentially different views on the interpretation of the law. Investor The investor community – We organize key corporate events B est-in-class networks and  e increased the fixed-mobile W community financial markets in general, our such as the Annual General benefits of integrated services. customer base leading to The combination of the horizontal axis and the vertical axis Step 3: Implementation shareholders, debt investors and Meeting of Shareholders, capital S olid operational performance stronger customer loyalty and determines the degree of impact that KPN has with the topic Based on the priority outcomes of the materiality research analysts – expects us to markets days, and meetings with low churn levels. with a combination of on society. KPN divides the results into three categories: determination, approved by the Board of Management, we be extensive and transparent. We investors during roadshows and converged customer base  e provided 76% of households W High material topics: we aim to fulfill a leading role on these determine the topics to be addressed in the report, including the should be clear in our strategy, conferences, analysts and credit growth and a strong focus on with access to at least 100 objectives and outlook, and rating agencies. We also provide topics. By developing policies, setting targets and defining scope and aspect boundaries of all material topics. Business transparent about executive relevant company information value creation supporting Mbps. KPI’s to monitor and report on our impact. units are informed on new and altered topics to be acted and financial results.  e realized a stable adjusted W remuneration. Their main interest through timely press releases and Medium material topics: we want to demonstrate our social reported on, to prepare reporting systems, enhance internal is our commitment to creating regular publications such as our F ree cash flow growth potential EBITDA and growing free cash value. They want timely and quarterly results and Integrated leading to increased operational flow in 2017 compared to full responsibility regarding these topics. mechanisms, develop reporting definitions and, where relevant, and financial flexibility, and year 2016. accurate updates and ample Annual Report. Low material topics: these are topics we monitor, but do not targets. Timelines are developed and new/altered topics are attractive shareholder returns.  e grew our regular dividend W opportunity to seek clarification necessarily report on. included in the relevant reporting process mechanisms. and ask questions per share, distributed the dividend received on our In order to see where the aspect can be found and which GRI Stakeholder dialogue Telefónica Deutschland stake to KPN shareholders and we topics are translated into KPN topics, please see the crossKPN is in continuous dialogue with a diverse set of stakeholders, completed a share buyback reference in the connectivity matrix. with equally diverse interests and motivations. These dialogues program of € 200m. take place on different levels within our organisation and are often a part of our daily business. In the table below, we provide insight into all the interactions we have had with different stakeholders. 152 153 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Appendices Stakeholder What they expect How we engage Main topics in 2017 Our response Stakeholder What they expect How we engage Main topics in 2017 Our response group (incl. frequency) group (incl. frequency) Suppliers Our suppliers expect to maintain KPN has a central Corporate K PN has the ambition of  ogether with our suppliers we T Retail Our retail customers expect Of course, we constantly B eing always connected  e proactively offer free W a long-term commitment and Procurement Organization (CPO) becoming close to 100% circular implemented sustainable customers high-quality products and service communicate with our retail (connected anytime, anywhere) engineer service to customers cooperation with us. Furthermore, that is responsible for contracting in 2025. To succeed we need solutions which resulted in cost for the right price. This includes customers in our stores, via our Improved online customer experiencing sub-optimal WiFi they expect simple contracts, fair deals with suppliers. We make cooperation of suppliers in reduction, reduction in energy failure-free networks, clear call centers and our engineers service experience performance prices and acceptable payment sure the principles of our order to improve efficiency, and material use. propositions and processes, a and online in forums and live  e started offering free Mobile W terms. Together we should look suppliers’ CSR policies are in line lower costs and make quick and proper response to chats. Besides that, we monitor P roviding a high-quality TV  e aim for all suppliers we do W offer data to 4P customers with a for opportunities regarding with our own. equipment and products more business with to comply with questions and complaints and what is said about KPN on social temporary in-home disturbance, sustainable cost reduction. We are constantly in touch with environmentally friendly. the KPN Supplier Code of good communication. They media, both positive and negative N ew financing and roaming so they quickly regain internet our suppliers and invite them to want sincere and proactive advice and we also use tools, such as the regulations for mobile plans Conduct or have their own connectivity through our mobile our annual Supplier Day. We equivalent code. Our Code of about the best possible monthly NPS and ReptrakTM, to network. increasingly partner with them on Conduct helps to ensure that all subscriptions that meet their monitor our reputation. sustainable solutions. We are also needs. Besides that, they want  e improved broadband W of our suppliers are committed connectivity for customers in a member of the Joint Audit to conducting its business in an their loyalty to be acknowledged Cooperation (JAC), an association and appreciated. rural areas via combining fixed ethical, legal environmentally, network and 4G network of 13 telecom operators aiming to respecting human rights and verify, assess and develop the connectivity socially responsible manner as (CSR) implementation across the well as JAC standards. Society Society expects us to make a We are active in working groups W hen involved in societal  e launched a campaign on our W manufacturing centers of positive mark on Dutch society. initiated by NGOs and participate discussions like smartphone use green character, we joined in a important multinational suppliers.  e continue to raise awareness W They expect us to be socially and in or liaise with organizations in traffic or protecting children government campaign on the of sustainability among our environmentally responsible and such as the European online, choose subjects where use of smartphones in traffic buyers and suppliers. In order to to be a good corporate citizen. Telecommunications Network you have an actual impact on and work on the development of achieve 100% close to circular They want products and services Operators’ Association (ETNO), change. Educate your a bicycle lock for smartphones. products we need support of all that help to solve social and International Telecom Union stakeholders and open up a Together with VBDO, we suppliers. On 9 October 2017, environmental issues. (ITU), the United Nations Global debate. conducted a webcast for KPN and 7 suppliers have Furthermore, they expect us to Compact Foundation, the Dutch S DGs should be integrated in investors and analysts in order signed a manifesto. This be a frontrunner in sustainability Association of Investors for your strategy, because they will to discuss our sustainable manifesto expresses the and other societal issues by Sustainable Development be on the worldwide agenda for strategy. commitments of KPN and creating sustainable partnerships. (VBDO) and the ICT Coalition. In suppliers to explore the value the next 13 years.  e focused on fewer SDGs W KPN has the potential to lead 2017, we joined Circle Economy. which we integrated in our and expected impact on the debates. On the privacy field, Furthermore, we organize an T ry to make your impact more environment of specific projects clear, both positive and negative strategy. mobile data is extremely annual dialogue with and initiatives in support of powerful. How to balance stakeholders to discuss our and make sure it is independent  e decided to do a new impact W KPN’s circular business model between ‘private’ and ‘public’ is contribution to society and the research. study that will be more closely by focusing on four areas: using the next big question. desired next steps. We organize D uring a stakeholder dialogue related to our strategy and less virgin raw material, an Advisory Board meeting four on tax, we discussed what KPN to customer focus. We chose extending product lifetime, times a year, which we renewed in can do to remain transparent to change to a new method and reusing and recycling all 2017. and clear in regards to the partner. products and improving energy chosen tax policy. Updating efficiency as much as possible. stakeholders on a regular Business Our customers in enterprising the Of course we talk with our S trong portfolio  ith the improved KPN ÉÉN, we W basis was a key aspect in this customers Netherlands rapidly face the business customers via our offer our business customer a discussion. Improve customer experience, opportunities and threats of the Business Partners, account measured by NPS complete and flexible ICT digital transformation. Customer managers, in our XL stores and portfolio. needs are changing fast. Business our contact centers. New this year R e-positioning as an ICT service provider  e offered Cloud, workspace, W How we engage with policymakers elsewhere. Finally, KPN contributes to ITU, which is a customers expect effortless ICT is that we engage through our Internet of Things and security solutions that are always in-house KPN Experience Lab in E xcellent delivery & customer KPN actively engages with policymakers in politics and standardisation body and a United Nations Agency, but which services to gradually establish connected on any device. Our which we test the needs and Service government and sponsors activities which help to debate in is not a trade organisation and therefore is not included in the our leading position as an ICT customers expect simplicity in experience of the customers daily. P rivacy and security in our player. the public arena the consequences of digitalization and develop sums presented. managing their ICT services, a We also engage customer panels, networks strong vision on IT and cloud quarterly market research, round O  ur sales organization has actions to cope with them. For KPN, as a predominantly Dutch developments. Customers expect table discussions, workshops turned further into a more IT operation, policy is primarily shaped in Brussels and in The KPN refrains from any sponsorship of political parties, political us to guide them so they benefit connecting customers’ strategies centric approach because IT Hague. The focus of our engagement is there. To increase individuals or government institutions. Management upholds from all the ICT developments. with KPN’s and social media becomes more leading in the ICT solutions of our customers. relevance with policymakers, the aim is to cooperate as much strict standards on ethical and transparent behaviour. through our B2B platform The Digital Dutch. We closely monitor W  e further developed vertical as possible with other likeminded companies and therefore Employees who are politically active have to ask for permission our (business) customers’ partnerships to create business KPN participates in trade organizations which are active at the if they have paid political functions, e.g. as member of satisfaction and loyalty through solutions for customers, for European level and in the Netherlands and contributes to municipal of regional councils. In the past years, KPN has NPS. We organized the yearly example with local government, these organizations. These contributions accounts for the always had the policy to approach policy makers directly. RijksmuseumTop for about 350 healthcare institutions and educational organizations. majority of the disclosed amounts. The sums apportioned to External public affairs agencies are not paid to speak on behalf business associates. We have improved our customer Brussels are part of the sums disclosed in the Transparency of KPN. service. Last year, more than 500 Register, to which KPN has subscribed from the start. The business customers joined us Transparency Register also encompasses an estimation of the KPN presents the amount of money spent on public affairs in through MijnKPN Grootzakelijk, cost of staff. KPN also participates in global organisations like three categories. KPN does not disaggregate these figures the portal for large-scale customers, which enables them to GSMA, which aim to develop the mobile industry worldwide, further as KPN is not at liberty to divulge the contributions to easily do business online with KPN. and which also engage with policymakers in Europe and individual organizations. 154 155 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Glossary Appendices Appendices Type of trade organization Geographic scope Spend in 2017 in EURO Focus of membership (non-exhaustive) Appendix 4: Glossary Trade bodies representing interests of Global 30,000 Develop the mobile industry worldwide with focus on mobile operators worldwide level playing field and predictability of the law. Create common standards and encourage sustainable innovation. This glossary lists the key terms and concepts included in the B Trade body representing Europe’s European Union 126,912 Create a level playing field within the EU based on an Integrated Annual Report. telecommunications network operators unambiguous and predictable legal situation. Focus BCF (Business Control Framework) on the European Electronic Communications Code, 2G The BCF contains all corporate policies and guidelines that are the General Data Protection Regulation, ePrivacy, and Second generation mobile system, which is based on the GSM mandatory for KPN segments and entities. It forms the the Privacy Shield. universal standard. cornerstone of the governance of the KPN Group. Confederation of Netherlands Industry and Netherlands and the 411,972 Monitor and influence nationwide issues that are of Employers European Union importance across sectors. Examples include creating a prosperous investment climate, fiscal climate, social 3G Bit agenda and a digital agenda. Third generation mobile system, which is based on the UMTS A binary digit (bit) is the smallest unit of information. Internet Trade association for IT, telecom, internet Netherlands 32,500 Monitor, influence and increase awareness of (issues universal standard. speeds in this report are expressed in Megabits per second and companies in) the digital economy, e.g. on continuity and security (Mbps). and privacy. 4G Trade association in the technology industry Netherlands 5,000 Monitor and influence national policies in particular Fourth generation mobile system, a standard for wireless Broadband for the manufacturing industries, such as health care, communication delivering high-speed data for mobile phones Broadband refers to telecommunication that provides multiple metallurgy, microconductor industry, and the digital and data terminals. channels of data over a single communications medium, industry. typically using some form of frequency or wave division Trade association for the positioning of the Netherlands 47,434 Monitor and influence national policies specifically in Netherlands defenseand safety-related the field of national security. multiplexing. industry A ACM (Authority for Consumers and Markets) C The ACM acts as a regulator in the Netherlands and is Dilemmas Engaging with suppliers in high-risk categories on responsible for monitoring compliance with anti-trust rules. Capital expenditures (Capex) Because KPN deals with many stakeholders, we face dilemmas systemic issues Investments in property, plant and equipment and software. and we are forced to make choices. In this section, we outline Through our audits at high risk suppliers we gain visibility and ADR two dilemmas that we faced in the past year. understanding of non-conformities with our Supplier Code of American depository receipt. CDP Conduct. Depending on the outcome of these audits, we The CDP (formerly, the Carbon Disclosure Project) is a joint Fiber roll-out establish corrective action plans in collaboration with the Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA initiative of investors worldwide that questions and In 2017, our Hybrid Access Strategy attracted attention from supplier in question. Even though we realized a higher Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA are derived from benchmarks listed companies on their approach to climate the media. Having access to best-in-class networks for our percentage of improvements on corrective action plans, we are revenues (including other income) and EBITDA, respectively, change. customers is one of our spearheads. The costs to achieve this still experiencing some delays in closing all issues. These and are adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and ambition are however significant, resulting in a tactical dilemma delays are often linked to systemic issues, which are difficult to incidentals. Incidentals are non-recurring transactions which Churn (calculated on an annual basis) of weighing the cost of delivering this ambition against the be solved by individual suppliers on their own. An example of are not directly related to day-to-day operational activities at The number of customers no longer connected to a operator’s social benefits. The downside of the fiber roll-out is that it is such an issue is keeping working hours within the norm set by or over EUR 5m unless significant for the specific reportable network divided by the operator’s customer base. time-consuming and we are forced to prioritize some areas legislation, where the limit corresponds poorly with the culture segment. over others. Local regulations sometimes further slowdown the and wishes of the employees. Circular economy implementation processes. On the other hand the need for fast Although such practices are clearly against our way of working, ARPU (average revenue per user) The circular economy is a generic term for an industrial internet appears to differ. We see that certain customer groups we believe that simply terminating relationships with these ARPU is the sum of connection fees, monthly fixed subscription economy that is producing no waste and pollution and in which are not yet interested in our fiber products. Therefore, a phased suppliers is not an adequate way forward. Elimination of such revenues, traffic revenues and gross service provider revenues material flows are of two types biological nutrients, designed to roll-out as part of our Hybrid Access Strategy seems to be the practices requires commitments from various stakeholders, less related discounts during a one-month period, divided by re-enter the biosphere safely, and technical nutrients, which are most straightforward solution from both the financial and including national / local governments, private sector and the average number of customers during that month. Gross designed to circulate at high quality in the production system social point of view. By investing in fiber (FttH) and upgrading individuals. KPN is therefore a strong contributor to the JAC service provider revenues represent revenues generated by without entering the biosphere. our fixed network (FttC) at the same time we ensure that our program, which has grown today to 13 telecom operators, sharing third-party providers. KPN accounts for the net part as gross infrastructure remains best-in-class. By doing so we will also be resources and best practices to develop long-term solutions in service provider revenues. CISO (Chief Information Security Office) able to reach a higher coverage with faster internet in the the different layers or tiers of the ICT supply chain globally. CISO is responsible within KPN for the security of the IT and TI shorter term. In the upcoming years, we expect that this Average 4G download speed architecture. Part of this office are the CISO REDteam, KPN’s dilemma between investing in FttH and/or FttC will remain The average download speed is based on the results of a ethical hacking team and the CERT (Computer Emergency relevant and we are keen to continue the dialogue with our speedtest that customers initiate on 4G with their smartphone. Response Team) that acts in case of a (potential) cyber-attack. stakeholders. We will do our best to achieve the best balance Robot measurements and customers that use other networks between financial impacts and social benefits. than KPN’s are excluded from the results. CISO labs CISO labs develop new secure and cryptographic products. Together with other companies and universities we have started research projects in regards to, amongst others, post-quantum cryptography. 156 157 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Glossary Appendices Climate-neutral E Greenprint J For KPN, climate neutral means operating with zero net CO₂ Greenprint is a description that helps us to work towards the emissions. EBITDA same goal; achieving the desired customer experience JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation) Operating result before depreciation and impairments of and in the end become the best service provider. Based on the The JAC is a cooperation of 13 European telecommunication Cloud services PPE and amortization and impairments of intangible assets. why, who, what and how of our existence. operators (including KPN) focusing on the social, ethical, Cloud services are standardized IT capability (services, and environmental conditions across their supply chains. software or infrastructure) delivered via internet technologies EEIO (Environmentally extended input output data) GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) in a pay-per-use, self-service way. EEIO models estimate energy use and/or GHG emissions The Global Reporting Initiative is an organization that resulting from the production and upstream supply chain publishes international standards for CSR reporting. K CO₂ activities of different sectors and products. The resulting EEIO Carbon dioxide is a gas that is created when fossil fuels such as emissions factors can be used to estimate cradle-to-gate GHG KPN Classmate oil and coal are burned. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. emissions for a given industry or product category. EEIO H Through the KlasseContact project of the KPN Mooiste models are derived by allocating national GHG emissions to Contact Fonds, chronically ill children can use an ICT-set Conflict minerals groups of finished products based on economic flows between Hybrid cloud (a KPN Classmate) to take a virtual seat in the classroom. Conflict minerals are minerals mined under conditions of armed industry sectors. Hybrid cloud is a cloud computing environment which uses a conflicts and human rights issues. These minerals are used in a mix of on-premises, private cloud and third-party, public cloud KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds variety of products, including consumer electronic devices such services with orchestration between the two platforms. By This KPN foundation supports societal initiatives aimed as mobile phones. F allowing workloads to move between private and public at stimulating social contact, by combining people and clouds as computing needs and costs change, hybrid cloud technological resources to the best advantage. CSR (corporate social responsibility) FTE (full-time equivalent) gives businesses greater flexibility and more data deployment CSR, to KPN, is the integrated vision of entrepreneurship, in The equivalent of the number of employees with a full-time options. which the company takes responsibility and creates value in contract. L economic (profit), ecological (planet) and social (people) terms. We incorporate CSR into our business and by doing so, take our FttC (Fiber-to-the-Curb) I LoRa (Long range) social responsibility and contribute to societal challenges. FttC is defined as an access network architecture in which Network architecture to connect millions of low-energy and optical fiber extents to street cabinets ‘on the curb’. ICT low-data devices to the internet in a cost-effective way. This Customer base The final part of the connection to the home consists of copper Information and communication technology. opens up countless application possibilities for KPN’s Internet Customer base is the total number of subscribers. of Things (IoT). FttH (Fiber-to-the-Home) Industry-adjusted ranking FttH is defined as an access network architecture in which the This ranking takes into account the impact of its industry’s LTE (Long-term evolution) D final part of the connection to the home also consists of optical reputation on a company’s score Internet of Things (IoT). LTE, commonly marketed as 4G LTE, is a standard for wireless fiber. communication of high-speed data for mobile phones and data DEFRA Internet of Things terminals. UK Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs. DEFRA FttO (Fiber-to-the-Office) The Internet of Things connects objects such as garbage published conversion factors to calculate greenhouse gas FttO is fiber connection for business customers to the offices. bins or cars via a chip with the internet. This offers a lot of emissions. opportunities, such as Smart City solutions. M DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) G IPTV The DJSIx is a collection of indices that track the performance IPTV is a system through which television services are Market share of companies that are frontrunners in terms of CSR. The DJSI is GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Protocol delivered using the internet protocol suite over a packetMarket share is the percentage or proportion of the total based on an analysis of corporate economic, environmental The GHG Initiative is a multi-stakeholder partnership of switched network such as the internet. iTV is KPN’s IPTV available market that is being serviced by KPN. These figures and social performance. There are several sub-indices based business, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), offering in the Netherlands. are based on externally available market data, which may not be on geographical parameters. governments and others that develop internationally accepted completely accurate, and may partially be based on estimates. GHG accounting and reporting standards for organizations. ISO (International Organization for Standardization) DSL (digital subscriber line) This organization is responsible for international management Mbps (Megabits per second) DSL is a technology for bringing high bandwidth information to Global Goals standards such as ISO 14001, ISO 140064-1, ISO 27001 and ISO Mbps is a unit of data transfer rate equal to one million bits homes and small businesses over copper PSTN lines. The See Sustainable Development Goals 22301 (mentioned in this report). per second. The bandwidths of broadband networks are often widely used term xDSL refers to different variations of DSL, indicated in Mbps. such as ADSL, HDSL, VDSL and SDSL. Green electricity iTV Green electricity is electricity from renewable sources. KPN iTV stands for interactive TV. With iTV, the customer can easily MHz (Megahertz) only uses wind energy and electricity from biomass that does choose when, where and what programs to watch. MHz is one million hertz (a unit of frequency). not compete with food production. Multi play Propositions combining more than one product and/or type of service is considered a multi play proposition. Triple-play and quad-play propositions are types of multi play propositions. 158 159 Contents KPN at a glance Who we are and what we do The long-term value we create How we safeguard long-term value Financial report Appendices Glossary Appendices Multi play seats RGU (Revenue generating unit) Stakeholder U The number of multi play seats is based on KPN brand fixed or RGU is the total of all subscribers receiving standard Stakeholders are the people or organizations with an interest in mobile connections. IT services are not included. broadband internet or telephony services over KPN’s network the company, such as customers, employees, shareholders, Usage of total data traffic at a given date. Thus, one subscriber who receives a bundle of suppliers, governments and media. The data demand peak for main traffic streams is based on MVNO (Mobile virtual network operator) KPN’s services (telephony, internet and TV) would be counted continuous five minute timeframe measurements. These A mobile operator that does not have its own spectrum or as three RGUs. Subscriber streams consist of KPN iTV, Netflix, Google and other internet its own network infrastructure. Instead, MVNOs have business A subscriber is defined as an end-user with a connection to the traffic. arrangements with ‘traditional’ mobile operators to buy Roaming mobile or fixed networks and/or service platforms of KPN. The minutes of use to sell to their own customers. Transfer of mobile traffic from one network to another, referring subscriber is included in the subscriber base if there is a direct to the exchange of international mobile traffic. or indirect (business, wholesale) billing relationship, either V prepaid or postpaid, with the following exceptions: N if the connection is owned through wholesale by full MVNOs VBDO (Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame S or fixed line access parties; or Ontwikkeling) NPS (Net Promoter Score) if the connection has been inactive for a specific time period The Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable NPS is a tool for measuring customer loyalty, based on whether Scope 1 (prepaid or postpaid without contract). Development (VBDO) works to create a sustainable capital customers would recommend KPN to someone else. Direct greenhouse gas emissions occurring from sources that market, a market that considers not only financial criteria but are owned or controlled by an organization. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) also non-financial, social and environmental criteria. VBDO’s NWLW (New Way of Living and Working) On 25 September, 2015, countries within the United Nations vision is to increase sustainability awareness among companies The NWLW means being able to work without the constraints Scope 2 adopted 17 goals to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure and investors. of time and place with the use of modern technology. Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of purchased prosperity for all as part of a new sustainable development electricity, heating or cooling consumed by an organization. agenda. Each goal has specific targets to be achieved in 2030. Virgin materials Normalized EBITDA Also known as Global Goals. Materials sourced directly from nature in their raw form, such Normalized EBITDA is defined as a 12-month rolling total Scope 3 as wood or metal ores. Manufacturing products using virgin EBITDA excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and major Other direct greenhouse gas emissions as a consequence of SWOT Analysis materials uses much more energy and depletes more natural changes in the composition of the Group (acquisitions and the activities of the company, but occurring from sources not Strategic planning tool to find strengths, weaknesses, resources, as opposed to producing goods using recycled disposals). owned or controlled by an organization. opportunities and threats. materials. Service revenues VoLTE (Voice over LTE) O Service revenues are defined as the aggregate of connection T VoLTE allows the voice service to be delivered as data flows fees, monthly subscription fees and traffic fees. The term within the LTE data bearer. OTT service revenues refers to wireless service revenues. Tier standards (I to IV) In broadcasting, over-the-top content (OTT) refers to the Telecommunications Infrastructure Standard for data centers. delivery of audio, video, and other media over the internet for SIM card (Subscriber identity module card) Tier levels describe the availability of data at a location. W which no subscription to a traditional cable or satellite operator A chip card inserted into a mobile phone, which contains The higher the tier, the greater the availability. Tier IV is the is required. A famous example is WhatsApp, which is replacing information such as telephone numbers and memory for highest level and entails independent dual-powered cooling Weighted downtime reduction text messaging. storing a directory. and expected data availability of 99.995% or higher. The weighted downtime concerns the average monthly time period in which a combination of KPN platforms and systems is #SMARTer2030 Transparency Benchmark inaccessible to clients and customers. P Back in 2008, GeSI launched the first report of the SMART The Transparency Benchmark is a yearly benchmark which series, the SMART2020, followed by SMARTer2020 in 2012. investigates the content and quality of the sustainability PUE (power usage effectiveness) In 2015, the #SMARTer2030 report has been launched with the reports of Dutch enterprises. An international standard for the calculation of energy aim to extend our horizon to 2030 and to look at ICT-enabled efficiency of data centers, which compares the total data center sustainability from a holistic point of view. The translation of Transparency International Netherlands electricity consumption with the electricity consumption of the #SMARTer2030 research into opportunities for KPN and Transparency International Netherlands is the Dutch part equipment used for customer purposes. In the calculation, data the Netherlands followed in 2016. of Transparency International (TI), a non-governmental centers with an occupation rate less than 25% are not taken organization which combats corruption worldwide. into account. SME SME refers to Small and Medium Enterprises. Triple play Term used to describe the provision of telephony, internet and R SOC (Security Operations Center) television services to a household by a single provider. The SOC monitors the high-risk systems of KPN in order to RepTrak quickly act in case of security risks or incidents. TSR (Total shareholder return) RepTrak, developed by the Reputation Institute, is a method to A measure of the performance of different companies’ stocks calculate a reputation score of companies. KPN’s reputation is SoHo and shares over time. TSR is calculated by the growth in capital based on three out of twelve RepTrak attributes that are kept SoHo refers to Small Office / Home Office companies. from purchasing a share in the company assuming that the confidential and are stable over the years. dividends are reinvested each time they are paid. This growth is expressed as a percentage as the compound annual growth rate. 160 161 Colophon For additional information Forward-looking statements and management estimates KPN Investor Relations Certain of the statements we have made in this IntegratTel: +31 (0) 704460986 ed Annual Report are ‘forward-looking statements’. These ir.kpn.com statements are based on our beliefs and assumptions and on ir@kpn.com information currently available to us. They include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operaPublished by tions, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, Royal KPN N.V. potential growth opportunities, potential operating perforP.O. Box 30000 mance or expense improvements and the effects of future 2500 GA The Hague legislation or regulation. The Netherlands Chamber of Commerce Forward-looking statements include all statements that registration number 02045200 are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words ‘believe’, Content and organization ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘intend’, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘predict’, ‘potential’, Royal KPN N.V. ‘continue’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘shall’, or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. RRED Communications www.rred.nl Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those Stampa Communications expressed in these forward-looking statements. No undue www.stampacommunications.com reliance should be put on any forward-looking statements. Unless required by applicable law or applicable rules of the Sustainalize stock exchange on which our securities are listed, we have neiwww.sustainalize.nl ther the intention nor an obligation to update forward-looking statements after distribution of this Integrated Annual Report. Concept and design All market share information in this financial report is based on De Designpolitie management estimates based on externally available informawww.designpolitie.nl tion, unless indicated otherwise. Online The terms ‘we’, ‘our’ and ‘us’ are used to describe the company; We would like to thank everyone who participated in the where they are used in the chapter Segment performance, videos, that can be viewed on our Integrated Annual Report they refer to the business concerned. website: www.kpn.com/annualreport We always aim to further improve our CSR activities and reporting. Therefore, we highly appreciate your feedback, PAPER & BOARD questions and comments on our Integrated Annual Report MADE OF AGRI-WASTE and CSR activities. Please contact mvo@kpn.com. WWW.PAPERWISE.EU The inside pages of this publication have been printed on PaperWise, a new generation of paper and board with a very low environmental impact. The cover has been printed on wood-free white offset paper (FSC). 162 Royal KPN N.V. Maanplein 55 2516 CK The Hague The Netherlands P.O. Box 30000 2500 GA The Hague The Netherlands www.kpn.com
