TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2 018 Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management The Spirit of TOTO Unchanging for Words of Our Founder Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management Kindness must always come first. Bring the concept of service to your work. Com p Mo any Your goal should be to provide good products and ttos satisfy the customer. Accomplish that, and profit and TO compensation will follow. Co TO Gr r o Many in this world chase after the shadow of profit. Ph pora up ilo t e sop hy But, in the end, they never capture the real thing. Ch TO arte A letter written by TOTO’s first president, Kazuchika TO r o Co G f Okura, to his successor, Saburo Momoki, contains words rpo roup Be r hav ate that have been treasured as the Words of Our Founder. ior In 1962, we formulated the Company Mottos based on our corporate activities in the future while respecting the tradition of TOTO’s founding. These ideas, which have been passed down since our founding, have been incorporated into the Philosophy System for TOTO Group Management so that they are Common Group Philosophy appropriate for the times and can be shared within the The Common Group Philosophy represents TOTO Group. the inherited values of TOTO that are shared among employees and will be carried forward into the future. Vision Toward a Dynamic, Vibrant and Excellent TOTO Mission Midor Long-Term Management Plan TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan 1 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 100 Years Company Mottos 4 3 2 1 Company Mottos 1 Take pride in your work, The Company Mottos represent the thoughts of the founder to be and strive to do your best passed down through the generations. 2 Quality and Uniformity 3 Service and Trust TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy 4 Cooperation and Prosperity Our Corporate Philosophy, based on the thoughts of the founder to be passed down through the generations, communicates to all of our stakeholders the purpose for which our company exists, our business domains, and the type of company we aim to be. TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy The TOTO Group strives to be a great company trusted by people all around the world, and contributing to the betterment Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior of society. To achieve our Corporate Philosophy, TOTO will: The Charter of TOTO Group Corporate Behavior stipulates the basic  reate an enriched and more comfortable lifestyle and C stance of behavior of all people working for the TOTO Group to realize culture built on our plumbing products. all stakeholder’s satisfaction. Details are published on our website Pursue customer satisfaction by exceeding expectations with https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/philosophy/group our products and services. Provide high-quality products and services through ongoing research and development. Protect the global environment by conserving finite natural resources and energy. Create an employee friendly work environment that respects Heart the individuality of each employee. Body Vision for Business Activities Our vision and mission are positioned as the course of our business activities that change in accordance with the demands of the times. A statement that refers to the future image that the management of the TOTO Group seeks to achieve based on the Common Group Philosophy. Vis ion A statement of the most important plan to implement in the Midor Long-term for sustainable growth. Mi ssi on Lays out the ideal state of the TOTO Group and the system for implementing the plan. We will promote Mi TOTO WILL2022 through the year 2022. d Ma or L nag on em g-Te en t P rm lan TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 2 For the Next 100 Years Message from the President This section describes the present state President, Representative Director of the TOTO Group, a company with a Madoka Kitamura explains the future history cultivated over the past 100 vision of the TOTO Group and the years, and introduces the future vision efforts that will go into making it a of the Group as well as its values as it reality. looks toward the next 100 years. P. 5 – P. 15 – Contents 1 Philosophy System for TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term TOTO Global Environmental Vision TOTO Group Management Management Plan 17 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term 29 TOTO Global Environmental Vision For the Next 100 Years Management Plan 31 Cleanliness and Comfort 5 TOTO Group History 19 Global Housing Equipment Business 33 Environment 7 TOTO Group in Present Day (Japan Housing Equipment Business) 35 Relationships 9 TOTO Group Strategy 21 Global Housing Equipment Business (TOTO WILL2022) (China & Asia Housing Equipment Business) 37 For Customer Satisfaction 11 TOTO Group Strategy (TOTO Global Environmental Vision) 23 Global Housing Equipment Business 38 Together with Our Employees (Americas & Europe Housing 39 Together with Our Suppliers 13 TOTO Group Value Creation Model Equipment Business) 15 Message from the President 40 For Society 25 New Business Domains (Advanced 41 Dialogue with Shareholders and Ceramics Business) Other Investors 26 New Business Domains (Green 42 Stakeholder Engagement Building Materials Business) 43 CSR Management 27 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities (Marketing Innovation) 28 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities (Demand Chain Innovation) 28 Cross-organizational Innovation Activities (Management Resource Innovation) TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance This section details the TOTO This section illustrates the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, and Group’s system of governance, describes how our specific corporate which forms the basis for the sustainactivities work toward realizing this able enhancement of our corporate greater vision. value, and features messages from Outside Directors. P. 29 – P. 45 – 3 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan This section explains the details, aims, and major efforts related to our mid-term management plan. P. 17 – Editorial Policy Corporate Governance The TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 has been published as an inte45 Corporate Governance grated communication tool for all our stakeholders. This report introduces information such as the origins of the TOTO Group and business activity 48 Messages from Outside Directors topics in addition to financial/ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) data. In addition, it communicates TOTO’s corporate stance to be committed 49 Board of Directors to linking its past and present performance as well as our initiatives designed to further enhance corporate value for the future. 51 Participation in the UN Global Period of reporting Compact FY2017 (April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018) Notable Awards from 2017 Onward * This report includes some information pertaining to before or after the period. Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Scope of reporting 52 Corporate Data TOTO LTD. and Group companies Guidelines · International Integrated Reporting Framework, International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) · Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry · Sustainability Reporting Standards, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reference guidelines are available on the TOTO Group website. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/gri Financial and Non-Financial Data Financial and non-financial data can be found on our website. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/ library/pdf/report2018_financial_en.pdf TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 4 For the Next 100 Years TOTO Group History Timeline in Providing Cleanliness and Comfortable Living Spaces 1970s 1980s 1990s 1917 1970 1993 Established Toyo Toki Company, Changed corporate name to Remodeling Declaration Limited TOTO KIKI LTD. 1962 1977 Company Formulated Company Mottos Established TOTO’s first overseas joint venture company History for ceramic sanitary ware production, in Indonesia 1914 1976 1980 1993 Successfully developed Japan’s Launched CS Series waterLaunched WASHLETTM Launched NEOREST EX first seated flush toilet saving, noise-reducing toilet 1981 integrated toilet 1946 Launched modular kitchen 1995 Began faucet production design Discovered photocatalytic 1963 1985 super-hydrophilicity (TOTO Products and Developed Japan’s first prefabriLaunched the Shampoo Dresser and the University of Tokyo) Technology cated bathroom module (based (bathroom vanity suited for 1999 on JIS provisions) washing hair) Developed CEFIONTECT 1968 1988 technology Launched bathroom vanity units Started mass production of electrostatic chucks in the ceramics business Cultural Support and 1985 1989 Other Activities Opened GALLERY · MA Founded TOTO Publishing Diversity 1993 Business Established SUNAQUA TOTO LTD. to provide a Promotion comfortable work environResources ment for people with disabilities Value Creation History 1914 First in 1963 First in 1980 Successfully developed Japan Developed Japan’s first prefabJapan Launched WASHLETTM Japan’s first seated flush toilet ricated bathroom module WASHLET was born out of an age where In an age when public sewage systems (based on JIS provisions) the standard type of toilet had shifted were not yet common in the country, In anticipation of the 1964 Tokyo Olympic Games, from the Japanese-style to the seated TOTO’s first president, Kazuchika Okura, the Hotel New Otani, Japan’s first high-rise type. This new style of toilet led to a new set his sights on spreading healthy sanitary hotel, required the installation of a large number lifestyle of “washtoilets across of bathrooms within a short amount of time. In ing” instead of Japan. With this order to meet this demand, TOTO developed “wiping” and goal in mind, he the first prefabricated bathroom module in Japan. became a part of successfully Japanese daily life. developed Japan’s first seated flush toilet. WASHLET is a trademark or registered trademark of TOTO LTD. 5 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance The TOTO Group celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2017. Since our founding, we have been imbued with the spirit of providing a healthy and civilized way of life. No matter the era, we will continue to challenge and innovate in the name of creating new lifestyles. 2000s 2010s 2002 2006 2010 2017 Entered into operational Established TOTO Universal Announced TOTO Environmental Established new company mission agreement between TOTO, Design Research Center Vision 2017 Announced TOTO WILL2022 DAIKEN, and YKK AP 2007 2014 Mid-Term Management Plan 2003 Changed corporate name to Announced TOTO Global Updated TOTO Global New Remodeling Declaration TOTO LTD. Environmental Vision Environmental Vision 2004 2009 2018 Established the Philosophy Announced TOTO V-Plan 2017 Anshin Remodeling Declaration System for TOTO Group Management 2001 2008 2010 2017 Launched Furopia system Launched Restroom Item 01 Launched AIR-IN SHOWER Launched NEOREST NX globally bathroom with quick-drying (Universal Design series of public showerhead KARARI floor toilets) 2011 Launched the Faucet 10 series of 2002 Launched WASHLET apricot with water faucets, distinguished by their Launched NEOREST EX Series 2009 EWATER+ antibacterial electrosophisticated designs, to the global with built-in TORNADO FLUSH Launched NEOREST Series/SE in lyzed water market 2004 Europe 2012 Launched Furopia insulated Launched Drake II 1G waterthermal pot MAHOBIN bathtub saving toilet in the US Series 2013 Launched Bedside Flushable Toilet 2015 Established GALLERY TOTO at Narita International Airport Opened TOTO Museum 2005 Established the Kirameki Promotion Office to further women’s careers CSR Activities 2004 2011 Established the CSR Committee Participation in the UN Global Compact Social Contribution 2005 2006 2008 Established the TOTO Embarked on the TOTO Acorn Established the TOTO Water Environment Fund in Water Environment Fund Reforestation Project China 2002 2008 2017 Launched NEOREST EX Series with Launched Restroom Item 01 (Universal Launched NEOREST NX globally built-in TORNADO FLUSH Design series of public toilets) TOTO launched NEOREST NX as a NEOREST, a series of next-generation TOTO launched the Restroom Item 01 globally unified model, highly recogtoilets of the highest standard, made with the aim of creating a harmonized nized worldwide for having the function“simple and clean” a reality thanks to its space that delivers ease of use for an even ality of WASHLET and wrapped in an built-in TORNADO FLUSH system with greater number of people. With its unity of elegant and ergonomic design. RIMLESS design. The whirlpool-like flow of toilet components and sophisticated water allows for both the efficient use of design, this new approach led to great water and effective cleaning of germs and dirt. strides in revolutionizing the public toilet. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 6 For the Next 100 Years TOTO Group in Present Day Keep Gaining TOTO Fans around the World Net Sales Operating Profit/ Operating Margin ¥ 52.6 billion ¥ 592.3 billion 8.9 % ROA (Return on Assets) (Based on operating profit) ROE (Return on Equity) 9.4% (Based on net profit)  11.7% Profit Attributable to Owners TOTO’s Global Network of Parent 18 countries and ¥ 36.7 billion regions 32 sites * Excluding Japan Sales Breakdown Global Housing Equipment Business In FY2016, we integrated the previous Japan Housing China & Asia Housing Domestic Housing Equipment Equipment Business Equipment Business Business with the Overseas Housing Equipment Business and established We promote our business centered on a We aim to establish a trustworthy brand that the current Global Housing Equipment remodeling strategy that spreads new combines high functionality, high quality, and Business, which consists of three lifestyles and does not rely on new high customer satisfaction, and are working to geographic areas: Japan, China & housing demand. expand our business by adapting to the markets Asia, and Americas & Europe. The and environment of each country and region. Global Housing Equipment Business continues to expand alongside our other core business, New Business Domains, which comprises the Net sales Net sales Advanced Ceramics Business and the Green Building Materials Business. ¥ 425.6 ¥ 103.5 billion billion 7 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance TOTO is utilizing its strengths to expand its business across the globe. Moving forward, TOTO will continue to create innovative and appealing products and services, and in doing so will keep gaining fans around the world. Reduction of Water Consumption during Product Use (Reduction effect when compared with the case where products of 2005 continue to be used) 780 million m 3 Ratio of Female Managers Number of Employees 13.4 % 32,428 * Total for Japan and overseas Number of Showrooms Japan: 100 Overseas: 14 * Directly managed showrooms * Actual results for FY2017 and as of March 31, 2018 for the entire TOTO Group New Business Domains  mericas & Europe Housing A Advanced Ceramics Green Building Materials Equipment Business Business Business We are promoting marketing strategies We develop high-precision advanced We continue to deliver building materitailored to the market of each country and ceramics for the semiconductor, FPD als that incorporate our HYDROTECT region, and strengthening our investment manufacturing, and optical communicaenvironmental cleaning technology. toward greater brand awareness. tion industries. Net sales Net sales Net sales ¥ 34.2 ¥ 20.0 ¥8.4 billion billion billion TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 8 For the Next 100 Years TOTO Group Strategy Realizing Our Vision Mid-Term TOTO WILL 2022 Management Plan The Meaning of WILL We Innovate Leading Lifestyles Projected Sales by Business Segment Global Housing Equipment Business Japan Housing China & Asia Housing Equipment Business Equipment Business Net sales Operating profit Net sales Operating profit Operating margin Operating margin (Billion yen) (%) (Billion yen) (%) 500 450.0 9 200 24.0 25 425.6 8.0 162.0 400 6.7 8 160 23 21.6 300 7 120 1,035 103.5 21 200 6 80 19 35.0 248 24.8 100 28.6 36.0 5 40 17 0 2017 2022 (FY) 4 0 2017 2022 (FY) 15 (Target) (Target) Details on page 19 Details on page 21 9 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance As we look to our next 100 years, we have translated our will toward increasing TOTO fans worldwide and realizing our ideal vision for the future by creating the TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan, spanning the five-year period through fiscal 2022. Through both our core businesses, the Global Housing Equipment Business and New Business Domains, and our three cross-organizational innovation activities, which incorporate an optimal Companywide perspective, we aim to increase corporate value going forward. Management Indicators FY2017 FY2022 Net Sales ¥ 592.3 billion ¥ 720.0 billion Operating Profit ¥ 52.6 billion ¥ 80.0 billion ROA (Based on operating profit) 9.4 % 12.0 % 11.7 % 13.0 % ROE (Based on net profit) Three CrossManagement Marketing Demand Chain organizational Innovation Innovation Resource Innovation Activities Innovation New Business Domains A  mericas & Europe Housing Advanced Ceramics Green Building Materials Equipment Business Business Business Net sales Operating profit Net sales Operating profit Net sales Operating profit Operating margin Operating margin Operating margin (Billion yen) (%) (Billion yen) (%) (Billion yen) (%) 580 58.0 60 18 50 30 15 13.0 15 370 37.0 12.0 40 21.6 24 40 34.2 12 10 8.4 7.7 10 30 18 20.0 20 12 20 6 8.5 5 10 5 4.4 8.0 7.0 10 6 1.7 1.0 1.5 −0.4 0 2017 2022 (FY) 0 0 2017 2022 (FY) 0 0 2017 2022 (FY) 0 (Target) (Target) (Target) Details on page 23 Details on page 25 Details on page 26 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 10 For the Next 100 Years TOTO Group Strategy Realizing Our Vision CSR Activities TOTO Global Environmental Vision Mission Materiality Cleanliness and Comfort Environment Relationships In light of the changing times and social trends, the TOTO Group formulated and announced the Global Environmental Vision in October 2017, highlighting the most important matters to tackle in the medium term in order to realize sustainable growth. Based on this new vision, we took our ongoing efforts and expanded them to tackle Cleanliness and Comfort, Environment, and Relationships. Evaluations of Our CSR Management Practices by External Parties (As of June 2018) Selected for the Dow Jones Selected for the FTSE4Good Index Selected for the Ethibel PIONEER & Sustainability Asia Pacific Index Series for the Second Consecutive Year EXCELLENCE TOTO was selected for the Dow Jones TOTO was selected for the FTSE4Good TOTO was selected for the Investment Sustainability Asia Pacific Index for the Index Series for the second year in a row. Register by Ethibel, a ­non-­profit organininth consecutive year. The DJSI is a The FTSE4Good Index Series consists of zation that evaluates socially responsible global socially responsible investment companies that fulfill the ESG (environinvesting. TOTO has continuously been indicator developed by S&P Dow Jones mental, social, governance) criteria set selected since 2013. in collaboration with RobecoSAM, and by FTSE Russell. evaluates business sustainability from the three perspectives of economy, environment, and society. 11 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance TOTO Global Environmental Vision The TOTO Group initiated its TOTO Global Environmental Vision, for which the number of themes have expanded from one, Environment, which was already established theme, to three, Cleanliness and Comfort, Environment, and Relationships, in order to include social themes closely related to our business. Acting as an engine that drives the TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan, the TOTO Global Environmental Vision will work to further integrate our management and CSR activities. Through activities centered on the three global themes established in this Vision, we will also contribute to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set by the UN in 2015. Selected for the Morningstar Socially Selected for the Health & Productivity Selected as a Nadeshiko Brand for the Responsible Investment Index Stock Selection for the Fourth Fourth Consecutive Year TOTO was selected for the Morningstar Consecutive Year TOTO was selected as a Nadeshiko Brand Socially Responsible Investment Index, Jointly organized by the Ministry of for the fourth year in a row in recognition the first socially responsible index in Economy, Trade and Industry and the of its proactive efforts to promote Japan. Morningstar selects listed compaTokyo Stock Exchange, the Health & women’s success in the workplace, which nies in Japan that excel in social responProductivity Stock Selection program include establishing a work environment sibility and converts their stock prices selects companies that focus on and in which women can continue to pursue into the index. TOTO has been selected strategically carry out efforts in regard to their careers. The Nadeshiko Brand every year since 2006. employee health from a management initiative is jointly organized by the perspective. TOTO has received this Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry distinction for four consecutive years. and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 12 For the Next 100 Years TOTO Group Value Creation Model Continuing to Provide Greater Contributions to Society and the Environment Three Cross-organizational Innovation Activities “Marketing Innovation” “Demand Chain Innovation” Strength Capital Input “Management Resource Innovation” 1 Advanced fusion of design and functionality Optimal management Global Housing Equipment resources Business (Financial capital) New Business Domains R&D toward TOTO Mid-Term Management Plan “Only One” technologies (Intellectual capital) TOTO WILL2022 Value Chain Details on page 17 Global expansion of production sites (Manufactured capital) R&D Procuremen Diverse human resources sharing our corporate philosophy Strength (Human capital) TOTO Global Environmental Vision 2 Creating new value through “Only One” techno Relationships of trust with stakeholders Details on page 29 cultivated through our rich history (Social/relationship capital) EWATER+ RIMLESS CEFIONTECT Resources with care TORNADO FLUSH for a sustainable society (Natural capital) Strength The three material issues Advanced pro derived from our mission: 3 supply system “Cleanliness and Comfort” “Environment” “Relationships” Corporate Governance Details on page 45 For the Next 100 Years 13 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance The TOTO Group conducts corporate activities with the aim of continuing to provide greater contributions to society and the environment. To achieve this goal, we are taking steps toward integrating our management and CSR activities. We are also working to create value for our stakeholders while leveraging our strengths and, as we continue to create value through our value chain, we will spread this value throughout society as a whole by way of our social contribution activities. Strength 4 Providing high-quality products and services Business partners Providing diverse information Details on page 39 Employees Details on page 38 Showroom proposals t Production Logistics–Sales Products Customers Details on page 37 logies Quality in assembly Society HYDROTECT Details on page 40 duction technology and global Shareholders After-sales services Details on page 41 Strength 5 Relationships with stakeholders TOTO Water Volunteer activities TOTO GALLERY·MA TOTO Museum Coexisting with business Environment Fund partners TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 14 For the Next 100 Years Message from the President Keep Gaining TOTO Fans around the World Madoka Kitamura President, Representative Director With the Vision of Our Founder The Strengths of the TOTO Group, as a Touchstone Cultivated over 100 Years The TOTO Group, which marked its 100th anniversary in of History 2017, conducts corporate activities with the aim of continuing to provide greater contributions to society and The TOTO Group was manufacturing seated flush toilets the environment. To this day, each and every employee at a time when the concept of public sewage systems has been imbued with our founder’s will of providing a was not yet widespread. Since then, the TOTO Group healthy and civilized way of life. His thoughts, which have has opened the door to new lifestyles by creating prodbeen passed down through the generations since our ucts such as WASHLET and other bathroom and kitchen founding, comprise the heart of our manufacturing and plumbing products. sales activities as well as the core of our corporate manThis is part of a 100-year history full of challenges and agement. Providing customers around the world with the innovations, in which the TOTO Group has cultivated a security and reliability of the TOTO brand, my mission, as set of strengths—high-level fusion of design and funcpresident of the TOTO Group, is to continue to pass tionality, creation of new value through TOTO proprietary down our founder’s will into the future and “create an technologies, and advanced production technology and enriched and more comfortable lifestyle and culture built global supply system. However, there are more chalon our plumbing products,” as stated in the TOTO lenges and innovations yet to come. Group Corporate Philosophy. 15 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance Providing Japanese Toilet Culture to the Rest Realizing Our Vision of the World  The expectations and demands of stakeholders around We continue to promote our WASHLET Global Strategy the world continue to change, and the UN Sustainable within the Global Housing Equipment Business. Development Goals (SDGs) are emblematic of that According to a global market survey, WASHLET toilet change. In light of these changes, the TOTO Group seats were the number one brand by sales volume in six reevaluated its mission in order to highlight the most countries and regions (Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan, the important matters to tackle in the medium term and work U.S., and Germany), which comprised 87% of the global toward sustainable growth. market for toilets with a warm-water washing feature in Based on this new mission, we expanded from one 2016. Based on this data, we will communicate with already-established theme, Environment, to three, confidence the fact that WASHLET is the most selected Cleanliness and Comfort, Environment, and item of its kind. Relationships, in order to include social themes closely In addition, we are moving forward with renovating related to our business. The TOTO Global Environmental and installing toilets at hotels and public facilities in line Vision, which is a part of our CSR activities, promotes with the government policy of reaching a target of 60 these themes and works to further integrate our CSR with million overseas visitors by 2030. We are working to corporate management. expand the installation of clean toilets and WASHLET In addition, the TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term toilet seats, and in doing so provide Japanese toilet Management Plan acts as the driving engine of the culture to the rest of the world. TOTO Global Environmental Vision and embodies our strong “WILL” as “We Innovate Leading Lifestyles.” It is crucial that the TOTO Group continues to be a business For the Next 100 Years that always surpasses customer expectations. In that spirit, we will work to unify our ambitions Companywide With a strong will to keep gaining TOTO fans around the as we strive to achieve our aims by utilizing the world, the TOTO Group has taken a bold step forward strengths we have cultivated over time and fully overtoward the next 100 years. TOTO will continue to procoming all changes. mote innovation and realize further growth without wavering from its inherited corporate philosophy. Revitalizing the Japanese Remodeling Market  Our business activities cannot exist without the coopThe Japan Housing Equipment Business is moving ahead eration and co-creation of all of our stakeholders. For the with its Anshin Remodeling Strategy, the next stage in TOTO Group, the primary actors are the individual the remodeling business. Our Anshin Remodeling employees who take it upon themselves to think of how Declaration, established in April 2018, is a declaration of they can best contribute to the benefit of customers and intent to add Anshin to remodeling as we make society. With that in mind, we will increase corporate Companywide efforts to revitalize the renovation market. value by continuing to place great emphasis on our Under this strategy, we will provide peace of mind to human resource development and taking on the chalcustomers with concerns over remodeling, be it due to lenge of creating prosperous and comfortable lifestyles cost or lack of knowledge regarding the construction that provide customer satisfaction. process, and help them take the first step forward. We are not looking to capture immediate profits and market share. Instead, this action is aimed at building a relationPresident, Representative Director ship of trust over the long term and invigorating and heightening the level of the renovation market. It is an endeavor in earnest, but for a company like TOTO, which has been driving the renovation market as a top manufacturer for over 25 years, we believe this strategy can achieve its goal. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 16 TOTO Looking toward the next 100 years, the TOTO WILL 2022 Group has formulated its five-year TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan in order to realize its aims with a “will” to keep gaining TOTO fans around the world. Through its two business Mid-Term Management Plan segments of Global Housing Equipment Business and New Business Domains, as well as its three cross-organizational innovation activities, which are pursued on a Companywide, cross-departmental basis from the perspective of optimization, the Group aims to increase its corporate value. Looking Back on TOTO V-Plan 2017 We have moved forward with our business activities in accordance with the TOTO V-Plan 2017 Long-Term Management Plan, which commenced in fiscal 2010, and the four-year TOTO Group Mid-Term Management Plan, which began in fiscal 2014. As a result, we have increased sales in the remodeling market in Japan as well as in overseas markets. We have also achieved such successes as reducing costs through our innovation activities, which has allowed us to realize significant growth in both net sales and operating profit since the start of the TOTO V-Plan 2017. In addition to expanding profits and strengthening our business foundation, we have taken steps to enhance asset efficiency, thereby achieving increases in ROA and ROE. Trends in Business Performance Net sales Operating profit Operating margin (Billion yen) After conversion to average rate during the period 592.3 571.9 567.3 Start of 545.5 8.9% 529.9 TOTO V-Plan 8.4% 8.2% 8.4% 469.6 454.0 422.5 436.2 6.5% 52.6 45.8 46.9 47.4 4.1% 4.8% 34.5 1.6% 3.3% 22.4 18.7 14.3 6.7 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) ROA 1.8% 9.4% ROE 0.5% 11.7% TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan In 2017, the TOTO Group celebrated its 100th anniversary. Looking at the next 100 years, the Group aims to increase the number of TOTO fans around the world. To this end, the Group commenced its five-year TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan in April 2018. Under TOTO WILL2022, with corporate governance acting as our foundation, we will continue efforts to strengthen our global business promotion structure through our two business segments of Global Housing Equipment Business and New Business Domains, as well as our three cross-organizational innovation activities of Marketing Innovation, Demand Chain Innovation, and Management Resource Innovation. Furthermore, we will actively carry out investments aimed at achieving sustainable growth while promoting well-balanced financial strategies that give consideration to shareholder returns. As performance indicators, we have set targets of achieving net sales of ¥720.0 billion, operating profit of ¥80.0 billion, ROA of 12.0% (based on operating profit), and ROE of 13.0% (based on net profit) by fiscal 2022, and will move forward with plans to accomplish these targets. 17 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance Performance Indicators and Promotion Structure Fiscal 2022 Plan Net sales: ¥ 720.0 Operating profit: ¥ 80.0 ROA (based on 12.0% ROE (based on net profit): 13.0% billion billion operating profit): Aiming to Further Integrate CSR into Management Together with the formulation of the TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan, we also revised the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, which acts as the engine for promoting the plan. 2010 2017 2018 2022 100th year since Keep Gaining TOTO Fans around the World establishment Integrating CSR into Management 2018–2022 TOTO WILL2022 TOTO Global Mid-Term 2010–2017 Environmental Vision Management Plan V-Plan 2017 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 18 TOTOWILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Global Housing Equipment Business Japan Housing Equipment Business We will further promote our remodeling strategy that does not rely on new housing demand. In addition, we will work to communicate Japanese toilet culture, which we have helped create through our public business, with the aspiration of turning Japan into a showroom for the rest of the world. Market Environment and Business Opportunities  For over 25 years, the TOTO Group has been committed to creating demand for remodeling with the aim of transitioning to a management model that does not rely on new housing demand. Currently, the remodeling business accounts for 70% of total sales in the Japan Housing Equipment Business, demonstrating our success in establishing our intended management model. As each remodeling project entails different on-sight conditions and customer needs, the remodeling business requires multiple abilities in areas such as construction expertise, planning, and customer communication. To this end, we have cultivated the product appeal and abilities required for performing remodeling work and have rolled out showrooms across Japan. At the same time, we have made swift efforts to establish a network with home improvement stores that have deep ties to local communities. In 2002, we formed the TDY alliance together with DAIKEN and YKK AP, both top-class manufacturers of key housing materials, in order to further accelerate the growth of our remodeling business. To make proposals for comfortable bathroom and kitchen spaces made possible through the high-quality products of each alliance member, all three companies in the TDY alliance made cooperative efforts to open TDY Collaboration Showrooms, organize Remodeling Fairs, and undertake other activities that are steadily realizing growth. Aims  In the housing market, new home construction is expected to decline with the continuing transition toward a stock-based society. The remodeling business will therefore become more important than ever. In light of such market changes, we will promote the Anshin Remodeling Strategy in the remodeling business in an effort to revitalize the market. Also, we aim to expand sales for new housing by strengthening proposals that meet customer needs. Moreover, in the public market, as part of WASHLET Global Strategy, we will strengthen our proposals for clean toilets in a manner that appeals to the rising number of overseas visitors to Japan. In doing so, we will increase the number of opportunities for promoting the attractiveness of WASHLET and other products, thereby bolstering activities to encourage the purchase of our products in not only Japan but also overseas. Through the promotion of this strategy, we will establish and maintain a robust business foundation. Projected Medium-Term Sales and Operating Profit in the Japan Housing Equipment Business Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2022 Net sales ¥ 425.6 billion ¥ 450.0 billion Remodeling ¥ 290.1 billion ¥ 320.0 billion New housing ¥ 135.4 billion ¥ 130.0 billion Operating profit ¥ 28.6 billion ¥ 36.0 billion Remodeling ¥ 24.7 billion ¥ 32.0 billion New housing ¥ 3.9 billion ¥ 4.0 billion 19 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance Main Initiatives  Anshin Remodeling Strategy We will promote the Anshin Remodeling Strategy in accordance with the Anshin Remodeling Declaration, which was announced in April 2018. Under the Anshin Remodeling Strategy, we are working to spur remodeling demand by turning customers’ concerns over remodeling projects into Anshin, the Japanese word for peace of mind. By earnestly addressing their needs and concerns, we will pursue efforts to enrich the lifestyles of our customers through superior remodeling in collaboration with our business partners. Rather than chasing short-term increases in sales or market share, we aim for the revitalization and qualitative improvement of the renovation market by building up genuine trust with our customers over the next five to ten years. Anshin Remodeling Declaration TOTO’s Anshin Remodeling 2018 Remodeling Library Showroom Anshin Visualize and understand examples and appropriate prices for remodeling Visualize and understand life after remodeling Remodeling Examples of actual cases include Declaration price information Attractive showrooms Proposal capabilities Aiming to be the leading bathroom 2003 FY2022 and kitchen plumbing products Number of actual cases: 10,000 manufacturer New Bringing more Remodeling Anshin to 1993 Declaration remodeling Remodeling Pro Shop Support Desk for Remodeling Remodeling Visualize and understand shops Visualize and understand our Declaration Exceeding recommended by TOTO response to customers’ questions customers’ TOTO remodeling club shops and concerns expectations Consultation desk for remodeling Turning customFY2022 ers’ problems 5,000 shops that offer into joy complete Anshin Available 365 days a year TO REALIZING OUR AIM PI C S TDY Remodel Collection 2018 Turning Japan into a Showroom for the In cooperation with Rest of the World DAIKEN and YKK AP, we The Japanese government hosted the TDY Remodel has set a target of having Collection Fair in May 60 million overseas visitors 2018. This event allowed to Japan by 2030. In light visitors to get an in-depth of this target, hotels and look at daily living spaces other public facilities have and experience the been proceeding with the excitement and sense of installation and renovation openness that remodeling of toilets. We have been projects can offer. responding to this trend by GALLERY TOTO © Daici Ano As purchasing behavior transitions from buying “things” strengthening our proposal to buying “experiences,” remodeling demand is beginning capabilities for toilets that cater to overseas visitors. By to stem not from the perspective of things, such as the need working to install and increase the number of clean toilets to renovate products that have aged, but rather from the and WASHLET toilet seats, we will communicate Japanese perspective of experiences, such as a desire to enjoy convertoilet culture to the rest of the world. sations with family members even within a busy lifestyle. In addition to GALLERY TOTO at Narita International Against this backdrop, we made various remodeling proposAirport, a facility that allows people to experience the als that address social changes, such as generational beauty and comfort of restroom spaces created by TOTO, changes and changes in lifestyles, family structure, hobbies, we started new efforts in fiscal 2018 as part of our WASHLET and needs, under the theme of “Ten People, Ten Homes— Global Strategy, including the promotion of the TOTO brand Living the Way You Want.” on advertisements at the airport’s entrances and exits. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 20 TOTOWILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Global Housing Equipment Business China & Asia Housing Equipment Business In China, by responding to market changes and actively making proposals, we aim to become the most trusted brand that our customers continue to need and want. Our operations in the rest of Asia will help drive growth in the overall Global Housing Equipment Business, which in turns acts as an engine for the growth of the TOTO Group. In the high-end markets of each country in this region, we aim to become the most trusted and beloved brand. Market Environment and Business Opportunities  In China, toilets with a warm-water washing feature are becoming more common with the rising average income of Chinese citizens. In the China Housing Equipment Business, we are working to ascertain changes in the market environment and consumer purchasing behavior as we leverage the strengths of TOTO as a high-class brand to promote our business activities centered on urban areas, starting with Tier I cities. In addition, in various other countries and regions in Asia, including Taiwan, Vietnam, India, and Thailand, we continue to realize high levels of growth as we move forward with efforts to enhance the presence of the TOTO brand. While further reinforcing our sales foundation in each country, we are building production plants to establish the region as a global supply base that can respond to increased demand in the future. China Aims and Main Initiatives  In the China Housing Equipment Business, we will ramp up our business activities under the aim of establishing comprehensive bathroom product brands that cannot be rivaled by other companies as well as making TOTO the most trusted brand. In the retail building materials market, we are enhancing our sales proposals for toilet/WASHLET sets that leverage our strengths as a comprehensive manufacturer of bathroom and kitchen plumbing products. At the same time, we are actively holding showrooms in various regions throughout China. In the e-commerce market, we are working to enhance WASHLET sales by carrying out promotions that are linked closely to WASHLET Global Strategy, which we are pursuing in the Japanese market. Furthermore, to expand sales of NEOREST for five-star hotels and high-end condominiums, we are setting up a structure that allows us to thoroughly communicate the value of our products Net sales Operating profit Operating margin through such efforts as revamping our technical (Million yuan) (%) centers and increasing the proposal-making 5,000 28 4,308 abilities of our sales representatives. 3,776 27 4,000 27 Additionally, we are strengthening our 26 after-sales service network with our sights set 3,000 26 on increasing WASHLET sales. Utilizing the 2,000 25 success we have had with after-sales services 1,150 979 in Japan, we will work to establish a frame1,000 24 work that enables us to receive high ratings 0 23 from our customers. 2016 2017 (FY) 21 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance Asia Aims and Main Initiatives  In Taiwan, we aim to boost sales through Net sales Operating profit aggressive activities to create remodeling Operating margin Taiwan demand. In terms of generating demand for and (Million Taiwan dollar) (%) enhancing sales of WASHLET, we are working to 5,000 30 replace conventional toilets with WASHLET4,000 3,734 3,606 28 equipped toilets as well as install WASHLET in pre-owned homes before the arrival of new 3,000 25 26 24 owners. Through these initiatives, we will help 2,000 24 make comfortable living spaces more common916 865 place in Taiwan. 1,000 22 0 20 2016 2017 (FY) In Vietnam, we will firmly establish our position Net sales Operating profit as the most trusted brand as we set our sights on Operating margin Vietnam the next step for growth in the region. To this (Billion dong) (%) end, we will leverage our showrooms in Ho Chi 5,000 25 Minh City to strengthen our sales capabilities 4,000 24 3,369 and make concerted efforts to increase 2,940 WASHLET sales and enhance the strengths of 3,000 23 22 our services. At the same time, we will establish a 2,000 22 high-end sales network that covers all major 21 743 626 Vietnamese cities. 1,000 21 0 20 2016 2017 (FY) TO REALIZING OUR AIM PI C S Holding Exhibits at KBC 2018 Kitchen & Expanding Our Production Capacity in Bath China Thailand and Vietnam We held exhibits at KBC In light of the rising demand 2018 Kitchen & Bath China, for ceramic sanitary ware which took place in and WASHLET in overseas Shanghai in June 2018. The markets, we are enhancing event is one of the largest our production structure in international trade shows in Asia and Oceania to build Asia for bathroom and on our existing structure kitchen plumbing equipgeared toward local producment. Based on our corpotion for local consumption, rate message of Life Anew, these exhibits showcased unique with the aim of positioning the region as a global supply base. TOTO technologies such as EWATER+, thereby introducing In Thailand, we began construction of a production plant in the new concept of WASHLET+ in a manner that left a May 2018 that will serve as our fifth WASHLET production lasting impression with participants. base globally, as well as our third WASHLET production base Additionally, we proposed bathroom and kitchen spaces overseas. In Vietnam, we commenced operations of our third that contribute to comfort and luxury in the everyday lives of production base in the region in March 2018, which primarily customers through exhibits combining toilets, bathroom manufactures toilets and washbasins. For the construction of vanity units, and bathtubs geared toward the Chinese market. these new facilities, we worked to enhance our productivity * WASHLET+ is a new concept geared toward overseas markets that intricately through introduction of cutting-edge equipment. At the same combines WASHLET and toilets. time, we are realizing environment-friendly “green factories” in accordance with the TOTO Global Environmental Vision. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 22 TOTOWILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Global Housing Equipment Business Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business The bathroom culture of Europe has a significant impact on the rest of the world, and we will therefore further promote the Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business. In addition, we aim to become a company that can bring about change to the bathroom culture in the Americas, thereby increasing the number of TOTO fans around the world. Market Environment and Business Opportunities  In the Americas and Europe, our proprietary technologies have received high praise from our customers. These technologies include water-saving toilets equipped with Tornado technology, which uses only one gallon (3.8 liters) per flush, as well as the CEFIONTECT, RIMLESS, and TORNADO FLUSH, which support this Tornado technology. In the Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business, we are enhancing our brand value and working to achieve differentiation through efforts to communicate the superior quality and value of our products. Also, for WASHLET, we are enhancing our showroom exhibits and website content and stepping up efforts to establish new sales routes through e-commerce. The Americas Aims and Main Initiatives  In the Americas, we will offer unrivaled value in terms of both products and services to establish TOTO as a premium brand. By doing so, we will bring about change to bathroom culture in the region. Our main focus will be to enhance our capabilities in communicating the TOTO brand. To this end, we are working to supply NEOREST, a product that exemplifies the TOTO brand, to prominent buildings in New York, Florida, Las Vegas, and other locations, and strategies to expand NEOREST to surrounding buildings are beginning to show results. We are also expanding the supply of NEOREST to large-scale commercial facilities where large crowds gather, including airports, sports stadiums, and hotels, to allow an even greater number of people to experience the TOTO proprietary technologies that our toilets offer. In this way, we are enhancing the presence of the TOTO brand. While giving priority to holding exhibits on the east and west coast of the U.S., we will strive to expand our distribution network throughout the country. Furthermore, we are working to enhance the quality and speed of our after-sales services to create TOTO fans that will continue to select Net sales Operating profit our brand. We are also taking steps to estabOperating margin lish a structure that can respond to customer (Million dollar) (%) needs in the e-commerce market, which is 300 274 12 261 undergoing rapid growth. 11 11 200 11 100 10 29 29 0 9 2016 2017 (FY) 23 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance Europe Aims and Main Initiatives  In Europe, we are moving forward with the supply of TOTO products to prominent buildings and the establishment of sales channels. In the United Kingdom and France, we will supply WASHLET and NEOREST as differentiated products to high-end hotels and various facilities where large numbers of tourists gather, thereby boosting TOTO brand recognition. Furthermore, in Germany we are proceeding with the establishment of a business foundation for expanding new product sales as well as a supply structure for after-sales services. We are also making efforts to strengthen our relationships with sales agencies and construction stores. From fiscal 2018, we will pursue the full-scale introduction of new products that fuse high functionality with outstanding design, in addition to actively participating in exhibitions and holding seminars, showrooms and other events. Through these means, we will thoroughly demonstrate the value TOTO offers to its customers and construction stores. Net sales Operating profit (Million euro) 28 30 26 20 10 0 −4 −6 −10 2016 2017 (FY) TO REALIZING OUR AIM PI C S Adoption of TOTO Products at Prominent Buildings In addition to building a structure to locally develop, produce, and sell the most suitable products that respect the local culture and lifestyles of China, other parts of Asia, the Americas, and Europe, we will strengthen our overall business foundation by using a three-stage marketing strategy of brand awareness enhancement, market penetration, and establishment of luxury brands. As a measure of brand awareness enhancement, which is the first stage of our three-stage marketing strategy, we are actively promoting activities toward the adoption of TOTO products at prominent five-star hotels and international airports. WASHLET, in particular, is a product that needs to be actually experienced to understand its true value. Therefore, the use of WASHLET at prominent public facilities is an important first step in increasing its adoption. The number of WASHLET products being adopted Park Hyatt Paris-Vendôme Hotel is increasing each year. In Paris, France, WASHLET has (France; designated as a palace hotel in 2011) received formal recognition by the Minister of Tourism. In fact, TOTO products have been adopted at all of Paris’s palace hotels (10 locations), which is a title given to hotels that have been chosen and designated as luxury hotels. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 24 TOTOWILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan New Business Domains Advanced Ceramics Business TOTO will roll out high-quality advanced ceramics, including air bearings, electrostatic chucks, bonding capillaries, and receptacles, for the semiconductor, FPD manufacturing, and optical communication industries. By further evolving these proprietary technologies, we will create Electrostatic chucks value together with our customers and suppliers. Market Environment and Business Opportunities  With the arrival of the Internet of Things (IoT) society, the demand for leading-edge devices such as semiconductors and high-speed optical communication and display devices has been rising. Amid these circumstances, sales have increased in the Advanced Ceramics Business driven by electrostatic chucks used in manufacturing semiconductor memory devices, which are increasingly employing a three-dimensional design. Going forward, we will continue to bolster our production facilities and strengthen our development structure through demand chain innovation, a Companywide innovation activity. At the same time, we will aim to establish a robust business foundation by employing a customer-oriented business approach and improving profitability. Aims and Main Initiatives  In the Advanced Ceramics Business, we are responding to the arrival of the IoT society as we continue to innovate our proprietary technologies through the development of ceramic components, which are necessary for creating leading-edge devices. In addition, through strategic analysis of market trends and ongoing value creation proposals that anticipate needs, we will deliver the distinctive value of TOTO’s ceramic products in collaboration with our customers. Particularly, in the semiconductor field, we aim to co-create high-performance semiconductor manufacturing technologies together with our customers and suppliers. At the same time, we also aim to put in place a production structure that can respond to demand. For ceramic film created through the aerosol deposition method (AD film),* we are pursuing industry-academic collaboration to develop new materials that help miniaturize semiconductors as well as to carry out research on production technologies for improving the efficiency of film formation. Also, to step up efforts to strengthen our proprietary technologies and new product development, we will actively pursue R&D investment with our sights set on the future. Net sales Operating profit Operating margin * The aerosol deposition (AD) method is an innovative coating technol(Billion yen) (%) ogy that uses the impact solidification phenomenon of ultra-fine 25 10 10 particles at room temperature, which was discovered independently by 9 the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology. 20.0 By dispersing ceramic particles in gas to form aerosol and accelerating 20 8 and ejecting that aerosol into a base material using a nozzle, the AD method forms extremely thin, highly dense ceramic film on the 15 12.5 6 material’s surface. 10 4 5 2 1.2 1.7 0 0 2016 2017 (FY) 25 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance TO REALIZING OUR AIM PI C S Electrostatic Chucks Structure of semiconductor manufacturing equipment Upper electrode An electrostatic chuck is a component inside semiconductor equipEtching/deposition material ment that is used to hold the semiconductor wafer. In the IoT society, the demand for semiconductors is growing, which in turn has led to Semiconductor wafer plasma annual increases in the need for installing semiconductor manufacturInternal electrode ing equipment. Moreover, there has been a need for semiconductors Electrostatic chuck with higher precision. Our electrostatic chucks, which are incorporated Cooling channel within semiconductor equipment, have received high praise from our Cooling plate customers in light of the fact that they are highly durable and produce Energy supply very little impurities within the equipment itself. Green Building Materials Business TOTO will offer building materials utilizing its HYDROTECT environmental cleaning technology. TOTO will also enter into license agreements with companies worldwide handling exterior building materials, including tile, paint, metal panels, glass, and architectural stone. Ceramic tiles that utilize HYDROTECT—Hydrocera Wall Market Environment and Business Opportunities  HYDROTECT, a green building material technology that makes use of a photocatalyst, has already been adopted by a significant number of partner companies. Looking to the future, we will redouble our efforts to promote HYDROTECT technology globally by engaging in more partnerships with various companies. Aims and Main Initiatives  In the Green Building Materials Business, we aim to contribute to the global environment as we continue to provide products that help create a more comfortable lifestyle and culture. To this end, we are strategically strengthening and expanding the HYDROTECT, ceramic tile, and high-performance mirror businesses. Leveraging the know-how and technologies we have amassed over the years, we will work to acquire new customers and expand the scope of use for HYDROTECT. We will also aim to become the No. 1 comprehensive manufacturer of ceramic tiles by creating special purposes for their use and stimulating needs for improving corporate value in fields other than building materials. Furthermore, we will foster a market for high-performance mirrors by developing new products that offer both fog-prevention and lighting functions, among Net sales Operating profit other features. We will also aim to ensure that our (Billion yen) high-performance mirrors secure a strong presence in 10 8.9 8.4 that market. In addition to our ceramic tile and high8 performance mirror products, we will enhance our processing capabilities and integrated technologies to 6 boost our percentage of high-value-added products. 4 Going forward, by contributing to the creation of next2 generation spaces through a strategy that centers on 0 these three products, we will transition to a robust −0.6 −0.4 business structure that generates high levels of profit. −2 2016 2017 (FY) −10.0 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 26 TOTOWILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan Cross-organizational Innovation Activities Marketing Innovation TOTO will successively launch world-leading, beautiful products that provide comfort around the world. At the same time, TOTO will communicate the evolution of design and functionality to the world through unified promotional campaigns. Aims and Main Initiatives  For marketing innovation, we will evolve our design and functionality in a highly sophisticated manner and make efforts to roll out beautiful products brimming with the uniqueness of TOTO in markets around the world. To evolve our design, we will change our approach to the design process by focusing on the pursuit of beauty when envisioning the living spaces we propose to our customers. By doing so, we will aim to create designs that continue to be selected by our customers. Also, in terms of technological evolution, we will leverage design technologies while strengthening our activities aimed at delivering new life experiences to our customers. In regard to overseas promotional campaigns, we will work to increase the unitization of the “Life Anew” concept. Also, for integrated global promotions, we will communicate our products, technologies, and customer value across the globe. TO REALIZING OUR AIM PI C S NEOREST NX Integrated Toilet and GS Series and GA Series Single-lever Lavatory Faucets Receive Red Dot Design Award 2018 NEOREST NX integrated toilet and the GS Series and GA Series single-lever lavatory faucets received the Red Dot Design Award 2018. This marked the second award for NEOREST NX after winning the iF Design Award 2018 in March 2018. The Red Dot Design Award is an international product design award presented by the Design Zentrum Nordrhein Westfalen in Germany. The Red Dot Design Award is an extremely prestigious award that ranks among the world’s top three design awards alongside the iF Design Award (Germany) and the IDEA Award (the United States). This marked the sixth consecutive year that TOTO has received the Red Dot Design Award, further reflecting the high external ratings of TOTO’s craftsmanship, which aims to fuse high functionality with outstanding design in a sophisticated manner. 27 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance Demand Chain Innovation TOTO will evolve its supply chain on a global basis to optimize and accelerate the flow of goods and information. In this way, TOTO will deliver attractive new products to its customers. Aims and Main Initiatives  For demand chain innovation, we will promote cost reductions by strengthening the structure of our supply chain across the world (supply chain innovation) and taking on new challenges in our manufacturing processes (manufacturing innovation). In terms of supply chain innovation, we will work to enhance visualization, establish various frameworks, and minimize inventories through activities to unify production, sales, distribution, purchasing, and information; thorough reductions in information, production, and distribution lead times; and changes to our product structure. At the same time, we will take steps to optimize our global distribution network. As for manufacturing innovation, we will make efforts to establish a structure that simultaneously enables both domestic and global product development. We will also strive to achieve ultimate waste elimination and quality improvement through smart factories that utilize IoT and AI. With these efforts, we will realize average annual cost reductions of ¥40.0 billion by 2022. Management Resource Innovation TOTO strives to become a company that attracts diverse human resources and allows them to work with peace of mind and take on challenges in a lively manner. Aims and Main Initiatives  For management resource innovation, we are promoting a three-pronged approach that focuses on human resources, information, and finance and accounting. In regard to human resources in Japan, by 2022, we aim to increase the percentage of female managers to 20%, boost the rate of paid holidays taken to 100%, and bring the ratio of employees leaving due to life events down to 0%. To this end, we will continue to pursue workstyle reforms. We will also provide support so that a diverse group of human resources can work with peace of mind, regardless of age, time, location, or job title, and actively take on challenges. By doing so, we will create a workplace environment that leverages diversity as a strength. In terms of information, we will connect people and organizations through accessible IT such as portal sites and systems, thereby establishing a structure that enables global collaboration. For finance and accounting, we will contribute to a management PDCA cycle from the perspective of investment efficiency and work to optimize our management resources. In these ways, we will strive to realize sustainable growth. Furthermore, as a foundation for realizing our growth strategies, we will continue to foster a corporate and organizational culture unique to TOTO through cultural activity support and social contributions. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 28 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Coinciding with the implementation of our new mid-term management plan, TOTO WILL2022, the TOTO Global Environmental Vision was revised and put into effect in April 2018. This vision acts as a driving force for TOTO WILL2022. By strengthening the promotion of this vision, we aim to further integrate our management and CSR activities and increase our corporate value. In light of the changing times and social trends, we have unveiled the new TOTO Global Environmental Vision In 2010, the TOTO Group initiated its environmental vision, TOTO Green Challenge, in order to address the ever-growing issue of protecting the environment. This vision hinged on products and services, manufacturing, and social contribution and human resources development, and was a new step toward validating the link between our corporate activities and the environment. As a natural next step, in 2014 we formulated the TOTO Global Environmental Vision to evolve our environmental contributions to a more global scale while working to resolve the specific environmental concerns of each country and region. Working to tackle common global issues, TOTO established and promoted a set of Global Environmental Goals toward which we will work to conserve water by 2017. In October 2017, in light of the changing times and social trends, we updated the TOTO Global Environmental Vision, combining the themes of the past with social themes closely related to our business. We began rolling out these efforts in fiscal 2018. Global Environmental Goals Aims Major Initiatives  ealize cleanliness and comfort R Global expansion of clean and ­ Cleanliness and Comfort throughout the world comfortable toilets Pursue ease of use for everyone Details on P.31 Widespread adoption of water-saving products P  rotect our limited water resources and connect with the future Undertake initiatives to fight global CO2 emission reductions Environment warming and coexist with the earth Aim for sustainable development Social contribution activities entrenched in local Details on P.33 together with local communities communities B  uild deep, long-lasting relationImproved customer satisfaction ships with customers Offer cultural support and contribPromotion of employee volunteer activities Relationships ute to society for the next generation Create and share joy in work Become a company that is pleasant to work at Details on P.35 together 29 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance In the updated TOTO Global Environmental Vision, our global efforts are organized into three themes: Cleanliness and Comfort, Environment, and Relationships. Each theme has a set of targets and specific initiatives determined based on our aims. We are working toward achieving these targets by fiscal 2022. (see table below) Through promoting the new TOTO Global Environmental Vision, the TOTO Group will contribute to achieving the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Indicators Fiscal 2022 Target SDGs CEFIONTECT shipment ratio (overseas) 79% TORNADO FLUSH shipment ratio (overseas) 53% WASHLET shipment volume (overseas) 2 million units Reduction of water consumption during product use* 1,100 million m3 Total CO2 emissions from business sites 450 thousand tons Total CO2 emission reductions due to measures implemented 22 thousand tons Total CO2 emission reductions during product use* 3.7 million tons Number of projects contributing to solve regional issues 100 cases (total number since FY2018) Customer satisfaction from after-sales services (Japan) 90% Ratio of repairs completed within two days of reception (overseas) 80% Volunteer activity participation rate (total number of participants / number of consolidated employees = participation rate) 100% or more Annual paid leave usage rate (Japan) 100% Ratio of female managers (Japan) 20% Employee turnover rate due to life events (Japan) 0% * Reduction effect when compared with the case where products of 2005 continue to be used TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 30 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Cleanliness and Comfort 1 Realize Cleanliness and Comfort throughout the World By providing “clean toilets” through a combination of our technologies that remove bacteria, p ­ revent the buildup of dirt, and support easy cleaning, and “comfort toilets” exemplified by our WASHLET, we will realize cleanliness and comfort throughout the world. Technologies that Maintain Cleanliness and Comfort  TOTO has refined its manufacturing technology over the last one hundred years. To create clean and comfortable toilet spaces for our customers, we have developed a range of clean technologies unique to TOTO, such as EWATER+, CEFIONTECT, RIMLESS, and TORNADO FLUSH. Together, these technologies remove bacteria, prevent the buildup of dirt, and easy cleaning, resulting in toilets that are not only resistant to dirt and easy to clean, but also achieve new heights in cleanliness by ­effectively cleaning themselves. EWATER+ Keeps water clean by removing bacteria, which can cause darkening of the toilet bowl. Remove bacteria Prevent Easy the buildup cleaning of dirt CEFIONTECT RIMLESS/TORNADO FLUSH WASHLETTM–Gaining Popularity throughout the World  Launched in 1980, WASHLET has created a new lifestyle and culture for Japanese toilets. After launching in Japan, WASHLET products were introduced to the U.S. market in 1986. From then, we began moving forward with the installation of these products in luxury hotels in countries throughout the world, thereby expanding our sales in China, Asia and Oceania, and Europe. As a result, cumulative WASHLET shipments exceeded 40 million units globally as of July 2015. Today, sales of WASHLET products continue to grow on a global basis. Trends in Cumulative WASHLETTM Sales July 2015 Cumulative sales exceed 40 million units 2011 Cumulative sales exceed 30 million units 2005 Cumulative sales exceed 20 million units 1998 Cumulative sales exceed 10 million units 1987 Cumulative sales exceed 1 million units 1980 Sales begin 1980 1990 2000 2010 2015 (FY) 31 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance SDGs 2 Pursue Ease of Use for Everyone We propose and develop products by considering the livelihood of each and every one of our customers, including their age, physical condition, family structure, and lifestyle, in pursuit of the ­development and proposal of new products that blend seamlessly into everyday life. TOTO’s Universal Design  The key principle of universal design at TOTO is to make products as easy and comfortable to use as possible for as many people as possible. We firmly believe that the starting point for universal design is to define what “easy to use” and “comfort” means. To that end, we have set out TOTO’s Five Principles of Universal Design, which employees always keep in mind to help them develop better products and improve product ideas. TOTO’s Five Principles of Universal Design 1 Easy posture and movement 2 Simple, easy-to-understand operation 3  oordination to address differences C and changes in users 4 Comfort Universal design (UD) activities are promoted Inspection at TOTO UD Research Center 5 Safety throughout the Company, centering on the TOTO UD Research Center, established in 2006. TO Proposing Public Toilets That Regard Sexual Minorities PI C S The TOTO Group has been utilizing its universal design concept as the platform to creating toilet spaces that are easily accessible for as many people as possible, including wheelchair users, ostomates, parents with babies or young children, and Private the elderly. Making use of the expertise and verification methods we have unisex toilet amassed over the years, we are now incorporating the perspectives of the LGBT To To community in our efforts toward improving accessibility. From 2016, we have general-use general-use commenced a series of seminars that introduce plans for public toilets, considertoilets plan A Wheelchairtoilets accessible ing the LGBT community which are based on results of interviews. In 2017, we Entrancetoilet room began proposing unisex toilets that can be used by anyone, regardless of gender, as part of our efforts to support the LGBT community. 1 Provisional sign 2 Provisional plan 1 Sign for a unisex toilet 2 Layout plan for a private unisex toilet. The wheelchair-accessible toilet and private unisex toilet are located between the entrances of the men’s and women’s toilets. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 32 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Environment 1 Protect Our Limited Water Resources and Connect with the Future The depletion of water resources has a remarkable impact on the lives of people and, as a supplier of bathroom and kitchen plumbing products, TOTO has a duty to help resolve this issue. With this duty in mind, the TOTO Group will continue to evolve its water-saving technology and contribute to the conservation of water resources by spreading this technology to the rest of the world. Reduction of Water Consumption through Water-saving Products  The surface of the earth is mostly covered in water, but only 0.01% of that water can be consumed by humans.*1 In addition, we are using a growing amount of water every year. Total water consumption and consumption of water for daily use are forecasted to increase by 140% and 180%, respectively, in 2025 (compared with figures in 1995).*2 The TOTO Group continues to promote the reduction of water consumption during product use and is working toward the conservation of water resources by developing its water-efficient and comfortable products and spreading them on a global scale. *1: Source: Water Resources in Japan (2014), Water Resources Department, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism *2: Source: Water Resources in Japan (2010), Water Resources Department, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (volume of water consumption) Water Consumption during Product Use Water reduction Assuming products of 2005 1.1 billion m3 continue to be used In cases when products Water reduction with advanced water780 million m3 saving performance were introduced and promoted 2005 2017 2022 (FY) (base) (actual) (target) “Water consumption during product use” refers to the overall volume of water consumed by products during the period of use within the particular fiscal year that said products were shipped. “Water reduction” refers to the effect when compared with the case where products of 2005 continue to be used. 2 Undertake Initiatives to Fight Global Warming and Coexist with the Earth We are making efforts from a long-term perspective toward realizing decarbonization by reducing energy use in our manufacturing processes and promoting reductions in CO2 emissions from the use of our products. Reduction of CO2 Emissions from Business Sites  We are reducing CO2 emissions by implementing Total CO2 Emissions from Business Sites various initiatives at all our business sites, including the Japan Overseas Total introduction of the latest energy-saving equipment and (Thousand tons) 400 high-efficiency machinery, sharing of know-how relat324 321 328 342 313 ing to energy-saving activities, and the introduction of 300 renewable energy by purchasing and generating. 222 202 202 210 Moving forward, we are working to implement a 186 200 variety of new measures to help us reach our newly 127 122 119 118 120 established goals for reducing CO2 emissions, and in 100 doing so we will contribute to the prevention of global warming. 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 33 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance SDGs Reduction of CO2 Emissions During Product Use  CO2 emissions from toilets, as well as bathroom and kitchen plumbing comprise 23% of all CO2 emissions produced by Japanese households.*3 This is due to the energy used by pumps to deliver water to water purification plants and households as well as energy used in sewage treatment plants. In addition, the energy used to generate hot water also emits CO2. The TOTO Group continues to promote the reduction of CO2 emissions during product use through the global expansion of products that make effective use of water and hot water. *3: Source: Calculated based on the GHG Emissions Data of Japan (2011), Greenhouse Gas Inventory Office of Japan 3 Aim for Sustainable Development Together with Local Communities Carrying on our founder’s conviction of “providing a healthy and civilized way of life,” the TOTO Group will help revitalize and sustain local communities as well as carry out activities that contribute to their development as part of its role as a good corporate citizen. TOTO Water Environment Fund  The TOTO Group aims to be a company that contributes to the development of an affluent and comfortable society through its focus on plumbing products. To develop a sustainable society that uses its water effectively into the future, not only are the business activities of corporations important, the role of civic activities is also essential. Accordingly, we established the TOTO Water Environment Fund in 2005 in support of the environmental activities of citizens in various regions of Japan. Since 2008, TOTO has been supporting NPOs and NGOs with environmental conservation activities overseas and the creation of sanitary and comfortable living environments. As of 2017, these efforts have expanded to 40 prefectures in Japan and 13 countries worldwide. TO Strengthening Activities of TOTO Water Environment Fund in China PI C S To coincide with its expansion into the area and to contribute to the local community, TOTO (China) Co., Ltd, in agreement with the China Environmental Protection Foundation, established the TOTO Water Environment Fund in China in 2008. Over the ten-year period, the fund has raised 10 million yuan in donations put toward water-resource economization and conservation endeavors such as water-saving education for children and support for the construction of water-supply facilities. We have received messages from students attending a school that receives water from one of these facilities telling us that the water was dirty before but is now very clean. From the beginning, we have been a business that revolves around the use of water and as such, we will actively promote activities that help protect the environment Support for construction of a waterand develop local communities. supply facility TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 34 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Relationships 1 Build Deep, Long-lasting Relationships with Customers We make proposals at showrooms to ensure that customers can purchase our products with peace of mind. We also make various efforts through our call centers to respond to any questions or concerns our customers may have when using our products. In addition, we provide an after-sales service that focuses on being fast, reliable, and courteous. In these ways, we will continue to develop strong, long-lasting relationships of trust with our customers. Initiatives for Showrooms  To provide satisfaction to our customers for their purchases, we have established 100 showrooms in Japan and 14 directly managed showrooms overseas where they can see, feel, and experience our products first-hand. Our Japanese locations include 12 showrooms that are jointly operated by DAIKEN and YKK AP, where we exhibit and propose living spaces for our customers to immerse themselves in. Initiatives for After-sales Services  “TOTO quality” refers not just to the quality of the products themselves but also to their assembly and maintenance if a problem were to arise. To enhance quality in this regard, we strive, for example, to improve maintenance skills, educate employees on proper etiquette when interacting with customers, and reduce the amount of time between the receipt of a service request and the completion of necessary repairs. In addition, as a way to improve the quality of this service, we send a postcard questionnaire to customers in order to gather information on their satisfaction with the service. 2 Offer Cultural Support and Contribute to Society for the Next Generation The TOTO Group contributes to the revitalization and development of local communities through the support of activities in architecture, art, and sports, in addition to encouraging participation in volunteer activities by its employees. In doing so, the TOTO Group strives to become a company that contributes to the development of a better society through its business activities. TOTO GALLERY·MA  TOTO GALLERY·MA was established in 1985 with the goal of supporting the development of the architecture that is deeply tied to our business. As a gallery specializing in architecture and design, we have since facilitated a multifaceted exposure to the varying works, ideas, and worldviews of architects and designers from both Japan and abroad through exhibitions and lectures. These kinds of activities help create a sense of appreciation among people from different generations and countries, en: art of nexus (2017) © Nacása & Partners Inc. and help us to keep gaining TOTO fans around the world. 35 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance SDGs Promotion of Employee Volunteer Activities  The promotion of employee volunteer activities stands as one of our Global Environmental Goals. We actively Total number of volunteers in support employee participation in volunteer activities fiscal 2017 across a broad range of fields, starting with social contribution activities such as tree-planting and city cleanups, as well as activities to provide aid to disaster52,300 volunteers affected regions and assist with sports. 3 Create and Share Joy in Work Together We conduct activities to promote diversity and implement workstyle reforms in order to be a company where a variety of personnel can gather, prosper, and be inspired to take on new challenges. In addition, the TOTO Group will continue to work with its suppliers to undertake activities that address CSR issues in areas such as human rights and labor, safety and health, and environmental consciousness. Promoting Diversity  The TOTO Group respects the individualities inherent in a diverse workforce, including age, gender, and nationality. It is our belief that diversity gives rise to fresh, new ideas that lead to the creation of prosperous and comfortable lifestyles. In particular, one of the flagship goals we are strongly pursuing is increasing the percentage of women in managerial positions in Japan. To this end, we are supporting the continued success of women in the workplace through various efforts such as step-up training for women and training for female management position candidates. Promoting Work-Life Balance  We promote efforts to improve work-life balance because we believe that harmonizing the work and home life of employees will result in greater productivity and a greater sense of accomplishment from work. In addition to encouraging employees to take paid leave, we have also put in place various systems that facilitate the adoption of diverse workstyles and help employees balance work and child/nursing care responsibilities. These efforts have been held in high regard, and we have obtained Platinum Kurumin certification from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan as a company that supports child rearing. Platinum Kurumin certification mark TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 36 TOTO Global Environmental Vision For Customer Satisfaction Please see our corporate website for more details. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/cs We are pursuing “to provide good products and satisfy customers,” the Words of Our Founder, as we move forward with Companywide activities to boost overall customer satisfaction levels. We will also make concerted efforts to improve quality based on the idea of “TOTO quality,” which refers to not only the quality of our products themselves but also our proposals at showrooms and after-sales services. Sharing Examples of Activities Emphasizing the Customer’s Perspective  The TOTO Group Customer Satisfaction Convention is held every year with the aim of sharing examples of efforts to improve customer satisfaction. This convention presents examples of customer satisfaction initiatives that have been selected from separate conventions held for the manufacturing, indirect, and service divisions. In fiscal 2017, approximately 400 attendees, including representatives from overseas companies, came together to hear numerous presentations on approaches to delight customers. The event was filmed in order to share these customer satisfaction presentations at TOTO Group companies and Fiscal 2017 TOTO Group Customer Satisfaction Convention offices around the world and to promote customer satisfaction activities on a global basis. Promoting Quality Assurance Activities across the Entire Value Chain  To ensure product quality customers can Quality Management System enjoy with safety and confidence, and to TOTO Group Products Markets Customers provide products and services with which they will be satisfied, the TOTO Group has installed an ISO 9001-based manageInformation Product Design & After-sales Purchasing Production Distribution Sales Construction ment system. Through this system, the gathering planning development services Group works with suppliers to continuously improve its quality assurance Quality Quality review review system. With particular emphasis on ensuring product safety and disclosing Business partners Quality management information to customers, we have formulated the Basic Policy for Voluntary Quality audit, ascertainment of customer satisfaction, and management of nonconforming products Action Plans on Product Safety. Implementing Customer Satisfaction Surveys  To find out just how much we are satisfying customers through our daily service activities, we implement customer satisfaction surveys that evaluate customer satisfaction using four indices. In addition, we share feedback such as customer survey results and the opinions and requests received through the Customer Consultation Center internally, which is then used in new product development and efforts to improve existing products. Results of Customer Satisfaction Surveys (%) (Score) 100 91% 90% 91% Survey Index 80 68% 70% After-sales service satisfaction rate 65% 58% Proportion of customers rating services as “satisfactory” or better 60 48% 51% Total satisfaction index of showrooms Index that expresses overall satisfaction with content of proposals 40 75 77 73 100 Ratio of customers impressed with bath module assembly Proportion of customers rating service representative behavior and workmanship as “excellent” 20 50 Call response satisfaction rate Satisfaction ratings of external providers of call center services 0 0 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 37 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance Together with Our Employees Please see our corporate website for more details. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/employees The TOTO Group is promoting an array of activities to create an animated working environment in which the individuality of every person working for the Group is respected. In addition to human resource management that celebrates diversity and values work–life balance, the Group will promote the cultivation of human resources that will inherit its technological strengths in the next generation. Human Resource Management Cycle  We implement human resources management from Human Resource Management Cycle the perspective of Groupwide optimization. In P D C A addition, by placing this management cycle into motion, we monitor and promote a wide range of Establish human resource management Confirm progress, evaluate, and revise Create an employee-friendly Employment initiatives, including the recruitment and cultivation of human resources, the establishment of an Development Utilization Evaluation Treatment employee-friendly business environment, and the environment and promote activities promotion of activities to manage employee health. targets and implementation items to manage employee health targets and implementation items Implementing Employee Awareness Survey  To gain a comprehensive understanding regarding Retirement the fostering of a challenge-oriented corporate culture, the enhancement of compliance awareness, and the widespread understanding of the corporate philosophy, we implement the TOTO Group Employee Awareness Survey every year and use the results of the survey to make various improvements. In addition, from 2016 we have been conducting these surveys with the management teams of overseas Group companies as well. Human Resource Development  Passing Down and Evolving Our Proprietary Technologies with the Specialist System To pass down and evolve our proprietary technologies, an important Group strength, we have established the Specialist System, which evaluates our researchers and technicians. Those designated as specialists through this program help pursue the further evolution of our research and technologies while also focusing efforts on cultivating human resources for the next generation. The Company currently has 100 specialists, which include those who have become a “Fellow,” the highest rank of the program. Hosting the Ceramic Sanitary Ware Technical Skills Competition We hold the Ceramic Sanitary Ware Technical Skills Competition with the aim of sharing and passing on the spirit of craftsmanship and our production technology know-how cultivated in Japan, in addition to further improving our technological capabilities. The competition was held for the fifth time in June 2017 with 28 select participants from seven different countries and regions. Employees from TOTO VIETNAM stood out by capturing both first and second place, making for a memorable comFifth annual Ceramic Sanitary Ware Technical Skills petition that helped to steadily advance the spread of technologies Competition across the globe. Promoting Occupational Safety and Health  TOTO Group employees Preventing Workplace Accidents Lost time injury frequency rate We are working to increase safety awareness and eliminate unsafe work practices and conditions. Fiscal 2017 result: TOTO Group employees 0.29 Occupational illness frequency rate Supporting Physical and Mental Health We are working to improve employee health based on a three-pronged approach involving health management, mental health care initiatives, Fiscal 2017 result: 0.00 and health improvement. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 38 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Together with Our Suppliers Please see our corporate website for more details. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/customers By fulfilling its management, environmental, and social responsibilities, the TOTO Group aims to contribute to the sustainable development of corporations, society, and the environment. Together with its suppliers, the Group is providing valuable products and services to its customers through fair purchasing practices while giving ample consideration to the environment and social issues such as human rights. CSR Procurement Activities  We work with our suppliers to undertake activities that address CSR concerns in areas such as human rights and labor, safety and health, and TOTO Group Purchasing Policy the environment. In addition to holding policy briefings for our suppliers, 1. Partnership in mind we carry out survey research and conduct interviews and investigations through on-site visits. 2. Fair and equitable transactions In fiscal 2017, we held 11 policy briefings in all for a total of 609 of our 3. Priority given to business with suppliers in Japan. Overseas, we conduct CSR procurement activities that superior suppliers cater to the circumstances of each country and region, giving the utmost 4. Compliance with laws, regularespect for local laws and customs as we strive to deepen mutual undertions, and ethics standing and achieve mutually beneficial relationships. Furthermore, we 5. Consideration for the environment strive to understand the conditions at our overseas suppliers in terms of human rights and labor, safety and health, and the environment. PDCA Cycle for Supply Chain Management* Plan Do Achievement rate of standards of Activity plans T  raining for purchasing compliance items by suppliers managers Continuously improve Presentation for suppliers Dialogue Fiscal 2017 Japan: 100% Act Check result: Overseas: 99% Individual consultation  nline surveys O Support and follow-up CSR interview sessions activities Site audits and monitoring * Target: suppliers of raw materials and components in Japan and overseas Biodiversity-conscious Procurement  In 2010, we established the Standards for Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials. These standards define important items for consideration Achievement rate of compliance when procuring earth and stone materials and wood materials, which are item standards of mines the raw materials used in our mainstay products. We have established specific standards for our raw materials, such as earth and stone materials, and are conducting questionnaires and interviews Fiscal 2017 result: 100% with all supplier mines. Through these questionnaires and interviews, we verify whether or not suppliers are working to restore forests and other natural surroundings after mining has been completed. We also confirm the status Usage rate of legal and recycled materials for wood-based materials of supplier efforts to ensure that rivers, lakes, and marshes do not become in products polluted with mining drainage or pulverized waste. As a result of such efforts, we were able to confirm that all of our supplier mines are fully complying with the Standards for Sustainable Procurement of Raw Materials. Fiscal 2017 result: 100% As for wood materials, we have established the usage rate of legal and recycled materials for wood-based materials in products as an important index. In fiscal 2017, we achieved 100%. Going forward, we will continue to conduct biodiversity-conscious procurement while working to bolster our efforts across the entire supply chain. 39 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance For Society Please see our corporate website for more details. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/social The TOTO Group uses its management resources effectively in conducting social contribution and community coexistence activities aimed at the resolution of local and global social issues. Through the establishment of “preserving the water environment,” “creating a sanitary and comfortable living environment,” and “developing the next generation” as three core issues, we are promoting a broad range of activities aimed at realizing sustainable development together with local communities. Preserving the Water Environment  As a company that offers bathroom and kitchen plumbing products, TOTO TOTO Water Environment Fund 12th grant assistance* continuously strives to increase the use of water-saving products on a global 35 organizations 95.3 million basis while also working to protect rivers, oceans, and other water environments. Through the TOTO Water Environment Fund, established in 2005, we ¥ *T he amount was increased for the 12th grant assistance provide support to various organizations engaged in such activities as in celebration of TOTO’s 100th anniversary. protecting water sources, water quality, and biodiversity. In addition, we 1st to 12th grant assistance total encourage our employees to participate as volunteers in these activities 239 organizations as well as in activities organized by local community members. Approx. ¥ 300 million Creating a Sanitary and Comfortable Living Environment  In accordance with our founder’s conviction of “improving the lifestyle and culture of the people” and “providing a healthy and civilized way of life,” we are promoting the development and widespread use of sanitary devices and universal design products through our business activities. In addition, with the TOTO Water Environment Fund as the primary medium, we are undertaking activities such as installing wells for supplying safe drinking water to help create sanitary and comfortable living environments for people in various parts of the world. Activities of the NPO Asia Child Support, an organization backed by the TOTO Water Environment Fund, to draw water in Myanmar Developing the Next Generation and Supporting Cultural Activities  TOTO GALLERY · MA Since its opening in 1985, the TOTO GALLERY · MA has been a venue for presenting the ideas and works of architects and designers. TOTO GALLERY · MA has been expanding its activities around the globe, hosting exhibits and lectures for architecture students and professionals in Japan and overseas. In 2017, TOTO GALLERY · MA held an exhibit and lecture at Japan House São Paulo in Brazil as a special project desigLecture by Sousuke Fujimoto at Japan House São Paulo nated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan. (Photo provided by Rogerio Cassimiro and the secretariat of Japan House São Paulo) TOTO Publishing Established in 1989, TOTO Publishing issues books with unique architectural design and lifestyle perspectives. It also publishes books in collaboration with TOTO GALLERY · MA. In addition, TOTO Publishing has been expanding its activities on a global scale in such ways as establishing the TOTO Information Center, where visitors can freely browse design and architecture books issued by TOTO, in the cities of Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh in Vietnam. TOTO Information Center in Hanoi TOTO Museum The TOTO Museum presents the history of TOTO’s efforts to create comfortable lifestyles and provides an introduction to the manufacturing ideals we have carried forward to today. Beginning with TOTO’s establishment in Kokura, Kitakyushu, the TOTO Museum aims to be an attractive landmark that communicates the development of TOTO into a global brand. TOTO Museum TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 40 TOTO Global Environmental Vision Dialogue with Shareholders and Other Investors Please see our corporate website for more details. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/stockholders TOTO conducts investor relations (IR) activities that reflect the high priority we place on communication with our shareholders and other investors in Japan and overseas. Through the timely and appropriate disclosure of information pertaining to our corporate philosophy, management policies, business strategies, and financial and non-financial data, we aim to establish long-term, trust-based relationships with our shareholders and other investors by deepening their understanding of the Company and engaging in repeated dialogues with them. Working to Ensure Transparency and Fairness in Our IR Activities  Based on our IR Policy, we make timely disclosures through a dedicated webpage, hold individual meetings and financial results briefings, and IR Policy conduct other activities to ensure transparency and fairness in our comhttps://jp.toto.com/en/company/ WEB munication with individual and institutional investors. ir/disclosure Relations with Institutional Investors  For domestic investors, we announce financial results twice a year, hold meetings to explain our strategies, and conduct showroom and plant tours. In addition, our top management engages in overseas activities aimed at institutional investors outside of Japan. Recently, investor interest in TOTO has been increasing year after year in tandem with the heightened awareness of our products overseas. IR Activities in Fiscal 2017 Financial results briefing 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 External Fiscal 2016 financial Briefing on the Mid-Term announceresults briefing First-quarter financial Management Plan Third-quarter financial ments results presentation Second-quarter financial results presentation results briefing Dialogue with Number of dialogues with institutional investors in Japan and overseas: Approx. 350 institutional investors Overseas July: West coast December: East September: The IR of the United coast of the United Kingdom activities States United States Meeting with overseas investors Dividend Policy  We consider the return of profit to shareholders as an important part of our management policy. We therefore make it a rule to retain Dividend Ratio sufficient earnings to secure funds for building a firm corporate strucIn conjunction with the formulation of the TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term ture and expanding our business while assuring a stable return of 40% Management Plan, we have raised profit to shareholders. our target dividend ratio to 40% from fiscal 2018. We will place priority on utilizing our acquired profit and cash to conduct growth investments in order to establish a long-lasting and solid management foundation. These investments include improving product appeal, streamlining and strengthening production and sales systems, and developing new and overseas businesses. Any funds remaining after conducting such investments will be returned appropriately to our shareholders. Each fiscal year, we aim for a dividend ratio of 40% of our net consolidated profit for the term. In addition, we will determine the acquisition of treasury stock from a comprehensive standpoint, based on the need for flexibility in capital policies and the impact on our financial position. 41 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance Stakeholder Engagement Please see our corporate website for more details. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/stakeholder TOTO considers the concept of stakeholder engagement to be vital in building relationships of trust with stakeholders and in facilitating cooperation. By doing so, TOTO aims to improve societies for generations to come. Promoting Two-way Communication with Various Stakeholders  We place importance on communication with all stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders, business partners, and society at large, and endeavor to develop closer relationships with them. We deepen interaction with our customers through various settings, such as events at our showrooms and factories, and we engage in direct dialogue with our business partners through policy briefing sessions and CSR questionnaires. In addition, for our shareholders, we disclose appropriate information in a timely manner and promote understanding of the spirit of TOTO manufacturing through such means as factory tours. Going forward, we will continue to make concerted efforts toward stakeholder engagement through two-way communication. CSR Communication with Stakeholders Customers Showrooms Customer Consultation Center Factory remodeling fairs S  ending lecturers to seminars and Various exhibitions educational institutes for training Assistance for NPOs and community Society Employees  arious workplace meetings V organizations Employee awareness surveys Various volunteer activities (TOTO Water Intranet and Group magazine Environment Fund, etc.) Whistleblowing system Cultural activities (TOTO GALLERY · MA, TOTO (in-house/external contacts) Publishing) TOTO Museum Factory tours, TOTO Summer Festivals Skull sessions with NPOs and CSR specialists Shareholders Business  eneral Shareholders’ Meeting G partners P  olicy briefing sessions Various briefings CSR questionnaires Shareholder questionnaires CSR interview sessions Whistleblowing system (external contacts) Participating in a Stakeholder Engagement Program  We participate in the Human Rights Due Diligence Workshop, a stakeholder engagement program sponsored by Caux Round Table Japan. Since its inception in 2012, the workshop has aimed for the corporate application of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Under this aim, the workshop has identified human rights issues by industrial sector based on the input of multiple stakeholders, including companies, NGOs/NPOs, and various experts. In fiscal 2017, we worked to revise these industry-specific issues together with companies involved in the chemical and building materials Discussion about “Human Rights Issues by Sector” ©CRT Japan industries, who also participated in the workshop. By doing so, we deepened our understanding of the importance of valuing human rights in our business activities. Furthermore, after making efforts to share the contents of this stakeholder engagement program internally, we declared our support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO (International Labour Organization) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, which represent international human rights standards. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 42 TOTO Global Environmental Vision CSR Management The TOTO Group considers CSR management to be management by the use of CSR initiatives for the purpose of bringing the TOTO Group Corporate Philosophy to life. Our Corporate Philosophy, based on the thoughts of the founder to be passed down through the generations, communicates to all of our stakeholders the purpose for which our company exists, our business domains, and the type of company we aim to be. CSR Philosophy  Identifying Our Materiality We have determined material issues based on our Process for Identifying Materiality Mission, which is described in the words of the We identified issues based on the United Nations Global TOTO Group Philosophy highlighting the most Step 1: Compact, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), ISO, Identify issues and other international guidelines, as well as on evaluations of important matters to be addressed over the the CSR activities we have promoted thus far. medium to long term. In light of the changing times and social trends, Step 2: We analyzed issues that should be resolved through our Analyze issues business from a mediumto long-term perspective. we revised our Mission in October 2017. To work in unison with this new mission, we established three social issues closely related to our business as Step 3: We held discussions at meetings of the CSR Committee, Hold discussions which is chaired by the president and attended by all material issues. These issues are Cleanliness and by management Company directors. Comfort, the Environment, and Relationships. Through these means, we are working to further Step 4: We established and are promoting a CSR Action Plan based integrate CSR within our management. Develop plans on our materiality. CSR Promotion System  We started our CSR activities in 2004 with the establishment of the CSR Committee and a full-time CSR department. The CSR Committee holds meetings once a year and is chaired by the Company’s president. The committee works to strategically integrate our business and CSR activities by taking a comprehensive approach to ESG (environmental, social, and governance) fields. In addition, each subcommittee of the CSR Committee formulates CSR promotion plans, which are then implemented in relevant divisions and at domestic and overseas Group companies. In these ways, we are promoting CSR activities on a cross-organizational basis. Promotion System of the CSR Committee CSR Committee (chaired by the president) (Secretariat) ESG Promotion Department Environmental (E) Social (S) Governance (G) Products and services subcommittee Supply chain management subcommittee Group management subcommittee Energy-saving measure subcommittee Customer satisfaction subcommittee Risk management subcommittee Packaging and logistics environmental subcommittee Human resource management subcommittee Compliance subcommittee Waste management subcommittee Social contribution and Corporate citizenship subcommittee Promoting Widespread Understanding of CSR In Japan, we implement level-specific CSR training programs targeting new hires and newly appointed managers. In addition, we provide employees with e-learning opportunities. At the same time, we work to raise awareness of general CSR themes, specific Group CSR initiatives, social trends, and the direction of future initiatives. For our overseas employees, we prepare educational materials in English and Chinese and carry out training programs tailored to each country. In this manner, we are promoting widespread understanding and awareness of CSR across the entire Group. Guideline training for newly appointed managers of Group companies 43 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance Please see our corporate website for more details. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/csr/management Risk Management  Basic Approach and Promotion System The TOTO Group makes relentless efforts to eliminate all factors that could hinder the implementation of management policies in order to maintain the confidence of society and fulfill its corporate social responsibilities. In cases of unexpected problems, maximum efforts will be made to minimize various effects on stakeholders and restore the confidence of related parties by developing appropriate preventive measures. We have established the Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by the executive vice president and comprises executive officers and division heads who oversee major risks. In accordance with the TOTO Group Rules for Risk Management, the Risk Management Supervising Division General Manager, who is appointed to address risk management by field, collaborates with all Company divisions and Group companies through meetings and discussions with various committees to prevent risks and enhance the Group’s risk management response capabilities. Risk Simulations To improve our prevention and response capabilities to major risks, we have been continuously carrying out practical risk simulations at all locations in Japan and overseas. The risks simulated include natural disasters and product-related accidents. In addition, as part of our efforts to establish a robust risk management structure, we conduct level-specific risk management training targeted at employees newly appointed to positions, from department head to the managerial ranks. We are also moving forward with a broad range of other efforts, including unified simulation training that uses a Risk simulation training safety confirmation system in anticipation of earthquakes and other large-scale disasters. Compliance  Basic Approach and Promotion Structure The TOTO Group adheres to laws, regulations, and social Compliance Activity Cycle norms within its corporate activities and strives to foster an Plan Do organizational culture that promotes fair and transparent • Establish annual plans and priority Promote compliance management systems action. To reflect the ideals of the United Nations Global issues Compact, to which the Group became a signatory in 2011, Compliance the Group added anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and antiCommittee Act cartel language to the TOTO Group Compliance Policy in • Improve activities Create an organization 2013. In addition, to create a solid compliance structure, and frameworks that values compliance the Group has promoted actions to clarify the roles and All divisions authority of the Compliance Committee and the Legal Check Legal Control and Group • Evaluate impleDivision Control Division. The Compliance Committee meets four companies mentation of times a year and works to incorporate processes into the planned activities • Conduct employee Company’s structure to verify the progress of compliance compliance Implement a compliance and corporate awareness surveys education, monitoring, and other compliance-related • Perform audits ethics program (yearly) activities. In these ways, the Group is promoting compliance activities that are highly effective and transparent. Implementing Compliance Training To thoroughly ground each employee in compliance, we implement educational and e-learning programs targeting new employees and newly appointed managers. We offer training pertaining to various business-related rules and regulations, including anti-trust laws and subcontract laws. At the same time, the Legal Control Division visits each department to hold on-site seminars. Also, from fiscal 2014 we have been working to thoroughly raise awareness of insider training via e-learning programs that target all TOTO Group Group employees. Business Conduct Guidelines TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 44 Corporate Governance Basic Views on Corporate Governance  The TOTO Group strives to be a great company, trusted by people all around the world, contributing to the betterment of society. In addition to being a corporate entity engaged in the pursuit of profit through fair competition, the Group conducts its business in such a way as to continue to benefit society broadly. In order to realize this target, we believe it is important to build a system for pursuing and supervising fair and equitable management, and clearly define a philosophy that serves as the basis of such a system. Please see pages 1–2 for the management philosophy system for TOTO Group management. Composition of the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board in Fiscal 2018  We believe that in order to supervise business operations and to make important decisions, TOTO’s Board of Directors must be composed of members with diverse perspectives, experience, and highly professional skills. Meanwhile, for the purpose of performing the double-check function of supervision by the Board of Directors and of audits by Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Outside Directors need to include not only auditors required by law, but also Directors with voting rights at Meetings of the Board of Directors; and both Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Directors must have considerable independence. As of June 27, 2018, we have 13 Directors with voting rights at Meetings of the Board of Directors, of whom 10 are Inside Directors with careers in the TOTO Group and three are highly independent Outside Directors. These members use their respective skills in discussions to make legal and business management decisions and supervise business operations. The Audit & Supervisory Board consists of two standing members with careers in the TOTO Group and two outside members with a high level of independence, and conducts audits from the perspectives of legality and appropriateness. Reasons for Adoption of Current Corporate Governance System  The TOTO Group considers that an essential aspect of corporate management is ensuring the satisfaction of stakeholders and constantly expanding corporate value by improving objectivity and transparency in management and by clarifying management responsibilities. To achieve this, for matters requiring management decisions, TOTO recognizes the importance of systematizing “who makes decisions about what and where” as well as “what checks are implemented” in a fair and honest manner. TOTO has adopted the Audit & Supervisory Board system and is building a structure of decision-making, supervision, and more efficient and effective business execution, with the aim of continuously increasing corporate value. 1. Clarifying the allocation of management responsibility (introduction of the Executive Officer system and the like) 2. Enhancing management transparency and soundness (establishment of the Compensation Advisory Committee and the Nominating Advisory Committee) 3. Reinforcing supervisory and auditing functions (nomination of highly independent Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board) 4. Strengthening decision-making functions (establishment of the Management Committee and the like) In order to strengthen these functions, TOTO has adopted the framework of a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board system as its base while integrating the superior functions of a company with a Nomination Committee, etc. Corporate Governance System Three-party TOTO General Meeting of Shareholders Compensation Advisory Committee (Appointment/Dismissal) Six outside members including five Independent Directors and one audit team (Appointment/Dismissal) Director without the right of representation as an inside member (Audit) TOTO Board of Directors (Report) TOTO Audit & Supervisory Board Ten Inside Directors, Nominating Advisory Committee Two standing members, three Outside Directors Five Independent Directors, two Representative Directors two outside members (Appointment, Special Committee TOTO Independent (Report) delegation, Three Outside Directors, one Outside Member of the Accounting Auditors supervision) TOTO Audit & Supervisory Board (Direction) (Consultation) TOTO Internal Audit Office TOTO President TOTO Management Committee TOTO Executive Officers (Internal audit) (Delegation) CSR Committee (Direction, supervision) Other meetings and committees Japan Housing China & Asia Housing Americas & Europe Housing New Business Companywide Equipment Business Equipment Business Equipment Business Domains Divisions Cross-organizational tasks 45 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance Please see our corporate website for more details. https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/governance Compensation for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members  The maximum amount of compensation for Directors and Total amount of compensation by type for Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Members is determined and Audit & Supervisory Board Members respectively for Directors, Outside Directors, and Audit & Base Stock Supervisory Board Members by resolutions of the Number compenBonus compensaTotal of officers sation (million tion-type (million General Meeting of Shareholders. (person) (million yen) stock options yen) yen) (million yen) Compensation for Directors of TOTO comprises fixed Directors 14 390 420 70 881 compensation in the form of base compensation, and performance-linked compensation, which varies with the (including Outside (3) (28) — — (28) Directors) business performance and stock price of the Company. Audit & Supervisory Performance-linked compensation comprises bonuses, 5 50 — — 50 Board Members which are tied to business performance and limited to (including Outside 0.8% of consolidated operating income, and stock comMembers) (2) (19) — — (19) pensation-type stock options, which are aimed at having Total 19 441 420 70 932 Directors share the common interests of our shareholders and incentivizing contributions toward continuously * The total amount of compensation approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders is shown below. (Approved at the 152nd Ordinary General Meeting of increasing the corporate value of the Company. Stock Shareholders held on June 26, 2018.) compensation-type stock options were replaced with restricted stock compensation in accordance with the Fixed compensation Performance-linked compensation decision made at the 152nd Ordinary General Meeting of Base compensation Bonus Restricted stock compensation Shareholders held on June 26, 2018. The policy for Up to 500 million yen Up to 0.8% of the determining compensation is designed to motivate per annum (including previous fiscal year’s Up to 200 million yen Directors an amount up to 50 Directors to not only consider the current business year, consolidated per annum million yen in total for operating income Outside Directors) but also to take a mediumto long-term perspective in Audit & Up to their management of the Company. Supervisory 150 million yen per — — In addition, the Compensation Advisory Committee Board Members annum was set up to help ensure that the compensation for Directors is reasonable and objective. The Board of Amount of compensation, etc. by type of payment for Directors determines the compensation after confirming Directors whose total amount of compensation, etc. with the Compensation Advisory Committee that the exceeds 100 million yen. compensation system and allocation balance are in line Directors with compensation of 100 million yen or more in fiscal 2017. with the Articles of Incorporation, the resolutions of the Stock General Meeting of Shareholders, and the Basic Policy Base Bonus compensationTotal compensation type stock for Directors’ Compensation. Note that Outside (million yen) (million yen) options (million yen) (million yen) Directors, who are independent from the business operations, are entitled to only fixed compensation. Representative Director 63 78 10 153 Kunio Harimoto The base compensation for individual Audit & Representative Director Supervisory Board Members is determined depending on Madoka Kitamura 63 78 10 153 his/her duties and responsibilities upon consultation with Representative Director Audit & Supervisory Board Members. In order to preserve Noriaki Kiyota 40 52 8 101 the functionality of their role as supervisors of manageRepresentative Director ment, Audit & Supervisory Board Members are entitled 40 52 8 101 Nozomu Morimura to only fixed compensation. Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board  Since all Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board are invited to join their respective boards as members who can make decisions materially independent of the management of TOTO and all other specific stakeholders, we designate all Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board as Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members. We nominate candidates for Outside Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board who fully satisfy the Nominating Advisory Committee’s Requirements for Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members*, the satisfaction of which is set forth by TOTO as a mandatory requirement. * Please refer to “Requirements for Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members” in the Corporate Governance section of our website. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 46 Corporate Governance Evaluation of Effectiveness of the Board of Directors  In March 2018, the entire members, including Outside Promoting Stronger Corporate Governance Directors and Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Establishment of the Nominating Advisory Committee Board, attended the meeting of the Board of Directors to Establishment of the CSR Committee 2004 evaluate the effectiveness of its activities from the perspecEstablishment of the philosophy system for TOTO Group management tive of related items of the Board of Directors in the context of its roles within the Company based on the Corporate Establishment of the Compensation Advisory Committee 2005 Establishment of the Risk Management Committee Governance Code, including the operational status of the internal control system, corporate strategy, and other agenAppointment of an Outside Director 2006 Establishment of the Internal Audit Office das of the Board of Directors to define general direction. Establishment of the Special Committee In addition, information sharing was identified as an 2007 Introduction of the stock options system issue to be tackled from the result of a questionnaire in fiscal 2016 answered by all directors and Audit & Establishment of the Requirements for Independent Directors/ Supervisory Board Members and the progress of the 2010 Audit & Supervisory Board Members and appointment of Independent Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members improvement was checked. The results of these analyses and evaluations concernReduction of the maximum number of Directors stipulated in 2011 Articles of Incorporation (from 20 to 14) ing the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole Participation in the United Nations Global Compact are as follows: Enhancement of the Executive Officer system (creation of a 2012 new post of Senior Executive Officer) In accordance with the Basic Policy for Development of 2013 Establishment of TOTO Group Business Conduct Guidelines Internal Control System, the system ensures that the execution of Directors’ duties complies with the laws and Establishment of rule that half or more of the Nominating 2014 Advisory Committee members shall be outside members regulations and the Articles of Incorporation, and all other items are operated positively. 2016 Increase in the number of Outside Directors (from 2 to 3) Matters to be resolved at Meetings of the Board of Replacement of stock compensation-type stock options with 2018 Directors are submitted in accordance with the relevant restricted stock compensation rules, and the system is so operated that the status of the execution of significant deals, such as matters to be resolved at Management Committee meetings, is reported to the Board of Directors. The members engage in detailed inspections of all items of the Corporate Governance Code, especially the related items of the Board of Directors, to correspond properly. It is recognized that all members are engaged in active discussions at meetings of the Board of Directors and that the enhancement of our governance system is being conducted incorporating the opinions from outside officers. For the information sharing, which was identified as an issue from the questionnaire result, measures have been taken for the improvement of the conditions: Acceleration of discussion on the mid-/long-term management plan including investment plans Promotion of information sharing by the participation of outside directors in the Executive Officers’ meeting For more details regarding the enforcement of as observers the Corporate Governance Code, please see our latest Corporate Governance Report. From the above, we have confirmed that the operation of the Board of Directors is functioning properly and its effectiveness is ensured. Corporate Governance Report We will continue to monitor conditions to further https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/ governance/pdf/co_gov.pdf improve the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and further enhance its functions. 47 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 For the Next 100 Years TOTO WILL2022 Mid-Term Management Plan TOTO Global Environmental Vision Corporate Governance Messages from Outside Directors I have many years of experience working in manufacturI think the strength of TOTO’s Board of Directors is ing facilities at UACJ Corporation (formerly Sumitomo its willingness to listen to outside opinions and quickly Light Metal Industries, Ltd.). The concept that I believe make improvements. When I assumed the position of is most important in corporate management is “overall Outside Director, I made several suggestions from the optimization.” I believe overall optimization is closely point of view of an outsider. TOTO quickly took my connected with the market-oriented approach, a very suggestions into consideration and, in roughly half a important way of thinking wherein different departyear, there was improvement in nearly all of the areas I ments build relationships of trust and the entire combrought up. Moreover, the Board of Directors meetpany comes together to serve customers and society. ings are conducted in an environment that encourages TOTO operates according to the concept of overall free and open discussions. optimization, and I think the Company’s management In corporate management, the aim is not to philosophy is similar to my own. strengthen corporate governance. It is to achieve conCorporate governance is more than just a formula. tinual growth of the company. In order to achieve this, it If employees do not put their heart and full effort into is important for companies to be trusted and recognized corporate governance, it becomes a meaningless by customers and society. Consequently, corporate gesture. The most important thing is to come governance will be strengthened and continual growth together as a company and think about its honesty will be achieved for companies that have the trust of toward customers and society and whether we are society. I hope to contribute to the best of my ability in facing issues head-on and being open. It is important order for TOTO to become such a company. to have this kind of mindset permeate TOTO’s corpoOutside Director rate culture, and I think TOTO has been successful in achieving this. Kazuhiko Masuda Since becoming a Director at IBM Japan, Ltd. in 2001, This contributes to a culture wherein Outside Directors I have served in the position of Director during a are comfortable speaking at the Board of Directors period of time when Japanese corporate governance meetings and suggestions by Outside Directors are made considerable advancements. actively taken up by the Company. As a company that Until around 2000, IBM operated its business provides products emphasizing the needs of female centered on local management teams, but with the customers to around the world, I expect TOTO to development of the IT industry, management based take steps to diversify its governance with the addion business segments became increasingly important, tion of women and foreigners among management. eventually resulting in management carried out by a In recent years, new technologies have radically matrix of businesses and local teams. I think my changed businesses in what has been called a “digital experience overseeing a major change in governance transformation” affecting the entire world. At TOTO, mechanisms will be of great assistance in the managein addition to growing new businesses on a global ment of TOTO. scale like our Advanced Ceramics Business, amid the TOTO’s corporate governance system is wellshift in trend from providing and owning products to designed and operated and is steadily improving. providing experience, I believe it is necessary to Outside Directors not only attend Meetings of the develop businesses based on completely new ideas. Board of Directors, but they also visit facilities in Japan As an Outside Director, I hope to contribute to the and overseas and are sometimes invited to attend further growth of TOTO by bringing an outside point meetings as observers. In addition, important discusof view to the table. sions related to the execution of duties are also Outside Director shared with outside directors. All of these activities deepen Outside Directors’ understanding of TOTO. Masatsugu Shimono TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 48 Board of Directors Directors  Representative Director, President, Chairman of the Board Representative Director Kunio Harimoto Madoka Kitamura Date of Birth: March 19, 1951 Date of Birth: May 24, 1957 In charge of Global Business Promotion, Management Planning, Design, and Secretary’s Office Representative Director, Representative Director, Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Noriaki Kiyota Nozomu Morimura Date of Birth: October 8, 1961 Date of Birth: July 10, 1957 In charge of Business Divisions & In charge of Sales Groups, Customer Research & Technology, Human Service, and Cultural Promotion Resources, Purchasing, and Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Engineering Works Marketing Innovation Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Management Resource Innovation Director, Director, Senior Managing Executive Managing Executive Officer Officer Ryosuke Hayashi Soichi Abe Date of Birth: September 4, 1963 Date of Birth: August 22, 1961 In charge of New Business Domains In charge of China & Asia Housing Group, Bathroom, Kitchen & Lavatory Equipment Business and Internal Audit Vanity Business, and Faucets & Office Appliances Division Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 China & Asia Housing Equipment New Business Domains and TOTO Business WILL2022 Demand Chain Innovation Director, Director, Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Kazuo Sako Taiichi Aso Date of Birth: August 25, 1959 Date of Birth: March 5, 1960 In charge of Americas & Europe In charge of Restroom Business Group Housing Equipment Business and Production Technology Business Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Group Americas & Europe Housing Equipment Business Director, Director, Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Satoshi Shirakawa Tomoyuki Taguchi Date of Birth: August 12, 1962 Date of Birth: September 24, 1965 In charge of Sales Promotion Group In charge of Finance and Accounting, and Logistics Legal Affairs, Information System Also in charge of TOTO WILL2022 Planning, and General Affairs Japan Housing Equipment Business 49 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 Outside Directors  Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Kazuhiko Masuda Masatsugu Shimono Junji Tsuda Date of Birth: April 24, 1942 Date of Birth: December 11, 1953 Date of Birth: March 15, 1951 Kazuhiko Masuda has been involved in the manageMasatsugu Shimono has been involved in the Junji Tsuda has been involved in the management of ment of Sumitomo Light Metal Industries, Ltd. management of IBM Japan, Ltd. for many years. In Yaskawa Electric Corporation for many years. He has (currently, UACJ Corporation) for many years. In meetings of TOTO’s Board of Directors, he contributes experience and knowledge in the general managemeetings of TOTO’s Board of Directors, he contributes valuable opinions based on his expertise in management of a global corporation and in corporate valuable opinions based on his expertise in management, and his perspectives, having been developed governance, developed through his career at Yaskawa, ment, and his perspectives, having been developed outside the framework of the Company, contribute to as well as in human resources development and outside the framework of the Company, contribute to the Company’s management and oversight function. community-based management. the Company’s management and oversight function. Mr. Shimono possesses experience and knowledge In meetings of TOTO’s Board of Directors, the Mr. Masuda possesses experience and knowledge in in not only general management and corporate Company expects Mr. Tsuda to contribute valuable not only general management and corporate governance, but also in the management of a global opinions based on his expertise in the management of governance, but also in the making of products by enterprise. Mr. Shimono has been reappointed as an a global corporation, and his perspectives, having been manufacturing companies. Mr. Masuda has been outside member of the Board of Directors for the developed outside the framework of the Company, to reappointed as an outside member of the Board of reasons discussed above. contribute to the Company’s management and Directors for the reasons discussed above. oversight function. Mr. Tsuda has been appointed as an outside member of the Board of Directors for the reasons discussed above. Audit & Supervisory Board Members  Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Standing Member, Standing Yuichi Narukiyo Hirotoshi Naka Date of Birth: March 18, 1962 Date of Birth: January 14, 1957 Outside Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board  Audit & Supervisory Board Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Outside Member, Outside Masamichi Takemoto Akira Katayanagi Date of Birth: December 16, 1944 Date of Birth: February 4, 1946 Masamichi Takemoto has been involved in the Akira Katayanagi has been involved in the managemanagement of Nitto Denko Corporation for many ment of financial institutions for many years. Applying years. Applying his management expertise, he his financial and management expertise, he performs performs his duties adequately as an outside member his duties adequately as an outside member of of TOTO’s Audit & Supervisory Board. He also TOTO’s Audit & Supervisory Board. He also contribcontributes valuable opinions in meetings of the Audit utes valuable opinions in meetings of the Audit & & Supervisory Board and Board of Directors. His Supervisory Board and Board of Directors. His perspectives, having been developed outside the perspectives, having been developed outside the framework of the Company, contribute to the framework of the Company, contribute to the Company’s oversight function. Company’s oversight function. Mr. Takemoto possesses experience and knowledge Mr. Katayanagi possesses experience and knowlin not only general management and corporate edge in not only general management and corporate governance, but also in the management of overseas governance, but also in matters of finance. In business operations. In recognition of these strengths, recognition of these strengths, Mr. Katayanagi was Mr. Takemoto was reappointed as an outside member reappointed as an outside member of the Audit & of the Audit & Supervisory Board at the 149th Supervisory Board at the 151st Ordinary General Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. Meeting of Shareholders. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 50 Participation in the UN Global Compact TOTO announced its participation in the “Global Compact,” which is put forward by the United Nations, and registered as a participating company on November 8, 2011. In order to announce to the international community the company’s intent to further strengthen its CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) management, which TOTO has long been promoting, behave as a responsible corporate citizen on a global scale, and constructively carry out its social responsibilities, TOTO will uphold the 10 principles on “Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption” that are cited by the “Global Compact” and put them into practice through all its business activities. Notable Awards from 2017 Onward Category Award Description Awarded “architectural facility technology heritage” status in Products 2017 for an automatic faucet with built-in photoelectric sensor in the TOTO Museum. Automatic faucet with built-in photoelectric sensor Received the WorldStar Award for triangle partition structure Packaging for product inclination at the WorldStar Competition 2018 held by the World Packaging Organisation. Triangle partition structure for product inclination Received the iF Product Design Award 2018 for NEOREST NX, Design ZL Series single-lever lavatory faucet, and Washbasin (vessel-type). NEOREST NX Received the Red Dot Design Award 2018 for the NEOREST Design NX, and GS and GA Series of single-lever lavatory faucets. Single-lever lavatory faucet (GS Series) Received the GREEN GOOD DESIGN AWARD in 2018 Environment for WASHLET equipped with EWATER+. WASHLET equipped with EWATER+ (For evaluations of TOTO’s CSR management by external parties, please refer to pages 11 and 12.) Independent Practitioner’s Assurance To ensure the reliability of information contained in this report, TOTO has received independent practitioner’s assurance for environmental and social data indicated with in the TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 Financial and Non-Financial Data on the website. TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 Financial and Non-Financial Data https://jp.toto.com/en/company/profile/library/pdf/report2018_financial_en.pdf 51 TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 Corporate Data Corporate Profile (As of March 31, 2018)  Company Name TOTO LTD. Fiscal Year End March 31 Headquarters 1-1, Nakashima 2-chome, Kokurakita-ku, Exchange Listings Tokyo, Nagoya, Fukuoka Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, Japan Securities Code 5332 Establishment May 15, 1917 Shareholder Registry 4-5, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Capital ¥35,579 million Administrator Tokyo 100-8212, Japan Number of Consolidated: 32,428 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Employees Non-consolidated: 7,960 Corporation Group Companies and Affiliates (As of April 1, 2018)  Domestic Group Companies  Overseas Group Companies  TOTO SANITECHNO LTD. China TOTO (CHINA) CO., LTD. TOTO WASHLET TECHNO LTD. BEIJING TOTO CO., LTD. TOTO Bath Create LTD. TOTO (BEIJING) CO., LTD. TOTO High Living LTD. NANJING TOTO CO., LTD. TOTO DALIAN CO., LTD. TOTO AQUATECHNO LTD. TOTO (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. SUNAQUA TOTO LTD. TOTO EASTCHINA CO., LTD. TOTO (FUJIAN) CO., LTD. TOTO PLATECHNO LTD. TOTO (GUANGZHOU) CO., LTD. TOTO Maintenance LTD. TOTO (H.K.) LTD. TOTO AQUAENG LTD. VORETO (XIAMEN) PLUMBING TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD. (Affiliate Company) TOTO MTEC LTD. Taiwan TOTO Kansai Sales LTD. TAIWAN TOTO CO., LTD. Singapore TOTO Hokkaido Sales LTD. TOTO ASIA OCEANIA PTE. LTD. TOTO Tohoku Sales LTD. Vietnam TOTO VIETNAM CO., LTD. TOTO Chubu Sales LTD. Thailand TOTO Chugoku Sales LTD. TOTO (THAILAND) CO., LTD. TOTO Shikoku Sales LTD. India TOTO India Industries Private Limited TOTO Kyushu Sales LTD. Malaysia CERA TRADING LTD. TOTO MALAYSIA SDN. BHD. Korea TOTO Remodel Service LTD. TOTO KOREA LTD. TOTO Finance LTD. Indonesia TOTO INFOM LTD. P.T.SURYA TOTO INDONESIA (Affiliate Company) U.S.A. TOTO BUSINETZ LTD. TOTO AMERICAS HOLDINGS, INC. TOTO LOGICOM LTD. TOTO U.S.A., Inc. Mexico TOTO Fine Ceramics LTD. TOTO MEXICO, S.A. DE C.V. TOTO MATERIA LTD. Brazil TOTO OKITSUMO Coatings LTD. TOTO Do Brasil Distribuição e Comércio, Ltda. Germany TOTO Europe GmbH TOTO Germany GmbH TOTO GROUP Integrated Report 2018 52 TOTO LTD. 1-1, Nakashima 2-chome, Kokurakita-ku, Kitakyushu, Fukuoka, 802-8601, Japan URL: https://www.toto.com Published in August 2018 No.1190
