the banking software company DIGITAL TO THE CORE Temenos Group AG Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview WELCOME TO TEMENOS WHAT WE BELIEVE IN OUR VISION To provide financial institutions, of any size, anywhere in the world, the software to thrive in the digital banking age 41 HOW WE ACHIEVE IT We do this by building, delivering and of the top 50 supporting the world’s best packaged, banks in the world upgradeable and open banking software run Temenos Learn more about how Temenos drives innovation on page 22. TEMENOS IS THE BANKING SOFTWARE COMPANY 500m 150 + 3,000 + end customers countries with financial rely on Temenos Temenos clients institutions use software Temenos software Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements WHAT’S INSIDE CONTENTS 02 Overview 94 Governance 132 Financial statements Overview Operating responsibly Financial statements Chairman’s statement 02 Message from the CEO 52 Report of the Statutory Auditors Our market opportunity 04 Our CSR approach 56 on the consolidated financial statements 132 Our investment case 06 Achieving business excellence 59 Consolidated statement of profit or loss 137 Highlights of the year 07 Operating responsibly 64 Consolidated statements of other comprehensive income 138 Industry recognition 08 Investing in our people 71 Consolidated statement Acquisitions in 2017 09 Enabling access to financial services 81 of financial position 139 Our solutions 10 Investing in our communities 82 Consolidated statement Suites 12 About this report 86 of cash flows 140 Products 14 UN Global Compact Index 86 Consolidated statement Technology 18 Contact 86 of changes in equity 141 Insights – thought leadership 20 2017 GRI G4 Index – Core 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 142 Research and Development 22 Report of the Statutory Auditors on Delivering client success 28 Governance the unconsolidated financial statements 189 Insights – tenth annual banking survey 32 Unconsolidated balance sheet 191 Board of Directors 94 Unconsolidated income statement 192 Performance Executive Committee 96 Notes to the unconsolidated Corporate governance 97 financial statements 193 Business review 36 Compensation Report 110 Financial highlights 200 Financial review 40 Report of the Statutory Auditors Information for investors 201 Principal risks and uncertainties 44 on the Compensation Report 129 Appendix Temenos worldwide offices 202 Sources 206 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 01 Overview 25 YEARS OF INNOVATION IN TECHNOLOGY CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT As has been the case in other industry Andreas Andreades verticals that have switched to packaged Executive Chairman software before banks, a very small number of software vendors manage to successfully invest enough to capture the opportunity. Usually the winner in the market takes most of the market as better product, more client successes, and a stronger ecosystem of Partners makes its value proposition far superior to what competitors can offer. In 2017, Temenos continued to build very solid foundations to ensure that it is the Company that will remain the key software provider to the banking industry and over a period of time capture most of the opportunity. We won most, if not all strategic deals in the market and continued to demonstrate unparalleled progress and success with OUR VALUES our implementations. Our superior growth, as well as the scale of our business, allows us to invest more aggressively than our competitors, providing our clients with a superior platform and a partnership model that has stood the test of time based on upgradeable packaged software. During 2017, we acquired Rubik, a software as a service vendor to Australian banks and Operate People Customer See Inspire financial institutions that has been a Temenos responsibly power core different better Partner since 2008. With the help of Rubik, we now have the necessary infrastructure in Australia, one of the largest software markets in the world, that will allow us to expand our It is with great pleasure that The customers of banks increasingly presence in that market. demand a full digital experience, innovative we present our annual report services with instant gratification and a user David is reporting extensively on our for 2017 to our shareholders. experience equal to the standards already set commitment to corporate social responsibility by the global technology companies. Open and the progress we made during 2017. I Banking represents the single largest banking initiatives, starting in Europe, are would like to highlight one issue which is untapped vertical market, that is only already resulting in a far more competitive particularly close to our hearts – about gradually converting to packaged software. market place for banking services. Fintech 2 billion of the world’s population is still The market opportunity that we address with companies, banks and technology players are unbanked. With every new software sale our software is estimated to be USD 48 billion. now able to take advantage of open banking we make in emerging markets, we help Given this opportunity, the Temenos business initiatives to deliver real time, personalized reduce this number and through this model was always about growth. Growth in services to their customers that are relevant contribute towards giving people an revenues, growth in client numbers, growth and contextual. opportunity to combat poverty. in employees, growth in profits. Building And we will continue to do so. more software, selling more software and With industry drivers stronger than ever, we implementing more software. And in 2017 see sustained demand for our products from we did just that, with our growth accelerating banks around the world. Being truly digital during the last quarters of the year. Our is now better understood; it encompasses profits and cash flows were clearly at record both front office and back office systems that levels and this also resulted in a record are capable of running on cloud, massively stock price. scalable to take into account ever increasing volume of transactions, whilst exposing services through a library of APIs that allow banks to become platform companies and create network effects. 02 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements In 2018, we will celebrate 25 years of Temenos. We remain as excited by what we do as we were 25 years ago and this OUR VALUES IN DEPTH guides our everyday actions and decisions. From the very beginning, we believed in our people and the uniqueness of our products. Everywhere we conducted business we turned our client advocates into successful global banks and we continue to do so today. It is WE OPERATE RESPONSIBLY the same belief that pushed us to relentlessly TO BUILD A SUSTAINABLE invest all these years, to operate with a long BUSINESS term strategic mind set, whilst creating a We walk the extra mile to build strong and sense of urgency that every moment counts, lasting relationships with our stakeholders every deal counts, every implementation and create sustainable value for them. is important and every client is important whatever its size. We were always hands on, we were close to the issues, close to our clients and product and we will continue to be so. We were sharply focused on our market and the direction it was taking and throughout remained humble with our WE BELIEVE IN THE POWER success and we will continue to do so. We operate at a much larger size today but still OF PEOPLE with the energy and enthusiasm of a start up, People make things happen. People define as if it is the first day in Temenos for each our destiny. one of us. I will repeat what I said last year; that influencing the way banking is carried out for the 21st century continues to be our end goal, one that guides our daily endeavors. WE PLACE CLIENTS AT THE With more than 3,000 banking clients in 150+ countries worldwide, we are well on CORE OF WHAT WE DO our way to doing so. With a local investment Everything starts and ends with our mind-set, we hope we also successfully clients’ goals. contribute to the economies of the world where our clients do business. The success of all who are involved with Temenos, be it clients, shareholders, Partners or employees, will always underpin the positive development of our business. WE SEE THINGS DIFFERENTLY FROM EVERYONE ELSE Average people see difficulties, exceptional people see opportunities. Andreas Andreades Executive Chairman WE INSPIRE, THROUGH LIVING UP TO OUR FULL POTENTIAL We dream big and pursue our goals fearlessly. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 03 Overview TECHNOLOGY DRIVING INNOVATION OUR MARKET OPPORTUNITY TOTAL REVENUE TOTAL SOFTWARE LICENSING REVENUE Europe 48% Europe 50% Asia Pacific 19% Asia Pacific 19% Americas 18% Americas 22% Middle East Middle East and Africa 15% and Africa 9% GLOBAL REACH Europe Asia Pacific Americas Middle East and Africa 23 18 15 8 offices in the region offices in the region offices in the region offices in the region 04 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements KEY TECHNOLOGY TRENDS A number of technology trends are driving change across the banking landscape and influencing the approach banks take to their IT renovation Cloud The use of remote computing resources to host software and data is driving down the total cost of ownership and reducing risk for incumbents as well as lowering barriers to entry for new entrants to banking. Mobile Big data Banking has seen an exponential Banks have vast quantities of growth in the number of uniquely valuable of data on their interactions and transactions customers, however they are only taking place through mobile just starting to use analytics devices. Banks need to ensure to leverage this as a competitive they can provide their customers advantage. Banks have the a complete banking service with potential to improve customer minimal friction. Those banks with service, increase product the best mobile service will be penetration and reduce risk. able to better attract, retain and cross-sell products to their clients. APIs AI/Machine learning The move to open banking is The move to utilizing AI and both a risk and an opportunity for Machine Learning in both banks. There is increasing pressure interacting with customers, for on banks to support interfaces that example through robo-advisors allows third parties to access their and chat bots, and in risk and customer data, equally banks with compliance, improves customer modern, open IT platforms are service and satisfaction whilst better able to take advantage of Blockchain also reducing cost and risk. third party innovation to improve The rise of new technologies such as their customer service. distributed ledgers may present an important opportunity for banks in the future. Banks need to ensure they are using modern, open IT platforms in order to take advantage of emerging technologies. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 05 Overview WHAT MAKES TEMENOS UNIQUE OUR INVESTMENT CASE We believe that there are five key areas that make Temenos unique Same software, any bank, Proven, integrated, Stable business model; anywhere in the world upgradeable product committed community Software Product Stability We supply the same software to all of We make our products integrated and Temenos has a stable business model, our clients – regardless of their size and upgradeable. Our products are designed shown in the strength of our financial location. There are optional modules to work separately and together and, once results and also by the long tenure of the within this which a bank can choose from, installed, upgraded as new versions of the management team. We benefit from a but we produce the same software software are released. This means that strong and committed ecosystem for all our clients. our clients benefit from our ongoing of Partners working closely with us. investment in the product. Predictable and faster Relentless focus on implementation innovation Implementation Innovation In order for banks to enjoy the benefits of our Temenos has a long history of investing in its software, it is important that it is implemented products. This has ensured our position as the quickly and in a predictable manner and leading solution in our sector and, together timeframe. Temenos invests both in its own with the upgradeability, means that clients can staff and implementation tooling, as well continue to enjoy the benefits of our industry as working with its Partners to build a large leading investment in the future. ecosystem of implementation capability outside of the Company. 06 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements A YEAR OF SUCCESS HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR TOTAL SOFTWARE LICENSING MAINTENANCE TOTAL REVENUE +23% +10% +16% 2017 USD 316m 2017 USD 275m 2017 USD 737m 2016 USD 256m 2016 USD 250m 2016 USD 635m EBIT MARGIN OPERATING CASH FLOW CONVERSION EARNINGS PER SHARE 30.3% 114% +18% 2017 30.3% 2017 USD 300m 2017 USD 2.45 2016 29.4% 2016 USD 258m 2016 USD 2.07 DIVIDEND PER SHARE +18% 2017 CHF 0.65 2016 CHF 0.55 2017 non-IFRS financial 2017 operational highlights > Temenos continues to be a market highlights leader, pulling ahead of the > Outstanding performance in 2017 driven competition and raising barriers > Total software licensing revenue by strong execution across the business to entry through the strength of growth of 23%. in a growing market. our reference client base. > Maintenance growth of 10%. > Digital and regulatory pressure, as well > Temenos has significant revenue > Total revenue growth of 16%. as the move to open banking, are driving visibility going into 2018 driven by > Services margin of 9.7%, improvement banks to accelerate their IT investment committed spend and the strength of 0.6 percentage points. strategies. and quality of the pipeline. > EBIT margin of 30.3%, up 98 bps. > Temenos had strong double-digit growth > We continue to work very closely with > Operating cash flows of USD 300 across all geographies in the year with high our Partners across technology and million, up 16%. volumes of deals across client segments. implementation, with Partners involved > Operating cash conversion of 114% > In particular, there was significant activity in the majority of our implementations. with DSOs down eight days in the year. with tier 1 and 2 clients, which constituted The launch of the Temenos Learning > Strength of cash flows and growth 59% of total software licensing revenue Community will be a key driver of in profit support 2017 dividend of in the year. Notable deals included Partner engagement in the future. CHF 0.65 per share, an increase Openbank, Santander’s digital bank, of 18% (2016: CHF 0.55 per share). and Itaú, the largest bank in Latin America. > We won 65 new clients, and new and competitive deals contributed 41% of software licensing in the year. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 07 Overview Overview MARKET LEADER INDUSTRY RECOGNITION Gartner1 Banking Technology Awards7 5 yrs > Recognized as a Leader for 8th > T24 Core Banking awarded ‘Editor’s consecutive time in ‘Magic Quadrant Choice Award.’ for Global Retail Core Banking.’ > ‘Readers’ Choice Award’ for “Best emerging/innovative technology product” for Temenos MarketPlace. Forrester2 > Leader in Forrester Wave for digital FS Tech Awards 20178 banking engagement platforms and global banking platforms. > “Technology Provider of the Ranked best selling Year 2017.” > Classed “Global Power Seller” for new business for 11th consecutive core banking system4 year and “Top Global Player” for new and existing business deals for 5th consecutive year. Ovum3 > “Market Leader” in core banking and 8 th Leader “Market Leader” in digital banking platforms. > “Market Challenger” in Anti-Financial Crime solutions. consecutive year IBS Intelligence4 Recognized as Recognized as > Ranked best selling core baking system for the last 5 years and top a Leader eight a Leader by the two positions for the past 18 consecutive years. consecutive times1 International Data > Ranked best selling digital banking and channels system. Corporation6 11 Celent5 > Awarded ‘2016 XCelent Award’ for advanced technology in digital channels and awarded ‘2017 XCelent yrs Award’ for breadth of functionality in wealth core banking. 1 The Gartner Report(s) described herein, (the International Data Corporation6 Classed “Global “Gartner Report(s)”) represent(s) research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated > Recognized as a Leader in global core banking, European mobile Power Seller” for subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. (“Gartner”), and are not representations of fact. Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date banking and wealth management front and middle office. new business2 (and not as of the date of this Quarterly Report) and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report(s) are subject to change without notice. 08 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements STRATEGIC FIT ACQUISITIONS IN 2017 In May 2017, Temenos “We are delighted to announce completed the acquisition the acquisition of Rubik, which of Rubik, a leading software will create a leader in the fast provider to the financial growing Australian financial services sector in Australia. software market by combining Rubik’s local knowledge and Founded in 2007, Rubik is a financial software company providing banking, product set with Temenos’ wealth management and mortgage global expertise and world broking solutions, primarily in Australia, class solutions. In particular, 900+ and also internationally across Asia and the Middle East. Rubik, which was listed on Rubik’s expertise and offering the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) in the wealth space are servicing 930 direct clients and 23,000 highly complementary to our end-users in 12 countries. existing products, and a key Temenos has a longstanding partnership aspect of the acquisition for with Rubik which dates back nearly ten Temenos given the size of this years. Rubik has successfully used Temenos solutions as the foundation for its Model opportunity in the domestic Bank and digital front end platform. market. clients brought in The combination of Rubik and Temenos by Rubik will create a market leader that will be able We are increasingly seeing to capitalize on the growth opportunities banks around the globe in the Australian market. In particular, it addressing the structural enables Temenos to benefit from increased scale and to accelerate growth across its pressures they are facing key target segments including wealth, core through core renovation with banking, and fund administration. The digital at the heart of their Australian market represents a significant opportunity for Temenos, with spending strategy. By acquiring Rubik, on banking software forecast to grow at we will be able to provide a an 8% CAGR in the medium term as well complete vertically integrated as having the 4th largest investment market globally driven by the superannuation solution for the Australian scheme. banking market, enabling our clients to realize their Through the acquisition, Temenos now has relationships with 41 of the world’s top 50 digital ambitions. The banks, up from 38 prior to the acquisition, acquisition will bring us scale with the addition of Commonwealth and allow us to accelerate our Bank Group, National Australia Bank and Westpac Banking Corporation to the penetration and growth in Temenos client base. the Australian market across wealth, core banking and fund administration.” David Arnott CEO, Temenos Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 09 Overview SOLUTIONS FOR THE DIGITAL AGE OUR SOLUTIONS OUR SOLUTIONS We offer our clients a set of complete front-to-back, integrated banking and finance software solutions which provides them with the full package for their specific needs. Suites Products Technology Read more on Read more on Read more on > 11 > 14 > 18 Our set of complete front-to-back, integrated Our product families span core banking Our technology products and frameworks are banking and finance software solutions. through to channels, analytics and risk organized into five offerings, reflecting five and compliance. areas in which banks face major business challenges. RetailSuite Analytics Data WealthSuite Core Banking Design CorporateSuite Channels Integration IslamicSuite Financial Crime Mitigation Interaction InclusiveBankingSuite Front Office Platform FundSuite Funds and Securities Payments Risk and Compliance Solutions for the US market 10 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements INNOVATIVE SOFTWARE Temenos software is the world’s most comprehensive, integrated and fully upgradeable solution for banks embracing digitalization and open banking. Mobile Internet Call Centre Branch Agent RM Chat-bot ATM API Channels Omni-Channel API Designer Open Banking MarketPlace Customer Sales Service Front Office & Single View Risk and Compliance Digital Decision Marketing Engine Portfolio Management Analytics Marketing Product Builder Operations Core Banking Embedded Analytics Funds & Securities Back Office Payments Workflow We offer a complete, integrated front-to-back solution OUR SOFTWARE Our clients can take a complete solution We invest heavily in our software platform based on our platform or alternatively to ensure that it remains fully up to date A complete and integrated implement specific modules to address regarding banking practice, regulation specific issues or requirements. This and technology. Our clients are able to software platform for banks. approach lends itself well to larger banks benefit from this investment because of who wish to conduct a lower risk, phased our disciplined package approach where Temenos builds and supports the world’s migration to our platform; an approach all our software is fully upgradeable. leading software platform for banking. called progressive renovation. Our software covers the full range of activities of banks and similar financial We strive to ensure that all of our modules institutions from front-to-back and across are market-leading in their own right and all types of bank and banking activity. able to compete with ‘best of breed’ The same software is pre-packaged competitors. At the same time we invest into a series of Suites adapted for the in full integration of our modules so banks retail, wealth and corporate banking who choose to implement a full Temenos verticals. Suites are also available for the solution gain significant additional benefit. more specialist areas of banking including Islamic and microfinance. In this way our industry-leading levels of investment in our software benefit all our clients in all types of banks. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 11 Overview SUITES We organize our products into open, integrated offerings for the different vertical markets we serve. Called Suites, each of these provide our clients with a real-time, end-to-end packaged platform. RETAILSUITE WEALTHSUITE CORPORATESUITE The world’s leading retail WealthSuite is an integrated CorporateSuite provides banking solution designed for software solution for wealth one system, one view for all the new banking landscape. managers. Its highly scalable corporate banking needs; technology offers integrated, today and tomorrow. RetailSuite is an integrated banking multi-channel, front-to-back software solution for retail banks CorporateSuite, with its scalable, innovative of all sizes across the globe. office capabilities. technology, provides superior features for corporate banks, supporting profitability, > Full front-to-back coverage; WealthSuite empowers our clients’ customer acquisition and retention. Now > Embedded analytics across all business. The solution industrializes the bank customers can benefit from quality areas; and investment process allowing banks to; digital solutions to equal their retail > Agile product engine. experiences for all their business > Efficiently manage investments for banking needs. RetailSuite is a solution platform which large numbers of complex portfolios; helps banks grow, whether they are > Achieve maximum investment Our CorporateSuite clients continue to established or new, and design and performance; see the benefit of our advanced modules. market innovative products which > Address both HNW and mass affluent Temenos’ CorporateSuite clients benefit help attract new customers. markets; from increased efficiency and profitability > Offer full digital channel access through: > Allows banks to bring new products to customers; and to market faster; > Target customers with appropriate > A complete, single solution; > Unparalleled insight allows banks to services and offers using the > Transparent, single view offering a 360° make better decisions, faster; and embedded CRM. view of accounts; > Integrated product engine and > Agile, parameter driven platform marketing and distribution channels For banks looking for a single vendor flexibility; enables banks to provide a cost-efficient solution, with the associated benefits > A product builder to quickly create personalized service to customers. of centralized support, WealthSuite segment customer level products; and transforms their business. WealthSuite > Insight into customer profitability, loyalty, Whether a bank is a new start up looking enables banks and wealth managers to: attrition risk and number of products for for its first solution, or a large-scale targeting activity. multi-country enterprise, RetailSuite > Increased performance and revenue provides a solution which enables banks This enable banks to: growth; to scale, onboard customers, reduce > Stronger customer loyalty; attrition and deliver a market-leading > A massively scalable, straight through > Advanced digital capabilities; and service to their customers. processing (STP) solution; > Cost and risk reduction. > Comprehensive business functionality and a modern, advanced, secure, open, modular architecture; > An automated, electronic solution without the need for cumbersome paper based processes; and > Target individual corporations and SME segments with appropriate, timely and innovative arrangements and product offers. 12 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements ISLAMICSUITE INCLUSIVEBANKINGSUITE FUNDSUITE IslamicSuite, with its scalable InclusiveBankingSuite is an FundSuite is an award winning innovative technology, integrated banking software fund administration software provides superior features for solution built upon 20 years solution which provides lslamic banks to offer their experience serving retail fund accounting, portfolio customers Shari’ah compliant community banking. accounting and investor products and services that rival servicing and transfer agency InclusiveBankingSuite is an integrated their Islamic or conventional banking software solution for microfinance on a single platform. counterparts. institutions (MFIs) and banks of all sizes active in both group and individual Clients using FundSuite are able to: IslamicSuite services the Islamic banking microfinance lending. community with Shari’ah compliant, flexible > Manage all the asset classes and solutions that are: > It provides MFIs with world class jurisdictions that they are involved banking capabilities that usually are only with now or in the future from a single > Specifically designed to support accessible to larger commercial banks accounting and investor servicing wealth, retail, corporate and treasury with significant IT budgets; platform; bank needs; > Deployable in the cloud on a SaaS basis; > Support alternatives flexibly on one > Highly scalable, established solution; and > Modern, agile and highly scalable core platform to facilitate convergence > Islamic institutions can now easily and banking system, as well as a single between long-only and alternative funds; efficiently create new Islamic banking platform for distribution across all > Reduce the total cost of ownership by products. digital and assisted channels; and consolidating functions and systems > Powerful business analytics. on one platform across multiple Temenos’ IslamicSuite clients benefit geographies, asset classes, jurisdictions; from increased efficiency and profitability InclusiveBankingSuite enables MFIs to > Exploit the sophisticated workflow and through: significantly reduce operating costs even exception management; when business is growing fast, and to > Produce analysis and product > Adopting a pre-configured solution pass on these efficiencies to their end development across clients so that based on Shari’ah industry standard; customers in the spirit of financial inclusion. development costs are shared and all > Offering advanced Shari’ah wealth At the same time, it enables MFIs to clients benefit from changes made to management services; clearly differentiate themselves with highly one code base; > Full automation and increased straight responsive service, tailored products and > Use the solution in both middle office through processing rates; a truly customer-centric experience – giving and back office to deliver the Investment > Reduced development time by 40%; and every customer the same quality service Book Of Records (IBOR) and Accounting > Quality customer products and services anywhere regardless of their financial Book Of Records (ABOR) from one available quickly and cost effectively. worth. platform; and > Access the data which is stored on an > Cost-efficiency: Cloud deployment and open Oracle architecture. SaaS model, high STP levels; > Scalability: Preserves transaction and query performance when growing fast; > Innovation: Easy product configuration and launch, powerful customer analytics; and > Operational resilience: Nonstop 24/7 business and scalable data centers. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 13 Overview PRODUCTS CORE BANKING COUNTRY MODEL BANKS FRONT OFFICE The Temenos T24 Core With our extensive experience of client Front Office is an integrated, Banking platform has been the implementations we have packaged all role-specific, multi-channel country specific localizations, including best selling solution on the compliance with regulations and solution, designed to support market for 15 years, used by local payments systems, into reusable banks’ daily interactions and over 700 financial institutions. country platforms, to provide our clients long term relationships with with software that fully supports local requirements. their retail, corporate, mass It combines rich functionality with cuttingedge technology in an easily upgradeable affluent and HNW customers. application. Clients benefit from real-time We currently offer country model embedded analytics, a sophisticated platforms for over 30 major countries. Front Office is a key enabler of digital product builder and technology that allows engagement throughout the customer’s for easy integration and infinite scalability, life cycle with both staff and customers in turn enabling them to significantly benefiting from the product’s multioutperform their peers. channel capabilities. Through the system’s powerful data analytics, The Temenos Core Banking solution is an financial institutions can gain valuable open, integrated and real-time platform insights into customers’ lifestyles and providing: transactional behaviors enabling them to offer a personalized customer experience > Real-time, complete customer information through timely and relevant advice, – enabling financial institutions to offer customized offers and rewards and their customers the right products at the relationship based pricing. right time; > Product builder – allows for extremely Temenos’ Front Office clients benefit quick time to market for new products as from increased productivity and efficiency well as the ability to personalize products through: and services to individual customers – a market of one; > Industrialization of key on-boarding and > Infinite scalability – the solution runs on revenue-generating processes; any software stack and is engineered to > High STP levels, enabling ‘self-service’ be linearly scalable, allowing clients to models via digital channels; and generate significant economies of scale; > A single integrated platform. > Extremely low Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) – against the industry average Front Office integrates seamlessly with of 78.8% of IT budgets being spent on both back office data and self-service maintenance, Temenos clients spend channels to provide a consistent customer 46.3%; and experience. It is completely compatible > Zero risk of obsolescence – Temenos with the existing banking systems, spends c.20% of revenues annually on enabling organizations to deploy and R&D, continually developing software control a flexible range of multi-channel, based on customer requirements and next generation banking services for their innovation from our labs. We make this customers – efficiently, securely, cost available to our clients through regular effectively and profitably. releases, ensuring that they never fall behind. 14 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements CHANNELS Temenos Channels solutions offer: ANALYTICS Banks can accelerate time > A single, consistent UXP reducing Unlock the power of banks’ complexity and improving productivity; to market for all of their > Accelerating speed to market of new data to become analytically products and services across products and services by up to four times; driven and drive profitability all digital and assisted > Using components to provide maximum and efficiency improvements business reuse and business agility; channels and extend their > An underlying UXP that can be extended throughout their entire reach to customers using across the enterprise further reducing organization. any device today and TCO; > Seamless integration to Temenos Core Temenos Analytics enables banks to in the future. Banking with open integration to third harness a wealth of data and transform party systems and applications; it into valuable business intelligence to Temenos’ ground breaking Channels support better decision-making across the > Maximum flexibility and agility to respond solutions enable our clients to deliver enterprise and to enrich all interaction with to market opportunities and changing products and services for any business their customers. conditions, by being highly customizable line, across all digital and assisted and configurable; channels, for both bank staff and By using banking specific, high-value, > Being future-proofed to embrace new customers, in any language and optimized analytical applications in every department innovative technologies and devices for any device. Temenos is the only from Finance, Marketing, Operations, thereby protecting your investment; and provider currently in the marketplace that Treasury to Risk Management, banks are > Low TCO and reduced maintenance costs can deliver all of this from a single user able to transform their business. This gives by up to 95%. experience platform (UXP). banks a significant competitive edge in this new banking landscape and digital world. Banks can support branch transformation as branches look to become more By using Analytics, our clients are able to: customer engagement focused with self-service kiosks and face to face financial > Empower business users with advisors. Contact centers will be able to self-service access to accurate data leverage digital technologies such as social providing a single version of the truth media, video, chat and instant messenger as driving smarter decision-making faster emerging channels for providing customer with better business outcomes; service and support. > Gain deep customer insight into behavior and buying trends to build a customerA dynamic, rich User Experience (UX) centric approach to delivering products responsive design is delivered providing and services; consistency across all channels. Banks > Embed intelligent analytics into core can provide choice and convenience to systems to enrich every customer their customers and the optimum user interaction and boost customer experience whatever channel or device engagement with a superior user they choose to use at that time. experience; > Integrate real-time data and embed predictive analytics to enable real-time risk and marketing activities; Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 15 Overview PRODUCTS continued ANALYTICS continued PAYMENTS RISK AND COMPLIANCE > Provide customers with contextual, A uniquely flexible payment Enabling financial institutions relevant product offers and advice at a time when they are most likely to buy – solution offering full, real-time to navigate the complex improving cross-selling, customer value control and a harmonized regulatory landscape in and customer loyalty; customer service experience. order to remain focused on > Integrate analytical capabilities directly into Core Banking and other applications, serving customers, creating making those applications, and the users Our Payments product family is a uniquely innovative products and flexible payment offering that not only of them, smarter and more efficient; and gives banks full, real-time control but also improving profitability. > Better understand and predict performance to build strategies for a harmonized customer service experience improving operational efficiency and and centralized for cost efficiencies and The Risk and Compliance product family financial processes to minimize risk and risk management. Our Payment Hub offers software and services for: drive profitable growth. is designed to process domestic and international payments in one solution > Compliance advice; in any region as defined by analysts as > Audits; ‘a vision for the payment architecture’. > Social media monitoring,; It was designed in collaboration with a > Vendor management; leading international bank to meet a gap > IFRS 9; in the market and with its rule and data > CRS; driven approach, allows instant changes. > Enterprise risk management; and Our auto-repair solution allows banks > FATCA compliance. to reach STP rates of 97% and higher. With our solutions, organizations are Our Payments clients benefit from able to reduce exposure to risk and increased efficiency and profitability minimize losses while complying fully through: with regulatory mandates. In this challenging environment, there is > A complete, single solution; tremendous pressure to maintain and > Transparent, 360° view of transactions; grow profit margins despite challenges > Unique weight based processing associated with new consumer demands, supporting payment prioritization; non-traditional competitors, and heavy > Agile, parameter driven platform regulatory burdens. Proper compliance flexibility; practices, supplemented by products > Full operational and technical control; and services from Temenos, can help > Conditional rules; avoiding the financial institutions avoid penalties, fines, complexity of multiple connections and reputational risk, ultimately ensuring and high risk programming; and profitability and success. > Stand alone or fully embedded within Temenos Core Banking. 16 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements FINANCIAL CRIME FUNDS AND SECURITIES MITIGATION Our Funds and Securities A uniquely flexible range of products are the award intelligent, versatile solutions winning fund administration for banks, large and small, software from Multifonds, to combat financial crime. providing fund accounting, portfolio accounting and The Financial Crime Mitigation product investor servicing and transfer family is a range of intelligent, analytical detection engines that are accurate, fast, agency on a single platform. easy to configure and simple to use. Its sophisticated approach ensures increased Today more than USD 5 trillion in assets efficiency by saving time and lowering for both traditional and alternative funds data-mining costs for enhanced decisionare processed on FundSuite in more making and improved collaboration, than 30 jurisdictions for the world’s ultimately completely mitigating against leading global custodians, third-party risk. Banks choose the solution they administrators, insurance companies need, whether it be to combat money and asset managers. laundering, accurately screen against sanctions lists or ensure enhanced customer due diligence. Our Financial Crime Mitigation clients benefit from increased efficiency and profitability through: > Safe and accurate algorithms; > Complete control and clarity; > 25 years of experience; > Full automation; > Intelligent analysis; > Ready and easy integration; > Stand alone or integrated into Temenos Core Banking; and > Real time as well as offline solutions. With our solutions, organizations are able to reduce exposure to risk and minimize losses while complying fully with regulatory mandates. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 17 Overview TECHNOLOGY Technology is strategy. We say this because our Technology products and frameworks make banks more agile, competitive and profitable, and help DATA DESIGN them thrive in complex, Turn the lead weight of data Adapt banking system margin-pressured into a golden opportunity: functionality and business environments. manage it, unlock it and processes better, faster extract value from it. and more frequently. These products also boost the scalability and resilience of the banking platform, enabling banks to perform well in the Temenos’ Data products provide banks Temenos’ Design offering boosts banks’ midst of complex, risky and marginwith a unified data platform that helps responsiveness to changes in business pressured environments. Specifically, them deal with the massive data volumes requirements while reducing cost-perwe help banks to: of the digital banking era by efficiently change, by enabling banks to adapt the managing their data, unlocking and functionality of their Temenos business > Become digital banks with real-time better accessing their data, and systems and to adapt their business multichannel banking and real-time extracting value from their data. processes in a productive, cost-efficient analytics and reporting; and low-risk manner. > Exploit innovative third-party Temenos’ Data framework lets changes user-interfaces and apps and other made by any Temenos product to This technology enables banks to easily cloud-based resources; be available in near-real-time to any make high quality adaptions to systems’ > Manage the cost of growing their configured reporting database. This functionality to stay abreast with evolving banking platform and operations; data federation enables multi-tenant business requirements and customer > Address the threats of disruption, and multi-region operation without journeys. The key business benefits disintermediation and commoditization loss of real-time query. of our Design products are: which arise from the entry of fintechs and large tech native players into their This technology enables banks to > Responsiveness/Productivity: the markets; and strengthen their customer-centricity and ability to respond to evolving business > Engage with changes to their industry support business decisions even when requirements by adapting functionality and use them for their own advantage. the volume of business data is growing and processes much faster and much fast. The key business benefits of our more frequently, possibly multiple Our Technology products and frameworks Data products and framework are: times a week or even per day, without are organized into five offerings, reflecting increasing costs; five areas in which banks face major > Scalability: the ability to efficiently > Quality: the ability to build and business challenges. process massive volumes of both run a highly industrialized and transactions and reporting queries institutionalized change-the-bank without increasing costs, thereby process which encourages high quality preserving the quality of the customer development work and eliminates the and business user experience as the risk of faulty changes affecting business business grows; operations; and > Productivity: the ability to support > Cost-efficiency: reduce dependence on advanced reporting capabilities that vendor-specialized experts, legacy inprovide business decision-makers with house tools and complex coding cycles, value-adding perspectives, and to and maximize the level of automation provide customers with fast responses of the change-the-bank process. to online queries; and > Competitiveness: the ability to exploit business analytics solutions to their fullest capabilities, enabling banks to action valuable insights and offer highly tailored and proactive products and services to customers. 18 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements INTEGRATION INTERACTION PLATFORM Be more agile and Opening banking platforms Reduce the cost of growth competitive with real-time to accelerate the pace of and complexity with a highly event based integration. innovation around services. scalable, efficient and flexible platform. Temenos’ Integration offering makes Temenos’ Interaction offering accelerates banks more agile by enabling them to the pace of innovation around banks’ Temenos’ Platform offering helps banks integrate systems much faster and more services by enabling them to easily expose run and scale their business systems much cost efficiently, and more competitive by their services to innovation Partners and more efficiently and to minimize TCO. enabling real-time, highly scalable, selfto any User-Interface (UI). It also lets the It does this by letting banks run their core assisted and multi-channel banking 24/7. bank create innovative combined services banking system in an application server and efficiently manage UIs across multiple and, when required, in a multi-tenant or Temenos’ Integration framework is the channels/devices/roles/languages. cloud-based set-up. In all cases, business basis for Temenos support for PSD2 based functionality is totally preserved. on ISO 20022 messages being exchanged Temenos’ Interaction framework is the between banks and third party payment basis for Temenos support for APIs This technology enables banks to deliver providers in near-real-time. whether for banking mobile agents or for outstanding service to their customers and open banking. The framework enables business users. The key business benefits of This technology enables banks to offer a the API to be mapped to the underlying our Platform products and framework are: superior customer experience, one that is enterprise services whether provided by much more timely as well as more easily Temenos, the bank, or third parties. > Scalability: enables banks to preserve attuned to evolving customer needs, the performance of their core banking even when business is growing fast. The This technology enables our clients to system at all stages of growth, while key business benefits of our Integration easily build and maintain an outstanding keeping operating expenses in check, products are: digital customer experience that can by fully exploiting application server evolve fast and cost-efficiently. The technology and the possibility of using > Agility: the ability to integrate any key business benefits of our Interaction a virtually unlimited number of app business system up to 3x faster, without products are: server instances arranged to work detailed vendor-specific coding work, together (clustering); and the ability to enabling banks to respond much faster > Innovation: the ability to make banking undertake comprehensive reviews of to evolving business needs; services readily available in a standard their system’s health without impacting > Competitiveness: the ability to provide way to innovation Partners and to any performance; multi-channel banking services in third-party UI of their choosing, which > Cost-efficiency: the ability to near-real-time 24/7, enabling banks to will accelerate the pace of innovation significantly reduce infrastructure and be competitive in the era of real-time around services; administrative costs of running and digital business; > Competitiveness: the ability to growing a complex organization by > Profitability: the ability to sustainably efficiently distribute innovate services, letting multiple entities (‘tenants’) share reduce the costs of performing and including combined (banking and/or a same instance of the core banking maintaining integration, and the ability non-banking) services, via outstanding system on a single set of platform to exploit cloud-based applications; UIs and via multiple channels/devices; resources; and the ability to automate > Scalability: the ability to preserve the > Flexibility: make it much easier to evolve multi-tenancy management to a large performance of integrated business UIs at a faster pace than underlying extent; and services and straight through processing business systems without incurring > Flexibility: at an operational level, as business volumes grow; and substantial costs (from ‘ripping out’ the ability to choose which operating > Reliability: reduce the risk of batch and ‘rewiring’); and system and application server a bank processing glitches and provide > Cost-efficiency: reduce dependence wishes to use to run their banking protection against regulatory scrutiny on vendor-specialized experts and on systems; and, at a strategic level, the and reputational damage. lengthy coding cycles to make banks ability to easily create and manage services readily available and to build new tenants in the system, increasing their own UIs; enhance the re-usability business agility. of APIs and UIs that they create, and pre-empt data openness regulatory requirements. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 19 Overview THOUGHT LEADERSHIP Read the full versions of our insight and thought leadership pieces online at: www.temenos.com INSIGHTS 01 02 03 How Temenos enables The evolving landscape AI in payments open banking and the of bank-to-customer revised Payment Service interactions We analyze data by looking at multiple factors Directive across multiple facets of our world, related to but not limited to, the task at hand. Humans When banking began, banking interaction have the ability to call on every aspect of their started physically by visiting a bank, and it current surroundings, any outlying influencing Open banking is the adoption of common factors including gained experience and use was not until the 1980s that telephone standards for collaboration between banks the data to make a decision. It isn’t always banking came into play. Around the same and other players within the banking the right decision, but that gained experience time, Bank of Scotland launched Home-Link ecosystem. helps the next time. a service on Prestel’s View-Link system which could be accessed on a microcomputer. Kanika Hope Is AI really capable of doing this? Strategic Business Development Director Dharmesh Mistry Chief Digital Officer Darryl Proctor Product Director, Payments 20 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 04 05 06 Robotics in banking: more Four banking models for the Successful migration is Iron Man than Terminator digital age all about choosing the right route Talk of robotics ending the world of Digitization of the banking industry is making work as we know it can be misleading and new banking business models possible. disingenuous. Rather than replacing our There are three basic routes to a new banking But, it is the combination of regulation and jobs, robotics and AI has the ability to enrich platform: Big Bang, Build and Migrate, and technology that is making new business them, freeing up time to concentrate on what Progressive Migration. models a necessity. we do best – innovation and creativity. Mark Gunning Ben Robinson Adam Gable Business Solutions Director Group Strategy Director Product Director, Financial Crime, Treasury and Risk Temenos Temenos Group Group AG AG Annual AnnualReport Report 2017 2017 21 Overview DRIVING INNOVATION THROUGH PRODUCT INVESTMENT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Temenos software investment approach forms THE VIRTUOUS CYCLE OF TEMENOS a virtuous cycle in which our SOFTWARE INVESTMENT clients influence Temenos’ investment and therefore benefit from the improved TEMENOS INVESTMENT APPROACH product. This in turn INVEST C.20% OF REVENUES IN R&D contributes to their success. Our clients then advocate for our solutions enabling us to Revolutionary Evolutionary Respond to changing Respond to attract new clients continuing investment in investment industry specific client technology and in banking the cycle. architecture functionality regulation and requirements trends RE LE ST TE AS E CONTINUOUS Continued DELIVERY advocacy and commitment DE IL LO D BU P Y SoftwareOn premise as-a-Service Reduced Improved operational customer risk experience Reduced Reduced Improved operating time to business costs market insights HOW OUR CLIENTS BENEFIT 36% INCREASE IN ROE 22 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Revolutionary investment in technology Respond to specific client requirements Reduced operational risk and architecture As we enter new markets or work with new Legacy IT landscapes are inherently risky In order to keep pace with the rapid rate clients, it is possible that our software may because of the many interfaces which are of change in information technology, require enhancement. We invest in our required between different functionality and Temenos continues to invest significantly products to close these functional gaps, delivery silos; the number of “islands” of to ensure that its software takes advantage but also in such a way so as to make functionality and the resulting complexity of the latest innovations. The technology the new functionality of widest benefit of connections between them increase changes required to support the growing possible to our existing and future clients. the number of points where a process or business and regulatory interest in open We do this by ensuring that flexibility is built technology failure can occur. As a result, banking are a prime example of this. What into the design, and that the software is banks can face outages in mission critical is revolutionary at one point becomes incorporated into the standard product. operations with resulting reputational standard in the following years, and this Our wide geographic reach across damage. These risks are increased if the is why it is important to continue with this all banking segments means that bank is still relying on obsolete technology investment approach. Examples can be seen enhancements developed for a specific where there is often a shortage of in recent years in the adoption of mobile client are often relevant in other markets suitably skilled resources. The end-to-end banking technology and the increasing and to other clients. integration offered by Temenos’ software, desire to provide software solutions which with its configurable and sophisticated are hosted on the cloud. Temenos offers Continuous delivery workflow, access control and security updated software based on the latest Temenos builds, deploys and tests features, allows our clients to benefit from technology to clients seamlessly through software on a daily basis. We use this as the lowest levels of IT operational risk, simple, regular upgrades. the foundation for the monthly release and to future-proof their IT architecture of upgrades to clients, which are then by means of the regular software release Evolutionary investment in banking accumulated into one Annual Maintenance mechanism. functionality Release each year. All releases are Banking functionality changes more cumulative enabling clients to upgrade Reduced time to market gradually than information technology, when they want. The upgrade process is Today, digitalization and the rise of new, with evolutionary advances being made designed to operate with minimal disruption specialized and highly agile competitors are in banking products, industry practice to a bank’s staff and customers. driving banks to respond ever more quickly and regulation. Temenos’ investment in to customers’ individual needs. Temenos’ functionality over the past 25 years reflects Reduced operating costs software enables banks to respond quickly, this. Recent examples have included the Banks spend an average of 14.3% of their flexibly and securely to these business embedding of analytics across the entire operating costs on IT. Moreover, less than needs as it is highly parameter-driven, portfolio to support decision making by 30% of this is on growth and innovation; and delivered with pre-configured, our clients and incremental investments in the remainder is spent on business as usual re-usable content, as well as user-friendly AI capabilities in areas such as the roboactivities. In contrast, Temenos clients configuration, design and testing tools. advisor in wealth. We enable our existing spend only 5.7% of their total costs on IT, clients to add new functionality to what of which 53.7% is on innovation. The Improved business insights they use already through regular updates, result of lower and innovation-focused A modern, digital bank requires whilst releasing the latest software for new expenditure is an ROE (Return On Equity) sophisticated analytics to understand clients monthly. number for Temenos clients which is 36% customer needs, to service regulators higher than banks using legacy systems. and to make optimal business decisions Respond to changing industry regulation in a timely and efficient manner. The and trends Improved customer service Temenos analytics product set is tightly Banking, being a highly regulated industry, Customers expect banks to provide the embedded within the overall front-to-back is subject to the continuous changing same level of seamless, personalized solution, providing real-time, predictive of requirements by regulatory agencies. service which they receive from leading and integrated analytics based on a single At Temenos, we actively follow changes online service companies such as Amazon version of the truth sourced from both in banking regulation, in order to build or Uber. In the past, banks’ abilities to transactional and contextual data from all relevant solutions into the software and provide such service has been hampered areas of the solution. This enables bank thus support our clients using the regular by legacy technology and business issues. staff to take customer service and business upgrade mechanism. We also anticipate Temenos provides a modern front-to-back strategic decisions on the basis of up to other significant industry trends such as digital and integrated solution, allowing date information. open and digital banking, and incorporate seamless customer journeys across all them proactively into our software. areas of a bank’s service and product portfolio. A single rules engine driven by embedded analytic capabilities, enables a bank to proactively tailor the experience to a customer’s individual needs based on a single 360° lifetime view of the customer. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 23 Overview R&DEEP % OF REVENUE SPENT ON R&D USD 1.75bn Cumulative R&D investment 1990-2017 25 20 Temenos average spend % of revenue 15 Temenos of sales on R&D 10 5 Our peers 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 R&D at more than twice the We also support partial upgrades, allowing Proud record of innovation our clients to upgrade the parts of their Our philosophy could be summed up as level of our competitors plus solution which they need to. This means constant functional evolution delivered deep domain knowledge that all of our clients can continue to benefit on innovative technology. We are proud means that our software from the ongoing investment we make in of the record of innovation which we have our products. established, being, for example, the first never becomes legacy true fintech vendor to run on open systems, Core principles to have a truly 24 x7 platform, the first to run Investing more than our peers on R&D Temenos has always produced software core processing software in the public cloud Temenos has consistently invested over according to a set of core principles. We and the first to have all services exposed as 20% of its revenues in R&D. This is more believe in re-use, openness and being RESTful APIs. than twice the level of investment made by agnostic about technology platforms. This our closest competitors. Furthermore, since means that all developments are made we only produce software for banking and available to all clients. It also means giving finance, all of this investment is targeted at our clients choice over which technology our concentrated product portfolio. they run and never locking them into a particular provider. The openness means Channeled into regular releases that third parties can develop on our Our software is truly packaged and platform to accelerate innovation thus upgradeable. We produce a monthly ensuring that our clients always have access release of new software, which can be to the best technology and functionality. used by clients when there is need, and each year we create a cumulative Annual Maintenance Release. 24 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements OPEN BANKING The pace of innovation is Regulatory initiatives such as the EU’s Revised Payments Services Directive accelerating at the same time (PSD2) and other Open API initiatives in OPEN BANKING as competitive boundaries countries like the UK and Germany that READINESS are blurring. came into force earlier this year, are further accelerating open banking by forcing banks Consequently, it’s not enough to innovate to share customer data with third party Banks were asked “To what extent faster; firms must keep up with best-inproviders, should their customers give do you agree/disagree with each class innovators regardless of what sector consent. This is intended to create a level of the following statements about they might operate in today. This places playing field for fintechs, technology players open banking?” (%), 2015-2017. many requirements on firms in terms of, and banks alike. say, winning the war for talent or adopting IT IS MORE OF AN a DevOps model for the production and Open banking can be lucrative OPPORTUNITY THAN A THREAT The good news is that the move to open 79% releasing of software. But, most of all, it means that companies need to open banking can boost banks’ profitability and themselves up to third-parties. In today’s most banks now see the opportunity. world, the best way to build competitive advantage is to leverage a firm’s position By placing themselves at the heart of a 2017 79% by putting it at the heart of an ecosystem; digital ecosystem and orchestrating a 2016 69% to influence rather than control. This is true successful platform strategy, i.e. forging partnerships with third party providers 2015 52% for Temenos. It is true for banks. It is true for fintechs. as well as developers, banks can benefit substantially. McKinsey estimates, that by WE ARE HAPPY TO DISTRIBUTE Recognizing the broad need for adopting a platform model, banks could THIRD PARTY PRODUCTS collaboration across financial services is potentially increase their Return on Equity THROUGH OUR PLATFORM by up to 6.3%. 62% why we created the Temenos MarketPlace; an ecosystem for growth. Banks are starting to appreciate this. Open banking is inevitable A recent survey from Accenture and The widespread consumption of digital Temenos9 found that a clear majority of 62% 2017 banking services by less loyal customers bankers (79%) now see open banking as 2016 38% and the rise of non-traditional providers of more of an opportunity than a threat with 62% of bankers saying that they would be 2015 29% financial services, mean that the banking value chain is unbundling and that prepared to distribute third-party services over their platform. BUILDING AN OPEN BANKING manufacturing and distribution of banking services are diverging. This trend will only PLATFORM IS A HIGH PRIORITY exacerbate as the disruptive technologies This change in banking sentiment coincides FOR US 59% such as cloud, APIs, artificial intelligence with an increasing realization on the part of and machine learning, mature in banking. many service providers, especially fintech Open banking is the resulting global companies, that using banks as a route phenomenon of this disintermediation of to market – given their large customer the value chain. It is a collaborative model numbers, compliance and capital – might 2017 59% and involves sharing of banking data well be easier than going it alone. Today, 51% 2016 between organizations through the use of according to Capgemini10, 75% of fintech 2015 30% open APIs. APIs are considered the de-facto companies want to work with banks. industry standard for collaboration because they are scalable, reusable, easy-to-use and And so the scene is now set for greater considered safer and more cost effective collaboration. than non-standard ways of sharing data such as screen-scraping, or manual downloads. Open APIs lend themselves to monetization and the rise of new business models. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 25 Overview FINDING THE BEST FINTECH According to some estimates, there are as many as 25,000 fintech companies in operation today. As in everything in life, we could use a bellcurve to classify these companies, with only a minority being truly outstanding. The job of the MarketPlace team is to find those truly outstanding fintech companies, those that can add significant incremental value to our banking clients. As well as working with clients and our incubator Partners, the global Innovation Jam competition provides a critical means for us to uncover these exceptional companies. The Innovation Jam was started in 2015. That year, we held a competition at the Temenos Community Forum (TCF) – decided by the attendees – to find the most innovative new product from our complementary solution providers. It proved to be such a success that, the following year, we turned it into a global competition. The global competition is now in its third year and it keeps getting bigger and better. In 2016, we held four global heats, in 2017 we held five global heats and in 2018 we’re holding eight. This year, we are running many of the competitions together with Partners and many of the winners from last year, such as Finn.ai and Edgelab, will give testimonials explaining how the Innovation Jams have turbocharged their business. In 2018, the Innovation Jams come to Dublin (powered by Bank of Ireland), Miami, Amsterdam (supported by ABN AMRO), “Taking part and winning the Geneva Innovation Hong Kong (supported by Supercharger), Jam has given us massive exposure. That and our London, Abu Dhabi (supported by ADGM), Geneva (supported by Fusion) and Temenos MarketPlace membership, has helped Luxembourg (supported by the LHoFT). us to grow much faster and internationalize our As in previous years, we will fly the winners business. Pretty much every day now we have a from the Innovation Jams to the Temenos call or meeting with Temenos sales or Community Forum, this year in Dublin, Temenos customers.” where they will compete for the crown of global innovation champion, which last year was won by Blue Code. Ruedi Winzeler – COO at EdgeLab Let’s Jam! 26 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements THE TEMENOS MARKETPLACE Fostering collaboration and access to innovation THIRD PARTY PROVIDERS The challenge is that there is no established model for banks and fintech companies to work together. This is the problem that the Temenos MarketPlace solves. In the Accenture/Temenos banking survey, it was clear that banks overwhelmingly want to work with fintech firms, but they face two significant challenges in doing so. The first is around curation, mustering the time and resources to figure which are the best fintech firms to work with (cited by 10% of bankers). The second and bigger challenge (cited by 55% of bankers) is around procurement, specifically the time it takes to steer a fintech firm through a bank’s procurement processes and then integrate the solution into the bank’s production environment. +100 products +50 providers The Temenos MarketPlace overcomes these two challenges. The Temenos MarketPlace is curated. We find the best fintech companies by working with our ecosystem MarketPlace of incubator Partners and our clients and by actively screening the fintechs we find through the Innovation Jams and those that apply directly through the site. Our clients can be sure that every solution on Temenos MarketPlace is robust, proven and has a clear value-adding proposition. In terms of speeding up procurement, we would point to certification and our Innovation Acceleration Platform, a cloud-based version of our Suites they can use for testing providers. When a provider is onboarded onto the Temenos MarketPlace, they get access to our developer portal, with documentation of our APIs, as well as access to a shared sandbox. This enables them to create the level of integration to have a joint architecture model and an integrated demo environment. Once a provider starts to sell, we then integrate much more deeply with our software, making them “plug and play” accessible to all clients who run our FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS Innovation Acceleration Platform. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 27 Overview TOGETHER WE ARE STRONGER DELIVERING CLIENT SUCCESS Temenos and our network of Partners took 251 clients live THE TEMENOS PARTNER PROGRAM with Temenos software in 2017 continuing the tremendous track record of successful delivery that we have seen over recent years. Product Global specialist technology In 2017, Temenos experienced even greater Partner involvement in successfully implementing our product solutions across all banking sectors. To support our clients and Partners, Temenos has continued to strengthen the governance by combining internal and Partner governance reviews and support which TEMENOS has allowed clients to fully utilize the power of the software. SaaS PARTNER Services PROGRAM Temenos focuses on the training of client staff and Partners responsible for implementation of software to ensure a strong mix of qualified Project Managers with extensive product expertise. Temenos ensures skills are Microfinance Upgrades appropriate through a rigorous program of formally certifying both staff and Partners in the Temenos Implementation Methodology, Complementary upgrades, data migration and Temenos product suites. solution providers Temenos this year has changed processes allowing projects to begin significantly faster by utilizing cloud technologies, in turn helping clients and Partners access our software within Our Partner vision is to be the partner days of starting the project. We believe this will help drive down implementation times for our of choice for leading quality product, clients through 2018 and beyond. technology and service suppliers in the The Temenos Implementation Methodology (TIM) describes the full end-to-end project banking sector to enable Temenos to delivery cycle of Temenos Suites and has been deliver the optimum solutions to its clients. developed over a number of years using best practice from hundreds of implementation projects. In 2017, Temenos extended its methodologies to new products and also made these available to our Partner “Temenos and our Partner ecosystem remain community helping them drive successful committed to delivery excellence. Our main implementations and upgrades in a robust and consistent manner. focus is taking our clients live and generating client success. Targeted Productized Services, The Temenos delivery ecosystem comprising focused on Performance and Upgrades, our own consultants and Partner resources has continued to grow in 2017 to its highest level ensure that our clients continue to realize and Temenos will continue this focus into 2018 the return on their investment for many as we work with Partners to train and certify more staff to support our growth. years following their go live.” Alexa Guenoun, Chief Client Officer 28 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements EXPERTS IN THE FIELD Our expert consulting Finally, for all clients contemplating an We have productized the implementation upgrade of their Temenos solution, we of our Data Lifecycle Management (DLM) capability helps our clients provide a comprehensive Upgrade product, offering an effective and reliable and Partners exploit the Assessment service executed by a way for our clients to take advantage of combination of expert technical and business this technology to reduce the size and capability of our solution consultants who are able to define the operational risk of their live database, and reliably and efficiently, and to benefits in the context of the client’s own achieve significant cost savings on high select the right architecture to business and IT strategies. This approach performance storage infrastructure. This and focuses on the value contributed by our other similar technical services are delivered meet complex requirements. solutions and may involve retiring old by a cost-effective combination of onsite customizations as part of a “back to core” expert consultancy and our offshore Expert Over 75 expert consultants with unparalleled approach, moving to relational databases Services group which has doubled in size breadth and depth of product knowledge and Java technology, and adoption of new and skills capability over the last 12 months. and implementation experience are available components of the applicable Temenos globally to lead clients on their journeys of solution. As one client said “The service We continue to bring new Productized adopting, extending and optimising their opened my eyes to doing things I had not Services to market in areas such as use of Temenos solutions. Engagement previously thought of.” Compliance, where our clients need styles may be persistent over a period of a quick and reliable way of adopting our years, or short and sharp over just a few solutions to meet regulatory deadlines weeks, depending entirely on the nature Governance Services in areas such as IFRS 9 and CRS. of the challenges and opportunities In accordance with our partnering strategy being addressed. Broadly they fall into more and more implementation and three categories: Expert, Governance and upgrade projects are primed by Partners. In “We wanted to extend a huge Productized Services. order to provide the right level of Temenos and heartfelt thank you to your involvement and assurance to clients, and appropriate advice and guidance to the consultant for her tireless time Expert Services Partners, we provide guaranteed access to and the amazing quality of With the increase in tier 1 and 2 clients an expert consultant focused on minimization choosing our solutions, comes a of solution-oriented delivery risk and the work she has completed for corresponding increase in deployment most effective use of Temenos solutions us over the past month. We options and complexity. We are responding to the need to define a “right first time” in the project. This service includes regular have been blown away with formal project reviews and Design Authority implementation strategy by deploying participation. her expertise, knowledge, Expert Solution Architects to give guidance professionalism, analytical to our clients and Partners on the right approach by developing a Solution Blueprint Productized Services skills, training skills, attention Our portfolio of short, high-impact by which the project can subsequently consultancy packages, designed and to details and ability to navigate. The continuity provided across the handover from sales to delivery helps brought to market by our Expert Services articulate things in a way we to ensure client and Partner confidence team together with our Product group, will understand. Additionally, remains high and projects are initiated continues to flourish. correctly and efficiently. the quality and quantity of Our expert Performance Specialists have her work, documentation now delivered over two hundred Performance Across our mature and loyal client base we Healthchecks, where we conduct a and writing skills deserve see an increasing trend to extend the use of our solutions, often to address businessholistic assessment of online and Close of separate mention, as it’s critical opportunities such as acquisition Business performance in the context of the the most thoroughly and of new businesses or expansion into new client’s current and future business and IT territories. Such projects typically involve environments and make recommendations comprehensive we have a combination of upgrading, refreshing for improvement. Striking improvements ever seen.” business and technical architectures, are often achieved in as little as two green-field adoption and replacing thirdor three weeks. party or legacy core banking systems, and Temenos Client are often transformational in nature. We provide expert advice and guidance, helping to identify the lowest risk roadmap to extend our solutions across the growing organization and take full advantage of current and future product capability. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 29 Overview INVESTING IN LEARNING During the year we saw Our second product in the TLC family arrived at the turn of the year. TLC-Engine is our the launch of the Temenos complete digital transformation tool able to Learning Community train, test and certify a client’s team. TLCEngine brings a business-process led learning otherwise known as TLC. experience that provides the ability for our clients to shape and document their own Over previous years, we have increased the unique standard operating processes. number of premium services delivered to our clients and grown our partner-focused Temenos Learning Community has global and regional project delivery model. established a new approach for Temenos TLC has been created to add a new, modern to engage with all of our expanding knowledge-transfer approach to our overall ecosystem that puts the knowledge-sharing Company service strategy. and learning of Temenos products and technologies at the heart of our clients The first product offering launched under and Partners’ learning strategies. the TLC brand is an online, subscriber-driven learning platform named TLC-Online that opened for business on 1 September 2017. Subscribers become members of an online, social-media based community, in which they are able to seek knowledge, gain knowledge and share knowledge. With a growing Partner ecosystem and our increasing R&D investment, it is essential to maintain the focus on driving high levels of certification across all our products, technologies and methodologies. In response to feedback and in particular from our Partner ecosystem, TLC-Online is designed to directly bring online learning and certification to subscribing members 24x7, anytime and anywhere. Exclusively hosted in our own cloud environment, this level of availability and access is helping client and Partner project teams to study our training content and familiarize themselves on our products in an up-to-date sandbox environment. To help TLC members decide which courses are appropriate to help them achieve their certification goals, TLC-Online contains Suitebased learning paths to guide a member in developing their own personal training plan. At each stage of their journey along their learning path, a member can take an online examination to earn credits and increase their personal certification level. Since its launch, TLC-Online has welcomed just under 500 members. This has grown on a monthly basis. Significantly, 40% of TLC members have already increased their own personal certification levels. 30 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial Statements TEMENOS LEARNING OPTIONS Temenos Learning Community (TLC) TLC – Classroom TLC – Engine TLC – Online Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 31 Overview TENTH ANNUAL BANKING SURVEY INSIGHTS Banks facing an almost perfect storm of Beware challenger banks Structural challenges call for structural challenges… Another notable change in this year’s survey answers In 2017’s survey, co-produced with was banks’ attitude to new challenger banks Recognizing that profitability is a structural, Accenture, a leading global professional that respondents now see as much bigger rather than a cyclical issue, banks are services company and strategic Temenos threats. In general, banks see other banks increasing their IT budgets in an effort to partner, banks cited the following as a slightly bigger competitive threat than digitize operations. 68% of respondents significant challenges to their business: non-bank entrants, such as technology said that they expected their budgets to be meeting regulatory requirements (17% companies and telecoms companies, higher in 2018 than in 2017, against just 7% of respondents), securing customer which explains why so many banks (such as who expected the budgets to be cut, giving loyalty (17%), using data effectively (15%), Bank Leumi with Pepper and J.P. Morgan the highest positive delta (61%) since the addressing increased competition (15%) and with Finn) are launching challenger brands survey started ten years ago. While there are managing the growing risk of cybercrime themselves. interesting regional disparities (86% of Asian (10%). The high levels of concern across banks expect budgets to rise compared to these areas crowded out other issues, such Goodbye human bankers? 60% of banks in Europe), all regions expect as balancing risk with growth, which had Perhaps the most surprising finding from increases. been major concerns in the past. this year’s survey is the speed and extent to which banks expect their primary form Addressing the fundamentals .…undermining profitability of communication with customers to Encouragingly, banks seem to recognize All of these areas of concern potentially change. In ten years, respondents believe that there are no shortcuts to true depress bank profitability, which emerged that only 7% of interactions will be in person digitization as core banking renovation in this year’s survey as the biggest (either physically or by videoconference). was cited as the top IT spending priority challenge faced by banks. It was cited by This shift that could have dramatic (23%). Banks have found that trying to 19% of respondents compared to 15% implications for the composition of the avoid the fundamental step of consolidating the year before, and reflects the fact that, banking workforce. data sets onto a real-time processing notwithstanding an improving cyclical platform significantly limits the benefits backdrop of slowly rising interest rates and Digitization drives IT spend from upstream investments in channels better asset quality, profitability (particularly The biggest IT spending priorities reflect and analytics. As 32% of respondents told in Europe) has been fundamentally reset in banks’ digital agendas, with digital channels us, legacy systems represent the biggest the post-crisis era. (18%) and analytics (14%) being two of barrier to digitization, far ahead of issues the top three areas and the creation of such as lack of strategic focus (14%) or lack Fintechs are now friends, not foes APIs being cited by 8% of respondents of skills (12%). In a continuation of last year’s trend, fewer compared to 1% last year. banks are citing fintech companies as their biggest source of competition (16% vs. Compliance is also a driver 19%). Instead, the vast majority of survey Compliance with new regulations remains respondents want to work with fintech a key focus for IT spending (cited by 11% of companies. However, they face challenges respondents), especially for institutions in in doing so; determining which of the Europe and those in wealth management, thousands of firms they should work which are facing multiple new regulations with (curation was cited by 18% of coming into force in 2018, such as MiFID II, respondents) and, in particular, steering PSD2 and GDPR. small fintech companies through their own procurement processes (55%). The clouds are lifting Attitudes towards the cloud continue to Open for business shift. For several years we have expected The move to embrace fintech companies banks would start to deploy more mirrors a progressive attitude to open applications, including mission-critical banking in general. 79% of our respondents ones, in the public cloud in order to lower indicated that open banking is more of costs, speed up development cycles and an opportunity than a threat (vs. 52% two cope with the processing demands of a years ago), and 62% said that they would digital economy. Banks were held back by be prepared to distribute third-party concerns about regulation and security, products through their platform but both these issues continue to diminish, (vs. 29% two years ago). with only 22% now worrying about data security (compared to 50% in 2011) and 29% seeing regulation as a barrier to adoption (39% in 2012). 32 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements KEY FINDINGS FROM THE SURVEY9 The evolving competitive threat: Which of the following do you see as the biggest competitive threats to your organization? (%) 2015-2017 20% Technology 17% vendors 27% 2017 2016 2015 Fintech 16% start-ups 19% 14% Existing small incumbents 6% 10% 5% 22% Existing 20% of respondents see challenger banks large 22% as their biggest threat incumbents 21% Overseas 6% 8% 23% entrants 11% Retail/ 10% Supermarket/ 7% Telcos entrants 10% cited core banking renovation as the 22% top IT spending priority New bank entrants 16% 11% What challenges, if any, are you facing in implementing a digital banking strategy? (%) 2017 19% 14% 13% 13% 12% 12% 9% 8% Legacy core Lack of Channel Access to Lack of Cybersecurity Securing Speed to systems strategic solutions data for internal skills/ and data budget for market creating focus (e.g. have all been analytics resources security transformation delayed by barrier data viewed developed is locked concerns large range as an IT issue, separately in multiple of devices to real-time or legacy cater for cloud seen as systems and a risk) silos Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 33 Performance 34 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements PERFORMANCE Performance Business review 36 Financial review 40 Principal risks and uncertainties 44 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 35 Performance DELIVERING AN OUTSTANDING 2017 BUSINESS REVIEW David Arnott INTRODUCTION Chief Executive Officer In 2017, we cemented our position as the leading vendor of mission-critical software to banks globally. We delivered an outstanding performance across the business, from product innovation through to sales and implementation. This was all the more impressive coming on the back of a very strong two years of growth in 2015 and 2016 and demonstrates how, given the network effects in the software industry, fast growth begets fast growth. Our growth is testament to our business model, which allows us to capitalize on network effects, and our ability to consistently execute on the structural opportunity. Banks are dealing with “I am delighted with our performance in existential threats that are intensifying. The pace of digitization in financial 2017, in which the business has continued services is accelerating, as is the burden to accelerate and capitalize on the of regulation. Overlaid on these two pressures is the move to open banking, significant momentum in our end market.” which provides our clients with both a threat and an opportunity. How they respond David Arnott to these pressures will dictate their future Chief Executive Officer for decades. These multiple structural drivers are underpinning the growth in third-party banking software spend, as institutions We have ended the year in and the strength of our value are increasingly coming to realize that they a very strong position, with proposition. Our clients are not only need to upgrade their systems for the digital age, but that they need to use double digit growth across all looking for a software partner third-party vendors to do so. our geographies, which is a that will help them understand testament to the dedication and address the pressures In 2017, we again took market share in this growing market. This owes in part to our and talent of all our colleagues of digitization, regulation ability to capture a growing share of deals and our ability to consistently and the new world of open with tier 1 and 2 institutions as we emerge as execute at a very high banking. With the leading the de facto vendor of choice for the system replacement at the world’s biggest banks. standard year after year. packaged, upgradeable and In 2017, tier 1 and 2 banks contributed 59% open banking software in the of total software licensing revenue. It also This year our traction and market, we are the vendor owes to the competitiveness of our solution leadership with tier 1 and of choice for the world’s across the different segments we serve, our results showing broad-based success across 2 banks has been clearly largest banks. retail, wealth and corporate verticals. demonstrated. We won deals with Openbank, Itaú, KBC and a US tier 1 bank among others, which speaks to our global relevance 36 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements With a significant and growing market opportunity, we continued to invest in our business throughout 2017 to ensure we are well positioned to keep taking market share. As a product-led organization, R&D is at the heart of everything we do and this is reflected in our ongoing commitment to invest in our product to ensure that we are OPENBANK, THE DIGITAL BANK OF SANTANDER GROUP, at the forefront of innovation in our sector. SELECTS TEMENOS CORE BANKING We have also continued our investment in Sales and Marketing. As we grow, we need to ensure we have a sales team that is Openbank, the digital bank of Santander By adopting Temenos Core Banking, structured to continue driving this growth. Group, has selected Temenos Core Openbank will be able to gain a deeper We have increased our sales headcount by Banking to be implemented as understanding its customers and be more than 20% in 2017. This was a mix of Openbank’s new core banking solution fast to market with new personalized experienced hires as well as graduates from for retail and SME banking across its products and services at a very low the Sales Academy, our comprehensive global operations. Total Cost of Ownership. program to attract and train the best and Temenos’ Core Banking solution Openbank, which already has over the brightest young people to become is an integrated, upgradeable and 1 million customers today, will use sales leaders of the future. scalable package built on an open Temenos Core Banking to drive domestic banking architecture. Banks are able and international expansion and support We have demonstrated our ability to to utilize robust open APIs to operate the group’s digital strategy. Openbank is consistently execute on the market collaborative business models, working one of the first fully fledged digital banks opportunity, and have seen a significant with an ecosystem of third parties to in the world, with its software, APIs and acceleration in our pipeline over the last add more value to their customers’ client transactions running in the cloud, 12 months. We have increased our financial financial lives. Temenos Core Banking offering a complete range of banking targets for 2018 and for the medium is already available through public cloud, and investment products through its term which reflects our revenue visibility private cloud or on premise and digital platform. and confidence in our ability to grow the is platform agnostic. business and create significant value for our shareholders. 2017 IN REVIEW “We are very excited to count on the know-how and speed Sales – double digit growth across all to market that Temenos will provide us, as we continue to geographies build one of the best digital banks in the world.” Our sales performance in 2017 was very strong as we continued to win all the largest deals in our market. We delivered double Ezequiel Szafir digit growth across all of our geographies driven by a large volume of deals across Chief Executive Officer, Openbank client tiers and segments but also higher deal sizes as our sales mix continues to shift to tier 1 and 2 institutions. Activity in Europe was particularly strong as banks responded to changing customer demands, increased regulation and the move towards open banking. We also saw good growth in Latin America, as well as the Middle East and Africa, driven by increasing demand for banking products and the need for reduced time-to-market for new products and services to stay ahead of the competition. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 37 Performance BUSINESS REVIEW continued We announced a number of notable deals Our new three year plan – update Our new three year plan focuses on five in 2017, the most significant of which was on strategic initiatives key initiatives: the signing of Openbank, the digital bank We made very good progress on the of Santander Group. Openbank is one of strategic initiatives we laid out at our > Enhancing our award-winning Suites. the first fully fledged digital banks in the Capital Markets Day at the start of the Our focus is in particular on ensuring world, running in the cloud and offering a year and presented a new three year plan our clients can operate platform complete range of banking and investment at the start of 2018 to reflect the ongoing models in the age of open banking so products through its digital platform. The development of our business and endkey enhancements are around APIs, bank selected Temenos T24 Core Banking market. MarketPlace, analytics and online for their new core banking solution for updates – allowing our clients to put into retail and SME banking across its global We extended our leadership across core production new software much faster. operations. By partnering with Temenos, banking, wealth and fund administration, > Product development to open up new Openbank will be able to gain a deeper with our growth in each area materially markets. Through organic developments understanding of its customers and be above the level of growth in the market. we are confident we can open up fast to market with new personalized Our position as the leading vendor of and generate material revenues products and services at a very low Total front-to-back solutions was cemented from origination and fraud, markets Cost of Ownership, driving domestic and with the signing of the largest and most accounting collectively for over USD 1.6 international expansion and supporting strategically important deals in our market billion in annual software spend. the Santander Group’s digital strategy. in 2017, in particular Openbank, KBC, > Market development to capture faster Itaú and a US tier 1 bank. Our relentless growth. Here we see the potential to We also announced the signing of a focus on innovation and R&D is reflected capitalize on our existing momentum to deal with Itaú, Latin America’s largest in these key wins, as well as numerous drive much higher revenues and growth banking group, which selected Temenos’ other signings in the year, as we see banks from tier 1 and 2 institutions, Australia WealthSuite for its international private reducing the number of vendors they work (following the Rubik acquisition), the banking operations. The solution will with to focus on relationships with a small US and payments. combine Itaú’s core banking, portfolio number of key strategic Partners for the > Readying the organization for sustained management, channels and analytics renovation of their legacy IT landscape. faster growth and changing deployment functions in a single wealth management models. This concerns multiple aspects platform deployed in the cloud, enabling Our strategy to penetrate the US is bearing of the business such as: Sales and the solution to scale in an agile manner fruit, with the signing of key new accounts, Marketing, where we continue to grow according to the ongoing evolution of strong development of our pipeline and spend faster than revenues; education, the business. very good progress made on the ongoing where we are investing significant implementation with Commerce Bank resources in our learning community, Other key deals signed in the year and the build out of the US model bank. an ecosystem-led approach which will included KBC, which commenced the Commerce Bank will be a key reference be highly scalable and be constantly implementation of Temenos’ solution across for us going forward. enhanced via strong network effects; multiple geographies after the successful delivery, accelerating the rate at which roll out in Ireland. In Q4, we announced Our momentum in digital banking and we onboard Partner resources and the signing of a deal with a US tier 1 cloud was demonstrated with the progress launching initiatives such as the client bank, a significant step in our strategy of of major digital projects including Pepper, assembly factory; and cloud, where expanding into the US. The bank selected the digital bank of Bank Leumi, as well our goal is not just to grow cloud Temenos T24 Core Banking as its global as a noticeable uptake in the use of cloud deployments but to undertake a far cash management platform for deposit for implementation and deployment, greater proportion of implementations transaction processing, internal account as demonstrated by the signing of Itaú. and testing using cloud infrastructure. sweeping and interest compensation. This culminated in us receiving recognition > Complementing organic growth with The system will replace the bank’s legacy of our digital capabilities by leading acquisitions. We will continue to use infrastructure and will be implemented industry analysts. M&A as a tertiary driver to give us progressively in multiple countries across presence in new markets, drive scale the globe, enabling the bank to offer its and accelerate our R&D roadmap wholesale clients a follow the sun service to through complementary technologies improve their working capital efficiency. and entrance into complementary and adjacent segments. 38 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Delivering client success Banks can approach digital transformation One of our most valuable intangible assets in different ways. Most elect to is our client references. We live and die progressively renovate their systems, by the success of our clients and as such I replacing systems one by one by function, am hugely focused on ensuring our clients line of business or geography. This is what ITAÚ SELECTS TEMENOS’ realize the business benefits they set out clients such as Nordea and Julius Baer are to achieve when partnering with Temenos. doing. Many others choose to launch a WEALTHSUITE FOR A record number of clients went live on new digital bank. These include Equitable ITS INTERNATIONAL Temenos software in 2017, with 251 goBank’s EQ Bank, Bank Leumi’s Pepper PRIVATE BANKING lives in total including 104 clients going and M-Shwari from Commercial Bank of BUSINESS live for the very first time. Our Services Africa. The rationale for this approach is organization continues to act in a critical that the technology can be implemented Itaú Unibanco Holding SA (Itaú), quality control and governance role on quickly, the banks can be branded to Latin America’s largest banking all our projects, working closely with our appeal to a different, normally younger, group, selected Temenos’ strategic Partners to deliver success demographic and the new entity is both WealthSuite for its international for all our clients. free from many of the technology, process private banking operations. and governance constraints of the parent DIGITAL TO THE CORE while leveraging the parent’s assets in The highly scalable solution 2018 will be the year of digitization. terms of trust and compliance knowledge. combines Itaú’s core banking, However, most banks are still only In our latest annual survey, conducted with portfolio management, channels beginning this digitization journey. Accenture, our respondents felt that these and analytics functions in a single Significant amounts have been spent on new digital banks represented their biggest wealth management platform. The digital initiatives to date without realizing competitive threat. bank will deploy WealthSuite in the the improvements that banks were cloud enabling the solution to scale expecting. This is because banks invested Once digital, banks will be able to fulfill in an agile manner according to the in digital channels without updating their potential to become trusted advisors ongoing evolution of its business. their core infrastructure, exposing to end to their customers. This will see banks users the limitations of siloed, batchleverage their trust to help customers make Temenos’ WealthSuite will be based legacy systems. Now, banks are smarter financial and commercial decisions, implemented in a big bang appreciating that a digital journey must introducing them to the right service or approach, allowing the business to include core banking modernization if it to providing the right advice at the right time benefit from the new technology be truly effective. The digital journey does and over the right channel. in the quickest timeframe. The not necessarily have to start with the core new system will allow the bank to replacement, but it must include the core. We will explore the theme of ‘digital to scale to meet future demand at the core’ further at our 2018 Temenos a reduced total cost of ownership An end to end digital transformation is Community Forum, taking place in (TCO). At the same time, it will essential if banks are to deliver the levels Dublin in May 2018. decrease time to market for of customer experience required and to new innovative products and capitalize on the opportunity afforded FINAL REMARKS services, and provide Itaú’s by open banking. As the major platform I am delighted with our performance in clients with a seamless digital companies, such as Amazon, have shown, 2017. We executed very well across all customer experience. the model for delighting customers aspects of our business, from innovation lies in providing the highest levels of through to Services. We have significant “Investing in technology fulfillment, the analytics to provide the best momentum in both our business and and the digital personalized recommendations and the our end-market, which is reflected in the transformation of Itaú third-party marketplace to offer the widest acceleration we have seen in the last few possible range of products and services. quarters and our substantial pipeline is crucial in order to Without a digital core, banks will be unable growth. We have unmatched references meet clients’ needs and to provide such a model since they will in the tier 1 and 2 space and continue create lasting value.” not have access to real-time information, to take market share. I am confident data will be locked into product silos we will continue to deliver during 2018 rather than attributable to customers, it and the medium term Carlos Constantini will be impossible to provide adequate CEO of US and information to third parties and the speed David Arnott of fulfillment will be dragged down by Chief Executive Officer Head of International manual processing. Private Banking, Itaú Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 39 Performance OUTSTANDING FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL REVIEW INTRODUCTION Opening thoughts I am delighted with our performance in 2017, which built on the very strong momentum we had generated in the previous two years. We ended the year by achieving the top end of all our guidance targets, which had already been revised upwards at the time of our Q3 results. Our ability to consistently execute on the market opportunity, combined with the strength of Max Chuard our business model, enabled us to deliver Chief Financial Officer significant growth in revenue and profit and Chief Operating Officer whilst maintaining cash conversion well in excess of 100% of EBITDA. This ensured our DSOs also continued to decline to reach 119 days by year end. We closed the year with USD 168 million of cash on +23% +16% +18% our balance sheet and leverage of 1.0x net debt to EBTIDA. IFRS vs non-IFRS To ensure that the presentation of results reflects the underlying performance of Total software licensing Total revenue Earnings per the business, Temenos publishes its key growth of 23% growth of 16% share growth of 18% metrics on a non-IFRS basis as well as on an IFRS basis. For transparency purposes, Temenos also publishes full reconciliations between IFRS and non-IFRS measures. Full definitions of non-IFRS adjustments can be found on page 42. We have had a very strong for non-IFRS total software Highlights performance in 2017, with licensing growth of 13.5% Full year highlights (non-IFRS) include: total software licensing growth to 18.5% and non-IFRS total > Total software licensing revenue of 23% and total revenue revenue growth of between growth of 23%. growth of 16%. We delivered 10% and 13%. We are guiding > Maintenance revenue growth of 10%. margin expansion of 98bps for 2018 non-IFRS EBIT of > Total revenue growth of 16%. year-on-year and grew EPS by USD 255 million to 260 million, > Services margin of 9.7%, representing a margin expansion of 0.6 percentage 18%. Our cash conversion of which implies a margin of 31%. points. 114% for 2017 is significantly Given the acceleration we saw > EBIT of USD 223.5 million and margin above our target of 100% during 2017 and the strong of 30.3%. of EBITDA and means we start to 2018 we expect our > EPS of USD 2.45, an increase of 18%. are recommending a 2017 sales momentum to continue > Operating cash inflow of USD 300 dividend of CHF 0.65, an accelerating. We have million with cash conversion of 114%, significantly ahead of our guidance increase of 18% on 2016. excellent revenue visibility of 100%. driven by committed spend > DSOs reduced by eight days to 119 We have announced our and our pipeline growth, days, in line with the five to ten day guidance for 2018 which and I am confident in annual target. reflects our expectation of achieving our 2018 guidance. > Recommended annual dividend of continued strong growth CHF 0.65, an increase of 18%. in the year. We are guiding 40 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements KEY FIGURES 31 DECEMBER Non-IFRS All financial units in millions of US dollars, except non-IFRS EBIT margin and earnings Full year costs on a non-IFRS basis were per share. USD 513.1 million, up from USD 448.6 million in 2016. Of the USD 44 million 2017 2016 difference between the IFRS and nonIFRS cost base, USD 35 million is due to Non-IFRS Revenue 736.7 635.1 adjustments made for the amortization Non-IFRS EBIT 223.5 186.5 of acquired intangibles costs and USD Non-IFRS EBIT margin 30.3% 29.4% 8.9 million due to adjustments made for Cash generated from operations 299.7 257.6 restructuring costs and acquisition-related charges. Total assets 1,275.3 1,171.5 Non-IFRS earnings per share USD 2.45 USD 2.07 EBIT AND EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) REVENUES Non-IFRS IFRS IFRS Total Non-IFRS revenue in 2017 was USD On an IFRS basis, EBIT was USD 178.3 Total revenues were USD 735.4 million 736.7 million, an increase of 16% compared million compared to USD 149.2 million in 2017, an increase of 16% versus 2016 to 2016 on a reported basis, with the USD in 2016. The strength of our business on a reported basis. 1.3 million difference between IFRS and model enables us to deliver strong growth non-IFRS revenues due to an adjustment for in revenue and profit, creating significant Total software licensing grew 23% in the a deferred revenue write-down relating to value for our shareholders. EPS for 2017 year on a reported basis, with strong the acquisition of Rubik which closed in was USD 1.90, compared to USD 1.61 double-digit growth across all geographies. May 2017. in 2016. We saw significant sales momentum across client tiers and segments, with a COST BASE Non-IFRS large volume of deals signed throughout IFRS EBIT on a non-IFRS basis was USD 223.5 the year. We continued to win all the Full year costs on an IFRS basis were USD million, up from USD 186.5 million in 2016, largest deals in our markets, in particular 557.1 million, up from USD 484.8 million in an increase of 20% on a reported basis. EPS signing with Openbank, the digital bank of 2016. The majority of the cost increase was was USD 2.45, up from USD 2.07 in 2016, an Santander Group, in Q4, for a core banking driven by our continued investment in Sales increase of 18%. replacement, as well as announcing deals and Marketing and product development with KBC and Itaú. We made very good which are both critical for us to continue Non-IFRS EBIT margin was 30.3%, up from progress in the US, announcing a deal taking market share in the future. Services 29.4% in 2016, as we continued to leverage with a US tier 1 bank for a multi-country IT costs also increased in line with revenues our cost base in particular across G&A and renovation for part of their corporate bank. and lastly a portion of the cost increase was Services. Our Services operating margin driven by the acquisition of Rubik, which was 9.7% for the year, up from 9.1% in Maintenance revenues grew 10% on a contributed about USD 18 million of costs 2016. Our strategy of working closely reported basis, and Services revenues grew in the year. with Partners and focusing on the 13% on a reported basis. governance of our projects is enabling us to continuously improve the margin in Non-IFRS IFRS our Services business and we expect this will continue in the coming years. USDm, except EBIT margin and EPS 2017 2016 Change 2017 2016 Change CASH FLOWS Software licensing 248.5 205.1 21% 248.5 205.1 21% We generated USD 300 million of operating SaaS and subscription 67.5 51.1 32% 66.2 50.1 32% cash in 2017, representing a cash conversion Total software licensing 316.1 256.2 23% 314.8 255.1 23% of 114% of EBITDA. We have maintained Maintenance 274.8 250.4 10% 274.8 234.0 10% our guidance for 100%+ conversion of EBITDA into operating cash flow in 2018, as Services 145.8 128.5 13% 145.8 250.4 13% we continue to grow our recurring revenue Total revenues 736.7 635.1 16% 735.4 634.0 16% streams and see the positive impact of tier 1 and 2 clients who contributed 59% of total EBIT 223.5 186.5 20% 178.3 149.2 20% software licensing revenue in the year, up EBIT margin 30.3% 29.4% 24.2% 17.8% from 52% in FY 2016. EPS (USD, fully diluted) 2.45 2.07 18% 1.90 1.61 18% Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 41 Performance FINANCIAL REVIEW continued RECONCILIATION FROM IFRS EBIT TO NON-IFRS EBIT > Non-IFRS EBIT margin improvement of 100 to 150bps on average per annum; > Non-IFRS EPS growth of at least 15% USDm 2017 2016 CAGR; > Cash conversion of over 100% of IFRS EBIT 178.3 149.2 EBITDA p.a.; Deferred revenue write-down 1.3 1.1 > DSOs reducing by five to ten days per Amortisation of acquired intangibles 35.0 31.7 annum; and Restructuring 6.9 4.5 > Tax rate of 17% to 18%. Acquisition-related charges 2.0 – Drivers of growth in 2018 and the Non-IFRS EBIT 223.5 186.5 medium term We held our 2018 Capital Markets Day in February, where we outlined the multiple structural growth drivers that we continue DSOs decreased by eight days again in DIVIDEND to benefit from. 2017 to reach 119 days by year end, in We have announced a dividend of CHF 0.65 line with our target of reducing DSOs by per share for 2017, representing an increase We have a very large addressable market five to ten days per annum which we have of 18%. This is subject to shareholder that is forecast to grow at an 8% CAGR in maintained for 2018. We continue to target approval at the AGM on 15 May 2018. The the medium term. Total global spend in DSOs to reach 100 days in the medium shares will trade ex-dividend on 18 May areas that Temenos can address with its term. 2018, and the dividend record date will products is estimated to be USD 48 billion be set on 22 May 2018. The dividend will a year, of which USD 10 billion today Our free cash flow reached USD 227 million be paid on 23 May 2018. As with previous is spent with third party vendors. The and has now grown 19% per annum for the years, the 2017 dividend will be paid remaining USD 38 billion is spent in-house last two years, as we continue to efficiently as a distribution of capital contribution by banks on building and maintaining manage our capital expenditures. reserves and therefore be exempted from software. Banks are under sustained cost withholding tax. Temenos’ policy is to and regulatory pressure, as well as the move BALANCE SHEET AND FINANCING distribute a sustainable to growing dividend. towards open banking. An ever increasing Temenos is highly cash generative with a number of banks are responding to these strong balance sheet which enables: LOOKING FORWARD pressures by shifting spend from in-house > the servicing of our debt obligations; Guidance for 2018 to third party vendors, to drive efficiencies > investment in the business, including Our 2018 guidance is as follows: and provide their customers with a truly industry leading R&D spend; > Non-IFRS total software licensing growth digital service. > funding for targeted acquisitions; at constant currency of 13.5% to 18.5% > the payment of an annual dividend; and (implying total software licensing revenue We continue to expand our addressable > returning additional value to shareholders of USD 363 million to USD 379 million); market by investing in new products, for through share buybacks. > Non-IFRS revenue growth at constant example expanding our offering in the currency of 10% to 13% (implying revenue USD 700 million compliance software market We continue to actively pursue acquisition of USD 819 million to USD 840 million); and building a product with a tier 1 client for opportunities as a driver of shareholder > Non-IFRS EBIT at constant currency of the USD 900 million origination market. value creation, as well as investing in the USD 255 million to 260 million (implying business to position ourselves for the non-IFRS EBIT margin of 31.1% – 31.0%); We continue to win all the largest deals in market opportunity. > 100%+ conversion of EBITDA into our markets and today have penetrated 30% operating cash flow; and of tier 1 and 2 banks globally, including 41 We ended 2017 with a leverage ratio of 1.0x > Tax rate of 15% to 16%. of the top 50 banks in the world. This means net debt to non-IFRS EBITDA. We have put we have a massive opportunity to win more ourselves in a very strong position at the Medium term targets tier 1 and 2 clients, where the IT needs and start of 2018 and have significant capacity We revised upwards our medium term addressable spend is far greater. However, to pursue inorganic growth opportunities targets at the start of 2018 to reflect the even within our existing tier 1 and 2 clients, in line with our M&A strategy. strong growth in our business and our we have only captured about 4% of the end-market: total addressable spend in each institution > Non-IFRS total software licensing to date. We have seen on average a 30% growth of at least 15% CAGR; annual increase in spend from tier 1 and 2 > Non-IFRS revenue growth of clients undergoing progressive renovation 10-15% CAGR; 42 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements with Temenos and we expect this to continue growing as we work with these SIGNIFICANT, SUSTAINED institutions to renovate their IT platforms. DSO 119 SHAREHOLDER RETURNS Because of this we expect the contribution from tier 1 and 2 clients to continue Medium term targets increasing. In 2017, 59% of total software licensing came from tier 1 and 2 banks, up 31/12/17 119 from 52% in 2016. This has given us the 31/12/16 127 highest level of revenue visibility ever at the 31/12/15 154 start of 2018. 31/12/14 181 At least 15% We see significant opportunities across our installed based from cross-selling, progressive renovation and re-licensing Total software licensing (CAGR) and we expect revenues from the installed CASH CONVERSION base to grow at a CAGR of 15-20% in the medium term. 2017 114% 10-15% Banks are increasingly interested in our SaaS and cloud offering, as demonstrated by the deal announced with Itaú, the largest 2016 114% Total revenue (CAGR) bank in Latin America, in the fourth quarter 2015 133% of 2017. We expect our SaaS revenues to 100-150 grow at a c.35% CAGR in the medium term to represent at least 15% of total software 2014 113% licensing revenues. EBITDA p.a. EBIT (bps) We made very good progress on our US Operating cash flow strategy in 2017 with the signing of a US tier 1 bank in Q4 and reaching key milestones At least 15% in the ongoing implementation with Commerce Bank. We expect North America to contribute 25% of total software licensing in the medium term as we continue to build EPS (CAGR) our references and win more campaigns with the largest banks in this market. 5-10 CLOSING THOUGHTS I am delighted with our financial and operating performance in 2017, coming on DSO reduction (days) the back of an outstanding 2016 and 2015. We continue to be the leading vendor in our market, in particular for the world’s 100%+ largest banks, and have demonstrated we can consistently execute on the market opportunity to drive growth in revenue and profitability for our shareholders. of EBITDA (Cash conversion) Max Chuard Chief Financial Officer and 17-18% Chief Operating Officer Tax rate Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 43 Performance RESPONSIBLE RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK MANAGEMENT ECONOMIC, POLITICAL Temenos Risk management policy AND SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT is consistent with ISO: 31000 Risk Temenos derives all of its licensing, SaaS, Risk management – Principles and guidelines. maintenance and services revenues from It defines the methodology, roles and banks and other financial institutions. framework responsibilities, reporting and monitoring The banking industry is sensitive to for key risks. Temenos’ operational changes in global economic conditions, management is responsible for financial markets and is highly susceptible managing day-to-day risks. Periodical risk to unforeseen external events, such assessments are done within business units as political instability, terrorist attacks, and reported to management along with Identify mitigation plans where appropriate. The recession, inflation or other adverse occurrences that may result in a significant Audit Committee oversees the program decline in the use and/or profitability of and reviews key risks of the group. financial services. Any event that results in decreased consumer or corporate use of We have implemented a robust internal financial services, cost-cutting measures by Assess control and risk management system financial services companies, or increased for financial reporting that goes beyond pressure on banks and financial institutions statutory requirements. All relevant to develop, implement and maintain risks are identified, formally assessed solutions in-house rather than going to and documented. For each risk we have external providers, may negatively affect implemented specific controls. Their the level of demand for Temenos products Prioritize effectiveness is regularly evaluated and services. through a self-assessment process which is independently tested by internal and In recent years, there have been substantial external auditors. changes in the banking industry, including continuing consolidation among market The following sections outline the risks participants, decreasing profit margins in Respond that we have identified and track. They certain sectors, the introduction of wide represent an aggregated view. ranging regulatory changes and extensive technological innovation. These changes have inter alia resulted in increased IT spending by banks and driven market Review and participants to replace legacy systems, monitor leading to increased demand for Temenos’ solutions. If the pace of change were to decrease, demand for Temenos’ products and services may decrease, which could have a material effect on Temenos’ business, financial adverse condition and results. Temenos’ global presence, comprehensive product offering and market leadership help to mitigate this risk. 44 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements LAW AND LITIGATION not protect it against the risk that its own or IP PROTECTION Temenos operates in various legal licensed third-party technology infringes the Temenos relies upon a combination of jurisdictions and as such is subject to various intellectual property of others. Therefore, copyright, trademark and trade secrecy legal and regulatory requirements. Temenos any such claims could have a material laws, trade secrets, confidentiality may have legal proceedings or litigious adverse effect on Temenos’ reputation, procedures, contractual provisions actions brought against it. The outcome of business, operating results and financial and license arrangements to establish these proceedings or actions are intrinsically condition. and protect its proprietary rights and uncertain and the actual outcomes could Temenos’ ability to do so effectively is differ from the assessments made by Temenos legal teams are aligned to crucial to its success. Temenos enters management in prior periods, resulting in business operations and are involved into agreements with its employees, increases in provisions for litigation in the early in any decisions which may incur Partners, distributors and clients that seek accounts of Temenos. Adverse outcomes to legal implications. The legal team reviews to limit the distribution of and otherwise legal proceedings or litigious actions could and provides guidance on complex client protect its proprietary information. result in the award of significant damages contracts to ensure contractual agreements However, Temenos cannot give full or injunctive measures that could hinder align to local commerce laws and assurances that the steps taken will be Temenos’ ability to conduct business and regulations. Whenever possible, Temenos adequate to prevent misappropriation could have a material adverse effect on tries to contractually limit its liabilities. This of its proprietary information as all of its reputation, business, financial position, is covered further in Foreign Operating the protection measures afford only profit, and cash flows. Environments. limited protection. Temenos’ proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated, Litigation of intellectual property More broadly, the risk of potential breach held unenforceable or otherwise infringement claims may increase as a result of legislative or regulatory requirements affected. Certain proprietary technology of Temenos acquiring companies which through general operations, such as breach may be vulnerable to disclosure or rely on third-party code including open of listing requirements or group level legal misappropriation by employees, Partners source code, Temenos expanding into requirements are managed through group or other third parties and third parties new areas of the banking industry resulting level controls, compliance policies and might reverse-engineer or otherwise in greater overlap in the functional scope procedures. obtain and use technology and information of products, and increasing assertion of that Temenos regards as proprietary. intellectual property infringement claims by Policy compliance requirements are Accordingly Temenos might not be able non-practicing entities that do not design, periodically assessed through Risk to protect its proprietary rights against manufacture, or distribute products. Management processes and reviewed unauthorized third-party copying or by Internal Audit to provide comfort over utilization, which may undermine Temenos’ Although Temenos believes that its adequacy of policies, processes and market position and deprive it of revenues. products do not infringe upon the compliance. intellectual property rights of others, and Temenos may not be able to detect that Temenos has all the rights necessary to unauthorized use of its intellectual utilize the intellectual property employed property, or take appropriate steps to in its business, Temenos is still subject to enforce Temenos’ intellectual property the risk of claims alleging infringement rights. Temenos’ products are used of third-party intellectual property rights, globally and are therefore subject to including in respect of intellectual property varying laws governing the protection of that has been developed by third parties software and intellectual property in each and acquired by Temenos in business or of these jurisdictions. Temenos cannot asset purchase transactions. Responding guarantee that its software and intellectual to such claims, regardless of whether they property will be afforded the same level are with or without merit and negotiations of protection in each jurisdiction, as or litigation relating to such claims could some jurisdictions may offer no effective require Temenos to spend significant sums means to enforce Temenos’ rights to its in litigation costs, payment of damages and proprietary information, which could expend significant management resources. result in competitors offering products In addition, such claims could lead to that incorporate features equivalent shipment delays or require Temenos to to Temenos’ most technologically enter into royalty or licensing agreements advanced features, which could have on unfavorable terms, discontinue the use a material adverse effect on Temenos’ of challenged trade names or technology, business, results of operations and or develop non-infringing intellectual financial condition. property. Temenos liability insurance does Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 45 Performance PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued IP PROTECTION continued UNDETECTED DEFECTS OR software, regardless of its merits, could Any legal action that Temenos may bring SECURITY VULNERABILITIES entail substantial expense and require a to enforce its proprietary rights could Temenos’ products and offerings may significant amount of time and attention by involve enforcement against a Partner contain defects or security vulnerabilities management personnel. or other third party, which may have a that Temenos has not been able to material adverse effect on its ability, and its detect and that could adversely affect We continually enhance our quality clients’ ability, to use that partner’s or other the performance of the products and program as part of SDLC. We have third parties’ products. Moreover, litigation, negatively impact Temenos’ relationship centralized our product security group and which could involve significant financial and with its clients. This could occur when practices. Extensive testing is carried out to management resources, may be necessary developing a new product or service identify and resolve any issues which may to enforce Temenos’ proprietary rights. or when developing a new version or adversely affect the functionality, security Any material infringement of Temenos’ enhancement of an existing product. It is and other performance of our products proprietary technology could have an not always possible to identify and rectify and offerings. adverse effect on its reputation, business, any errors or defects during a product or financial position, profit and cash flows. services developmental phase, and more Our Partner contracts are designed in commonly Temenos has discovered minor a manner which provides clarity and software defects in certain new versions understanding of both parties with and enhancements of its products after regard to the protection and they have been introduced. The detection safeguarding of their IP. and subsequent correction of any errors or defects can be expensive and time consuming, and it is not always possible to meet the expectations of clients regarding the timeliness and the quality of the defect resolution process. In a worst case scenario, it might not be possible to wholly rectify certain defects or entirely meet client expectations. In such circumstances it is possible that clients may pursue claims for refunds, damages, attempt to terminate existing arrangements, request replacement software or seek other concessions. A defect or error in any newly developed software of Temenos could result in adverse client reactions and negative publicity, as Temenos’ clients and potential clients are highly sensitive to defects in the software they use. Any negative publicity could hinder the successful marketing of the new software, reducing demand for the software. A defect or error in new versions or enhancements of Temenos’ existing products could result in the loss of orders or a delay in the receipt of orders and could result in reduced revenues, delays in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, product liability claims or increased service and warranty costs, any of which may have a material adverse effect on Temenos’ business, results of operations and financial condition. Any claim brought against Temenos in connection with defective 46 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements KEY PERSONNEL FOREIGN OPERATIONS and evolve. Compliance with the laws and Temenos operates in an industry in Temenos systems are currently installed regulations in the various jurisdictions may which there is an intense competition at more than 3,000 live sites in 150 involve significant management time, costs for experienced and highly qualified countries and it has sales and support and require costly changes to products individuals. The economic success of offices in 41 countries. Temenos’ future and/or business practices. Temenos is partly dependent on its ability revenue growth depends on the continued to identify, attract, develop, motivate, successful expansion of its development, Risks related to foreign operations are adequately compensate and retain highly sales, marketing, support and service regularly assessed and mitigated as skilled and qualified management, sales, organizations, through direct or indirect needed. Specific policies and procedures support, service, marketing and software channels, in the various countries around are in place to ensure compliance with development personnel, particularly those the world where its current and potential export control and sanctions, anti-bribery with expertise in the banking software clients are located, including in many and corruption, anti-money laundering, industry. In particular, Temenos depends developing or newly industrialized data protection and privacy and other heavily on the continued service and countries. Such expansion will require legislation. performance of its Directors, members the opening of new offices, hiring new of its Executive Committee and other personnel and managing operations in Foreign exchange and/or interest senior managers and technical personnel. widely disparate locations with different rate fluctuations In addition, Temenos relies on hubs of economies, legal systems, languages Temenos’ financial statements are its technical staff at its facilities in India, and cultures, and will require significant expressed in US dollars and Temenos Romania and other locations for costmanagement attention and financial generates the majority of its revenues in effective development, support and other resources. Temenos’ operations are also US dollars. However, a significant portion activities. Temenos believes that in order to affected by other factors inherent in of its operating expenses are incurred grow its business it will need to continue to international business activities, such as: in currencies other than the US dollar, hire and retain highly qualified employees particularly in euros, Swiss francs, Rupees with the requisite skills and expertise to > differing or even conflicting laws and and Pounds Sterling. In some jurisdictions support its growing client base. There is regulation of risk and compliance in the Temenos receives payment in US dollars, intense competition for experienced and banking sector; but independent distributors resell the highly skilled personnel, and there is no > difficulties in staffing including works products to clients in the local currency. guarantee that Temenos will continue to be councils, labor unions and immigration able to successfully and consistently meet laws and foreign operations; Furthermore, Temenos is exposed to the its personnel recruitment goals. If Temenos > the complexity of managing competing fluctuation in exchange rates of each of fails to recruit and retain the numbers and and overlapping tax regimes; these currencies. Temenos makes efforts types of employees that it requires, its > differing import and export licensing to mitigate its foreign exchange risk by business, operating results and financial requirements; aligning its revenue streams to currencies condition may be adversely affected. > operational difficulties in countries with a that match its cost base and hedges most high corruption perception index; of the residual exposure by the use of Incentive and recognition programs > protectionist trade policies such as tariffs; derivative instruments. However, such are utilized to align staff efforts to > limited protection for intellectual hedging may not be sufficient protection organizational objectives. Staff receive property rights in some countries; against significant fluctuations in the various training to ensure they have the > difficulties enforcing intellectual exchange rate of the US dollar to other necessary skills to perform their duties. property and contractual rights in certain currencies, in particular those currencies in We have launched various CSR initiatives jurisdictions; which Temenos incurs operating expenses, to demonstrate our commitment to > differing data protection and privacy generates revenues or holds assets. Such employees. Career and succession laws; and fluctuations may impose additional costs planning are carried out annually to > political and economic instability, on Temenos and have a material adverse provide for continuity of operations. outbreaks of hostilities, terrorism, mass effect on Temenos’ financial condition immigration, international embargoes, and results of operations, and on the sanctions and boycotts. comparability of its results between financial periods. The risks associated with the factors stated above will intensify as Temenos expands Temenos uses a combination of various further into new countries and markets techniques to protect against currency through organic growth or acquisitions. and rates fluctuations. Additionally laws and regulations and governments’ approaches to their enforcement, as well as Temenos’ products and services, are continuing to change Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 47 Performance PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued COMPLIANCE WITH THE TERMS MANAGING CLIENT RELATIONSHIP STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS OF TEMENOS CREDIT FACILITIES Temenos’ relations with clients are Temenos delivers its products to clients Temenos has credit facilities in place protracted due to the nature of the directly and indirectly through distributors with a syndicate of banks. The facilities products provided. The relationship and through strategic alliances with IT contain financial and negative covenants, continues from implementation to service providers. Temenos’ strategic undertakings and event of default maintenance, support and upgrades Partners sell to clients and provide provisions. Moreover, the facilities contain through the life of the product. As such implementation services through a contract cross-default provisions such that a default the client relationship is a long term and with the client, rather than with Temenos. under another debt instrument, such as the multi-faceted arrangement and must be These relationships with IT service Bonds, could result in a default under the managed accordingly. The contractual providers and strategic Partners help to credit facilities and acceleration of the arrangements supporting this relationship drive co-innovation of Temenos’ products, debt thereunder. are therefore often varied and diverse to profitably expand Temenos’ routes-toreflect the nature of the requirements of market to enhance market coverage and The inability of Temenos to draw under the client factoring in specific legal provide high quality services in connection the credit facilities to satisfy its financing and cultural requirements of the client’s with Temenos’ product offerings. Any requirements, could have an adverse effect operating environment as well as the failure to maintain and expand these on Temenos’ growth. Compliance with the multiple stages of the relationship. relationships could adversely affect terms is monitored on monthly basis. Temenos’ products and services which, Temenos has increased its focus on in turn, would have an adverse effect on assessing client satisfaction and proactively Temenos’ ability to compete successfully seeking and responding to client feedback. with its competitors and therefore negatively affect the results of operations Prior to entering into new client and financial condition. relationships Temenos is taking additional steps to develop a client profile which assists in clearly identifying and articulating client requirements as well as providing a mechanism to identify and mitigate any potential areas for concern which may materialize into disagreements at a later date. Improved mechanisms for tracking and oversight of contract clauses are utilized by the global contract team to provide additional comfort over the effective management of client contractual arrangements. Temenos aims to build long term strategic relationships with clients in order to maximize the value provided to both parties. Through strong relationships, Temenos is able to further develop products according to industry needs and requirements. 48 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements CLOUD AND SAAS SOLUTIONS SOFTWARE IMPLEMENTATION MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS Cloud and SaaS technology is inherently PROJECT MANAGEMENT Temenos pursues a strategy of making complex and relatively new to the banking The implementation of Temenos’ software targeted acquisitions. The risks associated and financial market sector. Accordingly, and integration of various product with such a strategy include the availability Temenos may be subject to changing components is a complex procedure of suitable candidates and successful regulatory requirements, evolving client requiring skilled and experienced integration. Failure to assimilate operations attitudes and technical complexities in personnel. The implementation of and personnel, and the risk of entering developing a new business offering and Temenos’ software is often performed in markets in which Temenos has no or support services. Temenos may fail to part or wholly by service delivery Partners limited prior experience may materialize. achieve desired operating profit results in as well as committed resources of the The process of integrating an acquired this new market due to regulatory changes, client. The complex nature of the custom company or business is risky and may inability to develop a competitive product built, componentized product also makes create unforeseen operating difficulties or which appeals to its clients. it necessary to provide training and and expenditures. These may not be education on the operation of the product. limited to difficulties in integrating the By providing cloud technology to clients, operations, technologies, services and Temenos will hold client data. Hardware The reliance on third party capabilities, personnel of the acquired businesses; or data center failures, product defects and the complex nature of product unexpected costs or liabilities of acquired or system errors could result in data loss customization and installation requirements businesses (or future acquisitions); or corruption, or cause the information mean that there is a high potential for ineffectiveness or incompatibility of held to be incomplete or contain unforeseen events to occur delaying the acquired technologies or services; failure inaccuracies. The availability of Temenos’ progress of implementations. to realize operating benefits or synergies application suite could be interrupted by from completed transactions; potential a number of factors, such as the failure Temenos focuses heavily on training loss of key employees of acquired business of a key supplier, its network or software the staff and Partners responsible for and cultural challenges associated with systems due to human or other error and implementation of software to ensure a integrating employees from the acquired security breaches. strong mix of qualified project managers company; inability to maintain the key and technical product expertise. Temenos business relationships and the reputations Although Temenos employs strict security, ensures the adequacy of skills through of acquired businesses; and diversion data protection and privacy measures requiring certification of staff and Partners of management’s attention from other there is a risk that such measures could be in Temenos Implementation Methodology business concerns. breached as a result of third party action, and products. Launch of Temenos Learning employee error and malfeasance, or Community (TLC) shows our further Further consolidation in Temenos’ industry otherwise, and if as a result unauthorized commitment to this area. may decrease the number of potential access is obtained to client data, which desirable acquisition targets. Failure to may include personally identifiable Implementation teams are also trained acquire, integrate and derive the desired information about users, Temenos could to identify and effectively manage any value of any businesses or assets in the suffer significant reputational damage and unforeseen events and a suite of risk future could materially adversely affect be exposed to liabilities. management tools are used to monitor Temenos’ business, results of operations and track potential issues which may and financial condition. Temenos is constantly enhancing its cloud adversely impact the successful installation and SaaS offering and security. In addition, of software. Project governance boards In addition, acquired businesses might not Temenos holds SSAE 16 SOC 2 and ISO are held monthly to oversee the delivery perform as anticipated, resulting in charges 27001 certifications to provide a greater of the implementation against milestones. for the impairment of goodwill and other degree of assurance to clients. intangible assets on Temenos’ statement Temenos Implementation Methodology is of financial position. periodically reviewed and updated in order to maintain high standards for Temenos Detailed integration planning is utilized staff and Partners. Identified initial project to ensure a smooth transition of product risks receive an increased level of review offerings and services. Legal, commercial and analysis in order to more effectively and personnel matters are also considered mitigate and monitor them throughout the prior to integration in order to limit life of the implementation project. exposure to unexpected losses or damage. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 49 Performance PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued SECURITY, BUSINESS CONTINUITY lead to loss of business, regulatory actions, suffer financial losses as a result of the AND DISASTER MANAGEMENT potential liability and other financial losses. loss of confidential client information or As a software technology vendor and otherwise. services provider, we face various cyber We provide software products and and other security threats, including: services to various clients who also face Temenos’ insurance coverage might cyber threats. Our software products and not cover claims against it for loss or > attempts to gain unauthorized access services may themselves be subject to security breach of data or other indirect to sensitive information and networks; cyber threats and/or they may not be able or consequential damages. If Temenos > insider threats; to detect or deter threats, or effectively experiences interruptions in the availability > threats to the safe and secure operation to mitigate resulting losses. These losses of its application suite, Temenos’ of our software solutions and services; could adversely affect our clients and our reputation could be harmed, which may > threats to the safety of our Directors, Company. The impact of these factors have a material adverse effect on Temenos’ officers and employees; is difficult to predict, but one or more of business and financial condition. > threats to the security of our facilities them could result in the loss of information and infrastructure; and or capabilities, harm to individuals or As part of the periodic Risk Assessment > threats from terrorist acts or other acts property, damage to our reputation, of IT infrastructure, potential physical and of aggression. loss of business, regulatory actions and security vulnerabilities are factored into potential liability, any one of which could the process for developing a resilient and Our clients and Partners (including have a material adverse effect on our robust IT infrastructure. subcontractors) face similar threats. financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. The physical security of IT infrastructure Although we utilize various procedures and and personnel are kept secure through controls to monitor and mitigate the risk of From an organizational perspective, the standardized general IT controls across these threats, there can be no assurance Security and Privacy Committee provides Temenos in line with best practice that these procedures and controls the group level oversight. standards. will be sufficient. These threats could lead to losses of sensitive information In terms of business processes, security A Business Continuity Management or capabilities, harm to personnel, assurance is integrated into all business framework currently provides contingency infrastructure or products, and/or damage processes related to R&D, the supply chain, planning for all mission critical business to our reputation as well as our Partners’ sales and marketing, delivery, and technical functions and process within the ability to perform on our contracts. services. In addition, Temenos reinforces organization. the implementation of the cyber security Cyber threats are evolving and include, assurance system by conducting internal Information systems are regularly audited but are not limited to: audits and receiving external certification internally and externally to provide and auditing from security authorities a reasonable assurance on effective > malicious software; or independent third-party agencies. management of these risks. > destructive malware; Furthermore, Temenos has already been > attempts to gain unauthorized access certified to ISO 27001:2013 since 2009. to data; > disruption or denial of service In connection with personnel management, attacks; and our employees, Partners and consultants > other electronic security breaches. are required to comply with security policies and requirements established by These threats could lead to disruptions Temenos and receive appropriate training in mission critical systems, unauthorized so that the concept of security is deeply release of confidential, personal or rooted throughout Temenos. To promote otherwise protected information (ours or cyber security, Temenos will reward that of our employees, clients or Partners), employees who take an active part in cyber and corruption of data, networks or security assurance and will take appropriate systems. In addition, we could be impacted action against those who violate cyber by cyber threats or other disruptions or assurance policies. Employees may also vulnerabilities found in products we use incur personal legal liability for violation or in our Partners’ or clients’ systems of relevant laws and regulations. If that are used in connection with our Temenos security measures are breached business. These events, if not prevented and unauthorized access is obtained to or effectively mitigated, could damage our Temenos’ IT systems, Temenos’ business reputation, require remedial actions and could be disrupted and Temenos may 50 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements INSURANCE INTERNAL CONTROLS FAILURES Temenos has taken out a variety of Although Temenos considers the controls insurance policies in areas where a loss and procedures it currently has in place would have a significant financial impact, to minimize the financial reporting, or to ensure safety of employees while on legal, disclosure and other regulatory, business trips. compliance and operational risks associated with its business to be adequate Across the various local legal jurisdictions for its purposes, Temenos recognizes that in which Temenos operates, there are the efficacy of some of these controls various legal requirements to hold and procedures depends significantly on certain insurance policies such as workers employees and contractors, and on input compensation policies and public from external legal and other advisers and liability for example. all of these controls and procedures need to be kept under regular review, particularly Temenos’ local offices manage their legally given the pace at which Temenos’ business required policies with oversight and review has developed and generally increasing by Temenos Head Office. Also each office regulatory scrutiny. is reviewed and as necessary covered for property damage, business interruption There is no assurance that Temenos and public liability risks. Information and will not be targeted by those willing to IT infrastructure is also covered by regional commit fraud against Temenos. Such an and local computer policies. action could come from either an internal or external source and could result in a The United States and Canada are of significant adverse impact on Temenos’ particular note with regard to statutory business, results of operations and financial imposed insurance requirements and are condition. as such monitored carefully to provide sufficient coverage. Internal controls are regularly reviewed, updated and tested. Internal audit serves Temenos Head Office also manages all as a third line of defense to provide global policies. The main global policies assurance on the effectiveness of the provide coverage across core business internal controls system. areas as follows; Professional Indemnity liability (covering Errors and Omissions, Cyber Liability and Data Protection), Cyber Insurance, Crime Insurance, Global Travel Insurance and Directors and Officers policy that is providing the professional coverage. All insurance policies are reviewed periodically to ensure that Temenos, our offices and employees are adequately covered in line with the most actual and comprehensive insurance portfolio software for companies. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 51 Operating responsibly 52 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial Statements OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Operating responsibly Message from the CEO 54 Our CSR approach 56 Achieving business excellence 59 Operating responsibly 62 Investing in our people 71 Enabling access to financial services 81 Investing in our communities 82 About this report 86 UN Global Compact Index 86 Contact 86 2017 GRI G4 Index – Core 87 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 53 Operating responsibly ACHIEVING EXCELLENCE RESPONSIBLY MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our 2017 CSR report reflects our David Arnott commitment to achieving business Chief Executive Officer excellence and long term value in a sustainable and responsible way through superior financial as well as social performance. We continue to demonstrate our internal commitment to our stakeholders to operate our business responsibly; i.e. having integrated sustainability into our corporate mission, policies and processes, our business planning, measurement and reporting systems, our management practices, decision-making and governance in alignment with the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact, as well as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. We also outline our external “Our 2017 CSR report reflects our commitment to use our assets, products and resources and focus our skills and commitment to achieving business expertise in a way that has a positive impact on the world around us. excellence and long term value in a sustainable and responsible way.” These commitments guide the way we operate, innovate and deliver on our David Arnott business mission; how we develop our Chief Executive Officer digital strategy and use technology to help raise awareness and trigger actions on real-world problems; and most importantly, how we work to serve the world’s most vulnerable communities Regulatory requirements, high standard of integrity, responsibility and to access affordable, trusted financial professionalism for more than 20 years. As services that meet their needs, delivered stakeholder pressures, a global corporation, we understand the in a responsible and sustainable way. reputational impacts, changes responsibility that comes with that role These commitments fully align with our in corporate governance and and are committed to working with all our business mission while contributing to the stakeholders to build strong, long term global effort to achieve the UN Sustainable business growth models and relationships and create sustainable value Development Goals. the need for competitive for them. differentiation drive more and As we look to the future, responsibility Understanding and meeting the towards our stakeholders and the local more businesses around the expectations of our stakeholders is an communities will continue to be at the globe to publicly disclose how important aspect of our CSR strategy. heart of what we do. Reflecting on our they manage environmental, One of the goals we set for 2017 was a 20+ year successful journey, deeply challenging one: to measure our noncommitted to the Temenos mission and social and governance (ESG) financial performance and report on it values and fully aligned with the United risks and opportunities. along with our financial performance in Nations Global Compact principles, we will accordance with the Global Reporting continue to actively engage in dialogue At the same time, digital is creating worldInitiative (GRI) guidelines. In that way, with our stakeholders on our CSR strategy changing innovations, while disrupting we can be better prepared to anticipate and actions, enable economic and social industry and how people work, playing a global and local business, social and growth, drive continuous improvements major role in business performance and environmental challenges, direct and towards that direction and deliver on our social development. indirect pressure coming from regulation, business mission for economic, social voluntary compliance initiatives, our peers, and environmental excellence. Temenos, based on a solid corporate clients and prospects and actively manage foundation with a strong governance model the risks and opportunities associated David Arnott and a business culture of compliance, ethics with them. Chief Executive Officer and innovation, has been operating at a 54 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements ABOUT TEMENOS Founded in 1993, Temenos Group AG is the market-leading provider of mission OUR VALUES critical software to financial institutions globally with more than 3,000 clients in over 150 countries worldwide. Temenos software provides financial institutions with a single, real-time view across the WE OPERATE RESPONSIBLY enterprise, enabling them to maximize TO BUILD A SUSTAINABLE returns while streamlining costs. BUSINESS We walk the extra mile to build strong and Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, the lasting relationships with our stakeholders Company has 64 offices in 41 countries and and create sustainable value for them. had non-IFRS revenues of USD 737 million for the year ended 31 December 2017. Temenos has been a public company listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange (TEMN) since June 2001. Temenos employs 4,945 people worldwide, WE BELIEVE IN THE POWER including full-time employees and OF PEOPLE contractors. People make things happen. People define our destiny. OUR VISION To provide financial WE PLACE CLIENTS AT THE institutions, of any CORE OF WHAT WE DO size, anywhere in the Everything starts and ends with our clients’ goals. world, the software to thrive in the digital banking age WE SEE THINGS DIFFERENTLY FROM EVERYONE ELSE HOW WE ACHIEVE IT Average people see difficulties, exceptional people see opportunities. We do this by building, delivering and supporting WE INSPIRE, THROUGH LIVING the world’s UP TO OUR FULL POTENTIAL best packaged, We dream big and pursue our goals fearlessly. upgradeable and open banking software Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 55 Operating responsibly OUR CSR APPROACH OUR COMMITMENTS In addition, we align our commitments OUR ACTIONS Temenos is committed to achieving and CSR reporting with voluntary global We have gone beyond the requirements business excellence and long term value standards. We base our CSR reporting of the law and have integrated CSR into through superior financial performance on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) our corporate strategy, business principles, while operating responsibly and with guidelines. We have endorsed the United policies and processes, decision-making integrity, honoring ethical values and Nations Global Compact (UNGC), having and governance. Our CSR action plan respecting its stakeholders, communities committed to submitting an annual focuses on three areas: and the environment. Communication on Progress implementing the UNGC’s 10 principles. We have 1. How to manage our CSR strategy We are committed to: aligned our Business Code of Conduct 2. How to monitor, analyze and assess and corporate policies with the UNGC’s our ESG footprint, with the use of > building long term sustainable 10 principles on the four issue areas of non-financial KPIs relationships with our stakeholders Human Rights, Labor, Environment and 3. How to communicate and raise > managing our operations in Anti-Corruption, as well as the OECD awareness about our CSR strategy to all a responsible, secure and Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. stakeholders internally and externally. sustainable way We support the UN Sustainable > helping our clients transform into Development Goals (SDGs) and publicly MATERIALITY ANALYSIS smart, sustainable organizations report ways in which our operation as well Based on various risk assessments > achieving both financial and as community investment are contributing covering different areas related to the non-financial value (business and to the global effort to achieve the SDGs. impact of our operations as well as on social value) for our stakeholders the on-going engagement process with Reporting, verification and assurance our stakeholders, we have conducted a OUR ENDORSEMENTS are important tools for us to measure materiality analysis and assessment and International organizations as well as the CSR progress as well as document identified the following material CSR issues industry peer pressure play a major role our non-financial performance to all our for Temenos and for our key stakeholders. in promoting CSR, transparency and stakeholders, while remaining competitive The materiality analysis was conducted accountability in corporate governance and ahead of the game. in line with the GRI G4 requirements and and business processes. Regulation as well included the views of our employees, as voluntary compliance with international 2018 Goals clients, prospects, investors, suppliers, standards are central to our CSR strategy. To continue to target international Partners, non-governmental organizations Temenos complies with the requirements business benchmarks and voluntary and media. of many international organizations, initiatives relevant to the interests of our governmental organizations and industry stakeholders, such as investor indices, Understanding and prioritizing the standards, such as the EU Directive ISO certifications and environmental issues that matter to Temenos and our 2014/95/EU on disclosure of non-financial performance ratings. stakeholders enables us to focus on the and diversity information by certain large respective areas, address the right issues undertakings and groups, India Companies and report on them effectively, aligned Act 2013 and UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. Enabling access to Financial Services Investing in Our People Investing in Our Communities Enabling access to Financial Services Investing in Our Communities Investing in Our Communities Operating Responsibly Investing in Our People Operating Responsibly Enabling access to Financial Services Enabling access to Financial Services Investing in Our Communities Investing in Our Communities 56 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Achieving Business Excellence Operating Responsibly Investing in Our People Enabling access to Financial Investing in Our Communities Services High Business Performance Ethical Business Conduct Client Focus Human Capital and Governance Responsible Procurement Information Security and Supply Chain and Data Privacy Materiality of issues to Temenos Technology and Financial Inclusion Innovation Environmental Responsibility High Moderate Social Responsibility and Community Investment Low Low Low High Materiality of issues to our stakeholders with the interests and changing needs For all of the issues discussed in this > Investing in Our Communities of our stakeholders and those of the CSR Report, the data cover all Temenos > Community Investment Company. Based on the materiality analysis operations globally except where otherwise > Employee Volunteering and and assessment, we have developed our noted. Our CSR strategy focuses on five Community Service CSR strategy and set our commitments. priority areas, each with several topics of interest addressing the material issues: We believe that regular, open and We define issues to be material to our transparent communication with our business in terms of: > Achieving Business Excellence stakeholders is the most suitable medium > Business Performance and to assess the impact of our operations and > The importance of the issue to our key Economic Impact our performance as a corporate citizen. stakeholders > Innovation and Technology That is why we have integrated CSR > The potential impact on our operations > Client Focus considerations into our dialogue with our or our supply chain > Operating Responsibly stakeholders, drawing upon international > The degree to which this issue is aligned > Corporate Governance frameworks such as the United Nations with our mission, vision and geographic > Ethical Business Conduct and Global Compact, the UN Guiding Principles presence Governance on Business and Human Rights and the > The extent of the Company’s influence > Information Security and Data Privacy GRI guidelines. on the issue > Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The following main material issues for > Environmental Responsibility Engaging with our key stakeholders Temenos and our key stakeholders have > Investing in Our People informs our decision-making, strengthens been identified: > Human Rights our relationships and helps us deliver > Diversity, Inclusion and Equal our commitments and succeed as a > Business Performance Opportunity business. In order to achieve our goals, > Ethical Business Conduct and > Employee Relations we recognize that we need to work in Governance > Global Mobility, Health and Safety partnership with those stakeholders who > Human Capital > Employee Communication and share our commitment and have a stake > Client Focus Engagement in our business. These engagements may > Information Security and Data Privacy > Talent and Development take many forms, in order for us to better > Responsible Procurement and > Celebrating Excellence understand the needs and expectations Supply Chain > Enabling Access to Financial Services of our stakeholders. > Social Responsibility and Community > Financial Inclusion Strategies Investment > Digital Transformation of Rural Finance 2018 Goals > Environmental Responsibility > Lowering Costs – Access to Quality To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement > Technology and Innovation Financial Services Survey to gain feedback on our existing > Financial Inclusion > Strengthening Local Financial CSR strategy and possible new areas for Intermediation action. To be repeated every three years. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 57 Operating responsibly OUR CSR APPROACH continued STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDER EXAMPLES OF GROUPS KEY CONCERNS ENGAGEMENT Employees > Career advancement > Employee survey: MyVoice, New Joiner Survey > Training and development > Career development framework: Pathfinder > Job satisfaction > Performance management process: Compass > Employee recognition > Training and Development: Temenos University and multiple soft-skills, > Responsible and secure languages and technical training for upskilling workplace > Internal Communication: uni-T intranet, social media and HR and regional Newsletters > Employee recognition: regional employee recognition awards, C-level awards, Club and Chairman’s Club > Internal global mobility scheme > Business Code of Conduct and linked policies > Employee volunteering and fundraising matching scheme Clients > Client satisfaction and success > Client surveys: Client Voice program and Improve Client Satisfaction > Quality, security and project responsibility in delivery and > Product Board and Steering Committees implementation > Annual Temenos Community Forum > Data privacy and protection > Temenos Innovation Jams > Temenos MarketPlace > Client newsletters and updates > Client Support Portal > Audits > Temenos Security and Privacy Committee > Business Code of Conduct, data privacy and protection and corporate security policies Investors > Economic performance > Annual General Meeting of Shareholders > Transparent and ethical > Annual Capital Markets Day corporate governance > Roadshows, investor and analyst meetings > Accurate, timely and > Financial press releases, videos and webcasts responsible communication > Annual report > Corporate website > Business Code of Conduct and linked policies Suppliers > Ethical and responsible > Procurement policies and Partners business conduct > Annual Temenos Community Forum > Long term partnership > Annual Temenos Global Sales Meeting > Annual Partners’ Meeting > Temenos Innovation Jams > Trainings and seminars > Audits and risk assessments Communities > Access to education and jobs > Cooperation with NGOs > Improve local living conditions > Community service > Support in emergency > Employee fundraising situations > Community investment projects Academic > Collaboration and job > Temenos Sales Academy Communities opportunities > Services Incubation Center and Potential > Joint R&D projects > Internships Employees > Collaboration in research programs > Lectures and presentations > Company visits > Career days 58 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements ACHIEVING BUSINESS EXCELLENCE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE: ECONOMIC IMPACT FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL Economic impact for Temenos means HIGHLIGHTS achieving our medium term growth targets 2017 non-IFRS financial highlights to generate long term sustainable value > Total software licensing revenue growth for all of our stakeholders in order to of 23%. contribute to the global economy as well > Maintenance growth of 10%. as the local economies where our clients > Total revenue growth of 16%. conduct our business. > Services margin of 9.7%, improvement of 0.6 percentage points. In 2017, we grew non-IFRS total software > EBIT margin of 30.3%, up 98 bps. licensing by 23% and non-IFRS total > Operating cash flows of USD 300 million, revenues by 16%. We achieved full year up 16%. non-IFRS EBIT of USD 223.5 million and > Operating cash conversion of 114% with expanded our non-IFRS EBIT margin by DSOs down eight days in the year. 98bps to reach 30.3%. Our proposed 2017 > Strength of cash flows and growth dividend is CHF 0.65, an increase of 18% in profit support 2017 dividend of over last year’s dividend. We have a strong CHF 0.65 per share, an increase of capital structure, with low leverage of 18% (2016: CHF 0.55 per share). 1.0x net debt / EBITDA as of 31.12.17 and having generated USD 300 million 2017 operational highlights of operating cash flow in 2017. > Outstanding performance in 2017 driven by strong execution across the business in a growing market. METRIC MEDIUM TERM TARGETS ACHIEVED IN 2017 > Digital and regulatory pressure, as well as the move to open banking, are driving (NON-IFRS) banks to accelerate their IT investment Total software strategies. licensing At least 15% CAGR 23% > Temenos had strong double-digit growth across all geographies in the year with high Total Revenue 10-15% CAGR 16% volumes of deals across client segments. EBIT 100-150 bps p.a. 98bps > In particular, there was significant activity with tier 1 and 2 clients, which constituted EPS At least 15% CAGR 18% 59% of total software licensing revenue DSO reduction 5-10 days reduction p.a. 8 days in the year. Notable deals included Openbank, Santander’s digital bank, Cash conversion 100% + of EBITDA 114% and Itaú, the largest bank in Latin America. Tax rate 17-18% 13% > We won 65 new clients, and new and competitive deals contributed 41% of software licensing in the year. ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO FY 2017 FY 2016 > Temenos continues to be a market leader, pulling ahead of the competition VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS USD 000 USD 000 and raising barriers to entry through the strength of our reference client base. Revenue 735,363 634,036 > Temenos has significant revenue visibility Employee wages and benefits 350,253 294,512 going into 2018 driven by committed spend and the strength and quality of Payment to provider of funds 22,526 130,736 the pipeline. Payment to government 11,930 12,315 > We continue to work very closely with Community investment 722 643 our Partners across technology and implementation, with Partners involved in the majority of our implementations. The launch of the Temenos Learning Community will be a key driver of Partner engagement in the future. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 59 Operating responsibly ACHIEVING BUSINESS EXCELLENCE continued Financial assistance INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY On an annual basis Temenos invites its > UK In order to keep pace with the rapid rate entire client base, across its full range Temenos UK receives research and of change in information technology, of products and platforms, to participate development tax credits for certain Temenos has always invested extensively in a detailed relationship survey. related activities. In 2017 the total to ensure that its software takes advantage tax credit was USD 300,000 (2016: of the latest innovations. The updated Client Satisfaction USD 272,000). software on the latest technology is offered In order to drive our focus on client > Romania to clients seamlessly through simple, experience further, a complementary Temenos Romania benefits from an regular upgrades. For more information initiative to the Temenos Client Voice income tax exemption for employees please refer to Research and Development program, the Improve Client Satisfaction in software creation related roles. The on page 22. Project, was launched in March 2014. amount of the exemption for 2017 was The aim of the Improve Client Satisfaction USD 620,000 (2016: USD 550,000). In Project is to cement the Company’s FOCUS ON CLIENT ENGAGEMENT addition, there is a 20% reduction in focus on client satisfaction and make Client Voice Romanian corporate income tax of Temenos an even more client-centric Client-centricity and client success have USD 48,610 (2016: USD 5,500). This company. The project is sponsored by been at the heart of our corporate values amount is instead paid directly to a our Chief Client Officer. Within the project, since the Company was founded. In order Temenos nominated charity. each department is represented by a to have a consistent view of each step > China carefully selected individual/ group of of our clients’ journey, we launched the Under government policy for individual individuals. They are tasked with setting Temenos Client Voice in 2012 and have income taxes, a 2% individual income KPIs and actions to enhance satisfaction been repeating it on an annual basis since tax refund is given to the Company in their areas according to the feedback then. The program, owned by our Chief which can be used for staff recreational collected through the Temenos Client Executive Officer, covers all products and activities or staff award. The refund for Voice program. The representatives are regions. The program is critical to Temenos 2017 was USD 2,090 (2016: USD 3,637). also responsible for making sure that as it enables us to track and analyze the > Singapore the actions are completed and that the clients’ perception of their experience of Under Singapore’s Productivity and target improvements within their areas are working with Temenos. It is supported Innovation credit (PIC) and Wage credit achieved. The KPIs and actions are tracked both at a senior management and regional Schemes Temenos has claimed and reported on a monthly basis at the level, with the client satisfaction process USD 51,095 in 2017 (2016: USD 80,366). executive level. They are also reviewed itself being led by a cross departmental regularly based on incoming feedback in team with members from Sales, Marketing, Procurement order to ensure that they remain relevant Support and Services teams. The percentage of the procurement and continue addressing the correct areas. budget used for our significant locations The Temenos Client Voice program was of operation spent on suppliers local to Clients receive updates on Temenos first launched with an initial survey in that operation (such as percentage of initiatives and activities through various February 2012. It is based on the ‘Net products and services purchased locally) media, from specific updates and Promoter’ methodology, which classifies is as follows: newsletters to presentations at our annual participants from those least likely to Temenos Community Forum. Since the % paid to local suppliers recommend a firm to those most likely to program was launched, we have seen advocate for a firm, detractors, passives Location 2017 a significant improvement in our Net and promoters. The percentage of Promoter Score and our clients have shown detractors is then subtracted from the India 93% their support and approval of the program. percentage of promoters to arrive at the Luxembourg 34% Net Promotor Score. In doing so, it serves Romania 58% to effectively concentrate the organization on always giving outstanding service and Switzerland 67% moving client opinion from negative or UK 62% neutral to highly positive (a promoter has a satisfaction score of nine or ten out of ten). The reported data above contains all local However, the discipline of Net Promoter, suppliers paid by the Temenos local entity, which is used widely by B2B companies, i.e. suppliers that are registered in the goes deeper than just tracking a metric, same country as the Temenos entity that it is a whole system designed to pays them. operationalize client data throughout the organization in order to drive change, systemize learnings and improve client experiences. 60 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Since the metric was launched, our NPS has Quality and Certifications improved by 43 percentage points with the In order to deliver consistency across largest improvement following the launch all client touchpoints, Temenos utilizes of the Improve Client Satisfaction Project. management systems that are certified Our satisfaction scores across the board by accredited bodies and adhere to have also followed this trend. To date international standard certifications. we have completed eight survey waves, In that way, we ensure a more systematic collecting over 5,000 responses across all and effective approach to our issues. our accounts. Since 2015, we have been incentivizing our clients to participate in > ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management – the survey. The Company matched every India, London, Hemel Hempstead, Rubik survey submission with a donation and > ISO 27001:2013 Information Security – we were able to donate USD 30,000 to India, Rubik The Global Fund for Children. In 2017 > CMMI for Development ML 3 – T24 we set ourselves several goals including Product Development and Maintenance increasing our participation to over 1,000 (India, London and Hemel Hempstead), respondents, improving in all satisfaction Country Model Bank and Client Specific areas and introducing a new survey Developments (India) platform. We are pleased to have achieved > CMMI for Services CL 3 – PACS (India) our 2017 goals, we will still continue to > SSAE 16, SOC 2 Type 2 – Azure (Krakow), strive for improvement and have set further Trinovus, Akcelerant goals for 2018. All Temenos products and people in the 2018 Goals above mentioned scope are covered > To continue to focus efforts on improving by these certifications with the possible satisfaction in those areas which have the exception of recent acquisitions which largest impact on client engagement, typically conform within a period of 18-24 including product, support and services. months post acquisitions. Full coverage > To strive for higher participation in the across products and services is unique Client Voice program to obtain more and among Temenos’ peer group. more representative feedback, bringing the annual number of participants to over 1,200 individuals from our client organizations. > To raise our Net Promoter Score by a further 5 percentage points. > To improve our overall satisfaction score (an average of all participants’ scores, as opposed to promoters less detractors) by at least 1 percentage point across every aspect of the business. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 61 Operating responsibly DOING BUSINESS THE RIGHT WAY OPERATING RESPONSIBLY For over 20 years we have been proud of > Corporate Governance Guidelines The Committee meets quarterly, while our reputation for professionalism and the approved by the Board quorum is required for actions to be taken. strong relationships we have built up with > Internal Controls and Risk Oversight Written minutes are kept and maintained our clients. We believe that sound and by Committees and Board by the Committee Secretary for all formal ethical business conduct and governance meetings of the Committee and are is critical to earning and maintaining the More information on Corporate communicated to the external statutory trust of our clients, investors, Partners Governance is on page 97 and on the auditor. In 2017, the Committee held 5 and suppliers. Integrity, honesty and corporate website www.temenos.com. meetings. During that time, the Committee transparency are at the heart of what we continued to implement the 4-year CSR do. Our commitments to ethical business ETHICAL BUSINESS CONDUCT strategic plan focusing on three areas: practices and strong corporate governance AND GOVERNANCE structures are designed to promote the Our commitment to assess and manage 1. to manage our CSR strategy; long term interests of our shareholders, the impact of our operations and promote 2. to monitor, analyze and assess our maintain internal checks and balances, the long term interests of our shareholders Environment, Social and Governance promote accountability at all levels of is demonstrated in the Temenos Business (ESG) footprint, with the use of nonour organization and foster responsible Code of Conduct (the Code) and our financial KPIs; and decision-making. corporate policies. The members of the 3. to communicate and raise awareness Board of Directors and the Executive about our CSR strategy to all As a global corporation, we have been Committee have endorsed the Code. stakeholders internally and externally. operating at an exceptionally high Oversight of sustainability issues is part standard of integrity in complying with of the duties of our senior management Business Code of Conduct the laws and regulations of the countries through the CSR and Ethics Committee. The Code is the foundation of our in which we operate – in some cases commitment to ethical business practices higher standards than required by national CSR and Ethics Governance and legal compliance. The Code defines laws or regulations. We understand the To ensure the effective implementation the standards for business conduct responsibility that comes with that role of our CSR strategy, Temenos has a everywhere we operate and provides and are committed to working with all our Global Corporate Social Responsibility guidance in addressing the business, stakeholders to build long term business Department, responsible for managing legal and ethical issues encountered relationships and create sustainable value the Group CSR strategy, interacting while performing daily work or making for them. with stakeholders and driving the decisions on behalf of Temenos. CSR initiatives. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In 2017, we reviewed, updated and Corporate Governance at Temenos is Temenos CSR strategy is designed and aligned our Code and policies with the set up so as to promote the long term led by the CSR and Ethics Committee (the ten principles of the United Nations interest of all of our stakeholders and Committee) at the senior management Global Compact on the four issue areas foster a culture of transparency, business level, which reports to the Board of of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and integrity, responsible decision-making and Directors through the Audit Committee. Anti-Corruption and the OECD Guidelines accountability, maintain internal checks and The purpose of the Committee is to foster for Multinational Enterprises, in order to controls and help build public trust in the a culture of sustainability, responsibility better serve the interests of a broader set Company, by balancing the interests of all and ethics within the Company, of stakeholders and raise awareness about its stakeholders. recognizing that senior management is our responsible and sustainable operation. responsible for instilling Temenos’ values The updated Code is based on the solid Highlights of Temenos Corporate throughout the Company. The Committee fundamental principles that have sustained Governance represents different Temenos functions us and brought us success, but has been > Board of Directors with Non-Executive and departments, ensuring all the voices reviewed to better address the demands of and Independent Directors of internal and external stakeholders the changing global environment. > Separate Chairman and CEO are taken into account. The Committee > Executive Chairman consists of: The Code is available in English and French > Independent Audit, Nomination and and can be found on our intranet and our Compensation Committees > Chief Financial Officer / Chief Operating corporate website. It applies equally to full> Charters for Board Committees Officer (Chairman of the Committee) time, part-time, temporary employees and > Chief Executive Officer and Executive > General Counsel (Deputy Chairperson contractors globally. The Code is a key part Committee of the Committee) of the employment contract and contractor > Annual Board and Committee > Group CSR Manager (Secretary) agreement. All employees are required Evaluations > Group Human Resources Director to read and acknowledge the Code and > Stock Ownership and Holding > Finance Director – Strategic Projects linked policies within the first three months Requirements and Compliance > Internal Audit and Risk Director 62 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements of their employment. In 2017, we The ABC policy and the Anti-Corruption achieved an acknowledgment rate of GLOBAL TEMENOS TRAINING Program include several elements such 90% for the Code. COMPLETION PERCENTAGE as proportionate procedures, top-level commitment, risk assessment, integrity Employees are also required to complete Business Code of Conduct due diligence, communication and training, the mandatory trainings upon joining Acknowledgment 90% monitoring and review and enforcement and every 18 months thereafter. The Business Code of and sanctions, with the aim of continuous objective of the Code is to ensure that all Conduct Training 88% improvement and alignment with prevailing stakeholders are aware of the behaviors ABC Training 99% international standards. As part of our that are expected from them. The CSR Data Protection Training 93% on-going commitment to anti-corruption, and Ethics Committee is charged with Security Awareness Training 93% we have expanded our commitments in monitoring the compliance with the Code. this area beyond Temenos, to include our suppliers, Partners and other third parties Temenos requires Partners to comply with that have a direct contractual relationship the Temenos Business Code of Conduct Anti-Corruption and Bribery with Temenos. Integrity is a vital part of as respective compliance requirements are For Temenos, anti-corruption is not only our business. We also have ABC provisions included in the Services Partner agreement. a legal obligation but also a matter of in our Partner and contractor agreements Temenos requires all new suppliers to ethical business standards. The Company as well as in our procurement process comply with the Temenos Business Code takes a zero-tolerance approach to with suppliers. In 2016, we implemented of Conduct and the Temenos Supplier bribery and corruption and is committed mandatory requirements for screening and Code of Conduct. For the existing to acting professionally, fairly and with conducting due-diligence assessments suppliers Temenos will require to gradually integrity in all its business dealings and of our business Partners and suppliers, comply with the Code and related policies relationships – wherever it operates while introducing a risk assessment tool and to verify compliance by providing – and to implementing and enforcing for our suppliers to identify the level of risk respective information when requested. effective systems to counter bribery. associated with bribery and corruption, Temenos upholds all laws relevant to ensuring that we can only engage with Corporate Policies countering bribery and corruption in all the those that are legitimate businesses The backbone of our Code are the jurisdictions in which it operates, including with a reputation for integrity. corporate policies linked to it that provide but by no means limited to the US Foreign detailed guidance on how to exercise Corrupt Practices Act and the Bribery Act In 2017, we updated our Code to address good judgment when working and making (UK) 2010. Temenos’ zero tolerance on our policies with regards to charitable decisions for Temenos. Temenos is a global corruption and ethical standards are set donations and the giving and receiving company and our business is subject to the out in our Code and our Anti-Bribery and of gifts and corporate hospitality. To laws of many different countries. In order Corruption (ABC) policy which apply to all ensure charitable contributions, donations to conduct our business on a daily basis, Temenos employees and group entities. and sponsorships and prizes made we interact with a variety of stakeholders. on behalf of Temenos are not used to We are committed to interacting with all of The Temenos ABC policy states that circumvent anti-bribery policies and can these stakeholders in a respectful, ethical Temenos shall actively attempt to ensure be documented, we set up an internal manner and in compliance with all the local that corruption does not occur in Temenos’ global system designed to centralize the and international laws of the countries business activities through an adequate declaration and/or approval process for we operate in. The policies are reviewed and risk-based Anti-Corruption Program. gifts, entertainment and contributions to annually and reflect our continued ABC training is part of the annual Business better shield the Company from practices commitment to ethical business practices Conduct training that all employees have that could be perceived as unethical and legal compliance. to take when joining Temenos and to and contrary to our ABC practices. All repeat annually during their employment charitable contributions, donations and In addition to acknowledging the Code with Temenos. In 2017, we achieved a sponsorships require the prior review and when joining the Company, Temenos completion rate of 99% for the training written approval of the CSR and Ethics employees are expected to complete (1% is accounted for new joiners with Committee. training on the Code as well as on three a three-month grace period from their other areas, such as Anti-corruption hire date). and Bribery, Data Privacy and Security Awareness. The increased focus and communication of the Code and related policies by our senior management and HR in 2017 had a positive impact on our Ethical Business Conduct compliance. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 63 Operating responsibly OPERATING RESPONSIBLY continued We also updated our anti-corruption 3. Sanction checking In 2017, a sanctions screening framework and guidelines when engaging Both the Introducer and the prospect client automation project was conducted with third-party representatives that are cross-checked against sanctions lists internally by implementing Temenos’ introduce Temenos to new markets and provided by Dow Jones. own FCM compliance solution in a projects. In 2017, particular changes were corporate environment. By means of this made to the Introducer scoring mechanism Temenos monitors compliance with the automation we are able to analyze all as well as the level of documentation policy regularly through routine and business opportunities at an early stage required to be submitted in support of ad hoc checks and audits across the of development for sanctions risks and Introducer related activities, including an organization. The ABC policy and the continue to analyze them through their obligation to document the activities and effectiveness of the Anti-Corruption evolution as a business opportunity and communications undertaken when working Program are assessed and revised on a thereafter as a client. On a daily basis, with Introducers. The new Introducer regular basis. In 2017, we engaged a third updated sanctions lists provided by Dow scoring mechanism is based on three party external audit company to benchmark Jones are uploaded in the FCM Solution, assessment criteria. More specifically: our ABC compliance organization, and all business opportunities and clients including an examination on the design, are checked on a weekly basis. In order 1. Quantitative Criteria implementation, processes and internal to further enhance Temenos’ sanctions The risk assessment is based on: controls in that respect. This benchmark compliance program, further development was part of our commitment to ensure steps will be performed in 2018 in order to > Location Risk: The perceived that our ABC compliance program is cross-check our database on a daily basis. corruption level set up by Transparency continuously improving, in line with best International is taken into consideration, practices and our continually evolving Conflict of Interest and Related Party both for the Introducer and the business. Transactions prospect client Conflicts of interest in both the public > Payment Risk: Both the proportionality In 2017, no case of corruption was drawn and private sectors have become a major of Introducer payment as % of deal to the Board’s attention through the matter of public concern worldwide. As a value, as well as the payment to the anonymous reporting mechanism. global market leading software provider, Introducer as an absolute amount is Temenos might be faced with actual, taken into consideration Export Controls and Sanctions potential or perceived conflicts of interest. > Transaction Risk: The location (country) Temenos complies with all applicable Temenos is sensitive to the ways in which of the bank account in which the export control laws and sanctions an employee’s private financial affairs Introducer will receive payment is scored worldwide when conducting business could create potential conflicts of interest. against the location (country) of the around the world. All Temenos employees, Also, transactions executed by related Introducer. contractors, distributors and Partners are parties (legal entities and natural persons) expected and required to comply with must be reported if such transactions are Specific weighting is assigned to the the Export Controls and Sanctions policy, carried out under the significant influence following (based on the risk appetite which is also part of the Code. Failure to of a Temenos senior manager. Ensuring set at management level): observe sanctions and export controls that the integrity of the Company’s may cause operational delays, expose the decision-making is not compromised by > Location Risk-Perceived corruption Company to regulatory investigations, employees’ private interests, Temenos at location of prospect client severely damage our reputation, and has in place business-specific policies and > Location Risk-Perceived corruption create substantial legal exposure for procedures that address the identification at location of Introducer Temenos companies including criminal and management of actual, potential or > Payment Risk and civil fines, and for individuals, fines perceived conflicts of interest that may > Transaction risk (Location of and imprisonment. arise in the course of business as well as the Payment-Perceived corruption) reporting of any related party transactions. 2. Qualitative criteria > Relationship of the Introducer with government/governmental authorities > Adequacy of information provided 64 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Conflict of interest has been an important Preventing retaliation is critical for risks, carrying out control activities such part of the Code since its launch. As of Temenos. The Company has an open-door as segregation of duties, supervision, staff 2017, a separate policy was created which policy and strictly prohibits retaliation training, communication and monitoring. was directly linked to the Code. The against those who raise a compliance It is the role of Internal Audit among policy describes in detail the voluntary concern in good faith. Retaliation for others, to evaluate effectiveness of risk and mandatory disclosure mechanism raising questions or issues is prohibited, management and internal controls, assess for all Temenos employees, members of even if an investigation does not ultimately compliance with policies and procedures the senior management and the Board of validate the concerns raised. Temenos and provide assurance to senior Directors as well as the appeal process to is committed to handling all inquiries management and Board of Directors. the CSR and Ethics Committee which is discreetly and preserving the anonymity charged with monitoring the compliance and confidentiality of anyone requesting All Temenos employees, contractors, with the Code and its linked policies. guidance or reporting a possible violation Partners and suppliers are required to fully to the extent possible and within the limits cooperate with Internal Audit if and when In 2017, we set up an internal online allowed by the laws. requested and to provide access to all global system designed to centralize the records, property and personnel as stated declaration of Conflict of Interest and In addition, an appeal process to the CSR in the Internal Audit Charter approved by Related Party Transactions as well as and Ethics Committee was introduced, the Audit Committee. the approvals of Outside Directorships whose decision is final and binding. Failure Requests made by Temenos employees or to act in compliance with the Code can members of the Board of Directors serving result in appropriate disciplinary actions. All as a Director or an officer for an outside filed cases have been successfully resolved. organization which might also result in a conflict of interest. Risk Management and Internal Controls Temenos’ policy is to have adequate Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and controls in all areas of its operation to Reporting ensure compliance with applicable laws, Our responsibility is to train our employees regulations, policies and client agreements, on ethical business conduct, provide preparation of reliable financial and them with communication channels, build management reports, safeguarding controls to prevent and detect unethical of Company assets (both physical and and non-compliant conduct and perform intangible) and efficient and effective use regular internal audits; when we identify or of resources. Internal audits are conducted learn of concerns or improper conduct, to by the Internal Audit function according to investigate them fully and take appropriate risk-based plan. action to remediate. It is management’s responsibility to design, Temenos offers employees, Partners implement and operate effective risk and suppliers ways to report compliance management practices and controls. This concerns. If instances of possible nonis achieved through regular assessment of compliance with the Code are detected, an internal grievance mechanism is in place No. of grievances in to record verbally, in print or electronically, Employee concerns 2017 any related concerns through: Workplace discrimination concerns (perceived-feeling of discrimination) 2 > the line Manager Other workplace concerns (failure to comply with legal obligations, > Group Human Resources Department > Group Legal Department such as breach employment law or human rights obligations) 0 > Internal Audit and Risk Fraud, theft or other ethical misconduct 1 Health and Safety or perceived damage to the environment 4 In case of anonymous reporting, there Violation of the Temenos Business Code of Conduct (perceived) 1 is an anonymous reporting mechanism in place through: Actual, potential or perceived conflict of interest 2 anonymousreporting@temenos.com. Total 10 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 65 Operating responsibly OPERATING RESPONSIBLY continued INFORMATION SECURITY It is in our operational processes where we We have incorporated information security AND DATA PRIVACY handle data, where we are continuously and data privacy requirements into our Security and data privacy continue to be a working towards ensuring that our Global Procurement policy and procedure focus for corporations, regulators, industry processes protect any data we handle. that includes two main initiatives for organizations and advocacy groups across Our aim is to avoid handling client suppliers: sourcing process for supplier the globe. Regulatory requirements, data – for example we ask that data is qualification and an annual supplier stakeholder pressures and reputational scrambled before we are given access to performance and risk assessment, covering impacts, due to high profile data security it. At Temenos, we implement a global areas such as business and ethical conduct, breaches in recent years, have thrown into information security and data privacy environment, human rights, impact on the spotlight the importance of having program accompanied by supporting society, client privacy and information robust safeguards in place for personal, policies and procedures designed to security apart from financial and legal corporate as well as client data. safeguard the confidentiality, integrity compliance requirements. and availability of data and IT services. As a market leading software provider for As part of the Temenos Information financial institutions globally, Temenos To comply with GDPR, data security and Security program, the Temenos office recognizes that information security other related local laws, we continuously sites in India performing requirement and data privacy is a material issue for monitor our internal processes, run analysis, design, development, testing, our stakeholders, as it is a fundamental key compliance projects and conduct implementation, supply and maintenance aspect of our product offering and training to our people. Our goal is to of our products along with client business operation, and to that end we are raise awareness about integrating security support, product related consultancy continuously working towards ensuring that into their day-to-day activities and and management. Shared Service Center personal data is treated in a secure and adapting their behaviors accordingly to and related support processes as well as lawful manner, without adversely affecting today’s increasingly complex information Rubik are certified as ISO27001 compliant. the rights of individuals. technology landscape. In addition, Temenos maintains SSAE16 attestations for controls related to clients’ We do not need to develop privacy by Security awareness and data privacy is an data. This covers TriNovus and Akcelerant design into our design and development important part of the Temenos Business in the US as well as Temenos T24 in Azure. processes as during that phase we are not Code of Conduct. Temenos policies and In addition, as part of our longstanding handling any data. We are adapting our procedures are based on international commitment to ensuring the privacy and product offering to the growing importance security standards, taking into account best security of the data we handle, Temenos of privacy, by aligning our product offering practices and recommendations from the also conducts annual audits, which outline with a new Client Data Protection Module. industry. The policies cover areas such as: and document the adequate internal The Temenos Client Data Protection confidentiality, data protection and privacy, controls for information security and data Module provides clients with the tools intellectual property and responsible and privacy. These audits are carried out for and capital to assist their compliance to secure use of IT infrastructure. Through our data centers and infrastructure services the General Data Protection Regulation the Temenos Data Protection and Privacy as well. The results of these audits are (GDPR), and therefore more control, of policy, Temenos promotes a culture communicated to senior management as personal data and processing throughout of security and awareness relating to well as the Board of Directors through the their systems. Applying our functional and personal information, which is supported Audit Committee. technical understanding of the rules of data by additional procedures designed for protection and our experience of working our employees, contractors, Partners, Temenos is always seeking to enhance within the financial sector, we assist clients suppliers and clients. As part of the its information and security systems and to analyze business models to help them e-training modules that all employees management to protect confidential and understand the practical and financial and contractors have to take when personal data used in the business and implications of the new regulation and joining Temenos and repeat during their comply with GDPR, data security and develop strategies for dealing with such employment with Temenos, in 2017, we other related local laws. To this end, in implications within their usage of Temenos achieved a completion rate of 93% for the 2017 Temenos designed, parameterized products. It is the responsibility of the trainings. In 2017, we updated and aligned and launched a GDPR compliance plan, client itself to ensure internal policies and the trainings with GDPR. We also require targeting full GDPR compliance by 25 May procedures are in place across all systems Partners – included in the Services Partner 2018. The plan is built around the following to ensure compliance. New functionality agreement – to provide security awareness five fundamental questions: will be provided that addresses potential and data privacy trainings to all employees, gaps identified in data protection impact working on Temenos projects. In addition, assessments our clients may recently have we offer an additional internal training undertaken. to our employees as well as Partners to cover GDPR requirements during the Temenos Global Sales meeting (GSM). 66 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements > WHAT data are we processing? The respective readiness assessment is Temenos Information Security team > WHY do we process the data? updated regularly and the relevant findings works alongside the Temenos Security > WHERE do we process data? are presented to senior management. and Privacy Committee and the Product > WHO do we share the data with or Security team in order to develop has access to the data, and for what Temenos maintains vigilance over its and oversee the implementation of purpose(s)? security and privacy arrangements with a information security controls to ensure data > HOW do we protect the data? proactive approach as it recognizes that confidentiality, integrity and availability. incidents may occur due to unforeseen In parallel, the Security and Privacy Temenos GDPR compliance framework events. To this end, Temenos is developing Committee has developed the Temenos incorporates four principles: Assess, robust security incident management Security Incident Management Procedure, Protect, Sustain and Respond. As a result, procedures, in order to minimize the which describes the framework for early a Temenos risk assessment dashboard impact of any incident for its clients and detection and responding to security was formulated, assessing the likelihood their end users. In order for Temenos to incidents. Depending on the nature of and impact of a potential breach. The follow a consistent and effective process the incident, this procedure outlines the dashboard assisted us in prioritizing the to address any actual or suspected security steps to be taken when security incidents focus areas in terms of the relevant risk. incidents that disrupt or threaten to disrupt are identified or reported and establishes To this end, a risk process mapping was Temenos operations and information the organizational requirements, including designed and implemented across the systems or which involve loss or the roles and responsibilities for incident focus areas, in which all processes related potential loss of corporate, employee, processing and protection. An incident is to personal data were documented, client or Partner data which may include initially classified as of low, medium or high analyzed and assessed in terms of the confidential or sensitive data, a Security severity, which dictates the course of action relevant risks, and specific measures and and Privacy Committee was formed in to be taken, within a 24-hour window. controls were implemented in order to May 2017. Its purpose is to oversee our All incidents are being archived and are mitigate the identified risks. Furthermore, senior management’s efforts to implement followed by post incident reports, in order a data privacy impact assessment template global information security and privacy to ensure that all necessary measures have was launched, in order to assess the level compliance programs within Temenos. been put into effect. of risk in terms of data protection, when The Security and Privacy Committee’s role new technologies are being utilized by the is to recognize that developing a culture Temenos will continue to seek ways to Company. In order to measure the level of security and awareness of privacy and enhance its information and security of compliance in real terms, a readiness personal data among all employees is systems and management to protect assessment dashboard was implemented the responsibility of all involved within confidential and personal data used in based on the requirements set by GDPR the organization. The responsibilities the business and comply with GDPR, data which addresses the compliance rate with of the Security and Privacy Committee security and other related local laws. regards to the following: include overseeing global security and data protection efforts with the objective 2018 Goals: > Legal basis for processing of ensuring that Temenos has established > To strengthen and enhance the security > Rights of data subjects written policies, guidelines and standards and privacy governance through > Obligations in compliance with the laws, rules and additional recruitment initiatives. > Privacy notices regulations of the countries in which > To identify Data Champions across > Security we operate and in accordance with Temenos functions and departments > Handling of data breaches internationally recognized standards. In globally, where dedicated employees > Privacy by design and by default addition, its role is to assess all security will be assigned with the overall data > Data protection impact assessments incidents, including incidents that may protection supervision and will report (DPIAs) result in the breach of personal data, any deficiencies to their line managers > Designation of a Data Protection Officer contain them and take immediate and to the Security and Privacy > Data transfer mechanisms action in order to rectify the situation. Committee. Its membership includes IT, Product Security, Legal, HR, Data Protection and Compliance, Internal Audit and Risk. The Committee meets every month. It held seven meetings during 2017. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 67 Operating responsibly OPERATING RESPONSIBLY continued RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT The Global Procurement team’s mission As part of Temenos’ continued commitment AND SUPPLY CHAIN is to enforce responsible procurement to enhancing our internal compliance As a global software company, our practices between Temenos and its third programs we extended the sanctions business focuses on providing software party suppliers by conducting supplier risk screening program to our suppliers solutions and services, relying on the assessments, performance monitoring and residing in specific sanctioned countries sourcing of finished products, services and supply base optimizations. and incorporated that as a new part in the consultants for the delivery of our projects. Temenos export controls and sanctions Our supply chain includes a supplier base As a first initiative of the centralized policy. of around 3,000 suppliers globally as well governance model for supplier relationship as local suppliers for the procurement of management, we have initiated evaluating In 2017, we introduced a Supplier Code of goods and services to support our business supplier performance and risk assessment Conduct linked to the Temenos Business as well as our operations. Responsible and though a well-constructed methodology Code of Conduct. The Supplier Code sustainable sourcing is a material issue applicable at group level. This includes of Conduct contains requirements for for Temenos. Temenos has adopted a a supplier questionnaire covering areas our suppliers to adhere to our business risk-based approach to identify high-risk such as business and ethical conduct, principles as well as encourage them to suppliers, identifying the areas where environment, human rights, impact on develop their own responsible practices. sustainability challenges are most likely society, client privacy and information We also designed a supplier information to occur and working with its suppliers security apart from the financial and legal section on the Temenos website where our towards continual improvement. compliance requirements, while it is aligned suppliers can find all necessary resources to with the 10 principles of the UN Global conduct business successfully with Temenos Temenos establishes and maintains Compact. The supplier questionnaire is (i.e. purchase terms and conditions, Supplier relationships with small local and large used both during the supplier qualification Code of Conduct, invoicing guidelines, international suppliers who adhere to our process and the annual supplier grievance mechanism). business principles of highest standards performance and risk assessment activities. of ethical behavior and regulatory In 2017, the supplier performance and risk In 2017, we complied with the UK Modern compliance. Our supply base is very assessment included approximately 200 Slavery Act, by issuing a Slavery and Human dynamic based on the Company’s strategic current suppliers considered critical to Trafficking Statement where we outline objectives and immediate needs and our business in 2016. The suppliers that Temenos’ policies and procedures related includes strategic, key operational and are critical for our business are defined as to Fair Labor Standards and Respect for tactical suppliers. follows: Human Rights throughout our operations and supply chain, while describing our We have incorporated CSR considerations > Supplier provides goods and/or services efforts to address modern slavery. into our procurement practices. We which are supplied to our Clients constantly improve our responsible > Supplier has access and/or processes our procurement by obtaining the Employee or Company data understanding and support of suppliers for > Supplier connects to our Company the procurement practices and building systems or requires access to Temenos strong partnerships with them. We have intellectual property or confidential also introduced effective audit mechanisms information for identified cases of high-risk suppliers, > Supplier provides technical or IT services as well as grievance mechanisms for both and/or software products which involve employees and suppliers on procurement intellectual property licensing issues. The supplier performance and risk In 2017, we have officially introduced assessment was concluded by assigning the Global Procurement policy and a performance and risk score to 74% of procedure that extends compliance to the suppliers, reclassifying to correct include areas such as CSR, ABC, sanctions, purchase categories 8% of the suppliers human rights, environment, security and and not initiating contract renewals with data protection and includes two main 19% of the suppliers as business need initiatives for suppliers: sourcing process was no longer forecasted. In addition to for supplier qualification and an annual assigning a performance and risk score, supplier performance and risk assessment. we have documented clear risk-mitigating Furthermore, we have established a recommendation to be applicable to the centralized governance model for supplier Terms and Conditions of our purchasing relationship management by building a agreements in order to improve our brand new Global Procurement team. responsible procurement practices. 68 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Temenos’ suppliers also encouraged to ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Temenos has 4,559 employees in 64 offices communicate any concerns they might have With the continued global spotlight on in 41 countries. The Temenos offices are related to a possible breach of the Temenos the critical issue of climate change, we located in large leased office buildings Business Code of Conduct through the recognize the importance of addressing close to city centers and outside protected anonymous reporting mechanism, while the area in which we have the greatest lands and habitats. The offices are designed the Company reserves the right to audit. impact – our use of energy – and protecting internally in such a way as to fully utilize Employees work only with Company the environment. While fully complying natural resources, such as sunlight or make approved suppliers and Partners, avoid all with all relevant environmental laws and efficient room of the office space (open forms of one-sided preferential treatment legislation at our office locations globally, space externally used as patios), and to of a supplier and have the anonymous we support a precautionary approach to create an excellent working environment. reporting mechanism to report any concerns environmental challenges on our own they might have related to a possible breach initiative and an environmentally responsible In 2017, we introduced a Global of the Company-supplier/Partner business way of conducting our business operations. Environment policy, as part of the Temenos relationship. While our footprint is smaller compared Business Code of Conduct. We have also to other resource-intensive industries, we incorporated CSR considerations into our 2018 Goals are committed to continuously identifying corporate facilities management practices > To build, enhance and support our Global opportunities to increase our energy and developed a comprehensive facilities Procurement team’s capability to most efficiency. We are committed to: management strategy that incorporates efficiently meet business requirements both financial and non-financial criteria through a well-defined team plan > Assessing, monitoring, managing and for new property leases (procedure and including capability assessment, reporting on the environmental impact standards for selecting a new property) and prioritized training and development of our operations through innovation, for renewal of existing leases, focusing on program as well as key performance technology and change of attitude the following areas: indicators > Respecting the principles of sustainable > To further develop procurement development, aiming at actively > Environmental Management Systems strategies in consultation with business minimizing the environmental impact (EMS): Develop a Global EMS and align lines to deliver best value solutions of our operations, while striving for with international standards. We have to meet our Company’s needs in a continuous improvement by putting in already started designing and rolling timely manner while maintaining policy place policies, management systems and out a Global EMS, starting with our four compliance through a procurement targets to improve our performance office locations in India with the biggest management framework with defined > Meeting or exceeding all applicable employee concentration, representing category plans (which will extend beyond environmental laws and government 48% of our total employee concentration. 2018 as required) requirements at our office locations In parallel, we are working towards the > To implement technology solutions that globally. Where environmental legislation direction of having it certified according simplifies procurement activity to support is not clear or enforced, to ensure that to ISO 14001 Environmental Management compliance and proactive risk mitigation all the necessary environmental practices requirements. through an electronic procurement are in place > EMS Desk: Monitor, record and report database that will give easy access to > Raising awareness among our employees environmental performance (energy, information about our supply base about environmental sustainability water, waste). We are currently in the > To further consolidate our centralized through training opportunities in process of analyzing and addressing governance model for supplier environmental matters the environmental impact of our relationship management by > Being an environmentally responsible operations in a more systematic way implementing supplier performance neighbor in the communities where by establishing a uniform environmental and risk assessment to approximately we operate management process across offices. 200 of our top suppliers in 2017. > Participating in global efforts to In addition, we set up an internal improve environmental protection and Company-wide mechanism in order understanding to map our environmental footprint in > Conducting audits and self-assessments relation to business travel, employee of compliance with our Global commute, energy and water consumption Environment policy and report annually and introduce ways to conserve resources to the CSR and Ethics Committee and the in select locations globally with the Board of Directors largest employee concentration. We > Starting offsetting our scope 3 emissions have started measuring our indirect towards community projects that create energy consumption (electricity, heating, real and lasting socio-economic benefits. cooling) in 16 Temenos offices in five countries, representing around 68% of the total Temenos population. The energy consumption for these locations Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 69 Operating responsibly OPERATING RESPONSIBLY continued We invested heavily in adopting the latest audio, video and web conferencing technologies and require any travel to be pre-approved electronically to ensure it ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT IN ROMANIA is justified and necessary in light of both the needs of the business and our overall environmental impact. Furthermore, 56% In 2017, in order to promote our employees use a number of tools to energy efficiency, sustainability facilitate remote communication including and operational cost reduction, we teleconferencing, chat, and functionality replaced traditional lighting sources to share digital content and even their with innovative LED technology in laptop screen with others. Training is largely the Temenos Romania offices, where Savings in the annual conducted through online sessions and around 300 Temenos employees work. electricity consumption webinars. We also support employees to By replacing the fluorescent tubes and work from home and participate in local fluorescent compact bulbs with LED environmental initiatives in the countries tubes and bulbs, we had a 56% saving we operate in. In addition, during business €7,056 in annual electricity consumption travel, the vacant offices are used as in indoor lighting, translating into meeting rooms or hot desks. In our new €7,056 reduction in electricity and procurement policy, we also incorporated maintenance costs as well as the environmental requirements into our warm emissions with impact on suppliers’ risk assessment apart from environment protection. financial and legal compliance requirements Savings in electricity costs and aligned with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. With our greatest source of energy usage and emissions originating from purchased electricity at our offices and from employee is 6,095,857 kWh, while the respective Requirements’ Checklist by the CSR travel, we will continue to invest in energy emissions 3.9 ktons CO2. The locations and Ethics Committee. We have set up efficiency efforts at those types of facilities, are as follows: Switzerland (three office a procedure to monitor, analyze, assess as well as looking for ways to offset our locations), UK (five), Romania (one), and report our offices’ footprint with the emissions. Luxembourg (two) and India (five). use of financial and non-financial KPIs. In addition, we have mapped our We are also in communication with the 2018 goals environmental footprint in relation to owners of the buildings we lease globally > To fully measure our indirect energy business travel (flights) for 33 out of the to introduce and include into the lease consumption (electricity, heating, cooling) 41 countries we operate, representing agreement ways to optimize energy, in all Temenos offices globally in the next 92% of the total employee concentration. water and waste management. two years Our scope 3 CO2 emissions are 12.9 ktons > To fully map our environmental footprint CO2. Our target is to report on the 100% We are particularly focused on minimizing in relation to business travel (flights) of our offices within the next two years. CO2 emissions as a result of our business > To identify opportunities to offset > Compliance: Manage compliance with activities through specific initiatives. emissions from employee travel environmental regulation. Compliance Temenos encourages all its employees to > To design and roll out a Global with the EU Energy Directive is a priority integrate sustainable practices in their daily Environmental Management System, for certain Temenos offices meeting the work and work-related activities, by: starting with our four office locations threshold requirements, such as the UK, in India Luxembourg, Romania and Germany. > offering office recycling capabilities > To implement energy efficiency In certain countries, we will support a in the offices measures in offices with large employee precautionary approach to compliance > encouraging the use of environmentally concentration with the Energy Directive. friendly transportation means such as > To introduce an energy champion within > Policy and Procedure: Upgrade and walking, cycling or carpooling each Temenos office responsible for manage new property leases and > introducing ways to optimize energy rolling out an energy efficiency and renewal of existing leases policy and management and water consumption training program. procedure. No new leases will be signed in our offices in cooperation with or existing leases will be renewed building owners without the approval of the Environment > reducing business travel through the use of technology 70 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements MAKING THE DIFFERENCE INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Our people are the key as they can make 45 men) and seven fixed-term employees contribute their unique knowledge and the difference. As one of our core values, (three women and four men in Europe). All experience to make a real impact on we believe in the power of people, since employee benefits are provided to full-time the world around us. We are committed people make things happen and define our as well as temporary or part-time employees to integrating diversity and inclusion destiny. Our people are the most important based on the requirements mandated by principles into our business practices: from and valuable Company asset constituting the laws in the countries where we operate our hiring processes to the development the Temenos culture and helping the and the locations where we recruit. of our people, as well as to the way we Company reach its business targets and communicate with and reward our people. bring exceptional value to our stakeholders. HUMAN RIGHTS As a result, this past year, we have put Temenos is committed to operating renewed focus and thought into advancing Temenos aims to create an open, fair, equal responsibly and establishing high ethical the diversity and inclusion agenda within the opportunity and honest work environment standards across our Company and in our Company. Through such diversity we have where all employees are treated with supply chain. This commitment includes a dynamic work environment in which we respect and courtesy in an inclusive, the promotion of and respect for Human continue to gather a wealth of knowledge productive and safe work environment. All Rights as recognized in international Human that contributes to our commercial success. employees and contractors are responsible Rights standards. As a United Nations for upholding this principle and work Global Compact participant, we respect Since the IT industry is still male-dominated towards making Temenos a great place and support the values of the Universal in many countries, we are actively seeking to work. Declaration of Human Rights, the OECD to recruit women and support them in Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and their career development, with the aim of Our commitments to communicate openly the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) achieving a more equal representation of and respectfully with each other, to provide Declaration on Fundamental Principles and male and female employees in the business. for diversity and equal employment Rights at Work by integrating human rights The principles and goals of the Universal opportunity at all levels of our organization considerations into our business operations. Declaration of Human Rights are at the and to protect the health and safety of We respect government policies in the center of our diversity initiatives. According our employees are an integral part of the countries where we operate, while seeking to global studies, in 2016, fewer than 25% Temenos Business Code of Conduct. ways to honor these global principles. We of IT jobs in developed countries were conduct regular audits to check internal held by women. That figure is about the Our Human Resources (HR) team is compliance with these standards. same in 2015. Gender imbalance in IT has organized globally as well as across regions been recognized as an issue since at least and countries to cater to the needs of our In 2017, we complied with the UK Modern 2005. At Temenos, we have focused early people at both local and global level, with Slavery Act by issuing a Slavery and Human on gender diversity in the IT workplace policies in place attuned to local conditions. Trafficking Statement where we outlined and have invested in an equal opportunity The team includes groups focused on Temenos’ policies and procedures related environment for both men and women HR operations, business partnering, to Fair Labor Standards and Respect for and are currently 7% higher than the compensation and benefits, mobility, data Human Rights throughout our operations average in the IT industry in terms of male and systems, talent and development, and supply chain, while describing our to female ratios. recruitment and employee communication efforts to address modern slavery. In and branding. Temenos global as well addition, we have addressed our own as as local HR policies serve as the overall well as our suppliers’ impact on human strategic direction and a clear point of rights in our Business Code of Conduct and contact and support on HR issues for our related training, Supplier Code of Conduct employees and operations globally. as well as our supplier performance and risk assessment processes of our Global At the end of 2017, Temenos employed Procurement policy and procedure. 4,945 people worldwide, including full-time employees and contractors. During 2017, DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND we invested heavily in hiring new people in Sales and R&D, while at the same time EQUAL OPPORTUNITY We pride ourselves on our diverse increasing the skill level globally. Our workforce at all levels of the Company, partnerships increasingly allow us to deliver with 91 nationalities represented within the a complete range of implementation Company. We are committed to attracting, and support services to our clients and developing, promoting and retaining complement our growth strategies. a diverse workforce to better serve our Most of our employees work as full-time, diverse clients and to excel in the global permanent employees. In 2017, we had marketplace, while creating an inclusive 69 part-time employees (24 women and environment in which all employees can Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 71 Operating responsibly DIVERSITY DASHBOARD INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE continued TOTAL HEADCOUNT LAST FOUR YEARS BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER 2014 3,647 Board of Board of Directors* 7 Directors* 16 Business Business 11 2015 4,440 59 48 Partners Partners External External 116 2016 4,351 320 204 Contractors Contractors 2017 Temenos 4,559 Temenos 4,945 1,457 3,102 Employees Employees * Independent and Non-Executive Directors only. Female Male TEMENOS EMPLOYEES % BY GENDER BY GENDER AND AGE BY FUNCTION AND GENDER Male 68% 117 198 50+ 388 Services 697 Female 32% 142 30-50 737 1,972 Sales and 246 Marketing <30 603 742 Research and 874 1,843 Development General 243 316 Female Male Administration Female Male % BY REGION BY GENDER AND REGION BY FUNCTION AND AGE Asia Pacific 9% Americas 163 118 599 178 348 Services Europe 28% Middle East 23 Sales and 62 251 75 India 48% and Africa 126 Marketing Middle East India 735 1,472 Research and 208 1,014 1,495 and Africa 3% Development Europe 422 General 151 364 44 Americas 11% 871 Administration Asia Pacific 114 285 <30 30-50 50+ Female Male 72 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES % BY GENDER BY GENDER AND REGION BY GENDER AND AGE Female 38% Americas 24 40 50+ 8 40 Male 62% Middle East 1 6 30-50 120 288 and Africa India 260 358 <30 272 333 Europe 69 141 Female Male Asia Pacific 46 116 Female Male % BY REGION % RATE BY GENDER AND REGION % RATE BY GENDER AND AGE Asia Pacific 15% Americas 0.5 0.2 0.9 0.9 50+ Europe 20% Middle East 0.0 India 58% 0.1 30-50 2.6 6.3 and Africa Middle East India 5.7 7.9 <30 6.0 7.3 and Africa 1% 1.5 Europe Americas 6% 3.1 Female Male 1.0 Asia Pacific 2.5 Female Male EMPLOYEE TURNOVER % BY GENDER BY GENDER AND REGION BY GENDER AND AGE Female 38% Americas 42 67 50+ 18 39 Male 62% Middle East 1 9 and Africa 30-50 84 174 India 87 142 <30 91 105 Europe 52 80 Female Male Asia Pacific 11 20 Female Male % BY REGION % RATE BY GENDER AND REGION % RATE BY GENDER AND AGE Asia Pacific 6% Americas 0.9 1.5 0.4 50+ 0.9 Europe 26% Middle East 0.0 0.2 India 45% and Africa 30-50 1.8 3.8 Middle East India 1.9 3.1 <30 2.0 2.3 and Africa 2% Europe 1.1 1.8 Americas 21% 0.2 Female Male Asia Pacific 0.4 Female Male Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 73 Operating responsibly DIVERSITY DASHBOARD continued INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE continued WORKFORCE DIVERSITY BY AGE AND GENDER % WOMEN IN THE TOTAL TEMENOS GENDER LESS THAN 30 % EMPLOYEES BY GENDER IN WORKFORCE CERTAIN REGIONS 2014 28% Male 55% US 36 64 2015 Female 45% 29% Luxembourg 29 71 2016 31% Romania 57 43 2017 Switzerland 20 80 32% UK 26 74 India 33 67 Female Male BOARD, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND LEADERSHIP TEAM DIVERSITY % BOARD OF DIRECTORS BY % EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE BY % LEADERSHIP TEAM BY GENDER AND AGE GENDER AND AGE GENDER AND AGE 0 0 50+ 12 88 50+ 60 50+ 36 0 30-50 0 0 30-50 40 30-50 36 27 <30 0 0 <30 0 0 <30 0 0 Female Male We have incorporated gender diversity In 2016, the Welfare of Women was GENDER DIVERSITY in our recruiting and hiring practices at launched in India, a focus group that drives all levels, with a special focus on the new affirmative actions for the welfare of women ROMANIA generation, encouraging young women to working in Temenos India. choose a career in the IT industry, resulting Female 57% in a female participation of 42% in the under Temenos has a gender pay gap of around Male 43% 30 year-old age segment of our workforce. 35% similar to other software companies since the number of females as percentage By 31 December 2017, our leadership of total employees reduces as the seniority team (excluding the Executive Committee) increases. consisted of seven men and four women. Our Board of Directors consisted of seven men and one woman, while the Executive UNITED STATES Committee consisted of four men. Female 36% In certain countries, where we have Male 64% incorporated gender diversity in our recruiting and hiring practices at all levels, we witness a higher female participation. 74 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements During 2017, Temenos launched the and regions and share skills, resources Anonymous Reporting mechanism relating Women’s Leadership Forum, sponsored and support across geographies to to a perceived feeling of discrimination. All by the Group Human Resources Director, promote synergies and learning across the filed cases have been successfully resolved. with a mission to provide support and organization, enhancing our reputation development opportunities to Temenos’ as a global but – at the same time – local EMPLOYEE RELATIONS women employees in order to significantly company, and ensuring we are best Freedom of Association and Collective increase the proportion of women within positioned to meet the needs of our clients. Bargaining Temenos as well as in Senior Management In addition, thanks to the diversity model As stated in the Temenos Business Code roles. In 2017, the Women’s Leadership we support, Temenos’ software has multiple of Conduct, we respect the right of our Forum focused on bringing together local country model platforms, tailored to the employees to join or not to join trade women’s communities and creating an individual language, currency, regulatory unions or similar external representative international women’s community within and reporting requirements of each country. organizations as defined in the ILO Temenos that works together on concrete This enables our software to be seamless Declaration on Fundamental Principles actions to attract, promote and retain integrated into banks around the world, and Rights at Work, while we engage in women such as a mentorship program, adding incremental value from the very a constructive dialogue with employee dedicated communication as well as to beginning of each project. representatives. Local employment laws and increase women’s visibility with articles of practices, collective bargaining agreements Inspiring Career Journeys within Temenos. Consistent success in our fast paced, and individual contract terms are followed. demanding sector is only achievable with Where mandated by local law, we have Being an equal opportunity employer, we a team of diverse, highly committed and 100% employees covered by collective do not mandate the disclosure of ethnicity talented people. We strongly believe in bargaining agreements. and/or disability at the time of recruitment. making our commitment and focus on Our business philosophy as well as our diversity and inclusion a truly integrated We provide policies, fora and organizational structure are based on part of the Company’s standard business communication channels for hearing and cultural diversity, as we operate 64 offices practices that will bring added value to all addressing the concerns of our employees in 41 countries globally. The Company is our stakeholders. and resolving their issues in an open, fair managed using a matrix of regional and and transparent manner. The minimum global business functions incorporating ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION notice period for significant operational activities of sales, service operations, AND PREVENTION OF changes is included in the collective training, product development, product bargaining agreement as and where management, services management, HARASSMENT Temenos is proud of the diversity of mandated by law. In countries where marketing, key client relationship there is no such mandate, we follow as its people and believes in an equal management and product support a minimum the local law requirements. employment opportunity for all. The work functions. The Company’s product sales 1.7% of Temenos employees are covered environment at Temenos is free of any and services operations are divided into five under collective bargaining agreements type of harassment based on race, religion, main geographic regions: Europe, Middle worldwide, as of 31 December 2017. national origin, color, gender, age, marital East and Africa, Latin America, Asia Pacific status, sexual orientation or disability or any and North America. Our principal software In France, Germany, Luxembourg and Brazil other personal traits or characteristics that development facilities are located in the employees maintain work councils are not work-related. Any behavior contrary Switzerland, the United Kingdom and India. and health and safety committees. The HR to this principle will not be tolerated. Through the respective communication departments work as an enabler and to We also have other software development make sure that all agreements are followed channels, employees are encouraged to facilities in the United States, Canada, through as agreed. report any concern of discrimination and France, Romania, Belgium, Luxembourg harassment. Any retaliation with regard to and China as well as local development any such report is strictly forbidden. In case No. of employees covered centers in a number of locations that give us proximity to our client base. a concern is raised or detected, an inquiry under collective bargaining will be launched as quickly as possible, Country agreements which will be conducted carefully and with We encourage decentralized work full discretion, and any corrective or punitive France 76 processes and co-operation between our action taken if appropriate. people across countries and regions, while Brazil 3 having central processes on core activities, Total no. of employees 79 Our anti-discrimination and anti-harassment co-operation and decision-making. The policies apply to employees and Percentage of total headcount 1.7% Company’s management structure is one contractors, as well as suppliers, Partners with regional directors, responsible for all and clients. In 2017, two concerns were business lines in each region. Our people raised by employees through the come from a diverse pool of countries Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 75 Operating responsibly INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE continued AGAINST FORCED AND > international travel insurance with We have a Company culture that promotes CHILD LABOUR worldwide cover with no territorial transparent communication as well as easy At Temenos, we condemn forced or exclusion for all employees and their access to all people at all levels. Our open compulsory labor practices. We comply dependents traveling with them door policy is greatly supported by the fully with local minimum age laws and > international medical assistance when latest communication technologies. The requirements and do not employ children. traveling and reimbursement of medical Company has invested heavily in adopting We ensure this through our global and expenses for the employees and their the latest telecommunications, digital and local HR and recruitment policies. dependents traveling with them web-conferencing technologies to facilitate > international liability and life insurance project delivery and Company operation > approval from HR and monitoring of and ensuring each employee feels included GLOBAL MOBILITY, HEALTH employees traveling in high-risk countries and engaged in the Company culture. AND SAFETY through the Temenos Travel Application The Company has invested in Skype for As a software company we rely heavily on and Global Travel Desk Business software, which serves as the our people to conduct our business. At > travel security services and registration of basic communication tool within Temenos Temenos, we are committed to supporting high-risk travel on customized insurance globally. In addition, we have fully functional our employees’ wellbeing and creating company platform for tracking purposes video conference rooms in all office a healthy and safe work environment for > additional customized transportation and locations globally with very advanced video, all employees, contractors and visitors by 24/7 security. audio and web conferencing capabilities, integrating appropriate health and safety supported by a global reservation system (H&S) practices within our operations, as We are constantly enhancing the security to facilitate the communication between well as when traveling on business trips. We measures and training of our employees, employees. Some of other tools we use on a have integrated H&S in the management of aiming at mitigating the travel risk for daily basis are our Company intranet, email, our business in such a way that all activities our employees. In 2017, we offered a webex, blogs, yammer and Sharepoint. are considered through the protection and customized H&S training to employees prevention perspective. and contractors on security measures We have established multiple channels while traveling in high-risk countries in to communicate and engage with our All employees and contractors are expected cooperation with an external international employees across countries and at all levels, to perform their work in compliance with security expert company. including intranet, yammer, blogs, video the H&S laws, regulations, policies and updates, internal newsletters targeting procedures of their locations. We meet the different corporate areas, townhalls with EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATION requirements of the H&S laws applicable in leaders, employee engagement survey, the countries in which we operate, having AND ENGAGEMENT Direct communication and engagement new hire survey, other internal operational established local H&S procedures and surveys, helpdesks and an anonymous identified and assigned responsibilities with our employees is one of the most important aspects of the Temenos culture reporting mechanism. All employees are and accountabilities at the local level provided regular updates throughout the of our offices. and philosophy and a way of building a stronger link between the Company year on the Company’s strategy through and its people. We are committed to CEO business updates, supplemented As a global organization, international by clear communication from regional mobility forms an integral part of our service clearly communicating our corporate goals, objectives and successes, building management, HR and Marketing. delivery to clients and our strategic plans for future growth. A globally mobile and strong working relationships between our dynamic workforce is key to providing and employees, creating employee engagement developing our expertise across the globe and promoting an environment of ethics, and maintaining our competitive advantage. transparency and trust within Temenos. The Company has created global mobility Employee feedback is vital for Temenos, and travel policies and procedures, so so as to shape the direction of our policies as to provide the framework for properly and initiatives and get assurance that they managing and addressing issues arising are tailored in such a way that cater to the from working overseas on an international needs of our people. assignment or traveling globally. In that regard, Temenos offers all its employees extended coverage with additional benefits in our regular international travel insurance program to adapt to the latest developments related to global travel: 76 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements MyVoice TALENT AND DEVELOPMENT through various channels that form part of Every two years we carry out MyVoice, an Training and development are of vital the employee’s training portfolio. Various employee engagement survey to gain importance to both our employees’ learning paths and training are provided feedback on what it is like to work at performance and engagement, as well as to through both internal and external training Temenos and how we can work together Temenos’ success and growth. We believe Partners which allow employees to execute to make Temenos an even better place in our peoples’ potential and consider their development approach using a style to work. The survey is conducted on an this as our competitive advantage. We that suits their needs and personality. anonymous and confidential basis by believe training is not limited to formal To emphasize flexible and collaborative CEB, a third party survey provider, so that instruction and our training philosophy learning opportunities, we have introduced employees openly give their feedback and focuses on career development frameworks a training calendar on our intranet, where is administered under the Safe Harbour (Pathfinder), career and performance employees can self-register for any certification which guarantees confidentiality management (Compass), learning ongoing training, follow up on any training to all respondents that participate in their opportunities and employee recognition sessions and engage with the Talent and surveys. Previous surveys have identified programs which overall support the Development team to improve the overall career management, relevant training and leadership and organizational development training experience at Temenos. communication as some of the key areas strategies at Temenos. and these have all been addressed through improvement initiatives. At Temenos, we understand what competencies (skills, knowledge and The 2016 MyVoice employee engagement behaviors) our people need to excel in survey took place during May-June 2016, their roles and what they need to develop with a 79% response rate vs 75% in 2014, to grow further in their career. Temenos covering all Temenos employees in all offers a variety of training and development regions plus the employees that joined opportunities, including training available Temenos through merger or acquisitions. in the classroom, on the job, online, and The objective of the MyVoice survey was through videos, mobile apps, podcasts, to hear from our employees, design and and other formats in multiple languages, to align actions with employees’ priorities. meet the learning needs of our employees Using the MyVoice feedback, the Company around the world. We provide core shaped its global strategy accordingly and training, professional training and personal identified a number of key initiatives, as development opportunities delivered part of the HR action plan for 2016-18. In addition, we were also able to identify areas of improvement specific to geographies or divisions that were addressed locally. MyVoice is scheduled to be repeated in February-March 2018. A.2 A.1 Internal Induction Temenos training training A.3 A.6 Internal LEARNING AND Temenos Soft Skills Training TRAINING professional training A.5 A.4 Temenos Additional events and professional conferences training Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 77 Operating responsibly INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE continued In 2017, the median amount of training per person was 32 hours, excluding on-the-job training, coaching and other self-service development activities not recorded in our systems. Throughout the year, employees get coaching on career development through meetings with their manager and HR. Managers receive training to enhance their skills in managing others and coaching and mentoring employees on how to achieve the greatest impact, as well as how to drive their own career development, providing tools and resources to support focused and actionable conversations. We also offer all new employees comprehensive induction training that covers a broad range of topics, such as on-boarding practices as well as organized global, divisional (Sales, Finance, Product, etc.) and local induction training to help them settle into their new roles quickly and effectively. AVERAGE HOURS OF TEMENOS SALES ACADEMY TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER Temenos Sales Academy is a one-year knowledge, to the soft skills of selling, program targeting fresh graduates and communication and presentation. Once AND EMPLOYEE CATEGORY early professionals designed to cultivate their classroom training is completed, the next generation of Sales champions. participants move to their respective In September 2017, 21 young people regions, where they put into practice BY GENDER from around the globe joined the what they have learned. Temenos Sales Academy. Temenos is committed to attracting, developing > Sales Trainees will become members and retaining untapped talent in the of the Regional Sales team and will Female 32 global market. The aspiration is to work directly with Regional Marketing Male 33 expand the Academy beyond the on lead generation for the remainder sphere of Sales and Business Solutions of their 12 months while participating Group in the near-term. and contributing to sales cycles. > Business Solutions Trainees will The participants of the 2017-2018 become members of their respective program – 14 men and 7 women – were Temenos Regional Business Solutions from regions around the world: Europe: teams and will be involved in indoor BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY 10, MEA: 2, LATAM: 1, NSA: 2, APAC: 6. engagements first to get additional practice experience; they will then Their training focuses on fundamental start to work outdoor at client sites Fixed Term 60 concepts of Sales and Business after having developed their first Temenos Solutions. Based in Luxembourg for hands-on knowledge and having Employee 33 their first 3 to 6 months, depending been mentored and coached by on their respective sales profession, successful industry leaders. participants are taught a comprehensive set of skills from banking, industry knowledge, product and software 78 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Temenos Incubation Center Career and Performance Management The Temenos FinTech Services Incubator (Compass) first opened its doors last year, bringing At Temenos we urge our people to CELEBRATING EXCELLENCE together Technical Consultants who wanted achieve their full potential by focusing on to fast-track their careers and combine the their career development and planning. passion for FinTech with travel. With this first Career management through Pathfinder is edition in 2017, the Incubator looks to onsupported by a performance management board and prepare Technical Consultants process in the Compass tool, which provides and Business Consultants who will have the employees with feedback on their work Group opportunity to work on some of our most and helps them create a development plan exciting projects, spread across Europe. to build on their strengths and improve C level Annually On joining the Incubator, the participants their skills, knowledge and behaviors. The Chairman’s Club attend an intensive 3-month training performance management process within Club program, introducing them to our product. 2017 has been split into two phases in the In the second phase of their training, Compass platform: 2016 Year-end review the trainees move into shadowing an and 2017 Start-of-year plan. As of 2017 year experienced Temenos consultant on various end, 77% (employees only) have submitted Regional projects, making their way to working a 2017 Start-of-year Compass plan. Quarterly independently on-site with our clients. /Divisional Career Development Framework (Pathfinder) 2016 YEAR END REVIEW Using feedback from the annual employee Everyone engagement survey, a career development Unlimited framework – Pathfinder – has been % EMPLOYEES spontaneous developed and rolled out that provides appreciations Daily employees with a clear understanding of for all work well the expectations in their current roles and done Completed 77% the opportunities they have to develop Not eligible 12% their future career at Temenos. Pathfinder’s Pending 6% bespoke Career Development Framework Not initiated 5% sets out what skills, knowledge and behaviors (competencies) are needed in a Recognition of great work and key particular job family and role at a specific contributions by both individuals level within a function. The framework and teams is critical to Temenos. defines a structure where all roles within a BY GENDER Through these recognition job family carry out similar tasks and require programs, we encourage all broadly similar skills and competencies, Female employees at all levels to embrace but operate at different levels of bands, the opportunity to appreciate where competencies are aligned as per great work and recognize efforts Completed 76% career progression and growth. Pathfinder of performance excellence of their Not eligible 16% clarifies the “paths” for development of colleagues, team members, peers Pending 5% competencies and progression criteria that and supervisors. Not initiated 3% enables individuals to proactively manage their own career, performance, training and development needs at Temenos by aligning both their hard skills (technical/functional) and soft skills (behavioral). Male Completed 77% Not eligible 11% Pending 7% Not initiated 6% Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 79 Operating responsibly INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE continued The Club and Chairman’s Club C level award The Club celebrates our top performing In 2016, Temenos launched the annual REGIONAL RECOGNITION Sales and Business Solutions colleagues C-Level recognition award program AWARD 2017 from around the world in a unique way – that aims at recognizing 12 employees, a trip with our CEO. In 2017, 71 winners excluding Sales/Presales, in the different APA 27 with their Partners visited India, spending regions or corporate business divisions for quality time with our top management as their outstanding contributions positively EUR 53 a big Temenos family. In the past, the Club impacting the Temenos business and IND 96 awardees traveled to Iceland, Vietnam, profitability beyond expectations by Barbados, Capri and Kenya. In 2018, 98 being instrumental in signing a new deal LATAM 12 winners with their Partners will visit Scotland, (i.e. beyond normal duties), or innovating MAF 6 accompanied by our senior management. a scalable tool, process or product N America significantly improving quality, lowering 15 In addition, in 2017, we established the costs or risks for the organization beyond Chairman’s Club to recognize people normal duties. The Awardees won USD who for several years have significantly 2,500 net cash and were invited to the next % REGIONAL RECOGNITION contributed to Temenos’ growth. In 2018, Global Sales Meeting with the opportunity AWARDEES 2017 BY REGION the Chairman will invite the five winners to learn more about Temenos and spend (three men – two women) and their partners time with the leadership team. APA 13% to an exclusive weekend hosted by himself EUR 25% and his wife. IND 46% LATAM 6% ANNUAL – C LEVEL AWARD 2017 MAF 3% N America 7% APA THE CLUB 2 BY REGION EUR 6 Shared Services Recognition Awards 2017 IND 2 To honor Shared Services employees and LATAM 1 teams across the world for their outstanding APAC 25% contribution beyond the normal call of duty, N America 1 EUR 62% Temenos Shared Services has designed MAF 7% awards that cover all such achievements: NSA 6% > GEM: Going the Extra Mile Award Regional recognition awards (Extra Miler) The Company has been running Quarterly > Star of the Month Regional Employee Awards, recognizing > Star of the Quarter outstanding performance, dedication, > Team of the Quarter. innovation and professionalism at a regional 2018 level. In 2017, we celebrated 209 individual and team successes, compared to 194 APAC 3% individual and team successes in 2016. EUR 57% MAF 23% NSA 17% 80 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements OPENING DOORS ENABLING ACCESS TO FINANCIAL SERVICES According to the World Bank, around two services to compete with mobile network PAYMENTS AND ELECTRONIC billion people do not use formal financial operators, Fintech and commercial banks DELIVERY TO REMOTE services and more than 50% of adults in that are after the very valuable membership COMMUNITIES the poorest households are unbanked. base community banks and credit unions The world’s most vulnerable communities Others are exploited by opportunistic have developed over decades. It is essential need access to affordable, trusted financial micro lenders at usurious rates. The world’s that the community banks keep their client services. Community banks must digitize most vulnerable communities need access spend within their own community-banking now or risk being dis-intermediated from to affordable, trusted financial services. network, generate new revenue and build their clients and their clients will become Financial inclusion is a key enabler to on their greatest asset – the trusted client burdened with expensive consumer credit reducing poverty and boosting prosperity. relationship. transferring wealth from the poorest to At the same time, digital is creating worldthe top of the economic pyramid. Local changing innovations, but also disrupting The biggest challenge to digitizing has community banks and non-bank financial industry and how people work. always been the cost of software, computer institutions need to provide competitive, services and the expertise to run new quality financial services to the poor and STRENGTHENING LOCAL system. Temenos brings the technology protect themselves from dis-intermediation. FINANCIAL INTERMEDIATION used by the world’s leading banks to Without a clear digital strategy, local Credit unions, savings banks, microfinance, community banking to grow the client financial institutions will cease to be community banks and other non-bank base to make a real difference with quality viable. Financial markets deepening is financial institutions are the foundation services for inclusive banking in emerging an incremental process. To reach the two to sustainable financial inclusion and markets in Africa, Latin America and Asia. billion unbanked we need local agents and the development of healthy sustainable Nine out of ten people live in emerging institutions continuously pushing the local financial markets. At Temenos we markets and without a safe place to save frontier of finance. understand the need to strengthen and and a source of credit and other financial support community based banking. Our services will remain excluded from the At Temenos, we have aligned with this goal approach to support the development of formal economy. to continue to innovate and push the cost healthy and productive local economies is of intermediation down, ever expanding to provide community banks, cooperative LOWERING COSTS – ACCESS TO sustainable access to formal financial financial institution and various non-bank QUALITY FINANCIAL SERVICES services. Temenos provides a complete financial institutions with modern digital With our subscription based ‘Software as end-to-end, customized, retail core banking technology and services to strengthen their a Service’ clients can quickly implement and channel solution to help local financial business to serve their communities and the products their clients want without a institutions thrive. And as the sectors expand their outreach to the unbanked. high one-off capital investment in software, biggest investor in R&D, we will continue to We do this as part of our mainstream hardware or in house technical expertise. innovate and support community banking business. We bundle our latest release The first two or three transaction fees on to provide the services that are the key Temenos core banking technology in a an e-wallet payment account alone pays to financial inclusion, creating wealth and mature model bank for community and the entire cost of the service. By taking growing local economies. cooperative banking and provide access a network approach, sharing common to the integration and digital channels in a software, computer infrastructure and DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION OF cloud based software-as-a-service (or local) service centers, community based financial RURAL FINANCE basis. This helps smaller financial institutions institutions can have access to the same Digital banking is about strengthening gain access to the same technology used tools the big banks and mobile operators client relationships, modernizing services by some of the largest and most modern have, provided as a service. They need only and attracting young social network savvy banks in the world but made accessible by to configure the services with Temenos clients in the mass markets of Asia, Africa subscription service and packaged for rapid and our business Partner expert assistance and Latin America. Temenos helps this implementation. to launch their own business, running their sector with a business engagement that is own payments and digital services; services suited to the budget and practical realities FINANCIAL INCLUSION clients demand – keeping clients in the of this important sector in emerging STRATEGIES local community network and attracting markets. Cognizant of the business realities Temenos financial inclusion strategy is to the youth. and having 20 years of experience in provide the same technology infrastructure financial inclusion, we believe that our best used by modern digital banks in established Doing nothing is not an option. Fintech and contribution is a business engagement financial markets to empower small financial international payments schemes aimed at that is self-sustaining and sets the stage for institutions in emerging markets to compete the two billion unbanked are now pushing growing a strong and vibrant community and exponentially grow their client base microcredit under the rubric of financial banking foundation for financial inclusion. providing quality, affordable, digital financial inclusion, some at rates of upwards of 600% services to the poor. Temenos provides the APR and with payments at transaction rates technology and expertise to build digital that are disproportionate to the transaction amount. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 81 Operating responsibly CARING FOR OUR COMMUNITIES INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES COMMUNITY INVESTMENT term initiatives. Temenos evaluates the In addition, the Temenos Internal Audit As a global corporation, we are committed effectiveness and impact of its community team conducts yearly independent, to supporting and enhancing the quality investment by maintaining contact with objective audits of the Company’s corporate of life of the communities where our organizations it supports both to improve monetary contributions, in relation to the employees, Partners, and clients live management of existing projects and Anti-bribery and Corruption and Conflict and work. By using our technology and to identify future opportunities and by of Interest policies. The results of these resources, offering financial support, communicating its CSR program to the audits are shared with the CSR and Ethics sharing our business expertise as well as the Company’s stakeholders through the Committee and the Audit Committee. passion, effort and talent of our employees, Company’s communication channels. All donations and non-commercial collaborating with clients and Partners, sponsorships requests are submitted online we are making positive, measurable In order to maximize the social impact of through the Temenos intranet for review contributions to the local communities, our corporate donations in 2017, we moved and evaluation by the CSR and Ethics while responding in times of need. the focus from the donations budget (for Committee during its regular meetings. example, the amount of money we are Our Approach going to donate), to focusing instead on the Corporate Monetary Contributions and > corporate monetary contributions social change we would like to create. Employee Fundraising > corporate monetary contributions that Temenos encourages all employees to complement the donations or volunteer actively engage in community service and efforts of our employees fundraising activities for a social cause > corporate donations of used IT for non-profit organizations, based in the 2017 DONATIONS equipment countries where we operate, by giving > employee fundraising (volunteering their them the chance to boost their fundraising time and/or money) and 2017 DONATIONS BY CSR AREAS efforts through corporate matching of > volunteering (donation of professional the raised funds. service, management expertise, skills and Children 30% time to non-profit organizations or local Emergency Donations of Used IT Equipment communities). relief 11% We work at a local level to donate desktops, Poverty laptops, screens, printers and other IT At Temenos we are looking for ways alleviation 57% equipment that are no longer used by to go beyond financial resources and Youth the Company to non-profit organizations consider how to make best use of our development 2% or schools based in the countries where assets, resources, expertise, advocacy, and we operate. All laptops and desktops are relationships to support and enhance the cleaned of all data and software before local communities. In addition, we aim to being donated due to confidentiality, align our community investment with our licensing and data protection issues. 2017 DONATIONS BY REGION (%) mission and the strategic issues of our business to create shared value. We look for South EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING AND Partners rather than as the principal actor in 11 America COMMUNITY SERVICE promoting local development and creating Our people work with local nonEurope 34 long term benefits and sustainable results governmental organizations around the that can outlast Company support. Asia 55 world, volunteering their time and expertise to build sustainable communities. Temenos Corporate Monetary Contributions actively supports employee engagement We rely on the efforts of all our employees in community service and volunteering to help us identify emerging issues and projects. Employees are encouraged to local community needs where Temenos can offer their time and expertise to support reach out, design programs and contribute OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES local community organizations, as well to the communities in the regions where as donate management time and expertise we operate and monitor the progress. > Poverty Alleviation and Local to support non-governmental organizations We cooperate with our people in our Economic Development in the Company’s core activities. local offices on the review, evaluation > Children and selection procedure that is based on > Youth Development local community-need assessments. Our > Technology and Innovation community investment is aligned with > Environment our mission, business strategy, employee > Emergency Relief concentration and CSR strategic priorities, ranging from long term programs to short 82 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Poverty Alleviation and Local Economic The work of Temenos through this program 2018 Goal: Development: India CSR Program is in line with the 17 UN Sustainable In 2018, the program is planned to be Temenos is committed to finding ways Development Goals (SDGs) and will extended to more schools – currently under to use technology to enable social contribute to the global effort of: due diligence process – and expanded to change, by supporting disadvantaged address another CSR strategic direction for local communities, enhancing their living > eradicating poverty (SDG no. 1) Temenos: Environment (water/energy) with standards as well as their work skills and > ensuring inclusive and quality education the following key directions: capabilities and helping them gain access for all and promote lifelong learning to finance, health and jobs. (SDG no. 4) > To create an enabling school > encouraging gender equality and the environment, by providing water (through India is a material location for Temenos as empowerment of women (SDG no. 5) reverse osmosis system using renewable it represents 48% of our total employee > promoting inclusive and sustainable energy sources, hygiene and sanitation concentration. Education is one of the most economic growth (SDG no. 8) facilities in schools. powerful instruments for reducing poverty > the importance of alliances for achieving and inequality and enhancing India’s the goals (SDG no. 17) Global research has shown that by providing competitiveness in the global economy. water, hygiene and sanitation facilities in Based on global research, while more than The program’s main actions, depending on schools, children’s regularity to school can 95% of children attend primary school, the school needs, are as follows: be substantially improved, as they will have just 40% of Indian adolescents attend fewer illnesses due to water borne infections secondary school (Grades 9-12). Curriculum > Renovation of school buildings and in the long term, it has the potential to and teaching practices need upgrading > Creation of computer smart labs reduce drop-out rates, especially among to impart more relevant skills, such as > Provision of air conditioning and ceiling girls, in upper primary and secondary school reasoning skills, problem-solving, learningfans for computer rooms levels. to-learn and critical and independent > Provision of sustainable electricity for thinking. Public-private partnerships need computer rooms, for uninterrupted The work of Temenos through this program to be expanded to tap into the potential teaching during power outages expansion will contribute to the global offered by the 60% of secondary schools > Provision of sports material for students’ effort of: which are privately managed in India. extra-curricular activities > Provision of play and learn material and > ensuring access to water and sanitation In 2017, Temenos launched a software for children/youth with special for all (SDG no. 6) comprehensive CSR program in India needs (where applicable) > ensuring access to affordable, reliable, “Adopt iT” to help improve the quality of sustainable and modern energy for all secondary education in India and eventually (SDG no. 7) – in 2018. access to quality education for more, as this is central to the economic and social development of India. The concept was to identify secondary schools in need (government aided schools – privately managed) with the following key directions: to bridge the digital divide gap, improve access to information and knowledge and use technology to enable social change, by: > supporting disadvantaged local communities > providing children/youth with equal opportunities for education and In 2017, Mannur Chengalvaraya During 2018, our India employees will employment Naidu Higher Secondary School was volunteer their time and skills at the > enhancing their living standards as well as identified and the first pilot project was initial phase of this program to help their work skills and capabilities implemented. The school is located in with the setup of the computer labs and > helping them unleash future opportunity Chennai, 1.5 kilometers from one of the throughout the year they will teach the and gain access to jobs, health and Chennai Temenos offices. The school students how to use them. finance. has 273 students (250 boys and 23 girls). Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 83 Operating responsibly INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITIES continued Children Temenos, in cooperation with leading non-profit organizations in the communities where we operate, organizes and supports initiatives that help improve the living conditions of children irrespective of their color, race, religion, nationality, or socio-economic status, by providing them with a healthy start and the opportunity to learn, while advocating and protecting their basic human rights and providing them with emotional and psychological support. In 2017, we continued to support three organizations at a global, as well as at a local level, where Temenos has a significant number of employees: “GIVE A SMILE” PROJECT > the Global Fund for Children (GFC) THE SCHOOL FOR CHILDREN WITH HEARING > the School for Children with Hearing DISABILITIES – ROMANIA Disabilities in Bucharest, Romania > the “Save a Child’s Heart” initiative in Bucharest, Romania. For more than ten years, Temenos In December 2017, in line with the has been supporting the School for “Give a Smile” project, 30 primary Children with Hearing Disabilities in school children with hearing disabilities Bucharest, Romania, in collaboration were accompanied by Temenos with Rotary Athenaeum Club from volunteers to do Christmas shopping Rotary International. and choose their presents. “SAVE A CHILD’S HEART” GRIGORE ALEXANDRESCU CHILDREN’S HOSPITAL – ROMANIA In September 2016, Temenos first In January 2017, 18 American and supported the “Save a Child’s European Doctors and Medical Heart” project. The first pediatric Assistants participated in the second cardiovascular clinic and a Center of mission organized by Gift of Life and Excellency opened in a new building Children’s Heart Foundation. They have at Grigore Alexandrescu Children’s since operated on ten children with Hospital in Bucharest with an 85-bed heart malformations and supported capacity and equipped with the latest the Grigore Alexandrescu Children’s generation medical devices. During Hospital doctors. the first mission, Acad. Prof. Dr. Dan Mircea Enescu – supported by a US medical team – successfully operated on eight children between 11 months and 16 years at Grigore Alexandrescu Children’s Hospital in only four days. 84 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Emergency Relief: Earthquakes in Mexico We are committed to supporting the local communities, where we operate, when affected by unexpected events or disasters of any kind as well as providing assistance to non-profit organizations and emergency relief agencies to prepare and respond to these humanitarian crises. In September 2017, triggered by the two deadly earthquakes in Mexico that affected the regions of Mexico City, Puebla, Oaxaca and Morelos, Temenos employees organized an online fundraising campaign for the victims of these earthquakes. The raised funds – combined with matching donations by Temenos – were donated to two non-governmental organizations: > Mexican Red Cross and Rescue Brigade Topos, specializing in natural disaster relief such as search, rescue and first aid services > Three Ecatzingo Families for the reconstruction of their houses. The town of Ecatzingo (30 kilometers out of Mexico City and toward the epicenter of the earthquake) was identified to be supported, as it was severely affected by the earthquakes. Temenos employees together with National University of Mexico students provided time and expertise to design and organize the construction of these three houses. Temenos Mexico employees will also participate in the reconstruction project offering community service, while monitoring the progress directly. 2018 Goals > To expand the Adopt iT program in India to address another CSR strategic direction for Temenos: Environment > To focus 2018 partnerships with NGOs on poverty alleviation and local development initiatives for a bigger impact > To organize more volunteering opportunities for our employees in line with our CSR strategic priorities > To match up to five employee fundraising activities in line with our Donations’ policy focusing on poverty alleviation and local development > To raise awareness about Temenos’ social campaign for financial inclusion within our client-Partner network. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 85 Operating responsibly ABOUT THIS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX The table below describes the location of relevant report content for each of the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. Unless otherwise indicated, the information provided in this report reflects the situation PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REPORT SECTION as of 31 December 2017 and covers all HUMAN RIGHTS Temenos operations globally during the financial year 2017. This report is prepared 1 Businesses should support Investing in Our People and respect the protection of in accordance with the Global Reporting internationally proclaimed human Initiative’s G4 Guidelines (Core), a set rights; and of internationally recognized reporting standards. Please see our online GRI G4 2 Make sure they are not complicit Investing in Our People Index for detailed data and additional in human rights abuses. information. In addition, it serves as Temenos’ annual Communication on LABOUR Progress under the United Nations (UN) 3 Businesses should uphold the Investing in Our People Global Compact. This is our second freedom of association and the Corporate Responsibility Report. No effective recognition restatements were done. This report has of the right to collective bargaining; not been externally assured. We have 4 The elimination of all forms of forced Investing in Our People assured the content through an internal and compulsory labor; review process, including Board of Directors and executive oversight of reviews and 5 The effective abolition of child labor; Investing in Our People validation. Our first report was published in and 2017. We plan to publish a progress report 6 The elimination of discrimination Investing in Our People annually. in respect of employment and occupation. Temenos operates 64 offices in leased buildings in 41 countries. Temenos’ energy ENVIRONMENT reporting and corresponding Scope 1 and 7 Businesses should support Operating Responsibly 2 emissions cover the time period from a precautionary approach to December 1, 2016 to November 30, 2017 environmental challenges; for 16 Temenos offices in five countries, due to restrictions set by the availability 8 Undertake initiatives to promote Operating Responsibly and invoicing from the management greater environmental responsibility; companies of the buildings we lease. and These locations – considered as significant 9 Encourage the development and Operating Responsibly locations of operation – were selected diffusion of environmentally – friendly based on headcount, clients’ demand technologies. in RFP and changing local regulation, representing around 68% of the total ANTI-CORRUPTION Temenos population. The locations are as 10 Businesses should work against Operating Responsibly follows: Switzerland (three office locations), corruption in all its forms, including UK (five), Romania (one), Luxembourg (two) extortion and bribery. and India (five). The energy consumption of these offices represent actual consumption as reported on invoices from utility providers and management companies. Energy and emissions calculations follow Our headcount related figures are based CONTACT the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and emissions on the GRI G4 guidelines and cover all are reported in CO2. Some calculations are Temenos operations globally, in full The 2017 Temenos CSR Report explains manually conducted. Our Scope 3 business alignment with the Annual Report and our policies, procedures, programs and travel related CO2 emissions from flights Financial Statements section. The data performance on our material, environmental, reporting covers 32 out of the 41 countries sources are the corporate internal IT and HR social and governance (ESG) issue areas as well in which we operate, representing 92% of systems, which provide data on full-time and as how we address other important CSR issues. the total employee population. Locations We welcome your feedback on the activities part-time employees and permanent and and programs described in the report, as well with major operations and a significant temporary employees. as the issues you expect to see addressed in amount of travel are within the scope. The the future. Please email your comments to the CO2 factors used are DEFRA for flights. below address. The data was collected from the Company travel management system as well as travel agency providers. In the report, the metric Kalliopi Chioti ton/UK tonne equivalent to 1,000 kilograms Group CSR Manager is stated solely as ton. Tel.:+30 211 1094604 csr@temenos.com 86 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2017 GRI G4 INDEX – CORE The table below describes the location of relevant report content correlating to the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Guidelines. While most information is found in this report, other primary sources include: Temenos Business Code of Conduct, Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement and our corporate website: www.temenos.com. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO Letter Message from the CEO ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization About Temenos, p.1 Annual report: Welcome G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services About Temenos, p.10 Annual report: Our Solutions G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters About Temenos p.98 Annual report: Group Structure and Shareholders G4-6 Where the organization operates p.98 Annual report: Group Structure and Shareholders; Temenos worldwide offices; Consolidated Financial Statements: 5. Group Companies G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p.98 Annual report: Group Structure and Shareholders G4-8 Markets served p.98 Annual Report: Group Structure and Shareholders G4-9 Scale of reporting organization About Temenos, About this Report, p.98 Annual Report: Group Structure and Shareholders; Temenos worldwide offices; Consolidated Financial Statements: 5. Group Companies G4-10 Total number of employees by type Investing in our People; no seasonal variations G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective Employee Relations bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period p.162, p.98 Annual Report: Consolidated Financial to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, Statements: 5. Group Companies; Group Structure or its supply chain and Shareholders G4-14 Whether and how the organization applies the Environmental Responsibility precautionary approach or principle G4-15 External charters, principles or other initiatives Our Endorsements G4-16 Membership associations Our Endorsements Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 87 Operating responsibly 2017 GRI G4 INDEX – CORE continued IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in financial statements About this Report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the About this Report, Materiality Analysis Aspect Boundaries G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining About this Report, Materiality Analysis report content G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization About this Report, Materiality Analysis G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization About this Report, Materiality Analysis G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided About this Report in previous reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods About this Report in Scope and Aspect Boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement engagement Materiality Analysis REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period About this Report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About this Report; March 2017 G4-30 Reporting cycle About this Report; Annual G4-31 Contact point for the report Contact G4-32 GRI Content Index for In accordance ‘Core’ 2017 GRI G4 INDEX; Core G4-33 Policy regarding report assurance About this Report GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Corporate Governance, p.97 Annual Report, CSR and Ethics Governance G4-35 Process for delegating authority for sustainability Corporate Governance, p.97 Annual Report, CSR topics from the board to senior executives and other and Ethics Governance employees G4-36 High-level accountability for sustainability topics Corporate Governance, p.97 Annual Report, CSR and Ethics Governance G4-38 Composition of the board and its committees Corporate Governance, p.97 Annual Report, CSR and Ethics Governance G4-39 Whether the chair of the board is also an executive Corporate Governance, p.97 Annual Report, CSR officer and Ethics Governance G4-41 Board conflicts of interest Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews About this Report and approves the report G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance p.115 Annual Report: Compensation Report: body and senior executives Compensation Components 88 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements G4-52 Process for determining remuneration p.111 Annual Report: Compensation Report: Organization and Competencies G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken p.113 Annual Report: Compensation Report: into account regarding remuneration Shareholder Engagement ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and Mission, Vision and Core Values, Ethical Business norms of behavior Conduct and Governance G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and Reporting or unlawful behavior SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Economic Impact G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic Impact, p.166 Annual Report: Consolidated Financial Statements: 7. Segment Information G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government Economic Impact PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain, Economic Impact G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain, locations of operations Economic Impact ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach About this Report, Environmental Responsibility G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization About this Report, Environmental Responsibility EMISSIONS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach About this Report, Environmental Responsibility G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions About this Report, Environmental Responsibility (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions About this Report, Environmental Responsibility (Scope 3) SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain environmental criteria ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and Reporting, Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts Ethical Business Conduct Monitoring and Reporting, filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain mechanisms Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 89 Operating responsibly 2017 GRI G4 INDEX – CORE continued LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Investing in our People G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and Investing in our People employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Investing in our People provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Talent and Development G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee Talent and Development by gender, and by employee category G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Talent and Development performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ethical Business Conduct, Monitoring and Reporting G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, Ethical Business Conduct, Monitoring and Reporting addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms HUMAN RIGHTS INVESTMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Corporate Policies, Human Rights G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights Corporate Policies, Human Rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Elimination of Discrimination and Prevention of Harassment G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination Elimination of Discrimination and Prevention and corrective actions taken of Harassment 90 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain human rights criteria HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ethical Business Conduct, Monitoring and Reporting G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts Ethical Business Conduct, Monitoring and Reporting filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Investing in Our Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local Investing in Our Communities community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ethical Business Conduct, Monitoring and Reporting Anti-Corruption and Bribery G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Ethical Business Conduct, Monitoring and Reporting policies and procedures Anti-Corruption and Bribery SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Responsible Procurement and Supply Chain criteria for impacts on society GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ethical Business Conduct, Monitoring and Reporting G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, Ethical Business Conduct, Monitoring and Reporting addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Focus on Client Engagement G4-PR-5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Focus on Client Engagement Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 91 Governance 92 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 93 GOVERNANCE Governance Board of Directors 94 Executive Committee 96 Corporate governance 97 Compensation Report 110 Report of the Statutory Auditors on the Compensation Report 129 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 93 Governance FORWARD-LOOKING LEADERSHIP BOARD OF DIRECTORS ANDREAS ANDREADES 1 1 2 Executive Chairman Cypriot, born in 1965 Mr. Andreas Andreades joined Temenos in 1999, initially in the position of Chief Financial Officer, before assuming the responsibilities of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer in 2001 and then the Chief Executive’s role from July 2003 until July 2011, when he was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors. In July 2012 he was appointed Executive Chairman of the Temenos Board of Directors. Since he joined Temenos, the Company has grown from less than 150 employees to more than 4,900 and to more than 3,000 clients generating in excess of USD 730 million in annual revenues and achieving a market capitalisation 3 4 close to USD 9 billion, establishing it as the global leader in banking software. Since 2003 the market capitalisation of Temenos has grown by approximately 126 times or a compound average of 40% per annum. Mr. Andreades started his career with KPMG in London in 1988 and then with PepsiCo between 1994 and 1999. Mr. Andreades holds a Master’s engineering degree from the University of Cambridge and is a United Kingdom qualified chartered accountant. As Executive Chairman Mr. Andreades supports, advises, counsels and provides guidance to the Executive Committee. He provides 5 6 guidance and support directly to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer/ Chief Operating Officer on a regular basis. He also attends the monthly Product Board where product strategy and funding are decided and execution is monitored. The Chairman is very heavily involved in acquisitions and in key client/prospect relationships that often require the Chief Executive Officer and/or Chairman’s participation to bring key deals to fruition as well as representing Temenos on key project deliveries through Steering committee representation. He therefore works full time in an executive capacity and is jointly responsible together with the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer / Chief Operating Officer to the Board of Directors 7 8 for the development and delivery of the strategic plan and the annual business and financial plan. 94 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements SERGIO GIACOLETTO-ROGGIO 2 IAN COOKSON 4 AMY YIP 7 Vice-Chairman, Independent and Independent and Non-Executive Director Independent and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Swiss, born in 1947 Chinese (Hong Kong), born in 1951 Swiss, born in 1949 Mr. Ian Cookson has been active in the financial Ms. Amy Yip has over 35 years of experience in Mr. Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio is currently an services sector for over 30 years and has built global financial markets covering different aspects Operating Partner with Advent International, a one of the most efficient IT operations in Private of the industry. She is currently a Managing Global Private Equity firm. Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio Banking worldwide. Mr. Cookson acted as Partner of RAYS Capital Partners Limited, an has served since 2009 in multiple public and Chief Operating Officer of EFG International Executive Director of Vitagreen, Hong Kong, private company Boards, after retiring from Oracle and a member of the Executive Committee an independent and non-executive director of Corporation where he had been a Company until September 2007, and he was previously a AIG Hong Kong, an independent non-executive Officer and Executive Vice President for Europe, member of the Executive Committee of EFG director of Fidelity Funds Board and a member of Middle East and Africa since 2000. He was most Bank (since 2002). Prior to this, Mr. Cookson was the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Börse AG. recently Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer of EFG Bank Oberthur Technologies Group, Paris from April (1997-2002), Chief Operating Officer of Banque Ms. Yip began her career at the Morgan Guaranty 2013 until May 2017. Prior to joining Oracle in de Dépôts, Geneva (1991-1997) and the Head of Trust Company of New York (1978-1985), going 1997, Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio was President, Value Management Services of CBI-TDB Union Bancaire on to hold progressively senior appointments at Added Services for Europe at AT&T. Earlier in his Privée (1986-1991). Rothschild Asset Management (1988-1991) and career, Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio spent 20 years with Citibank Private Bank (1991-1996). Digital Equipment Corporation in various senior management and executive roles in services, THIBAULT DE TERSANT 5 Ms. Yip also served as an Executive Director sales, marketing and information management. Independent and Non-Executive Director of Reserves Management at the Hong Kong Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio holds a Master Degree French, born in 1957 Monetary Authority from 1996 to 2006, where in Computer Science from the University of she was responsible for the investment of the Turin, Italy. Mr. Thibault de Tersant is a member of the Board assets of the Exchange Fund of Hong Kong. In of Dassault Systèmes and has been executive 2006, Ms. Yip returned to the private sector as vice president and Chief Financial Officer of the the Chief Executive Officer of DBS Bank (Hong GEORGE KOUKIS 3 Company since 1988 and Senior EVP since 2006. Kong) Limited (2006 to 2010), where she was Non-Executive Director During his tenure in Dassault Systèmes, Mr. de concurrently Head of the Wealth Management Greek and Australian, born in 1946 Tersant, who manages an organization in charge Group at DBS Bank. of Finance, Legal, Sales Administration, Pricing, As founder of Temenos, Mr. George Koukis was Contracts Negotiations, Internal Control and Ms. Yip was awarded the Bronze Bauhinia Star in Chairman of the Board of Directors until July 2011. M&A, has conducted more than 80 successful the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in Mr. George Koukis has been active in the software acquisitions totalling around USD 5 billion. He July 2000. Ms. Yip holds an M.B.A. from Harvard industry for more than 40 years, having begun at oversaw Dassault Systèmes’ successful initial Business School and a BA from Brown University. Qantas where he was heavily involved with the public offering on the Paris and Nasdaq stock computerisation of the company’s management exchanges in 1996, as well as a secondary accounting department. He then spent six years offering in 1997. Mr. de Tersant has more than PETER SPENSER 8 with Management Science America in Australia 25 years of experience in the software industry. Independent and Non-Executive Director where he held various management positions, Mr. de Tersant is a graduate of the ESSEC British and American, born in 1954 including managing director. Mr. Koukis holds Business School and of the Institut d’Etudes a degree in Commerce from the University Politiques de Paris. Mr. Peter Spenser has over 35 years of experience of Technology in Sydney, Australia and is a in the financial services sector and technology. registered Certified Practising Accountant (CPA). Until June 2016 he was a senior Partner at Mr. Koukis is currently Chairman of the Board ERIK HANSEN 6 Deloitte Consulting in the US where in addition of Trustees of the Classical Opera, a non-profit Independent and Non-Executive Director to serving a number of major clients (Global organisation based in the United Kingdom and Danish, born 1952 Banks, Brokerages and Wealth and Asset is a Board member in seven private companies Managers), he led a number of practice areas operating mainly in IT and Green Technologies. Mr. Erik Hansen is a recognised software industry including the Investment Management practice veteran with over 30 years of experience as a and also the Global Financial Services IT and Mr. Koukis is a Fellow of King’s College London senior executive at leading software companies. Data Analytics practices. Prior to this he was and he is also an Adjunct Professor at the Mr. Hansen is currently Chairman of the Board Director of Engineering at AcquiData, Inc. which University of Technology Sydney, Australia. of Myriad Group AG having previously been he co-founded (1985–1990), Director of Software Chief Executive Officer and Board Member at Systems at Magnaflux, Inc. (1982-1985) and a Day Software (2008-2011) which was acquired developer/analyst at Logica (1979–1982). by Adobe in 2010. Prior to this, Mr. Hansen held Mr. Spenser has a BA and MA in Theoretical several senior leadership roles at companies Physics from Cambridge University and a Ph.D. including TIBCO Software (2000-2004), Siemens in Astrophysics from University College London. Pyramid Technology Inc. (1997-2000), TA Triumph Adler (1994-1997) and Apple (1990-1994), both in Europe and in the United States. Mr. Hansen holds a degree from the business college in Horsens, Denmark. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 95 Governance EXPERT MANAGEMENT EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE and significant progress, leading to a series of 1 2 pioneering innovations in the industry including – the first banking systems to use a Windows GUI, first real-time, 24x7 banking system, and the first banking system to be running in the Cloud. MARK WINTERBURN 4 Chief Product Officer British, born in 1960 3 4 Mr. Mark Winterburn has been responsible for the product organization since joining in 2011. Mr. Winterburn has over 35 years’ experience in IT, 30 of them in financial services. Prior to joining Temenos, Mr. Winterburn held the position of VP Solutions Management and Product Development at Misys, and held a number of senior positions at Lloyds TSB, with a proven track record of driving large and complex IT change programs. 5 He has studied Leadership, Product, Cultural and Change Management at Harvard Business School, Cranfield University and Henley Management School. Mr. Winterburn studied a Software Engineering diploma at Coventry University, England. JEAN-MICHEL HILSENKOPF 5 DAVID ARNOTT 1 Mr. Chuard is also responsible for mergers and Chief Revenue Officer Chief Executive Officer acquisitions, and has conducted more than 10 French, born in 1963 British, born in 1969 successful transactions totaling around USD 600 million over the last 11 years. In December 2015 Mr. Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf was appointed Chief Mr. David Arnott has been Chief Executive Officer and in addition to his Chief Financial Officer role, Revenue Officer of Temenos and member of of Temenos since July 2012. Mr. Arnott previously Mr. Chuard was appointed as Chief Operating the Executive Committee in January 2018. Mr. served as Chief Financial Officer of Temenos from Officer, having the responsibility to oversee all Hilsenkopf is one of the original members of April 2001. Prior to joining the Group, he worked aspects of client delivery including on-premise the Company, having joined in 1993. His deep as Chief Financial Officer of Société Européenne implementations and the Partner program. Mr. understanding of the Company, its culture, and de Communication in Luxembourg. Mr. Arnott Chuard has been with Temenos since 2002 where passion for delivery gives him the vision to drive also held a number of senior finance positions previously he held the position of Director of the Company’s regional strategy forward. within the Anglo American group, a mining Corporate Finance and Investor Relations. Prior and precious metals trading company. Prior to to joining the Group, Mr. Chuard started his Prior to taking up his current role, Mr. Hilsenkopf this Mr. Arnott was a management consultant career as a business analyst at JP Morgan and was managing director for Temenos in Europe, with Deloitte where he qualified as a Chartered subsequently held a senior position at SWICORP, Middle East, Africa and Latin American regions, Accountant. Mr. Arnott holds a Bachelor of a Swiss merchant bank. Mr. Chuard holds a as well as Temenos Cloud. He previously held the Sciences from the University of Southampton and Masters of Science in Finance from the University position of regional general manager for Europe a Master’s Degree from the University of Freiburg, of Lausanne (HEC Lausanne), Switzerland. and also successfully integrated several acquired Germany. Since Mr. Arnott joined Temenos, the companies, such as Odyssey and Viveo. Before Group has grown from 300 employees to more joining Temenos, Mr. Hilsenkopf worked as a than 4,900, over 3,000 clients and exceeding USD ANDRE LOUSTAU 3 consultant in the banking sector. 730 million in annual revenues – establishing it as Chief Technology Officer a global leader in banking software. British, born in 1958 Mr. Hilsenkopf holds an M.B.A in international marketing from the University of Geneva, Mr. André Loustau has been Chief Technology Switzerland as well as a Master degree in MAX CHUARD 2 Officer of Temenos since 2001 and has worked Computer Engineering from the Polytech of Chief Financial Officer/Chief Operating Officer with Temenos and its predecessor companies Clermont-Ferrand, France. Swiss, born in 1973 since 1984. Before that, Mr. Loustau was an application developer at Grindlays Bank. Mr. Mr. Max Chuard has been Chief Financial Officer Loustau has held various roles in development, of Temenos since July 2012 and is responsible implementation and sales within Temenos, for finance, planning, treasury, information prior to assuming the responsibilities of the technology, investor relations, compensation and Chief Technology Officer. During his tenure, benefits and internal controls for the Company. Temenos’ product set has undergone constant 96 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements GOVERNING THE GROUP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS Some of its main responsibilities: ·· Approves the annual financial statements; ·· Elects the members of the Board of Directors and of the Compensation Committee; ·· Approves the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee; and ·· Adopts and amends the Articles of Association. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Some of its main responsibilities: ·· Chaired by the Executive Chairman whose role is defined on page 104; ·· Sets the strategy of the Group; ·· Appoints and oversees the members of the Executive Committee; and ·· Approves acquisitions and major investments. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Some of his main responsibilities: ·· Is responsible for managing the day-to-day business of the Group; and ·· Chairs the Executive Committee. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Some of its main responsibilities: ·· Develops the three year strategic plan of the Group and monitors performance against it; ·· Submits to the Board of Directors proposed acquisitions, divestments and product capex investments; and ·· Deals with any other matters as assigned by the Board of Directors. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Some of its main responsibilities: Some of its main responsibilities: Some of its main responsibilities: ·· Recommends to the Board of Directors ·· Reviews and challenges where ·· Reviews the structure, size and compensation practices and policies that necessary, the actions and judgments of composition of the Board of Directors; are equitable, performance based and in management, in relation to the financial ·· Establishes the qualification criteria line with market norms; statements; for Board of Directors membership; ·· Reviews the competitiveness of the ·· Reviews the internal controls environment ·· Reviews and proposes to the executive compensation programs; and risk management framework; Board of Directors candidates to be ·· Submits to the Board of Directors ·· Monitors the performance and recommended for election; and proposals for approval by the Annual effectiveness of the internal audit ·· Considers succession planning General Meeting of Shareholders of function; and for both Board of Directors and the total compensation of the Board of ·· Reviews the findings of the external Executive Committee members. Directors and of the Executive Committee audit reports and monitors their members; and implementation. ·· Prepares the Compensation Report to be submitted to the Board of Directors for approval. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 97 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued INTRODUCTION 1. GROUP STRUCTURE AND SHAREHOLDERS This report has been prepared in compliance with the Directive on 1.1 Group structure Information Relating to Corporate Governance as at 13 December The ultimate holding Company, Temenos Group AG, is registered 2016 (DCG), its Commentary issued by SIX Swiss Exchange available at in Geneva, where the Group is also headquartered. https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/en/home/issuer/obligations/ corporate-governance.html and the Ordinance against Excessive 1.1.1 The Temenos Group is organized and managed by the Remuneration in Listed Companies limited by Shares as at 1 January Chief Executive Officer who is heading and supported by the 2014 (OaEC) available at https://www.admin.ch/opc/fr/classifiedExecutive Committee. compilation/20132519/index.html. As of the publication date of this annual report, the Executive In the present annual report, the corporate governance information Committee is composed of the following members: has been summarized in a separate section, whereas references to other parts of the annual report have been included in certain DAVID ARNOTT instances in an effort to avoid duplication. Chief Executive Officer In order to enhance readability, the present corporate governance section follows the suggested structure as described in the annex of the DCG. There are some references to the Articles of Association and to the MAX CHUARD MARK WINTERBURN Organization bylaws of the Company; both documents are available Chief Financial Officer/ Chief Product Officer at http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/ Chief Operating Officer corporate-governance/. Unless otherwise indicated, the information provided in this report reflects the situation as of 31 December 2017. JEAN-MICHEL ANDRÉ LOUSTAU Temenos Group AG is hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’. HILSENKOPF Chief Technology Officer Temenos Group AG and its affiliated companies are hereinafter Chief Revenue Officer referred to as ‘Temenos Group’, ‘Temenos’ or ‘the Group’. The executive management of the Group is hereinafter referred The Group is managed using a matrix of regional and global business to as ‘the Executive Committee’. functions incorporating activities of sales, service operations, product development, product management, services management, marketing, key client relationship management and product support functions. GOVERNANCE DASHBOARD The Group’s product sales and services operations are divided into five Executive Chairman remuneration mix main geographic regions: Fixed fee/salary 10% ·· Europe; Other compensation 2% Variable short term incentives 12% ·· Middle East and Africa; LTIP earned 25% ·· Asia Pacific; LTIP not yet earned 51% ·· North America; and Read more on > 120 Total compensation at risk 84% ·· Latin America and Caribbean. Executive Committee remuneration mix Temenos being a truly global multi-product company leverages skills from around the world, having its principal software development Fixed salary 12% facilities in Chennai and Bangalore (India). The Group has additional Other compensation 1% Variable short term incentives 19% software development facilities in the United States, Canada, the LTIP earned 23% United Kingdom, Switzerland, France, Romania, Belgium, Luxembourg LTIP not yet earned 46% and China. Read more on > 121 Total compensation at risk 87% Meetings held in 2017 Board of Directors 5 Audit Committee 4 Compensation Committee 3 Nomination Committee 1 98 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 1.1.2 Temenos Group AG is the sole listed Company of the Group. Name Temenos Group AG Domicile 2 Rue de L’Ecole-de-Chimie 1205 Geneva, Switzerland Listed at SIX Swiss Exchange First listing date 26 June 2001 Market capitalization CHF 8,856,240,500* Security Number 1245391 ISIN number CH0012453913 Symbol TEMN Reuters TEMN.S Bloomberg TEMN SW * Based on the issued share capital as of 31.12.2017 composed of 70,849,924 shares. Please refer to the Information for Investors’ section on page 201 for statistics on Temenos shares. 1.1.3 Please find below the main non-listed companies belonging to the Group: (All companies are directly or indirectly wholly owned subsidiaries of Temenos Group AG, unless otherwise indicated. A complete list of all companies belonging to the Group is available in the note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.) NAME DOMICILE COUNTRY OF INCORPORATION SHARE CAPITAL Edge IPK Limited London United Kingdom 2,764 GBP Fairs Limited London United Kingdom 50,000 GBP Financial Objects (UK) Limited London United Kingdom 466,667 GBP Financial Objects Limited London United Kingdom 950,528 GBP Finch Software Limited Port Louis Mauritius 10,000 EUR Genisys Technology Limited London United Kingdom 51,505 GBP Igefi Canada Inc. Winnipeg Canada 10 class A shares (no par value) Igefi Deutschland GmbH Trier Germany 100,000 EUR Igefi France Sàrl Paris France 7,500 EUR Igefi Group Sàrl Strassen Luxembourg 31,000 EUR Igefi Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 1,000 HKD Igefi Ireland Limited Dublin Ireland 100 EUR Igefi Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Singapore 20,000 SGD Igefi UK Limited London United Kingdom 5,000 GBP Igefi US LLC Boston USA 100 USD Odyssey Financial Technologies GmbH Frankfurt am Main Germany 25,000 EUR Odyssey Financial Technologies PLC London United Kingdom 50,000 GBP Odyssey Financial Technologies SA La Hulpe Belgium 62,000 EUR Odyssey Group SA Bertrange Luxembourg 21,904,670 EUR Rubik ESOP Trusco Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Rubik IP Holdings Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Rubik Mortgages Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD Stargate Information Systems Pty Limited Sydney Australia 261 AUD TEMENOS (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Shah Alam Malaysia 500,000 MYR TEMENOS (NL) BV Amsterdam Netherlands 18,152 EUR TEMENOS (Thailand) Co. Limited Bangkok Thailand 100,000,000 THB TEMENOS Africa (Pty) Limited Sandton South Africa 100 ZAR TEMENOS Australia Pty Limited Sydney Australia 2 AUD TEMENOS Australia Financial Pty Limited Sydney Australia 85,977,680 AUD TEMENOS Australia Messaging Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD TEMENOS Australia Operations Pty Limited Sydney Australia 7,500,181 AUD TEMENOS Australia Services Pty Limited Sydney Australia 100 AUD TEMENOS Australia Technology Solutions Pty Limited Sydney Australia 1 AUD Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 99 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued TEMENOS Belgium SA La Hulpe Belgium 200,000 EUR TEMENOS Bulgaria EOOD Sofia Bulgaria 10,000 BGN TEMENOS Canada Inc. Vancouver Canada 560,586 shares (no par value) TEMENOS Denmark ApS Copenhagen Denmark 50,000 DKK TEMENOS Deutschland GmbH Frankfurt am Main Germany 25,000 EUR TEMENOS East Africa Limited Nairobi Kenya 10,000 KES TEMENOS Ecuador SA Quito Ecuador 672,000 USD TEMENOS Egypt LLC Cairo Egypt 200 EGP TEMENOS Finance Luxembourg Sàrl Bertrange Luxembourg 37,500 EUR TEMENOS France SAS Paris France 500,000 EUR TEMENOS Headquarters SA Geneva Switzerland 100,000 CHF TEMENOS Hellas SA Athens Greece 105,000 EUR TEMENOS Hispania SL Madrid Spain 10,000 EUR TEMENOS Holdings France SAS Paris France 28,010,000 EUR TEMENOS Holdings Limited Road Town British Virgin Islands 40,105 USD TEMENOS Holland BV Amsterdam Netherlands 19,000 EUR TEMENOS Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Hong Kong 2 HKD TEMENOS India Private Limited Chennai India 2,962,000 INR TEMENOS Investments BV Amsterdam Netherlands 18,000 EUR TEMENOS Israel Limited Ramat Gan Israel 100 NIS TEMENOS Japan KK Tokyo Japan 10,000,000 JPY TEMENOS Kazakhstan LLP Almaty Kazakhstan 14,400,000 KZT TEMENOS Korea Limited Seoul Republic of Korea 50,000,000 KRW TEMENOS Luxembourg SA Bertrange Luxembourg 1,181,250 EUR TEMENOS Mexico SA de CV Mexico City Mexico 10,760,900 MXN TEMENOS Middle East Limited Nicosia Cyprus 17,100 EUR TEMENOS North Africa LLC Casablanca Morocco 10,000 MAD TEMENOS Philippines, Inc Makati City Philippines 10,000,000 PHP TEMENOS Polska Sp. Zo.o Warsaw Poland 100,000 PLN TEMENOS Romania SRL Bucharest Romania 120,000 RON TEMENOS Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Singapore 65,010,000 SGD TEMENOS Singapore FT Pte Limited Singapore Singapore 1 SGD TEMENOS Software Brasil Limitada Sao Paulo Brazil 150,000 BRL TEMENOS Software Luxembourg SA Bertrange Luxembourg 29,500,000 EUR TEMENOS Software Shanghai Co. Limited Shanghai China 140,000 USD TEMENOS Solutions Australia Pty Limited Sydney Australia 34,391,073 AUD TEMENOS Systems Ireland Limited Dublin Ireland 4 EUR TEMENOS UK Limited London United Kingdom 2,198,844 GBP TEMENOS USA, Inc. Wilmington USA 1 USD TEMENOS Vietnam Company Limited Hanoi Vietnam 890,000,000 VND TriNovus Systems LLC Lubbock USA 1,741,651.85 USD Viveo France SAS Paris France 5,300,000 EUR Viveo Group SAS Paris France 16,248,900 EUR Wealth Management Systems Limited London United Kingdom 525,000 GBP 100 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 1.2 Significant shareholders 2.2 Authorized and Conditional capital Please find below the list of shareholders who hold more than 3% Authorized capital of the voting rights as of 31 December 2017 as per information that Pursuant to the Articles of Association (Article 3ter), the Board of has been published on the reporting and publication platform of the Directors is authorized to increase the share capital by 10 May 2019, by Disclosure Office of SIX Swiss Exchange pursuant to Art. 120 of the an amount not exceeding CHF 69,500,000 by issuing up to 13,900,000 Financial Market Infrastructure Act. fully paid-in registered shares with a nominal value of CHF 5 each. An increase in partial amounts is permitted. Beneficial owner Number of Percentage of The Board of Directors shall determine the date of issue of such new voting rights share capital shares, the issue price, type of payment, conditions of exercising Martin and Rosmarie Ebner 9,983,971 14.09% pre-emptive rights, and the beginning of the dividend entitlement. The Board of Directors may issue new shares by means of a firm Massachusetts Mutual Life underwriting by a banking institution or syndicate with subsequent Insurance Company1 5,134,794 7.25% offer of those shares. The Board of Directors may allow the expiry The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3,491,249 4.93% of pre-emptive rights which have not been exercised or it may place these rights as well as shares, the pre-emptive rights for which have BlackRock, Inc. 2 3,314,483 4.68% not been exercised, at market conditions. Based on the registered capital as of 31.12.2017 composed of 70,849,924 shares. The Board of Directors is authorized to restrict or withdraw the (1) Out of this number, 176,300 voting rights are delegated by a third party and can be pre-emptive rights and rights of advance subscription of existing exercised at one’s own discretion. (2) Out of this number, 252,441 voting rights are delegated by a third party and can be shareholders and allocate them to third parties if (i) the shares are exercised at one’s own discretion. to be used for the take-over of another company or enterprise, of parts of an enterprise or of participations or for the financing of such For more recent information on major shareholders, please refer transactions; or if (ii) the shares are to be used for the purpose of to page 201. expanding the scope of shareholders in connection with the quotation of shares on national and foreign stock exchanges. Disclosure notifications made in accordance with Article 120 of the Financial Market Infrastructure Act are publicly available on the SIX Conditional capital for employee participation website at https://www.six-exchange-regulation.com/en/home/ Pursuant to the Articles of Association (Article 3 quarter (1)), the share publications/significant-shareholders.html. capital may be increased by an amount not exceeding CHF 14,727,130 by issuing up to 2,945,426 new registered shares to be fully paid-in with 1.3 Cross-shareholdings a nominal value of CHF 5 each through the exercise of the rights that There are no cross-shareholdings to report. the direct or indirect subsidiaries of the Company (the ‘Subsidiaries’) or the Company itself may grant to officers, Directors and employees at 2. CAPITAL STRUCTURE all levels of the Company and the Subsidiaries. The pre-emptive rights 2.1 Capital as well as the right for advance subscription of existing shareholders On 31 December 2017, the registered ordinary share capital amounted are precluded. to CHF 354,249,620 consisting of 70,849,924 registered shares, each with a par value of CHF 5. All the shares are fully paid-up. Each The issue of shares or respective option rights through the Subsidiaries recorded share with voting rights entitles its holder to one vote. or through the Company to officers, Directors and employees of the Company and the Subsidiaries, is subject to one or more regulations The Company has an authorized capital totaling CHF 69,500,000 and to be issued by the Board of Directors on the basis of the following a conditional capital totaling CHF 14,727,130 for shares that may be general rules: (i) new shares may only be issued to the Subsidiaries or issued on the exercising of share options granted to employees of the to the Company for purposes of distribution to Directors, officers or Group. Additional conditional capital totaling CHF 33,039,520 exists for employees of the Company and the Subsidiaries ; (ii) new shares to be shares that may be issued in conjunction with financial instruments. issued through the Subsidiaries or through the Company to employees of the Company or the Subsidiaries shall be issued against paying-in the nominal value of CHF 5 per each share in cash. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 101 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued 2.2 Authorized and Conditional capital continued 2.3 Changes in capital Conditional capital for financial instruments Pursuant to the Articles of Association (Article 3 quarter (2)), the 31.12.17 31.12.16 31.12.15 share capital may be increased by an amount not exceeding CHF CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 33,039,520, by issuing up to 6,607,904 new registered shares to be Ordinary issued share capital 354,250 348,106 333,088 fully paid-in with a nominal value of CHF 5 each, to be divided as Conditional share capital 47,767 53,911 68,928 follows: first, for the amount of CHF 8,386,120, that corresponds to Authorized share capital 69,500 69,500 71,524 1,677,224 new registered shares, through exercise of conversion and/ or option rights, which are granted in connection with bonds or similar As at 31 December 2013, the registered share capital amounted to obligations or other financial instruments of the Company or one of CHF 360,115,740 consisting of 72,023,148 registered shares, each with its group companies; and second, for the amount of CHF 24,653,400, a par value of CHF 5. Further to the decision of the General Meetings that corresponds to 4,930,680 new registered shares, by the exercise of Shareholders held on 28 May 2014, the capital was reduced by of option rights which are granted by the Company or one of its group cancellation of 2,134,786 shares repurchased under a share buyback companies to existing shareholders or third parties. In the case of the program. issuance of bonds, similar obligations, or other financial instruments linked with conversion and/or option rights, and in the case of the As at 31 December 2014, the registered share capital amounted issuance of option rights, the pre-emptive rights of shareholders are to CHF 349,441,810 consisting of 69,888,362 registered shares, each excluded. The owners of conversion or option rights from time to time with a par value of CHF 5. Further to the decision of the General are entitled to the new shares. Meetings of Shareholders held on 6 May 2015, the capital was reduced by cancellation of 3,270,794 shares repurchased under The conditions of the option rights, including the exercise period a share buyback program. and exercise price, are to be determined by the Board of Directors, whereby the exercise price may be fixed at a price lower than the As at 31 December 2015, the registered share capital amounted market or intrinsic value. to CHF 333,087,840 consisting of 66,617,568 registered shares, each with a par value of CHF 5. The Board of Directors shall be authorized to restrict or exclude the advance subscription rights of shareholders: (1) if debt issues As at 31 December 2016, the registered share capital amounted to in connection with conversion rights or warrants or other financial CHF 333,087,840 consisting of 66,617,568 registered shares, each with instruments or options issues are for the purpose of financing or a par value of CHF 5. No change of capital occurred during 2016. refinancing the acquisition of an enterprise, parts of an enterprise, On 15 February 2017, the registered share capital was increased to or participations or new investments; or (2) if such debt or other CHF 348,105,620 consisting of 69,621,124 registered shares, each with financial instruments or options are issued on the international capital a par value of CHF 5, further to the registration of 3,003,556 shares markets and for the purpose of a firm underwriting by a banking that were created out of conditional capital during 2016 (for Employee institution or a consortium of banks with a subsequent offering to Share Option Schemes). the public; or (3) if such debt or other financial market instruments or options are issued for the purpose of the participation of strategic As at 31 December 2017, the registered share capital amounted to Partners. In such cases, the following shall apply: the terms and CHF 354,249,620 consisting of 70,849,924 registered shares, each with conditions of the convertible bonds or warrants or other financial a par value of CHF 5 further to the registration on 19 October 2017 of instruments or options shall correspond to market conditions 1,228,800 shares that were created out of conditional capital during (including dilution protection provisions in accordance with market 2017 (for Employee Share Option Schemes). practice), taking into account the specific situation, and the new shares shall be issued pursuant to the relevant conversion or exercise rights in connection with bond or warrant or options issuance conditions. Conversion rights may be exercised during a maximum ten (10)-year period, and warrants or options may be exercised during a maximum seven (7)-year period, in each case from the date of the respective issuance. 102 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2.4 Shares and participation certificates 3. BOARD OF DIRECTORS All equity securities of Temenos are in the form of registered shares, 3.1 Members of the Board of Directors each with a par value of CHF 5. Each share confers the right to one As at 31 December 2017, the Board of Directors comprises the vote at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and all shares are following members: fully entitled to receive dividends. The Articles of Association do not provide for privileged voting rights shares. The Company does not Name Position issue participation certificates. Andreas Andreades Executive Chairman In compliance with Temenos policy to distribute a sustainable to Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio Vice-Chairman, Independent growing dividend and taking into account the growing maturity of the and Non-Executive Director Group and the strength of future cash flows, the Company intends to pay an annual dividend of CHF 0.65 on 23 May 2018, subject to George Koukis Non-Executive Director, shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Temenos founder on 15 May 2018. The dividend record date will be set on 22 May 2018 Ian Cookson Independent and with the shares trading ex-dividend on 18 May 2018. Like in the past Non-Executive Director years, the 2017 dividend will be paid as a distribution of reserve from capital contributions and therefore be exempted of withholding tax Thibault de Tersant Independent and (share premium dividend). Non-Executive Director Erik Hansen Independent and 2.5 Dividend-right certificates Non-Executive Director The Company does not issue profit sharing certificates. Amy Yip Independent and 2.6 Limitations on transferability and nominee registrations Non-Executive Director There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares. Peter Spenser Independent and Non-Executive Director 2.7 Convertible bonds and options Regarding options please refer to note 25 of the consolidated Please refer to pages 94 and 95 for their biographies. financial statements. Except George Koukis who was Executive Chairman of Temenos In April 2013, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with until July 2011, none of the non-executive members of the Board of a nominal value of CHF 100 million and a coupon rate of 2.75% Directors has or has had any senior management position within the paid annually on 25 July. The bond was repaid on 25 July 2017 Group, nor any significant business connections with the Group. at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. In March 2014, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with 3.2 Other activities and vested interests a nominal value of CHF 100 million and a coupon rate of 2.00% paid Except those mentioned in the biographies section of this annual annually on 31 January. The bond will mature on 31 January 2019 report, no member of the Board of Directors has any: at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. ·· Activities in governing and supervisory bodies of important Swiss In May 2015, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with a and foreign organizations, institutions and foundations under private nominal value of CHF 175 million and a coupon rate of 2.00% paid and public law; annually on 17 June. The bond will mature on 17 June 2022 at a ·· Permanent management and consultancy functions for important redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. Swiss and foreign interest groups; or In April 2017, the Company issued a senior unsecured bond with ·· Official functions and political posts. a nominal value of CHF 150 million and a coupon rate of 1.75% paid annually on 5 April. The bond will mature on 5 April 2024 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 103 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued 3.3 Rules in the Articles of Association on the number of permitted The Executive Chairman attends the Product Board and some of the activities pursuant to Art. 12 para. 1 point 1 OaEC. Executive Committee meetings. He therefore works full time in an According to Article 29 of the Articles of Association, no member of executive capacity and is jointly responsible for the delivery of the the Board of Directors may hold more than four additional mandates strategic plan and financial results. in listed companies and ten additional mandates in non-listed companies. Taking into account his deep understanding of the market, his previous Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer roles within the The following mandates are not subject to these limitations: Group, the Chairman’s input and significant value add are key and a. mandates in companies which are controlled by the Company or instrumental for the other members of the Board of Directors and for which control the Company; the Executive Committee members, especially on all strategic matters. b. mandates held at the request of the Company or any companies Vice-Chairman controlled by it. No member of the Board of Directors or of the In case the Chairman is unavailable or absent, the Vice-Chairman executive management shall hold more than ten of such mandates; calls meetings of the Board of Directors; also, in case the Chairman is and unavailable or absent, the Vice-Chairman chairs meetings of the Board c. mandates in associations, charitable organizations, foundations, of Directors. The Vice-Chairman has the authority to call meetings trusts and employee welfare foundations. No member of the Board reserved exclusively for independent Directors to allow them to discuss of Directors or executive management shall hold more than ten of certain issues outside full Board of Directors meetings. The agenda of such mandates. such meetings are set by the Vice-Chairman. ‘mandates’ shall mean mandates in the supreme governing body of The Vice-Chairman serves as liaison between the independent a legal entity which is required to be registered in the commercial Directors, the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. register or a comparable foreign register. Mandates in different legal The Vice-Chairman acts as the preferred contact for the other entities that are under joint control are deemed one mandate. independent Directors. All members of the Board of Directors comply with these provisions. The Vice-Chairman makes himself available to hear the shareholders’ comments and suggestions and, where possible, answers their 3.4 Elections and terms of office questions after consulting with the Chairman. In 2017, the Vice-Chairman acted as independent lead Director. Name First elected Andreas Andreades 2001 3.5.2 Members list, tasks and area of responsibility for each Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio 2012 Committee of the Board of Directors George Koukis 2001 The Audit, Compensation and Nomination Committees are governed Ian Cookson 2012 by terms of reference defining their duties and compositions which are Thibault de Tersant 2012 available at https://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investorErik Hansen 2013 relations/corporate-governance/. These Committees are composed Amy Yip 2014 mainly of Independent and Non-Executive Directors. These Committees Peter Spenser 2017 report regularly and make recommendations to the Board of Directors which is empowered to make decisions. 3.5 Internal organizational structure 3.5.1 Allocation of tasks within the Board of Directors Audit Compensation Nomination The Board of Directors shall elect a Vice-Chairman from amongst Name Committee Committee Committee its members and a secretary. It may also appoint one or more Andreas Andreades Member committees from amongst its members. Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio Member Chairman Member George Koukis Executive Chairman Ian Cookson Member Member Chairman The Chairman is responsible for preparing and convening the Thibault de Tersant Chairman meetings of the Board of Directors as well as for the implementation Erik Hansen Member of the Board resolutions. In case of his absence, the Vice-Chairman Amy Yip Member Member shall call the Board meetings. The Chairman monitors the preparation Peter Spenser Member of the General Meeting of Shareholders. Temenos is a typical software company where product, technology vision and deep market knowledge are instrumental in the success of the Company and it is common to have executive chairmen structures where founders/near founders have a critical role to play in the running of the Company. It is of paramount importance that Temenos retains the vision that has established it as a leader in its industry. 104 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Audit Committee At the meetings of the Board of Directors and of its Committees, The Audit Committee is composed of four members, each of whom those members of the Executive Committee who have the relevant being independent and holding relevant financial expertise and information and expertise required for the respective body to perform understanding of the IFRS accounting standards. The Audit Committee its duties are present. However these persons do not take part in reviews the Group’s financial reports, internal controls, compliance with any resolutions. corporate governance rules and any other matters that may be brought At each Board of Directors’ meeting, a business report is presented to its attention by the internal and/or external auditors. The Chairman by the Chief Executive Officer. Together with the financial report of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board of Directors on presented by the Chief Financial Officer, this information enables the Audit Committee’s findings and recommendations; the Board of the Board members to assess the course of the Company’s business Directors being ultimately responsible to approve the annual financial activities on a regular basis. statements. Please also refer to paragraph 8.4 below. The Board of Directors conducts an annual evaluation of its Compensation Committee performance. Such process is carried out by way of an anonymous The Compensation Committee shall support the Board of Directors in self-evaluation questionnaire on the performance and effectiveness reviewing and making recommendations on compensation practices, of the Board of Directors to be completed by each of its member. guidelines and procedures and in preparing the proposals to the The results and comments are consolidated by the Company Secretary General Meeting of Shareholders regarding compensation of the and then discussed at the next meeting during which proposed members of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee. improvements are agreed. The 2017 evaluation results were It may submit proposals and recommendations to the Board of discussed at the meeting held in July where it was concluded Directors in other compensation-related issues. that the Board of Directors operates effectively. For more details on the role of the Compensation Committee please refer to its terms of reference at https://www.temenos.com/en/ 3.6 Definition of areas of responsibility about-temenos/investor-relations/corporate-governance/ and The Board of Directors is the ultimate governing body of the to the Compensation Report on page 111. Company. Together with its Committees, it exercises inalienable and non-transferable functions as provided by law, by the Company’s Nomination Committee Articles of Association and by its bylaws. The Board of Directors The main duties of the Nomination Committee are: (i) to annually decides in particular on significant acquisitions, disposals, strategic review the structure, size and composition of the Board of Directors alliances, changes in the Group’s structure and share repurchase and make recommendations to the Board of Directors with regard to programs though its responsibilities are not limited to this. any changes, (ii) to establish qualification criteria for Board of Directors’ Based on Article 17 of the Articles of Association and Article 3.5 of membership and (iii) to give full consideration to succession planning the bylaws of the Company, the Board of Directors has delegated for both members of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee. the day-to-day operational management and conduct of business operations of the Company to the Chief Executive Officer who is 3.5.3 Working methods of the Board of Directors heading and supported by the Executive Committee, except where and its Committees the law or the Articles of Association provide differently. The Board of Directors meets as often as business requires, but at least four times a year. The Audit Committee meets at least twice The Executive Committee is responsible for execution of strategy a year. The Compensation and Nomination Committees meet at least and monitoring performance against it. The Executive Committee once a year. also sets targets for Group organic and acquisitions growth on a three year basis i.e. strategic plan to be then formally approved In 2017, the following meetings were held: by the Board of Directors. Finally, the Executive Committee approves all product investments as well as acquisitions to be proposed to Number Average the Board of Directors. of meetings Attendance duration Board of Directors 5 100% 3h Audit Committee 4 100% 3h Compensation Committee 3 92% 1h Nomination Committee 1 100% 1h All physical meetings were held at Temenos offices in Geneva with the exception of one session of meetings (Board, Audit, Compensation and Nomination) which was held in India, at the Temenos Chennai offices. Both the external and internal auditors attended all the Audit Committee meetings in 2017. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 105 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued 3.7 Information and control instruments vis-à-vis the 4.2 Other activities and vested interests Executive Committee Except those mentioned in the biographies section on page 96, The Board of Directors is responsible for the Group’s system of internal no member of the Executive Committee has any: controls. Supervising the risk management process, effectiveness and ·· Activities in governing and supervisory bodies of important Swiss efficiency of operations, accurate reporting, compliance with laws and and foreign organizations, institutions and foundations under private regulations and safeguarding the interests of the Group are some of and public law; the main responsibilities of the Board of Directors. ·· Permanent management and consultancy functions for important ·· Prior to each meeting, members of the Board of Directors receive Swiss and foreign interest groups; or reports, summarizing recent financial results and operational ·· Official functions and political posts. developments. ·· Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer/Chief Operating 4.3 Rules in the Articles of Association on the number of permitted Officer personally report at each meeting of the Board of Directors. activities pursuant to Art. 12 para. 1 point 1 OaEC. ·· The performance management process ensures that Company’s According to Article 29 of the Articles of Association, no member targets, as agreed with the Board of Directors, are delegated to of the executive management may hold more than one additional senior management during the first quarter of every financial year. mandate in a listed company and five additional mandates in ·· The Internal Audit function provides an independent assurance non-listed companies. on effectiveness of internal controls. This function’s independent The following mandates are not subject to these limitations: status is assured by the fact that the Internal Audit Director reports functionally to the Chairman of the Audit Committee. a. mandates in companies which are controlled by the Company or which control the Company; ·· Findings and related action plans from internal audit reviews and/or internal control self-assessments are reported to senior management; b. mandates held at the request of the Company or any companies summary reports are provided to the Audit Committee on a regular controlled by it. No member of the Board of Directors or of the basis. Implementation of action plans is monitored on a monthly executive management shall hold more than ten of such mandates; basis and status is reported to the Audit Committee. and ·· Risk management is an integral part of the business process. Regular c. mandates in associations, charitable organizations, foundations, risk assessment is performed and key risks are reviewed by the Audit trusts and employee welfare foundations. No member of the Board Committee and then by the Board of Directors itself. of Directors or executive management shall hold more than ten of ·· The organizational structure ensures that specialized functions such mandates. like Quality, Security and IT continuously support the management ‘mandates’ shall mean mandates in the supreme governing body of risks. of a legal entity which is required to be registered in the commercial register or a comparable foreign register. Mandates in different 4. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE legal entities that are under joint control are deemed one mandate. 4.1 Members of the Executive Committee As at 31 December 2017, the Executive Committee comprises the All members of the Executive Committee comply with these provisions. following members: 4.4 Management contracts Name Position No management tasks have been delegated to third parties. David Arnott Chief Executive Officer Max Chuard Chief Financial Officer/ Chief Operating Officer Andre Loustau Chief Technology Officer Mark Winterburn Chief Product Officer Mr.Hilsenkopf was appointed as a member of the Executive Committee (Chief Revenue Officer) on 12 January 2018. Please refer to page 96 for their biographies. 106 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 5. COMPENSATION, SHAREHOLDINGS AND LOANS The Company may procure the required shares through treasury shares 5.1 Content and method of determining the compensation or upon creation of shares out of conditional capital. and the shareholding programs Compensation may be paid by the Company or companies The executive management compensation plans seek to align controlled by it. executive management and shareholders’ interests by making a significant portion of compensation depend on achieving increased According to Article 26 of the Articles of Association, if the maximum shareholder value for the long term and to enforce a performanceaggregate amount of compensation already approved by the General orientated environment that rewards superior value creation and the Meeting of Shareholders is not sufficient to also cover compensation achievement of outstanding results. of one or more members who become members of or are being promoted within the executive management during a compensation Compensation of the non-executive members of the Board of period for which the General Meeting of Shareholders has already Directors comprises fixed compensation only. approved the compensation, the Company or companies controlled The executive members of the Board of Directors and the executive by it shall be authorized to pay to such member(s) a supplementary management may be paid fixed and variable compensation. amount during the compensation period(s) already approved. The total Variable compensation is dependent on the achievement of certain supplementary amount per compensation period shall not exceed performance criteria. 40% of the aggregate amount of compensation of the executive management last approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. Temenos applies a policy for share ownership and retention that is applicable to the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and 5.2.2 There are no rules in the Articles of Association on loans, credit to the members of the Executive Committee. Further information is facilities and post-employment benefits for members of the Board of available in the Compensation Report on page 114. Directors and Executive Committee. 5.2 Rules in the Articles of Association 5.2.3 According to Article 25 of the Articles of Association, the General 5.2.1 According to Article 27 of the Articles of Association of the Meeting of Shareholders shall approve annually and separately Company, performance criteria shall be determined by the Board of the proposals of the Board of Directors in relation to the maximum Directors or, where delegated to it, the Compensation Committee and aggregate amount of: may include criteria relating to individual performance, performance of the Company or parts thereof as well as performance in relation to the ·· Compensation of the Board of Directors for the next fiscal year; market or other companies, taking into account the position and level ·· Compensation of the executive management for the next fiscal year. of responsibility of the employee. The Board of Directors or, where delegated to it, the Compensation Committee shall determine the The Board of Directors may submit for approval by the General performance criteria impact on variable compensation (short and long Meeting of Shareholders proposals in relation to maximum aggregate term incentives), including actual achievement and potential maximum amounts of compensation relating to different periods, in relation achievement, the relative weight of the performance criteria and the to amounts for specific compensation elements for the same or respective target-levels. different periods. Compensation may be paid or granted in cash, shares, or in the In the event a proposal of the Board of Directors has not been form of other types of benefits. Compensation of executive members approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of of the Board of Directors or members of the executive management Directors shall determine, taking into account all relevant factors, may also be granted in the form of stock appreciation rights and the respective maximum aggregate amount of compensation or similar financial instruments. The Board of Directors or, where partial maximum amounts for specific compensation elements, delegated to it, the Compensation Committee shall determine and submit the amount(s) so determined for approval by a General grant, vesting, blocking, exercise and forfeiture terms and conditions Meeting of Shareholders. of these kinds of compensation; in particular, it may provide for continuation, acceleration or removal of vesting and exercise Notwithstanding the above provisions, the Company or companies conditions, for payment or grant of compensation based upon controlled by it may pay out compensation prior to approval by the assumed target achievement, or for forfeiture, in each case in the General Meeting of Shareholders subject to subsequent approval event of pre-determined events such as a change-of-control or by a General Meeting of Shareholders. termination of an employment agreement. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 107 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued 6. SHAREHOLDERS’ PARTICIPATION RIGHTS 7. CHANGES OF CONTROL AND DEFENSE MEASURES 6.1 Voting-rights restrictions and representation 7.1 Duty to make an offer 6.1.1 According to the Company’s Articles of Association, only There is no ‘opting out’ or ‘opting up’ clause in the Articles shareholders entered in the share register as shareholders or as of Association. usufructuaries may exercise the voting rights linked to the shares or the other rights connected with these voting rights. The Articles of 7.2 Clauses on changes of control Association do not contain any restrictions to voting rights. In case of change of control in Temenos, all outstanding stock appreciation rights (SARs) will become immediately vested 6.1.2 Not applicable. and exercisable. SARs are considered to be outstanding only if the corresponding/ 6.1.3 Not applicable. relevant service period has started (where such relevant service period is specified as part of the grant documentation). If not specified, they 6.1.4 Not applicable. will be considered as outstanding automatically. 6.1.5 Shareholders registered in the share register with voting rights 8. AUDITORS on a determined date are entitled to attend the General Meeting of 8.1 Duration of the mandate and term of office of the lead auditor Shareholders and to exercise their votes. Each shareholder may be represented at the General Meeting of Shareholders by any other 8.1.1 PricewaterhouseCoopers SA was re-elected as the statutory and person who is authorized by a written proxy, by a legal representative group auditor at the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on or by the independent proxy holder. 10 May 2017 for a period of one year (first elected in 2003). 6.1.6 There are no rules in the Articles of Association about electronic 8.1.2 Since 2011 the lead auditor for the Group audit is Mr. Guillaume participation to the General Meeting of Shareholders or instructions to Nayet. Mr. Mike Foley shall become the new lead auditor on the independent proxy holder. However the shareholders may provide 15 May 2018 after the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. electronically their voting instructions to the independent proxy holder. 8.2 Auditing fees 6.2 Quorums required by the Articles of Association Included in general and administrative expenses is an amount of There are no statutory quorums. The General Meeting of Shareholders USD 1,567,208 representing audit fees charged to the Company by shall pass its resolutions and carry out its elections by a simple majority, PricewaterhouseCoopers for (i) the audit of the group consolidated unless qualified majority is required by law for a specific agenda item. financial statements and of statutory accounts in various jurisdictions (USD 1,473,208) and (ii) other audit fees related to work than can 6.3 Convocation of the General Meeting of Shareholders only be performed by the group auditor such as the audit of the The General Meeting of Shareholders is convened by publication compensation report (USD 94,000). of the invitation and the agenda, at least twenty days before the date of the meeting, in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce 8.3 Additional fees (Schweizerische Handelsamtsblatt, Feuille Officielle Suisse du In addition, other fees of USD 1,132,000 have been incurred by Commerce). Shareholders representing at least 10% of the share PricewaterhouseCoopers through the provision of tax advisory and capital may convene an Extraordinary General Meeting. other professional services. Please find below a breakdown of the additional fees: 6.4 Inclusion of items on the agenda One or more shareholders representing shares of an aggregate USD 000 nominal value of at least CHF 1 million may, up to 45 days before the Tax Compliance 215 date of the General Meeting, request an item to be included on the agenda. Such request must be in writing and shall specify the items Transactions 139 and the proposals of these shareholders. Non Audit Fees – Audit related 354 Tax Advisory 689 6.5 Entries in the share register Other Advisory 89 Pursuant to Article 13 paragraph 1 of the Articles of Association, shareholders entered in the share register as shareholders with voting Non Audit related 778 rights on a specific date determined by the Board of Directors are Total Non Audit Fees 1,132 entitled to attend and vote at the General Meeting. 108 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 8.4 Information instruments pertaining to the external audit Contacting Temenos The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance of For any investor relations enquiries please contact the Company external auditors, checking their independence, approving their annual at TemenosIR@temenos.com and for management dealings audit plan and fees, and reviewing their findings on internal control enquiries/disclosures of shareholdings notifications at procedures as well as steps taken by the auditors to respond companysecretarial@temenos.com. to changes in regulatory audit standards and other requirements. At the end of at least one Audit Committee meeting during the year, Meeting Temenos the Audit Committee members spend time with the external auditors On 15 May 2018, Temenos will hold its Annual General Meeting without the presence of management. The external auditors formally in Geneva, Switzerland. This occasion affords shareholders the report to the Audit Committee during its meetings and have direct opportunity to put their questions to the Board and learn more about access to its Chairman when necessary. The Chairman of the Audit the Group’s strategic direction. Committee then reports at each meeting of the Board of Directors. Meetings between Directors, institutional shareholders and other Please also refer to paragraphs 3.5.2 and 3.5.3 above. market professionals are held regularly as a part of Temenos’ investor At the beginning of the year, the Audit Committee pre-approves an relations program. Furthermore, all Directors are available to meet amount of permitted services that may be performed by the external shareholders if requested. auditors. Such services are then reviewed on a regular basis at Audit Dates of publication of 2018 quarterly results and Temenos Committee meetings. For any other audit or non-audit related services conferences are published on the Company’s website and updated beyond the above-mentioned limit, authorization is required from the regularly at http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investorChairman of the Audit Committee upon recommendation from the relations/calendar/. Chief Financial Officer. 9. INFORMATION POLICY Temenos is committed to open and transparent communication with its shareholders and wider stakeholders. Updates Temenos publishes an audited annual report for the year to 31 December and an unaudited interim report for the six months to 30 June. Temenos also reports figures on a quarterly basis. All of this information and additional company-specific information is available at http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/. In addition, those interested can sign up on the Temenos website by clicking to the Subscribe button at http://www.temenos.com/en/ about-temenos/investor-relations/ to receive financial news, key client signings as well as all press releases issued in accordance with the ad hoc publicity rules; moreover, all these press releases are available at http://www.temenos.com/en/about-temenos/investor-relations/ financial-press-releases/. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 109 Governance COMPENSATION REPORT “I am pleased to report that 2017 was LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE another remarkable year in terms of growth COMPENSATION COMMITTEE The Compensation Committee is focused on ensuring that: in shareholder return, with the share price ·· We have a strong link between pay and performance and that the increasing by 76% from CHF 71 to CHF 125 success of management mirrors that of our shareholders; in the 12 months.” ·· We have the support of our shareholders on the compensation. As such we have again gathered feedback from our major The graph below shows the five year history of annual and cumulative shareholders which we have taken into account and sought their growth, the CAGR being 50%. advice on some modifications we considered making in 2018 and/or 2019, in particular, a change to the allocation of the LTIP targets. 90% 900 In 2017, we have continued to make improvements to our governance: ·· The Executive Chairman and members of the Executive Committee 80% 800 have all met their share ownership targets; ·· Together with Willis Towers Watson (WTW), we performed a review 70% 700 of our peer group, both from the point of view of the companies Value of investment of USD 100 included, and to benchmark the LTIP. Since the vast majority of Annual % increase in TSR 60% 600 software vendors are US based, and Temenos competes in a global market place, we believe it is right and fair to include a large 50% 500 proportion of US companies in our peer group. In order to also represent Swiss and other European practice to an adequate extent 40% 400 we have restricted the contribution of US companies in the peer group mix to 50%. 30% 300 I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf on his promotion to Chief Revenue Officer (CRO), effective 20% 200 from 12 January 2018. With global responsibility for sales and for the regions, the role merits being added to the Executive Committee 10% 100 and I warmly welcome him to this group. The Compensation Committee remains committed to dialogue 0% 0 with shareholders, and we welcome regular feedback on our 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 compensation policies. We look forward to receiving your support at the AGM in 2018. TSR Temenos Value of USD 100 investment Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio Chairman of the Compensation Committee Below is the comparison of the TSR to our peer group and to the S&P global software index: FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 Temenos 64.1% 27.8% 47.9% 34.0% 85.3% Peer group average 50.8% 9.3% 11.7% 19.0% 30.4% S&P Global Software Index 40.6% 17.0% 14.6% 11.3% 40.6% 110 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements COMPENSATION POLICY AND PRINCIPLES Non-Executive Directors This report has been prepared in accordance with articles 13-17 of the The Non-Executive Directors who served in the 2017 financial year are: Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed ·· Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio, Vice Chairman Companies. ·· Ian Cookson Temenos’ executive compensation programs are designed with ·· Erik Hansen two main goals in mind: ·· George Koukis ·· Pay for Performance alignment: by making the major portion of ·· Thibault de Tersant compensation dependent on achieving increased shareholder value for the long term; and ·· Amy Yip ·· Fostering a performance-based corporate culture through ·· Peter Spenser, appointed to the Board of Directors on 10 May 2017. variable compensation. THE ROLE OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE Temenos is committed to building long term shareholder value. In The Compensation Committee is authorized by the Board of order to ensure we encourage and drive this value creation, 87% of Directors to: the compensation is performance driven and therefore at risk and ·· Recommend to the Board of Directors compensation practices and will not be earned unless the executive team delivers on stretch policies for Executives; long and short term targets. ·· Align the interests of the Executives and senior managers to Executive compensation consists of: the long term interests of the Company and its shareholders by recommending compensation practices and policies that are (i) fixed cash compensation and benefits; equitable and performance based; (ii) variable cash linked to short term performance targets (i.e. current ·· Review the competitiveness of the Company’s executive financial year); and compensation programs and thereby ensure the attraction and (iii) equity based variable compensation that is linked to long term retention of the Executives and senior managers who are key in performance targets. delivering the Company’s business objectives; Compensation of the non-executive members of the Board of ·· Confirm that compensation packages for Executives and senior Directors comprises fixed compensation only. managers are in line with market norms. Performance criteria are set by the Board of Directors and may include To fulfill its duties, the Compensation Committee typically meets at criteria relating to the performance of the Company or parts thereof, least three times during the year on the following cycle: performance in relation to the market or other companies, as well as individual performance. The Board of Directors determines the extent ·· November – to review the Compensation Committee terms of to which the performance criteria impact variable compensation, reference, to review compensation practices and policies for the including maximum opportunity, and the relative weight of the forthcoming financial year, to approve fixed compensation and performance criteria. The Board of Directors also oversees the principles for variable short term and long term incentives for conditions linked to the grant, vesting, exercise and the forfeiture Executives; of equity based incentive programs. ·· February – to approve the performance targets for variable short term incentive, and to approve the long term variable compensation ORGANIZATION AND COMPETENCIES grant including performance targets; and Executives ·· March – to recommend prospective compensation to be submitted The Executives who served in the 2017 financial year are: for approval at the annual general meeting of shareholders. Board of Directors: In 2017, the Compensation Committee met three times as per the ·· Andreas Andreades, Executive Chairman above cycle. Executive Committee: The Compensation Committee comprises four Independent and Non-Executive Directors: ·· David Arnott, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) ·· Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio, Chairman ·· Max Chuard, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer (CFO/COO) ·· Ian Cookson ·· André Loustau, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) ·· Erik Hansen ·· Mark Winterburn, Chief Product Officer (CPO) ·· Amy Yip, appointed to the Compensation Committee on 10 May 2017. The Executive Chairman and the Executive Committee are hereinafter The Compensation Committee members are elected annually referred to as the “Executives.” by shareholders. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 111 Governance COMPENSATION REPORT continued Approval process Before submission to the shareholders for approval, the recommendation of compensation packages for Board and Executive Committee members are governed as follows: Compensation of Recommended by Approved by Executive Chairman of the Board Compensation Committee Board of Directors Executive Committee Compensation Committee Board of Directors Non-Executive members of the Board Chief Executive Officer Chairman of the Board Benchmarking process To ensure executive compensation is correctly set in the context of industry practice, the Compensation Committee reviews benchmark data collated from a range of organizations in the technology sector. Temenos has reviewed its Comparator Group for 2017 together with Willis Towers Watson. The Group has been selected based on the following criteria: ·· Companies targeted for hiring talent into Temenos; ·· Software companies that have similar operating characteristics to Temenos in terms of global reach, target markets, competitive dynamics and complexity; ·· Major European software companies; ·· Financial services software companies that industry analysts’ rank as global top performers. AVG and Netsuite were acquired during 2017, and have been replaced by Citrix and Wirecard. All other companies are the same as those used in 2016. Temenos is close or about at the median market capitalization of our peer group of USD 10 billion, and at USD 0.7 billion of revenues in 2017 we are approaching the median revenue of our peer group. A large part of our comparator group are companies based in the USA. This is due to the fact that the majority of the global software players originate in the USA (73 of the top 100 global software companies are based in the US according to research by PwC in 2014) and therefore they represent a significant part of our direct competitors. As a result the following 17 companies have been selected for the benchmark: Organization Country Organization Country ACI Worldwide USA Micro Focus International plc UK Broadridge Financial Solutions USA Quality Systems USA Citrix USA SDL UK Fidelity National Information Services USA Simcorp Denmark Fidessa Group plc UK Software AG Germany Fiserv USA SS&C USA Jack Henry and Associates USA The Sage Group UK Intuit USA Wirecard Germany Logitech International Switzerland 112 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Shareholder engagement We routinely engage with shareholders to discuss business, performance, compensation and governance matters. Specifically with regard to executive compensation, in October 2017 we communicated by letter with our main shareholders outlining our compensation philosophy and inviting them to a meeting with Temenos management or Board members at their convenience. The Chairman of the Compensation Committee engaged in face-to-face meetings or conference calls with our largest shareholders and a number of shareholder advisory groups. We specifically sought advice on changes in our compensation structure, in particular views on the weighting of the KPIs for our 2018 LTIP plan which we are changing as follows: 2017 2018 Non-IFRS EPS 60% 40% Non-IFRS Product Revenues 40% 60% The shareholder feedback has resoundingly been to push for growth and the majority have fully supported this change. In addition, we sought feedback on adding an additional member to the Executive Committee which was understood. The feedback on our target EPS CAGR growth of 15% continues to be well received. Regular shareholder dialogue is a key priority of our management and Board. Votes on compensation As set out in the Articles of Association, the General Meeting of Shareholders shall approve annually and separately the proposals of the Board of Directors in relation to the maximum aggregate amount of: ·· Compensation of the Board of Directors for the next fiscal year; and ·· Compensation of the Executive Committee for the next fiscal year. The Board of Directors may submit for approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders proposals in relation to maximum aggregate amounts of compensation relating to different periods, or in relation to amounts for specific compensation elements for the same or different periods. In the event a proposal of the Board of Directors has not been approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders, the Board of Directors shall determine, taking into account all relevant factors, the respective maximum aggregate amount of compensation or partial maximum amounts for specific compensation elements, and submit the amount(s) so determined for approval by a General Meeting of Shareholders. The Company may pay out compensation prior to approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders subject to subsequent approval by a General Meeting of Shareholders. As stated in the Articles of Association, if the maximum aggregate amount of compensation already approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders is not sufficient to also cover compensation of one or more members who become members of, or are being promoted within, the Executive Committee during a compensation period for which the General Meeting of Shareholders has already approved the compensation, the Company is authorized to pay the member a supplementary amount during the compensation period already approved. The total supplementary amount per compensation period shall not exceed 40% of the aggregate amount of compensation of the Executive Committee last approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 113 Governance COMPENSATION REPORT continued SHARE OWNERSHIP In 2016 Temenos introduced a policy for Stock Ownership and Retention for the Executive Chairman of the Board and members of the Executive Committee. Owning company stock helps align executives’ financial interests with those of shareholders. The following minimum amount of shares must be held: Executive Chairman 4 times annual fixed salary CEO 5 times annual fixed salary CFO/COO 3 times annual fixed salary CTO, CPO, CRO 1 time annual fixed salary The Executive Chairman and all members of the Executive Committee met the requirements as at 31 December 2017. The number of shares to be held are calculated based on the closing stock price of 31 December of the prior year and the fixed salary for the year. For example, the number of shares required to be held on 31 December 2017 is calculated based on the share price of 31 December 2016 and fixed salary for the year 2017. This allows the Executives sufficient time to take any required actions. SARs do not count towards meeting the guidelines. The shares that count are Temenos ordinary shares. PAY FOR PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL To align with stockholders’ interests, Temenos’ executive compensation program is designed to foster a pay-for-performance culture. The chart below shows a percentage split of aggregate compensation of the Executives for 2017. The fixed salary and benefits are the only unconditional, ie non risk components; short term variable is dependent on the achievement of the results for 2018 and long term variable is dependent on the achievement of the results for the three year period 2018 to 2020 inclusive. In 2017, 87% of total compensation was variable and conditional upon performance targets and therefore at risk. Based on the outstanding growth delivered in 2017 one third of the LTIP is earned and the STI targets were exceeded. For our peer group, the ‘at risk’ compensation for the CEO on average is 75% compared to 87% for the Temenos CEO. The compensation for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee was made up as follows: 2017 EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Fixed fee/salary 11% Other compensation 2% Variable short term incentives 17% LTIP earned 23% LTIP not earned 47% At risk compensation 87% The ‘LTIP earned’ is the part of the 2017 grant relating to the delivery of non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the financial year 2017. The target for 2017 has been met and the component of the 2017 LTIP grant can no longer be forfeited, even though subject to time vesting criteria until February 2020. 114 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements With regard to the Long Term Incentive Plan, the table below shows the trend of achievement of non-IFRS EPS targets: SAR scheme Proportion vested based on targets met 2007 100% 2008 forfeited 2009 60% 2010 30% 2011 forfeited 2012 12.8% 2013 101% 2014 100 % 2015 110% 2016 Achievement assessed on vesting in February 2019 2017 Achievement assessed on vesting in February 2020 Targets will continue to be set at challenging levels and reflect long term performance in order to maintain the direct link between pay and performance. COMPENSATION COMPONENTS Summary of Compensation elements for employees The table below explains the compensation elements for 2017: Fixed Salary Variable Short Term Incentive and Benefits (bonus or commission) Variable Long Term Equity Incentive Eligibility All employees All employees Executive Chairman, Executive Committee members and senior managers Basis for funding Continuity of service, Role and experience with a 90% Continuity of service over three years role and experience threshold on the global or regional plus achievement of three year nontargets to be achieved prior to the IFRS EPS targets and non-IFRS product fund accumulating, allocation based revenue targets on performance Payout Monthly or bi-weekly After performance for the financial year On Board of Directors approval of the depending on has been audited results for the final year of the Stock jurisdiction Appreciation Rights (SAR) plan Payout subject Forfeiture rules No Yes Yes to KPIs No Yes Yes Performance range for None 0% to 150% of fixed salary, Up to 140% of on target LTIP value if all Executive Directors, Executive 0% below 90% target threshold targets are exceeded by 20%, 0% below Committee members and senior 85% target threshold managers Settlement Cash Cash and deferred shares Shares on a net basis Malus and clawback clauses Not applicable Yes Yes Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 115 Governance COMPENSATION REPORT continued Compensation elements for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee Members The elements of the above table, together with their objectives, are as follows: Fixed salary ·· To compensate Executives for their expected day-to-day management, leadership and contribution to the business. Benefits ·· To provide a level of security in health and retirement and, should it be required, in disability and death. Variable Short Term Incentive ·· To make a significant portion of executive overall annual compensation variable and dependent on delivery of the Company’s annual key targets of license revenue, cash collection, non-IFRS EBIT and/or non-IFRS EPS growth. ·· The variable short term incentive is paid in cash. Variable Long Term Equity Incentive ·· To provide a balance of total compensation, via long term equity incentives, that is variable and linked directly to long term shareholder value creation. ·· To incentivize sustainable future performance in non-IFRS EPS growth and non-IFRS product revenue growth. Product revenue is defined as software licensing, including Software as a Service, and maintenance revenues. ·· To retain Executives for the long term. The Executive Chairman works in an executive capacity full time and is jointly responsible, together with the Executive Committee for the delivery of the business plan. His role is described in more detail on page 104 of the Corporate Governance Report. His compensation reflects his executive role and as such is made up of a fixed salary, benefits, variable compensation as a short term incentive and Stock Appreciation Rights as a variable long term incentive. 2017 Variable Short Term Incentive For 2017, the Variable Short Term Incentive became payable on 13 February 2018 after the year end results were approved by the Board of Directors and released to the market. The incentive for 2017 is due in cash on approval of the results for the financial year 2017 by the Board of Directors. Performance criteria Annual targets for Executives are set by the Board based on recommendations by the Compensation Committee. In 2017, the short term incentive plan was based on the following targets: ·· For Executive Chairman, CEO and CFO/COO: ·· Non-IFRS software licensing (40%) ·· Non-IFRS EPS (30%) ·· Operating cash flow (30%) ·· For CTO: ·· Non-IFRS software licensing (50%) ·· Non IFRS operating profit (20%) ·· Cash inflows (30%) On target performance is rewarded at 100% of fixed salary. The variable short term incentive for the CPO is exceptionally based on strategic product objectives as well as the success of a major client related project for which he has been acting as Program Director in addition to his duties as CPO for the Company. Annual incentive payouts for other senior managers are based on a mix of corporate and specific regional objectives. 116 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements The targets and respective achievements for Mr. Andreades, Mr. Arnott and Mr. Chuard are set out in the table below: Percentage Target Actual % of 2017 Target of Bonus USD USD Threshold Achievement % Paid Non-IFRS software licensing 40% 291m 316m 90% 109% 117% Non-IFRS EPS 30% 2.33 2.45 90% 105% 110% Net Operating Cash flow 30% 280m 300m 90% 107% 114% Note that in 2016, the above members of the Executive Committee had a cap at 100%. This was exceptional for 2016 only and in 2017 reverted to a cap of 150% as explained in the 2017 section of the 2016 Compensation Report. 2017 Long Term Equity Incentive The Company grants Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) to Executives and senior managers with performance and vesting criteria. We continue to favor the use of SARs over restricted stock as they necessitate a growth in the share price, which itself is dependent on strong Company performance, before they have any value to the receiving Executives. In this way we incentivize the management team to deliver strong revenue growth and profitability over the long term. The tables below provide an overview of the schemes in place together with their performance criteria and pricing. The level and value of awards is commensurate with an executive’s contribution to the business. SARs are valued on a fair value basis by an independent organization using the Enhanced American Model so as to comply with IFRS2. Overview of Executive SAR schemes Target Population Performance Criteria Pricing of Long Term Equity Awards Executive Chairman, Executive Committee Grant conditions linked to the achievement To ensure pricing integrity, long term equity members and senior managers of annual and three year cumulative non-IFRS awards are not issued at a discount to market EPS and/or non-IFRS product revenue targets, price; they are priced at the closing market vesting after more than three years. price on the day preceding the grant date. The Schemes currently in place are outlined in the table below: Weighted No of SARs awarded for average Executive Chairman and Exercise Price Fair Value Year of Grant Executive Committee USD USD Grant Date Vesting date 2017 974,600 70.87 16.03 15 February 2017 On Board of Directors approval of the results for the year ending 31 December 2019 2016 1,316,000 44.30 10.00 15 February 2016 and On Board of Directors approval 7 March 2016 of the results for the year ending 31 December 2018 2015 1,230,000 35.45 9.73 28 November 20141 On Board of Directors approval plus 120,351 for of the results for the year ending overachievement 31 December 2017 (1) Although the grant for 2015 was issued in November 2014 upon the approval of the strategic plan 2015-2017 by the Board of Directors, with service period starting 1 January 2015, the value was included in the 2015 Compensation Report as it constitutes compensation for 2015. No other grant was given in 2015. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 117 Governance COMPENSATION REPORT continued Vesting conditions Vesting of the SAR awards is subject to active employment until the end of the respective vesting period, and subject to achievement of performance targets described below. The targets for the SAR schemes for 2015, 2016 and 2017 are outlined below: KPI Weighting Non-IFRS EPS Targets 60% Non-IFRS Product Revenues 40% The targets for non-IFRS EPS are based on a CAGR of 15% for the three year period to the vesting of each grant. Targets for non-IFRS product revenues are considered commercially sensitive and it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them in advance. The performance against those measures will be disclosed on vesting subject to sensitivity no longer remaining. Vesting profile The vesting profile of SARs awarded in 2015, 2016 and 2017 is the greater of: i. The sum of the result of each of the individual years, where one third of the plan is based on achievement of annual results for each year of the three year plan. There is no overachievement element on the awards linked to annual targets and achievement is binary either 0 or 100%. ii. Cumulative target achievement being greater than 85% of the sum of the annual targets. On the cumulative target there is a potential overachievement as explained below. Over/under achievement of SAR schemes For achievement between 85% and 100% of target a pro-rated reduced amount will vest. For every 1% overachievement of the three years cumulative non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue target, an additional 2% of SARs may be granted up to a maximum of 140% of the total grant. Any over or underachievement is calculated based on the table below. Intermediate performance is pro-rated on a straight-line basis between the data points shown. Cumulative non-IFRS EPS or non-IFRS product revenues: Achieved as % of Cumulative target 85% 92.5% 100% 110% 120% Proportion vesting 0% 50% 100% 120% 140% Achievement Under the 2015 SAR scheme, which vested on 15 February 2018, the non-IFRS EPS performance targets and respective achievements were: Actual Growth on Year Target achievement prior year 2015 USD 1.73 USD 1.73 20% 2016 USD 2.07 USD 2.07 20% 2017 USD 2.28 USD 2.45 18% Cumulative USD 6.07 USD 6.25 19% CAGR The cumulative non-IFRS EPS achievement of USD 6.25 equates to an achievement against target of 103%, a payout of 106%. 118 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements The non-IFRS product revenue cumulative performance target and cumulative respective achievements were as follows: Actual Target achievement Year USD m USD m* Growth Cumulative 2015-2017 1,508 1,638 19% CAGR * Actual results are restated at constant currency compared to plan. Due to commercial sensitivity we do not provide achievement by year. The cumulative non-IFRS product revenue achievement of USD 1,638 million equates to an over achievement against target of 109%, a payout of 117%. With 60% of the weighting on non-IFRS EPS targets and 40% of the weighting on non-IFRS product revenues, this equates to a total payout of 110%. Contract Terms for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members The contractual notice periods of the Executive Chairman, being the sole executive member of the Board of Directors, and members of the Executive Committee do not exceed 12 months; there are no severance payment clauses. In case of a change of control of Temenos Group AG, all SARs granted will become immediately vested and exercisable provided that their respective vesting period has started. A case of change of control occurs when a third party acquires the control of more than 50% ownership in Temenos Group AG. In case of dismissal for cause, all unvested options and stock appreciation rights are forfeited. In case of termination, conditions vary by role and are described in each plan. Compensation elements for Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors were compensated in 2017 with a fee for their Board duties, together with a supplementary fee for Audit and Compensation Committees’ chairs. Summary of Key Compensation changes in 2017 In 2017, the changes were as follows: ·· As approved at the AGM in May 2016, the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee received a salary increase of 2.3% effective from 1 January 2017. ·· The Board fees paid to Non-Executive Directors increased from USD 100,000 to USD 105,000. The fees for the Chairman of the Audit Committee and for the Chairman of the Compensation Committee increased from USD 35,000 to USD 40,000. COMPENSATION FOR FINANCIAL YEAR UNDER REVIEW This section (pages 119 starting from ‘Compensation for the Financial Year Under Review’ to page 122) has been audited by Temenos’ auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers SA. As individuals are paid in currencies other than US dollars, the amounts in the tables below are converted into US dollars using the average exchange rate for 2017 and the average exchange rate for 2016 respectively. Comparison between these two years may be distorted through the exchange rate fluctuations. The LTIP value included in the tables below represents the full fair value of the on target achievement at the time of grant. The SARs value to the individual is only realized once (i) non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets are achieved (which triggers vesting), (ii) the time vesting criteria have been satisfied and (iii) when the stock price rises above the grant price. The valuation method, conditions and grant details are explained in the paragraph titled Compensation Components. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 119 Governance COMPENSATION REPORT continued Board of Directors The total compensation for the Board of Directors including social security charges totals USD 7.2 million compared to a total maximum compensation of USD 7.3 million approved by the shareholders at the AGM on 10 May 2017. Out of the total Executive Chairman’s 2017 compensation of USD 6.2 million, USD 3.1 million has been earned, and the remainder will only be earned if the non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the period 2018-2019 are achieved and the time vesting criteria have been satisfied. The amount earned includes the proportion of LTIPs at fair value for which targets have been achieved even though time vesting criteria have not yet been satisfied. The increase from 2016 to 2017 was approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2016. The increase was due to the following reasons: ·· To reflect the increased responsibility and complexity as a result of the steady growth in the Company since 2012, both organic and through acquisitions, when the current executive team was put in place. Revenues grew from USD 450 million to USD 700 million, number of employees grew from 4,000 to almost 5,000 and the increase in market capitalization from USD 1 billion to USD 9 billion which reflects the increased momentum, increased market share, position against the competition and more. ·· To ensure retention and motivation of the Executives. Executive Compensation had not increased significantly for the previous three years. ·· To reflect the increase in share price, which implies a lower number of SARs being granted for the same dollar value. Total compensation Employer including Name Variable Total social social Maximum Board Function Fiscal Fixed fee/ short term All other compensation LTIP Total security security shareholder USD year salary incentive compensation1 before LTIP value compensation charges2 charges approval A. Andreades3 2017 636,375 727,318 131,310 1,495,004 4,679,157 6,174,161 141,227 6,315,388 Executive Chairman 2016 619,136 619,136 131,972 1,370,244 3,710,250 5,080,494 194,457 5,274,951 S. Giacoletto-Roggio4 2017 145,000 – – 145,000 – 145,000 9,736 154,736 Vice Chairman 2016 135,000 – – 135,000 – 135,000 9,131 144,131 G. Koukis 2017 105,000 – 13,504 118,504 – 118,504 7,722 126,226 Member 2016 100,000 – 20,012 120,012 – 120,012 7,199 127,211 T. de Tersant5 2017 145,000 – – 145,000 – 145,000 12,629 157,629 Member 2016 135,000 – – 135,000 – 135,000 11,935 146,935 I. Cookson 2017 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 6,691 111,691 Member 2016 100,000 – – 100,000 – 100,000 6,426 106,426 E. Hansen 2017 114,186 – – 114,186 – 114,186 – 114,186 Member 2016 108,744 – – 108,744 – 108,744 – 108,744 A. Yip 2017 105,000 – – 105,000 – 105,000 6,691 111,691 Member 2016 100,000 – – 100,000 – 100,000 6,426 106,426 P. Spenser 2017 65,597 – – 65,597 – 65,597 – 65,597 Member 2016 – – – – – – – – Total Board 2017 1,421,158 727,318 144,814 2,293,290 4,679,157 6,972,447 184,695 7,157,143 7,300,000 of Directors 2016 1,297,880 619,136 151,984 2,069,000 3,710,250 5,779,250 235,574 6,014,824 6,300,000 (1) All other compensation includes life, medical, disability, accident insurances, pension and car allowance. (2) Social security charges comprise actual charges on base salary and other compensation, and estimated social security charges to be paid for bonus and LTIPs (based on the fair value) granted in the year of compensation. (3) Mr. Andreades’ total compensation includes fees of USD 105,000 for his Board duties, the remainder represents compensation for his executive duties. Mr. Andreades’ long term incentive plan compensation corresponds to the full fair value, as at grant, of the 2017 executive team SAR award. The variable short term incentive is 114% of the on-target amount, payable in February 2018. The LTIP for Mr. Andreades consists of 291,900 SARs which were granted on 15 February 2017 at a grant price of USD 70.87 and a fair value of USD 16.03. (4) Mr. Giacoletto-Roggio’s fees comprise a basic fee of USD 105,000 (USD 100,000 for 2016) annually plus USD 40,000 (USD 35,000 for 2016) annually for his duties as Chairman of the Compensation Committee. He does not receive additional fees for his duties as Vice-Chairman of the Company. (5) Mr. de Tersant’s fees comprise a basic fee of USD 105,000 (USD 100,000 for 2016) annually plus USD 40,000 (USD 35,000 for 2016) annually for his duties as Chairman of the Audit Committee. 120 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Executive Committee The total compensation for the Executive Committee including social security charges totals USD 17.7 million compared to a maximum compensation of USD 18.5 million approved by the shareholders at the AGM on 10 May 2017. The total of all compensation, in US dollars, earned in 2017 and 2016 by the members of the Executive Committee is shown below. From the total compensation of USD 16.0 million, USD 8.7 million has been earned and the remainder will only be earned if the non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the period 2018-2019 as set out in the report are achieved. The amount earned includes the proportion of LTIPs for which targets have been achieved even though the time vesting criteria have not yet been satisfied. The Executive Committee members included in 2016 and 2017 were Mr. Arnott, Mr. Chuard, Mr. Loustau and Mr. Winterburn. Mr. Davis stepped down from the Executive Committee on 9 March 2016 and as such, his compensation is only included for the first two months of 2016 in the table below. The table below includes the compensation of Mr. Arnott who is the highest paid member of the Executive Committee and of the Company. The reason for the increase from 2016 to 2017 is explained on page 120 under the Board of Directors compensation. Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Maximum Base short term All other compensation LTIP Total security security shareholder Fiscal year salary incentive1 compensation2 before LTIP value3 compensation charges4 charges approval 2017 1,895,994 3,006,253 202,835 5,105,082 10,943,681 16,048,763 1,634,513 17,683,277 18,500,000 2016 1,933,743 2,265,104 224,981 4,423,828 9,441,420 13,865,248 1,477,208 15,342,456 17,500,000 (1) The variable short term incentive is 114% of the on-target payable amount for CEO and CFO/COO. The variable short term incentive is payable in February 2018. (2) All other compensation includes life, medical, disability, accident insurances, pension and car allowance. (3) The LTIP for the Executive Committee consists of 682,700 SARs which were granted on 15 February 2017 at a grant price of USD 70.87 and a fair value of USD 16.03. (4) Social security charges comprise actual charges on base salary and other compensation, and estimated social security charges to be paid for bonus and LTIP’s (based on the fair value) granted in the year of compensation. Highest Paid Member of the Executive Committee Mr. Arnott, our CEO, was the highest paid member of the Executive Committee in 2017 with compensation, in US dollars, as shown below. 87% of his total compensation in 2017 was variable and is still conditional upon the 2018-2019 performance targets that are yet to be achieved. Out of the total 2017 compensation of USD 7.5 million, USD 3.7 million has been earned, and the remainder will only be earned if the non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the period 2018-2019 as set out in the report are achieved and the time vesting criteria have been satisfied. Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Base short term All other compensation LTIP Total security security Fiscal year salary incentive compensation before LTIP value compensation 1 charges charges 2017 817,896 932,402 55,113 1,805,411 5,674,620 7,480,031 647,513 8,127,544 2016 799,058 799,058 54,292 1,652,408 4,982,760 6,635,168 576,967 7,212,135 (1) The LTIP for the CEO consists of 354,000 SARs which were granted on 15 February 2017 at a grant price of USD 70.87 and a fair value of USD 16.03. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 121 Governance COMPENSATION REPORT continued Compensation in CHF Pursuant to Article 958d alinea 3 of the Swiss Code of Obligations compensation amounts may be quoted in the most significant currency of the business activity, in Temenos case it is USD, but must also be quoted in CHF. The amounts quoted below in CHF for the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee and highest paid Executive Committee member respectively are calculated taking the USD amount converted at the average exchange rate for the year. The exchange rate used in 2017 was 0.9847 (2016: 0.985). Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Function Fiscal Fixed fee/ short term All other compensation Long term Total security security CHF year salary incentive compensation before LTIP incentive compensation charges charges Board of Directors 2017 1,399,516 716,243 142,609 2,258,367 4,607,902 6,866,269 181,883 7,048,152 2016 1,278,834 610,051 149,753 2,038,638 3,655,803 5,694,441 232,117 5,926,558 Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Function Fiscal Base short term All other compensation Long term Total security security CHF year salary incentive compensation before LTIP incentive compensation charges charges Executive Committee 2017 1,867,121 2,960,474 199,746 5,027,341 10,777,028 15,804,369 1,609,623 17,413,991 2016 1,905,366 2,231,865 221,679 4,358,910 9,302,870 13,661,780 1,455,530 15,117,310 Total compensation Employer including Variable Total social social Function Fiscal Base short term All other compensation Long term Total security security CHF year salary incentive compensation before LTIP incentive compensation charges charges David Arnott 2017 805,441 918,203 54,274 1,777,918 5,588,205 7,366,123 637,653 8,003,776 Chief Executive Officer 2016 787,332 787,332 53,495 1,628,159 4,909,640 6,537,799 568,500 7,106,299 LOANS GRANTED TO MEMBERS OF GOVERNING BODIES As of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 the Company has no outstanding loans to members of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee other than a bridging loan of USD 0.1 million to CPO which is to compensate his adverse tax position from his combined residence in both UK and Switzerland, where he spends time at the request of Temenos. No loans were granted to persons related to the Board of Directors or Executive Committee. 122 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements SHAREHOLDINGS AND EQUITY INCENTIVES Non-Executive Directors 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Name Position Shares Shares S. Giacoletto-Roggio Vice-Chairman 11,000 11,000 I. Cookson Member 15,500 18,250 T. de Tersant Member 3,000 3,000 E. Hansen Member 11,000 11,000 G. Koukis Member – – A. Yip Member – – P. Spenser Member – N/A Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members As at 31 December 2017 SARs Exercise Number of Number of Grant price vested unvested Name Position Shares year1 Plan USD SARs SARs A. Andreades Executive Chairman 752,629 2014 2015 scheme2 35.45 380,949 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 325,000 49.12 46,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 291,900 D. Arnott CEO 57,500 2014 2015 scheme2 35.45 507,932 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 432,000 49.12 66,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 354,000 M. Chuard CFO/COO 65,000 2014 2015 scheme2 35.45 253,966 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 258,000 49.12 35,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 254,300 A. Loustau CTO 3,673 2014 2015 scheme2 35.45 49,689 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 45,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 29,400 M. Winterburn CPO 3,975 2014 2015 scheme2 35.45 82,815 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 65,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 45,000 (1) Two grants were issued in 2014: the 2014 grant in February 2014 and the 2015 grant in November 2014. (2) The SARs granted under the 2015 scheme vested on 13 February 2018. The numbers above include the overachievement at 110.42%. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 123 Governance COMPENSATION REPORT continued As of 31 December 2016 SARs Exercise Number of Number of Grant price vested unvested Name Position Shares year1 Plan USD SARs SARs A. Andreades Executive Chairman 1,057,134 2014 2014 scheme2 34.38 360,000 2015 scheme 35.45 345,000 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 325,000 49.12 46,000 D. Arnott CEO 409,933 2014 2014 scheme2 34.38 480,000 2015 scheme 35.45 460,000 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 432,000 49.12 66,000 M. Chuard CFO/COO 284,140 2014 2014 scheme2 34.38 240,000 2015 scheme 35.45 230,000 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 258,000 49.12 35,000 A. Loustau CTO 500 2012 2013 scheme 14.75 227,504 2014 2015 scheme 35.45 45,000 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 45,000 M. Winterburn Group Product Director 500 2012 2013 scheme 14.75 227,508 2014 2015 scheme 35.45 75,000 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 65,000 (1) Two grants were issued in 2014: the 2014 grant in February 2014 and the 2015 grant in November 2014. (2) The SARs granted under the 2014 scheme vested on 14 February 2017. No options and/or shares were held on 31 December 2017 and 2016 by persons related to the members of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee. 124 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements OPTIONS AND SARS OUTSTANDING The following table lists all options and SARs outstanding as at 31 December 2017. This includes the SARs outstanding for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members shown in the tables on page 123 and all other staff eligible for options and SARs. Total Exercise number of Number of Number of Number of price outstanding vested vested unvested Grant year Plan USD SARs/options SARs options SARs 2007 2007 13.44 3,531 3,531 2007 2007 15.56 2,371 2,371 2008 2008 22.02 13,008 13,008 2008 2009 10.36 11,754 11,754 2009 2009 6.75 15,144 15,144 2009 2009 6.75 2,098 2,098 2009 2009 13.91 590 590 2009 2010 22.43 14,529 14,529 2010 2010 24.43 24,695 24,695 2010 2010 26.26 359 359 2011 2011 15.20 35,268 35,268 2011 2011 31.39 3,000 3,000 2011 2012 15.33 2,657 2,657 2012 2012 16.91 7,278 7,278 2012 2012 15.60 1,912 1,912 2012 2012 17.72 391 391 2012 2012 13.15 4,995 4,995 2012 2013 14.20 99,355 99,355 2013 2013 18.10 15,210 15,210 2013 2013 20.28 144,464 144,464 2013 2013 22.40 3,000 3,000 2013 2013 23.17 2,535 2,535 2014 2014 35.33 26,000 26,000 2014 2015 35.45 1,742,471 1,742,471 2014 2015 35.15 265,118 265,118 2015 2015 32.83 97,500 97,500 2015 2015 35.34 66,250 66,250 2015 2015 34.49 5,521 5,521 2015 2015 35.29 436,500 436,500 2015 2015 36.85 5,521 5,521 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 125 Governance COMPENSATION REPORT continued Total Exercise number of Number of Number of Number of price outstanding vested vested unvested Grant year Plan USD SARs/options SARs options SARs 2015 2015 46.79 3,313 3,313 2015 2015 47.19 27,605 27,605 2016 2015 46.53 15,459 15,459 2016 2015 44.00 18,771 18,771 2016 2016 43.69 1,739,000 1,739,000 2016 2016 49.12 169,000 169,000 2016 2016 54.07 3,000 3,000 2016 2016 53.38 2,000 2,000 2016 2016 57.07 15,160 15,160 2016 2016 57.07 176,500 176,500 2016 2016 63.17 5,000 5,000 2016 2016 63.10 3,000 3,000 2016 2016 65.92 8,000 8,000 2017 2017 70.87 1,632,600 1,632,600 2017 2017 75.04 10,000 10,000 2017 2017 80.86 2,000 2,000 2017 2017 88.81 1,000 1,000 2017 2017 90.20 15,000 15,000 2017 2017 90.20 34,000 34,000 2017 2017 96.59 60,000 60,000 2017 2017 103.74 15,000 15,000 2017 2017 101.86 1,000 1,000 Total 7,009,433 431,144 3,000 6,575,289 The weighted average exercise price is USD 46.89. The SARs from the 2015 scheme vested on 13 February 2018. The numbers above include the overachievement of 110.42%. 126 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements DILUTION A stock appreciation right (SAR) is an incentive given to employees that aligns their interest with shareholders and is equal to the appreciation of company stock over an established time period. Similar to employee stock options, SARs are beneficial to the employee when company stock prices rise; the difference with SARs is that employees do not pay the exercise price but only receive the sum of the increase in stock or cash. This means that the dilution on outstanding SARs is only known at the time of exercise as it is dependent on the share price at that time. As an example, if 1,000 SARs at a grant price of USD 50 are exercised when the share price is USD 100, then the gain is USD 50,000, equivalent to a 500 share dilution. When issuing SARs the Compensation Committee reviews the planned dilution to ensure that it remains within our target of no more than 2% pa on a CAGR basis. The dilution for the period 2012-2017 on a CAGR basis was 1% pa. This compares to an EPS growth of 22% pa on a CAGR basis for the same period. The total cumulative dilution as of 31 December 2017 from all outstanding SARs and stock options was 6%. The historic dilution based on the closing price of each respective year was: 2013 6% 2014 6% 2015 9% 2016 6% 2017 6% Up to a limit of 10% is a level of dilution which is considered generally acceptable dilution for fast growing companies. THE YEAR AHEAD: COMPENSATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR 2018 At the Annual General Meeting in 2017, the shareholders approved total compensation including social charges for year 2018 for the Board of Directors of USD 7.4 million and for the Executive Committee of USD 18.5 million. Changes that affect 2018 fixed compensation The key changes that are being made to compensation in 2018 are summarized below: ·· Mr. Jean-Michel Hilsenkopf was appointed to the Executive Committee on 12 January 2018. His compensation will be included in the final 2018 numbers. As per the Articles of Association, if the maximum aggregate amount of compensation already approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders is not sufficient to also cover compensation of one or more members who become members of the Executive Committee during a compensation period for which the General Meeting of Shareholders has already approved the compensation, the Company is authorized to pay the member a supplementary amount during the compensation period already approved. The total supplementary amount per compensation period shall not exceed 40% of the aggregate amount of compensation of the Executive Committee last approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. ·· The compensation for Mr Hilsenkopf is approximately equivalent to the average of the compensation of the 2017 Executive Committee. ·· The fixed salary of the Executive Chairman and 2017 Executive Committee members will remain flat compared to 2017. ·· The Board fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and the fees for the Chairman of the Audit Committee and for the Chairman of the Compensation Committee will remain flat compared to 2017. ·· The variable Short Term Incentive will remain at a maximum of 150%. ·· The cost of the variable Long Term Incentive will be the same as that in 2017 for the Executive Chairman, CEO and CFO/COO, thus resulting in a reduced amount of SAR’s given the share price at the grant time. The cost of the CRO’s variable Long Term Incentive will be added. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 127 Governance COMPENSATION REPORT continued 2018 Variable Short Term Incentive For 2018, for the Executive Chairman and Executive Committee we shall maintain the variable Short Term Incentive plan that will pay out when annual targets are achieved. All members will be targeted on the same measures for 2018: ·· 40% Non-IFRS Software Licensing ·· 15% SaaS Annual Contract Value ·· 20% Non-IFRS EPS ·· 25% Non-IFRS Operating Cash SaaS has been a focus for the sales teams and regional directors at Temenos for the last few years. SaaS is an important growing sector in the market and we would like to ensure the teams are driven to sell SaaS deals in the same way as on premise license deals. In 2018 we decided to align also the Executives to this strategic initiative through their variable component. The targets are considered commercially sensitive and are not disclosed in advance. 2018 Long Term Incentive Plan Awards The LTIP award for 2018 was issued in February 2018. 40% of the award is comprised of non-IFRS EPS targets, 60% of the award is comprised of non-IFRS Product Revenue targets. The targets for non-IFRS EPS are based on a CAGR of 15% for the three year period. The targets for non-IFRS Product Revenues are considered commercially sensitive and it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose them before the start of the relevant performance period. The performance against those measures will be disclosed in the year of vesting subject to sensitivity no longer remaining. 2018 Compensation Plan For 2018, the split of aggregate compensation for the Executive Committee at the on-target level is shown below. The majority of compensation (87%) is at risk and dependent on achieving the annual total software licensing, operating cash flow and annual non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the 2018 to 2020 financial years. The only fixed compensation which is guaranteed is the fixed salary and benefits which, in aggregate amount to 13% of the on-target total compensation. 2018 EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Fixed fee/salary 12% Other compensation 1% Variable short term incentives 17% LTIP 70% The LTIP for 2018 is subject to delivery of the non-IFRS EPS and non-IFRS product revenue targets for the financial years 2018, 2019 and 2020 that are still at risk, hence not yet earned. 128 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS ON THE COMPENSATION REPORT Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Temenos Group AG, Geneva We have audited pages 119 starting from ‘Compensation for Financial Year Under Review’ to page 122 of the accompanying remuneration report of Temenos Group AG for the year ended 31 December 2017. Board of Directors’ responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and overall fair presentation of the remuneration report in accordance with Swiss law and the Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies (Ordinance). The Board of Directors is also responsible for designing the remuneration system and defining individual remuneration packages. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the accompanying remuneration report. We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the remuneration report complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence on the disclosures made in the remuneration report with regard to compensation, loans and credits in accordance with articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatements in the remuneration report, whether due to fraud or error. This audit also includes evaluating the reasonableness of the methods applied to value components of remuneration, as well as assessing the overall presentation of the remuneration report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the remuneration report of Temenos Group AG for the year ended 31 December 2017 complies with Swiss law and articles 14–16 of the Ordinance. PricewaterhouseCoopers SA Guillaume Nayet Yazen Jamjum Audit expert Auditor in charge Geneva, 16 February 2018 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 129 Financial statements 130 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial statements Report of the Statutory Auditors on the consolidated financial statements 132 Consolidated statement of profit or loss 137 Consolidated statements of other comprehensive income 138 Consolidated statement of financial position 139 Consolidated statement of cash flows 140 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 142 Report of the Statutory Auditors on the unconsolidated financial statements 189 Unconsolidated balance sheet 191 Unconsolidated income statement 192 Notes to the unconsolidated financial statements 193 Financial highlights 200 Information for investors 201 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 131 Financial statements REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR TO THE GENERAL MEETING ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of Temenos Group AG, Geneva REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of TEMENOS Group AG and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017 and the consolidated statement of profit or loss, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2017 and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and comply with Swiss law. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law, International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession, as well as the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: USD 7,200,000 The group audit team performed the audit of the consolidation and directly the audit of consolidated revenue, accounts receivables, accrued and deferred revenue, cash balances, and capitalized development costs. We concluded one full scope audit work over a reporting entity located in Switzerland and audits of selected financial statement line items were performed on a further 17 reporting units in 11 countries. Our audit scope addressed all of the Group’s revenue, approximately 98% of the Group’s total assets and approximately 76% of the Group’s total expenses. As key audit matters the following areas of focus have been identified: ·· Software licensing revenue recognition ·· Services revenue recognition ·· Recoverability of accounts receivables and accrued revenue balances Audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates. The group audit team audits directly selected financial statement line items (revenue, accounts receivables, accrued and deferred revenue balances, cash balances and capitalized development costs) in addition to auditing the consolidation which includes, amongst others, taxation, pension and share based compensation. Furthermore, we performed a full scope audit over one entity located in Switzerland and instructed audits of selected financial statement line items to be performed on a further 17 reporting units in 11 countries. We finally validated the compliance of the consolidated financial statements with IFRS and Swiss law. Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the consolidated financial statements. 132 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the consolidated financial statements as a whole. Overall Group materiality USD 7,200,000 How we determined it 1% of total revenue, rounded Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose total revenue as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the benchmark against which the performance of the Group and the industry is most commonly measured, and is a generally accepted benchmark. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above USD 360,000 identified during our audit as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Software licensing revenue recognition Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We focused on this area because of the significance of license revenue Firstly, we reviewed Temenos’ revenue recognition policy and ensured and the risks related to the numerous inherent complexities and critical it is in accordance with IFRS. We then tested all license revenue deals in judgments involved in the measurement, timing and presentation of excess of a certain threshold and a random sample of smaller deals. For revenues from multi-element contracts found in the software industry. each of the sample selected, we performed the following: In 2017, revenue from software licensing amounting to USD 249 million ·· Inspected the existence of a signed version of the customer was reported by the group. contract together with evidence of software delivery. Transactions with customers often have “bundled” components ·· Reviewed the contracts and assessed potential impact of any that typically include license, implementation and/or development unusual clause on revenue recognition. When deemed necessary, services and maintenance elements. The separation of these elements we discussed the details of certain contracts with the commercial requires management to use significant estimates in relation to the team who negotiated the deal to understand both the rationale determination of the fair value of each component. In addition, there of certain clauses and also the customer’s perspective. We also are critical judgments in assessing the probability of collection and engaged in a discussion with the legal department to obtain their determining whether existing uncertainties and contingencies preclude interpretation of certain contractual terms to assess their impact on license revenue from being recognized. revenue recognition. There is a risk that license revenue is overstated or recognized ·· Reviewed and challenged the fair value allocations between the prematurely due to either the inappropriate assessment of the risks various elements of the contract in accordance with Temenos’ and uncertainties involved and/or inappropriate allocation between revenue recognition policy. the various components. ·· Challenged management’s assessment of collectability. There is also a risk that judgments or estimates in relation to license revenue are not free from bias or that license revenue booked is We performed cut off procedures to ensure that revenue is recognized manipulated to achieve financial targets. in the correct reporting period by reference to the contract and evidence of delivery. Refer to note 2.17 (accounting policies) and note 4 (critical accounting estimates and judgments) of the consolidated financial statements. We also performed journal entry tests targeting license revenue deals with certain characteristics and obtained evidence that substantiates the revenue recognized. Finally, we conducted specific procedures to ensure the authenticity of customer contracts. Finally, we performed a look-back analysis on management’s past judgments and estimates by comparing previous estimates with actuals both quantitatively and qualitatively. We presented the results of our testing to the Audit Committee and highlighted deals involving significant judgments and estimates together with our view on those judgments and estimates made. Based on the work we performed the critical judgments and estimates made by management were deemed reasonable and justifiable and the accounting for license revenue appropriate. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 133 Financial statements REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR TO THE GENERAL MEETING ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Services revenue recognition Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter In 2017, services revenue is reported as USD 146 million. We focused We analyzed the quarterly and annual movements in the percentage on this area because this is a material amount and because of the of completion for a selected sample of significant fixed price projects. significant estimates involved in determining the percentage of For those projects where we identified a significant variance in completion of fixed price service implementation projects combined the percentage of completion or the total mandays estimated, we with the enhanced risk involved in medium to long term projects. investigated further to obtain evidence of the status of the project and the reasonableness of the manday estimates. We corroborated the Recognizing service revenue over time using the percentage of information obtained by reference to milestones achieved, invoices completion method requires management to estimate the total raised and cash received. When needed, we also inquired of the mandays of effort required at the start of the implementation period service project managers to understand the progress, difficulties and the estimates to complete at every reporting period. associated with the implementation, if any, and likely future scenarios. There is a risk that total mandays for a given fixed price project In addition, we obtained a look-back analysis prepared by are underestimated which leads to recognizing service revenue management for a sample of projects that compares actual total prematurely or the risk that reductions in revenue for the period mandays to the estimates made in prior periods. We challenged are unrecognized. management on the analysis performed and the explanations provided Refer to note 2.17 (accounting policies) and note 4 (critical accounting and ensured that new projections build on these experiences. All estimates and judgments) of the consolidated financial statements. significant deviations in relation to manday estimates were explained and supported. We selected a sample of fixed priced projects and tested the accuracy of the calculated percentage of completion and the resulting service revenue recognized. The outcome of our procedures and the look back analysis were presented to, and discussed with, the Audit Committee. Based on the work performed, the manday estimates made by management were deemed reasonable. Recoverability of accounts receivables and accrued revenue balances Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter As at 31 December 2017, accounts receivables and accrued revenue We reviewed management’s prepared analysis for all cases with balances amount to USD 241 million. potential exposure. This analysis includes background information of the customer, existing contractual relationships, balance outstanding, We focused on this risk as the balances are material and there are delays in collection, and operational issues together with a detailed many significant judgments involved in assessing recoverability of legal analysis. accounts receivables and accrued revenue balances in the software industry. This is especially the case as some of these balances could In addition, we challenged the recoverability of accounts receivable be significant or overdue. and accrued revenue selected balances (significant and randomly selected) with license and service departments, project managers There are many factors that need to be considered when concluding and with senior management when necessary. When deemed that a balance needs to be impaired including default or delinquency necessary, we also discussed certain potential exposures with the in payments, length of the outstanding balances and implementation internal legal counsel and agreed it to available confirmations from difficulties that could result in future concessions. In addition, some external lawyers. of the customers might also be undergoing restructuring, a change in strategy or management or facing liquidity issues that undermine their We confirmed selected material customer balances to verify their intent or ability to pay the amounts due. intention to settle the balance outstanding in the future. Given the complexity, the size and the length of certain We also reviewed the aging of accounts receivables and obtained implementation projects, there is risk that an impairment charge external market evidence confirming the lack of significant doubt is not recognized in a timely or sufficient manner. about the financial stability for selected customers. Refer to note 2.5 (accounting policies) and note 13 (trade and other We presented the results of our procedures to the Audit Committee. receivables) of the consolidated financial statements. The level of the provision made against accounts receivables and accrued balances was deemed appropriate and corresponds to the risks identified. 134 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Other information in the annual report The Board of Directors is responsible for the other information in the annual report. The other information comprises all information included in the annual report, but does not include the consolidated financial statements, the stand-alone financial statements and the remuneration report of Temenos Group AG and our auditor’s reports thereon. The other information in the annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor’s report. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information in the annual report and we do not and will not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information in the annual report when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the consolidated financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with IFRS and the provisions of Swiss law, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law, ISAs and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with Swiss law, ISAs and Swiss Auditing Standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: ·· Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. ·· Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. ·· Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made. ·· Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. ·· Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. ·· Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 135 Financial statements REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITOR TO THE GENERAL MEETING ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued We communicate with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the Board of Directors or its relevant committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of consolidated financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We recommend that the consolidated financial statements submitted to you be approved. PricewaterhouseCoopers SA Guillaume Nayet Yazen Jamjum Audit expert Auditor in charge Geneva, 16 February 2018 136 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS For the year ended 31 December 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 REVENUES Software licensing 248,541 205,081 SaaS & subscription 66,244 50,058 Total software licensing 314,785 255,139 Maintenance 274,794 250,371 Services 145,784 128,526 Total revenues (note 7) 735,363 634,036 OPERATING EXPENSES Cost of sales (206,903) (191,259) Sales and marketing (123,637) (100,374) General and administrative (79,194) (74,349) Other operating expenses (147,324) (118,831) Total operating expenses (note 8) (557,058) (484,813) OPERATING PROFIT 178,305 149,223 Finance income 1,859 7,239 Finance costs (19,216) (24,355) Finance costs – net (note 10) (17,357) (17,116) PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 160,948 132,107 Taxation (note 19) (22,542) (16,273) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 138,406 115,834 ATTRIBUTABLE TO: Equity holders of the Company 138,406 115,834 Non-controlling interest – – 138,406 115,834 Earnings per share (in USD) (note 11): basic 1.98 1.69 diluted 1.90 1.61 Notes on pages 142 to 188 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 137 Financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the year ended 31 December 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 138,406 115,834 Other comprehensive income: Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of post employment defined benefit obligations (note 21) 814 (1,925) 814 (1,925) Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Available-for-sale financial assets (note 24) (18) (45) Cash flow hedges (note 24) (3,351) (3,866) Currency translation differences (note 24) 41,196 (17,173) 37,827 (21,084) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR, NET OF TAX 38,641 (23,009) TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 177,047 92,825 ATTRIBUTABLE TO: Equity holders of the Company 177,047 92,825 Non-controlling interest – – 177,047 92,825 Notes on pages 142 to 188 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 138 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION As at 31 December 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents (note 12) 167,855 194,340 Trade and other receivables (note 13) 258,632 231,960 Other financial assets (note 14) 3,967 3,866 Total current assets 430,454 430,166 NON–CURRENT ASSETS Property, plant and equipment (note 15) 16,385 15,788 Intangible assets (note 16) 795,961 690,097 Trade and other receivables (note 13) 10,379 16,296 Other financial assets (note 14) 161 154 Deferred tax assets (note 19) 21,943 19,001 Total non-current assets 844,829 741,336 Total assets 1,275,283 1,171,502 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY CURRENT LIABILITIES Trade and other payables (note 17) 124,652 103,329 Other financial liabilities (note 14) 3,184 10,062 Deferred revenues 232,489 216,251 Income tax liabilities 41,042 28,992 Borrowings (note 18) 5,885 102,780 Provisions for other liabilities and charges (note 20) 3,085 936 Total current liabilities 410,337 462,350 NON–CURRENT LIABILITIES Trade and other payables (note 17) – 1,542 Other financial liabilities (note 14) 27,752 11,563 Income tax liabilities – 1,801 Borrowings (note 18) 434,299 269,182 Provisions for other liabilities and charges (note 20) 238 132 Deferred tax liabilities (note 19) 15,408 16,617 Retirement benefit obligations (note 21) 7,736 9,176 Total non-current liabilities 485,433 310,013 Total liabilities 895,770 772,363 CAPITAL AND RESERVES ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE COMPANY’S EQUITY HOLDERS Share capital 232,192 226,058 Treasury shares (197,750) (66,487) Share premium and other reserves (note 23) (186,287) (154,249) Other equity (note 24) (93,341) (131,168) Retained earnings 624,699 524,985 379,513 399,139 NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST – – Total equity 379,513 399,139 Total liabilities and equity 1,275,283 1,171,502 Notes on pages 142 to 188 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 139 Financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS For the year ended 31 December 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 160,948 132,107 Adjustments: Property, plant and equipment depreciation, intangible asset amortization and impairment of financial assets 96,083 85,589 Loss on retirements of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (note 15 and 16) 220 164 Cost of share options (note 25) 32,661 24,813 Foreign exchange loss on non-operating activities 3,323 3,613 Interest expenses, net (note 10) 11,053 12,845 Net loss/(gain) from financial instruments (note 10) 1,254 (6,988) Other finance costs (note 10) 3,811 4,016 Other non-cash items 1,196 (738) Changes in: Trade and other receivables (18,588) (7,882) Trade and other payables, provisions and retirement benefit obligations 5,645 2,821 Deferred revenues 2,100 7,267 Cash generated from operations 299,706 257,627 Income taxes paid (11,930) (10,356) Net cash generated from operating activities 287,776 247,271 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of property, plant and equipment (5,787) (6,142) Purchase of intangible assets (4,646) (4,518) Capitalized development costs (note 16) (50,468) (45,560) Acquisitions of subsidiary, net of cash acquired (note 6) (49,780) (1,581) Disposal of subsidiary or business, net of cash disposed – 489 Settlement of financial instruments (2,276) 5,845 Interest received 1,735 132 Net cash used in investing activities (111,222) (51,335) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Dividend paid (39,506) (31,733) Acquisition of treasury shares (189,624) (61,821) Repayments of borrowings (11,576) (79,366) Proceeds from issuance of bond 148,781 – Repayment of bond (105,401) – Interest payments (12,221) (12,600) Payment of other financing costs (2,603) (7,037) Net cash used in financing activities (212,150) (192,557) EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES 9,111 (2,291) NET (DECREASE)/INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS IN THE YEAR (26,485) 1,088 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR 194,340 193,252 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR 167,855 194,340 Notes on pages 142 to 188 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 140 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY For the year ended 31 December Share premium and Share Treasury other reserves Other equity Retained capital shares (note 23) (note 24) earnings Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2016 210,774 (19,686) (148,516) (110,084) 442,809 375,297 Profit for the year – – – – 115,834 115,834 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – (21,084) (1,925) (23,009) Total comprehensive income – – – (21,084) 113,909 92,825 Dividend paid – – – – (31,733) (31,733) Cost of share options (note 25) – – 24,813 – – 24,813 Exercise of share-based payment transactions 15,284 15,020 (30,304) – – – Acquisition of treasury shares – (61,821) – – – (61,821) Costs associated with equity transactions – – (242) – – (242) 15,284 (46,801) (5,733) (21,084) 82,176 23,842 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 226,058 (66,487) (154,249) (131,168) 524,985 399,139 Profit for the year – – – – 138,406 138,406 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax – – – 37,827 814 38,641 Total comprehensive income – – – 37,827 139,220 177,047 Dividend paid – – – – (39,506) (39,506) Cost of share options (note 25) – – 32,661 – – 32,661 Exercise of share-based payment transactions 6,134 58,361 (64,495) – – – Acquisition of treasury shares – (189,624) – – – (189,624) Costs associated with equity transactions – – (204) – – (204) 6,134 (131,263) (32,038) 37,827 99,714 (19,626) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 232,192 (197,750) (186,287) (93,341) 624,699 379,513 Notes on pages 142 to 188 are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 141 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 1. GENERAL INFORMATION Temenos Group AG (‘the Company’) was incorporated in Glarus, Switzerland on 7 June 2001 as a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft). Since 26 June 2001 the shares of Temenos Group AG have been publicly traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange. The registered office is located at 2 Rue de L’Ecole-de-Chimie, 1205 Geneva, Switzerland. The Company and its subsidiaries (the ‘Temenos Group’ or ‘the Group’) are engaged in the development, marketing and sale of integrated banking software systems. The Group is also involved in supporting the implementation of the systems at various client locations around the world as well as in offering help desk support services to existing users of Temenos software systems. The client base consists of mostly banking and other financial services institutions. These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 13 February 2018. 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. 2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for the following: ·· Available-for-sale financial assets and derivatives financial instruments – measured at fair value; ·· Contingent consideration assumed in a business combination – measured at fair value; and ·· Net defined benefit asset/liability – plan assets are measured at fair value. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4. Standards, amendments and interpretations relevant to the Group’s operation and adopted by the Group as at 1 January 2017 ·· IAS 7 (amendment) ‘Statement of Cash Flows’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. This amendment required disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flow and non-cash changes. The Group has applied the amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2017. ·· IAS 12 (amendment) ‘Income Taxes’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. This amendment clarifies how to account for deferred tax assets related to debt instruments measured at fair value. The amendment did not have any impact on the Group’s financial statements since the Group does not hold any debt instruments measured at fair value. The Group has applied the amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2017. The adoption of these amendments that became applicable for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2017 had no significant effect on the Group’s consolidated financial statements or on the Group’s accounting policies. Standards, amendments and interpretations relevant to the Group’s operation that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group The following standards and amendments have been published and are mandatory for the Group’s accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 or later periods, but the Group has not early adopted them. Unless otherwise indicated, these publications are not expected to have any significant impact on the Group’s financial statements: ·· IFRS 2 (standard) ‘Share-based Payment’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. This amendment provides additional guidance on the accounting for cash-settled share-based payments and adds an exception that provides equity-settled accounting where the settlement of share-based payment awards is split between equity instruments issued to the employee and a cash payment to the tax authorities. This amendment is not expected to have an impact on the Group’s financial statements since the Group’s share-base payment transactions are all qualified as equity settled share-based payments. The Group will apply this amendment for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2018. ·· IFRS 9 (standard) ‘Financial Instruments’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. This new standard replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and introduces revised guidance on the classification, recognition, derecognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as well as a new expected credit losses model for calculating impairment on financial assets. It also introduces new rules for hedge accounting. For classification and measurement of financial assets and liabilities as well as the impairment principles, the Group will apply this standard retrospectively with the use of the expedient so that prior periods need not to be restated and the effect of the initial application will be recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings of the annual period ending 31 December 2018. For hedge accounting, the Group will apply this standard prospectively. The application of the new standard will have a limited impact on the classification and measurement of the Group’s financial instruments and it is expected that the hedging relationships that would be existing at the date of initial application would be regarded as continuing hedging relationships. 142 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements The expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets is expected to have a minor impact on the Group’s opening equity position and on the Group’s results in the future as most of the impact on these balances would be accounted for as variable consideration under IFRS 15 since the Group’s exposure to credit risk is rather limited in light of its customers profile. ·· IFRS 15 (Standard) ‘Revenue from Contracts with a Customer’ effective for annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2018. The new standard replaces the current IAS 18 ‘Revenue’, IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’ and IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’. It establishes principles for recognizing, measuring and reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Under IFRS 15, revenue from contracts with customers is recognized based on a five-steps model and the transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation on the basis of the relative stand-alone selling prices. Revenue is no longer recognized upon the transfer of risks and rewards but when or as performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to a customer. The standard also provides guidance on the treatment of any costs to obtain and/or fulfill a contract that may be recognized as assets. The Group will adopt IFRS 15 with an effective date of 1 January 2018, using modified retrospective method and recognize the cumulative effect of the initial application of the standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings on the effective date. IFRS 15 revenue recognition policies has been finalized by the Group. The following differences have been noted between the current accounting standard and IFRS 15: ·· Subscription software contracts are currently recognized rateably over the life of the contract. Following adoption of IFRS 15, the Group will separate out the revenue due under licensing performance obligations and the revenue due under maintenance service obligations. The revenue due under licensing performance obligations will be recognized at the point control of the software is given to the client. The revenue due under maintenance service obligations will be recognized rateably over the life of the contract. This will lead to an acceleration of revenue recognized in connection with the licensed software performance obligations. ·· Non-generic development fees are currently recognized on a percentage of completion basis as noted in our current policies. IFRS 15 requires that licensing revenue be recognized upon delivery of the software, with any costs incurred to fulfill the contract to be deferred until such milestone is reached. This may result in some deferral of development revenue recognition and associated cost. ·· In certain circumstances IFRS 15 requires that the cost of acquiring a contract be capitalized. On certain contracts and commission plans this could lead to additional cost capitalization ·· Under current accounting practice, the Group would consider all amounts in a contract that are contractually fixed when making the initial revenue recognition assessment. IFRS 15 requires the assessment of potential variable consideration from the outset, which could include such items as right of refund, credits, price concessions, performance bonuses and penalties. This may result in some deferral of revenue recognition. ·· Further to the points above, the Group has identified a small number of contracts with customers that contain options which under IFRS 15 would be seen as a material right that at the closing balance sheet date of 31 December 2017 have not been exercised or lapsed. This may result in some deferral of revenue recognition. Whilst the above items will result in changes to the classification and timings of the revenues, the Group does not expect a material impact at the net earnings level. The Group estimates an reduction on net earnings after tax of less than USD 5 million as an adjustment to opening balance of retained earnings. ·· IFRS 16 (standard) ‘Leases’, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 with early adoption permitted. This new standard supersedes IAS 17 ‘Leases’, IFRIC 4 ‘Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease’, SIC-15 ‘Operating Leases-Incentives’ and SIC-27 ‘Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. The Group will adopt standard per its effective date of 1 January 2019, using modified retrospective approach. The Group has identified all the leases that are currently in use and majority of these leases are for office rentals. The application of new standard will result in an increase in non-current assets and borrowings on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, however the impact on net assets will not be material. On the Consolidated statement of profit or loss the Group does not anticipate a significant impact on net earnings however, there will be a reallocation of its current operating lease expense between operating profit and financing expenses. ·· IFRIC 22 ‘Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration’ (new interpretation), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. This Interpretation clarifies how to determine the date of the transaction for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of the related asset, expense or income (or part of it) on the derecognition of a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration in a foreign currency. This interpretation is not expected to have an impact on the Group’s financial statements since the Group already measures the derecognition of its related non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability in accordance with rules of this new interpretation. The Group will apply this interpretation for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2018. ·· IFRIC 23 – ‘ Uncertainty over Income tax Treatments’ (new interpretation), effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The interpretation addresses the accounting for income taxes when tax treatments involve uncertainty that affects the application of IAS 12. The interpretation does not apply to taxes or levies outside the scope of IAS 12, nor does it specifically include requirements relating to interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax treatments. The Group does not expect this interpretation to have an significant impact on the Group financial statements. The Group will apply this interpretation for the financial reporting period commencing on 1 January 2019. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 143 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.2 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Temenos Group AG (‘the Company’) as well as its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities (including structured entities) over which the Group has control. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date when control ceases. The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interest issued by the Group. The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the Group recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net assets. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. If the consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognized in profit or loss. Any contingent consideration is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration is recognized in profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without loss of control Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. Disposal of subsidiaries When the Group ceases to have control, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, with the change in carrying amount recognized in profit or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. 2.3 Foreign currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the ‘functional currency’). The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars, which is the Group’s presentation currency and the currency in which the majority of the Group’s transactions are denominated. The Company’s functional currency is Swiss francs. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at the reporting date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in profit or loss, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. The financial statements of the Group’s subsidiaries (none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) with a different functional currency than the presentation currency are translated as follows: ·· Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the date of the reporting period; ·· Income and expenses for each statement presenting profit or loss and other comprehensive income are translated on a monthly basis at the average exchange rates of the month (unless the average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions); ·· Equity items are translated at the historical rates; and ·· All resulting exchange differences are recognized in other comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognized in profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on sale. 144 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Gains or losses resulting from long term intragroup balances for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future are treated as a net investment in foreign operations (i.e. quasi-equity loans). The gains or losses recognized in the separate financial statements of the subsidiary are reclassified as cumulative translation adjustment to other comprehensive income in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquired entity. They are recognized in the functional currency of the acquired entity and translated to the presentation currency using the closing rate. 2.4 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash on hand, bank balances, short term bank deposits and short term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to negligible risks of change in value. For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, the Group reports repayments and proceeds from borrowings on a net basis when it relates to short term roll-forward of the revolving credit facility with the same banks (note 18). 2.5 Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. An impairment loss is recognized when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivable. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganization, change of strategy and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable could be impaired. Given the complexity, the size and the length of certain implementation of service-related projects, a delay in the settlement of an open trade receivable does not constitute an objective evidence that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the impairment charge is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is either reduced through the use of an allowance account or directly written off when there is no expectation of future recovery. The impairment loss is recognized in profit or loss within ‘Sales and marketing’. Subsequent recoveries are credited in the same account previously used to recognize the impairment charge. Accrued income represents fees earned but not yet invoiced at the reporting date. Non-current trade and other receivables represent balances expected to be recovered after 12 months. 2.6 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the item. Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost over their estimated useful lives, as follows (in years): Buildings 50 Furniture and fixtures 10 Office equipment 5 IT equipment* 4 Vehicles 4 * Computer software separately acquired is depreciated over the shorter of the license term and four years. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the remaining lease term and useful life (ten years). The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if necessary at each reporting date. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Repairs and maintenance are charged to profit or loss as incurred. Gains or losses on disposals are determined by comparing the consideration received or receivable with the carrying amount and are recognized within ‘General and administrative’ in profit or loss unless otherwise specified. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 145 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.7 Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. The carrying amount is allocated to the cash-generating unit (CGU) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination. CGU to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The carrying value of the CGU is then compared to the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. Any impairment attributed to the goodwill is recognized immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed. Computer software Software licenses separately acquired are capitalized when the Group can demonstrate that: ·· It controls the asset; ·· It is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group; and ·· The cost of the asset can be reliably measured. The cost of the asset comprises its purchase price (including non-refundable purchase taxes) and any directly attributable cost of preparing the asset for its intended use. The cost of the asset is amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life. Software technologies acquired through business combinations are initially measured at fair value and then amortized using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives. Customer related intangible asset Customer related intangible assets are assets acquired through business combinations. They are initially measured at fair value and then amortized using the straight line method over their estimated useful lives. The assessment of useful life is set out at the time of acquisition, specific for each acquisition. Currently reported customer related intangible asset have useful life between 6 and 13 years. Internally generated software development The Group follows a strategy of investing a substantial part of its revenues in research and development work which is directed towards the enhancement of its product platforms. The costs associated with the development of new or substantially improved products or modules are capitalized when the following criteria are met: ·· Technical feasibility to complete the development; ·· Management intent and ability to complete the product and use or sell it; ·· The likelihood of success is probable; ·· Availability of technical and financial resources to complete the development phase; ·· Costs can be reliably measured; and ·· Probable future economic benefits can be demonstrated. Directly attributable development costs that are capitalized include the employee costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads. Directly attributable development costs previously recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a subsequent period. Development expenditures that are not directly attributable are recognized as an expense when incurred. Internally generated software development costs are amortized using the straight-line method after the product is available for distribution. Development costs related to architecture developments are amortized over a five-year period and development costs related to functional developments are amortized over a three-year period. 2.8 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortization and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. 146 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2.9 Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognized in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in the countries where the Group’s subsidiaries and associates operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group’s financial statements. However, the deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized. Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. The Group incurs withholding tax in various jurisdictions. An assessment is made to assess the ability to recover these withholding taxes against the normal tax liabilities occurring within the Group, and a provision is made to the extent that withholding tax is not recoverable. 2.10 Provisions Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognized as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. When the effect of the time value is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is recognized as an interest expense within ‘Finance costs’. A provision for restructuring is recognized when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been announced to those affected by it. A provision for onerous lease is recognized when the expected benefits to be derived from a lease are lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract. 2.11 Borrowings Borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortized cost. Effective interest costs are recognized within ‘Finance costs’ in profit or loss. Fees directly attributable to the conclusion of ‘bank facilities’ are recognized as a prepayment for liquidity services that is subsequently amortized within ‘Finance costs’ over the life of the facilities. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 147 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.12 Leases Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalized at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased equipment or the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included as liabilities in the statement of financial position. The interest elements of the lease obligations are charged to profit or loss over the period of the lease so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset (note 2.6) and the remaining lease term. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight line basis over the lease term. 2.13 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or other instruments are reported within share premium (note 23), net of tax, from the proceeds. Where any subsidiary of the Group purchases the Company’s shares (treasury shares), the consideration paid (including any directly attributable incremental costs) is presented as a deduction from equity. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received (net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects) is recognized as an increase in equity and the resulting gains or losses are presented within share premium (note 23). 2.14 Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized costs using the effective interest method. The related interest expense is recognized in profit or loss within ‘Finance costs’. 2.15 Employee share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments of the Group. The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the instruments is recognized as an expense. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the instrument granted: ·· Including any market performance conditions; ·· Excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions (for example, profitability, sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the entity over a specified time period). Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of instruments that are expected to vest. The total expense is recognized over the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied. At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of instruments that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions. It recognizes the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. When the instruments are exercised, the Group issues new shares or re-issues treasury shares. The consideration received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital (nominal value) and share premium and capital reserves. 2.16 Employee benefits Pension obligations The Group operates various pension schemes including both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to the employee’s service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan. Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. The liability recognized in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligations are calculated annually by actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability. For currencies where there is no deep market in such high quality corporate bonds, the market yields on government bonds that are consistent with the currency and the estimated terms of the post-employment benefit obligations shall be used. 148 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements When a surplus in a plan exists, the Group measures the net benefit asset at the lower of the surplus and the present value of the future economic benefits available to the Group in the form of a reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Past-service costs are recognized immediately in profit or loss. For defined contribution plans, the relevant contributions are recognized as personnel costs when they are due. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further payment obligations. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. Other post-employment obligations Some subsidiaries provide other post-retirement benefits to their retirees (e.g. gratuities). The entitlement of those benefits is usually conditional on the employee completing a specific length of service. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using actuarial assumptions. Actuarial gains or losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Termination benefits Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits. The Group recognizes termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates: (a) when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and (b) when the entity recognizes costs for a restructuring that is within IAS 37 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’ and involves the payment of termination benefits. In the case of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy, the termination benefits are measured based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to their present value. 2.17 Revenue recognition The Group derives revenues from the following sources: (1) software licenses, software development services and hosting arrangements; (2) software maintenance (help desk services and rights to future product enhancements); and (3) software implementation and support services. The Group recognizes revenues in accordance with IAS 18 ‘Revenue’. This requires the exercise of judgment and the use of estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of revenue to be recognized in each accounting period. In exercising such judgment, the Group draws upon guidance from specific software industry revenue recognition practices which comply with IAS 18 ‘Revenue’. Revenues are recognized net of any tax collected on behalf of local tax authorities. Software license Software license revenues represent all fees earned from granting customers licenses to use the Group’s software, either through an initial license or through the purchase of additional modules or user rights, but excludes any amounts that are related to maintenance. For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, revenue is recognized when the following criteria are met: ·· Evidence of an arrangement exists; ·· Delivery has occurred; ·· The risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer; ·· The amount of revenue can be reliably measured and is not subject to future adjustments (i.e. fixed and determinable); ·· The associated costs can be reliably measured; and ·· Collection is probable. Unless collection is deemed virtually certain, license revenue due after 12 months is deferred until 1) the collection becomes due within 12 months, 2) there were no delinquency in prior payments, and 3) the remaining balance is free from any uncertainties and future adjustments. Sale of software license to a customer which is not the end-user (i.e. reseller arrangement) is recognized when evidence of sell-through exists or when the Group has received non-refundable consideration. Sale of software license that are on a subscription basis combined with the maintenance services, so that effectively a service over time is provided, are accounted for under ‘Software-as-a-Service’. This is regardless of whether the software is taken on premise or hosted in the cloud. Software development services revenue represents fees charged to clients for developing requested additional functionality. Generic developments relating to country-specific requirements or functionalities that are re-usable in future sales but not yet readily available at the time of the sale are deferred and recognized upon delivery. Non-generic development fees are recognized on a percentage-of-completion basis over the period when the service is performed. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 149 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.17 Revenue recognition continued SaaS & subscription Revenue from ‘Software-as-a Service’ relates to hosting arrangements that provide the customer with the right to use Temenos’ products over a certain period time. Fees for the ongoing hosting service are recognized either on a usage basis (if this can be reliably measured) or over the contractual term of the arrangement. Non-refundable one-time upfront fees consisting of standardization set-up, initiation or activation services are recognized over the term of the arrangement unless related costs can be reliably measured and revenue can be separately determined based on market pricing for the same obligation. Other professional services such as consulting or training constitute separate obligation and are recognized when revenue recognition criteria for services, as described below, are met. The revenue from subscription arrangements where a client will pay periodic fees to keep the license active is recorded under ‘SaaS & subscription’. Hosting arrangements and subscription arrangements entitles the client to corrective maintenance and product updates without additional charge. The updates include improvements to the existing software product that is licensed but does not include new products. Maintenance Software maintenance is included in most software license arrangements and is generally priced as a percentage of the initial software license fees. Maintenance provides customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance enhancements and access to the help desk during the term of the support period and is recognized rateably on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement. Services Software implementation and support services represents income from consulting, training and implementation services sold separately under services contracts. Fixed-price arrangements are accounted for on a percentage-of-completion basis in accordance with the rules applicable to long term contract revenue recognition as defined in IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’, whereby revenue recognized during the period represents the man-days effort incurred up to the end of the reporting period as a percentage of the total estimated man-days to complete. These estimates are continually re-evaluated and revised, when necessary, throughout the life of the contract. Any adjustments to revenue due to changes in estimates are accounted for in the period in which the change in estimates occurs. Fees relating to time and material contracts are recognized when man-days efforts are provided and collection is deemed probable. Multiple element arrangements In many cases, the Group enters into transactions with customers that include multiple elements such as software license, maintenance, development services and services revenues. The revenues from these arrangements are generally accounted for separately. The factors considered in determining whether the revenue should be accounted for separately include the nature of the services (i.e. whether they are essential to the functionality of the software license), the existence of the fair value for the separable elements (i.e. availability of services from other vendors), the timing of payments and the acceptance criteria on the realizability of the software license fee. Revenue from multiple-element arrangements is allocated to the different elements based on their fair value. Fair value for professional service and software development service is determined by market pricing for equivalent performance obligation sold separately or the ‘cost-approach plus reasonable margin’ methodology when market data does not exist. When revenue is objectively determined for all undelivered elements with the exception of one delivered element, the residual method is used to allocate revenue to the delivered element. Revenue for delivered elements is recognized when the revenue recognition criteria described above are met and revenue is free from any future uncertainties or adjustments attributable to the undelivered elements from which a portion of the fees have been allocated. Revenue for any undelivered elements is deferred and recognized when the product is delivered or over the period in which the service is performed. When the hosting arrangement is combined with a license sale of the software, the license revenue is recognized according to the revenue criteria above when, and only when, the customer can take possession of the product without significant penalties. Otherwise, license revenue is recognized on the same terms of the related hosting arrangement. Fees collected in advance are reported within ‘deferred revenues’ and then subsequently recognized as revenue when the performance obligation starts. Fees that have been earned but not yet invoiced are reported under ‘trade and other receivables’. 2.18 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share are determined by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company, adjusted for the effect that would result from the conversion of dilutive ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares plus the weighted average of number of ordinary shares that would be issued on the conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares. 2.19 Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM). The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the Group’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO). 150 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2.20 Financial assets Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables or as available-for-sale financial assets. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management determines the classification at initial recognition. Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the trade-date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. All financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not subsequently reported at fair value through profit or loss, transactions costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Subsequent measurement Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial asset held for trading. A financial assets is classified in this category if it is: ·· Acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the near-term; ·· A derivative not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. They are subsequently measured at fair value and the resulting gains or losses are presented in profit or loss within ‘Finance costs-net’. FVTPL financial assets are classified as current assets. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the reporting date. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents (notes 2.4 and 2.5). Loans and receivables are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, except for the current portion where the recognition of interest would be immaterial. The effective interest income is recognized in profit or loss within ‘Finance costs – net’. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a financial asset or financial liability and allocating the interest income or expense over the relevant periods. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows (including all fees on points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial asset or financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period. Available-for-sale financial assets (AFS) Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories. They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months after the reporting date. Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognized at fair value and transaction costs are expensed in profit or loss. They are subsequently measured at fair value and the resulting gains or losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those measured at fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset has been impacted. Objective evidence could include, amongst others: ·· Significant financial difficulty of the counterparty; ·· Financial reorganization or change in strategy; ·· Default or delinquency in payments; ·· It becomes probable that the counterparty will enter bankruptcy. For financial assets carried at amortized cost, the amount of the impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the financial asset is directly reduced by the impairment loss for all financial assets carried at amortized costs with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount may be reduced through the use of an allowance account (note 2.5). Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 151 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 2.21 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss or financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. All financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and, in the case of financial liabilities measured at amortized costs, net of directly attributable costs. Subsequent measurement Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are financial liabilities held for trading and contingent consideration incurred in a business combination. A financial liability is classified as held for trading if it is: ·· Acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the near-term; or ·· A derivative not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. They are subsequently measured at fair value and the resulting gains or losses are presented in profit or loss within ‘Finance costs – net’. FVTPL financial liabilities are classified as current liabilities. Financial liabilities measured at amortized costs Financial liabilities measured at amortized costs are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. The resulting discounted interest charge is recognized in profit or loss within ‘Finance costs’. The Group derecognizes financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, canceled or expired. 2.22 Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting date. The method of recognizing the gains and losses depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the hedged item. The Group designates derivatives as either: (a) Held for trading; or (b) Used for hedging. Derivatives held for trading While providing effective economic hedges under the Group’s risk management policies, these derivatives are not designated as hedging instruments according to IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. They are classified as held for trading and the changes in the fair value are immediately recognized within ‘Finance costs – net’. Related cash-flows are reported as cash flows from investing activities. Derivatives held for trading are classified as a current asset or liability. Cash flow hedge When hedge accounting is designated, the Group documents at the inception of the hedge the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy. This process includes linking all derivatives designated as hedges to specific assets or liabilities or to specific forecast transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at the hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualified as cash flow hedges is deferred in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in profit or loss. Amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss. However, when the hedged transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability (e.g. fixed assets, deferred revenue), the gains and losses previously deferred in other comprehensive income are included in the initial cost of the asset or the carry amount of the liability. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss deferred in other comprehensive income remains in equity and is recycled to profit or loss when the hedge item is ultimately recognized in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in other comprehensive income is recognized immediately in profit or loss. 152 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements The fair values of derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 14. Movements on the hedging reserve in shareholders’ equity are shown in note 24. Derivatives used for cash-flow hedge are classified as non-current assets or liabilities when they are expected to be settled more than 12 months after the reporting period. The Group does not currently hold derivatives used for fair value hedge. 2.23 Fair value measurement The Group measures certain financial instruments at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: ·· In the principal market for the asset or liability, or ·· In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal market or the most advantageous market must be accessible to or by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximizing the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the Group’s consolidated financial statements are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, as follows: ·· Level 1 inputs: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; ·· Level 2 inputs: Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; ·· Level 3 inputs: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. The Group’s policy is to recognize transfers into and out of fair value hierarchy levels at the end of the reporting period when the event or change in circumstances occurred. For items categorized within level 3, the Group’s finance team reviews and assesses on a regular basis but, in all cases, at each interim period the inputs and reports to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) any changes that may have a significant effect on the reported fair value. The Group has elected to use the exception provided by paragraph 48 of IFRS 13 ‘ Fair Value Measurement’, to measure the credit risk element attributable to the Group’s own credit risk (net short position) or the counterparty’s credit risk (net long position) on a net basis for the financial assets and financial liabilities governed by a master netting agreement. 2.24 Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when, and only when, the Group: ·· Currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off the financial assets and financial liabilities; and ·· Intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the financial assets and settle the financial liabilities simultaneously. A enforceable right to offset financial assets and financial liabilities must not be contingent on future event and must be currently legally enforceable in the normal course of business, in the event of default and in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy. 2.25 Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognized as a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 153 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 3. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 3.1 Accounting classifications The Group holds the following financial instruments to which the accounting policies according to IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’ applies: 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 FINANCIAL ASSETS Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Held for trading 2,464 1,859 Derivatives instruments used for hedging 1,664 2,097 Available-for-sale financial assets – 64 Loans and receivables (including cash and cash equivalents) 418,877 426,484 Total 423,005 430,504 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Held for trading 1,298 943 Contingent consideration – 1,542 Derivatives instruments used for hedging 29,638 20,682 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost 561,713 469,670 Total 592,649 492,837 3.2 Financial risk factors The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department under policies approved by the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). The CFO and his team identify, evaluate and mitigate financial risks when deemed necessary. Market risk (i) Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currencies, primarily with respect to those described below. Foreign exchange risk arises from: ·· Forecasted revenues and costs denominated in a currency other than the entity’s functional currency; ·· Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the entity’s functional currency; and ·· Net investments in foreign operations. The Group makes efforts to mitigate its foreign exchange risk by aligning the revenue streams to currencies that match the cost base. The Group’s policy is to protect its profit or loss from the variability in cash flows that is attributable to the movement in foreign exchange rates associated with its future transactions occurring within the next 18 months as well as with its monetary assets and liabilities. The Group uses forward contracts and cross currency swaps as hedging instruments. Forecasted transactions, which are designated in a cash flow hedge relationship, comprises of future revenue streams as well as future recurring operating costs such as personnel costs and office related costs. They are expected to occur each month during the hedging period. With the exception of future maintenance streams for which gains or losses affect profit or loss over the subsequent periods after the cash flows occur (straight line basis over the maintenance period), gains or losses are recognized during the same period when the related cash flows occur. The Group applies the cash flow hedge relationship for its future forecasted transactions and for certain borrowings. There was no ineffectiveness recognized during the period (2016: USD nil). Unless already designated in a cash flow hedge relationship, the Group does not apply the hedge accounting for the exposure arising from its monetary assets and liabilities since gains or losses arising from both the position being hedged and the related forward contracts are recognized within the same period and within the same line in profit or loss. The Group does not follow a defined strategy to hedge the risk from the net investments in foreign operations. 154 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements The table below illustrates the Group’s principal foreign currency exposures: Net exposure 2017 2016 FCY* 000 FCY* 000 EURO 284 (427) UK Pounds 3,716 2,023 Swiss Francs (390) 1,361 India rupee (116,866) 1,976 * Foreign currency. A negative value represents a liability exposure. These exposures represent monetary assets and liabilities that are either: ·· Denominated in one of the currencies above and measured in an entity with a different functional currency; or ·· Denominated in another currency but measured in an entity whose functional currency is one of the above. These amounts also include the derivatives classified as held for trading but exclude the derivatives and the underlined liabilities that are qualified for cash flow hedge accounting. Sensitivity analysis The following table represents the effect of a reasonable shift in the currencies above against the US dollars. 2017 EURO UK Pounds Swiss Francs India rupee USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Sensitivity assumption +10% +10% +10% +10% Profit or (loss) 34 501 (40) (183) Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to future forecasted revenues or costs (4,001) 1,471 1,352 1,793 Cash flow hedging related to recognized liabilities 1,278 – 1,551 – (2,723) 1,471 2,903 1,793 Equity (2,689) 1,972 2,863 1,610 Sensitivity assumption -10% -10% -10% -10% Profit or (loss) (34) (501) 40 183 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to future forecasted revenues or costs 4,001 (1,471) (1,352) (1,793) Cash flow hedging related to recognized liabilities (1,278) – (1,551) – 2,723 (1,471) (2,903) (1,793) Equity 2,689 (1,972) (2,863) (1,610) Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 155 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 3. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 3.2 Financial risk factors continued 2016 EURO UK Pounds Swiss Francs India rupee USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Sensitivity assumption +10% +10% +10% +10% Profit or (loss) (43) 250 133 3 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to future forecasted revenues or costs (2,223) 1,365 1,116 1,987 Cash flow hedging related to recognized liabilities (1,017) – 2,289 – (3,240) 1,365 3,405 1,987 Equity (3,283) 1,615 3,538 1,990 Sensitivity assumption -10% -10% -10% -10% Profit or (loss): 43 (250) (133) (3) Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedging related to future forecasted revenues or costs 2,223 (1,365) (1,116) (1,987) Cash flow hedging related to recognized liabilities 1,017 – (2,289) – 3,240 (1,365) (3,405) (1,987) Equity 3,283 (1,615) (3,538) (1,990) Given the implied volatility for the above currencies, the sensitivity assumption represents management’s assessment of reasonably possible changes in spot rates. (ii) Price risk The Group is not exposed to price risk arising from equity securities as it does not hold any longer equity securities (note 14). (iii) Cash flow and fair value interest risk The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risks arising from cash and cash equivalents and borrowings at variable rates. The Group is not exposed to any profit or loss impact from its fixed rate borrowings since they are measured at amortized cost. The primary objective of the Group’s policy is to effectively manage its interest expenses for the current and future periods by minimizing the effect of the cash flow variability due to the change of interest rates. When the risk is deemed to be substantial, the Group may enter into derivatives to hedge it. The Group analyses its exposure on a dynamic basis taking into consideration all the current terms of the financial assets and liabilities at variable rates, the current market forecasts and management’s assessment of reasonable possible change in the interest rates. Given that the reported borrowings are all at fixed rates and measured at amortized costs, the Group is not exposed to any profit or loss risk at the reporting periods. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Group’s trade receivables. The carrying amount of the financial assets, as reported in the section 3.1 above, represents the maximum credit exposure. The Group’s policy is to determine the creditworthiness of any new prospective or existing customer at the initial phase of the negotiation. Assessment of credit risk is mainly based on assessing the creditworthiness of customers through external ratings, sanction checks, and in the case of existing customers, our past experience. Every credit check performed on prospective or existing customers at the initial phase of the negotiation goes through an approval process. The approved customer credit check is considered during the revenue recognition process once contracts signed. 156 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Payment terms and requirement of financial security are adapted according to the degree of the credit quality and the past experience. The Group’s policy also requires to continuously assess the credit risk for customers with significant balances. At present, the Group does not hold any collateral security. In cases when delinquency in payments occurs, the Group may withhold services delivery under current implementation or limit the right to use its software. The Group mitigates the credit risk related to cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments by conducting all the substantial transactions and by holding balances with major reputable financial institutions. Credit risk related to derivative financial instruments is minimized through legally enforceable master netting agreements such as ISDAs or equivalent. As at 31 December 2017 and 2016, there is no geographical concentration of credit risk as the Group’s customer base is internationally dispersed and no individual customer represents more than 10% of the Group’s outstanding ‘trade and other receivables’ balances. The Group’s management believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of trade and other receivables not past due other than those already provided for. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk through short and long term forecasts and by seeking to align the maturity profiles of its financial assets with its financial liabilities. The Group’s policy is to maintain the level of liquidity that meets the liabilities expected to be settled in the short or near term. Excess of liquidity is primarily used to repay any drawn borrowing facilities (note 18) and then invested in instruments, which meets the definition of cash equivalent, with maturities of three months or less. The following table details the remaining contractual maturity of the Groups’ non-derivative financial liabilities. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. Between Between Between Less than 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2017 Trade and other payables 110,102 11,138 – – – Property provision 51 – 238 – – Borrowings 2,089 6,335 110,916 198,208 159,058 Total non-derivatives financial liabilities 112,242 17,473 111,154 198,208 159,058 Between Between Between Less than 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2016 Trade and other payables 88,125 9,341 1,667 – – Property provision 111 – 132 – – Borrowings 5,443 100,823 5,451 285,589 – Total non-derivatives financial liabilities 93,679 110,164 7,250 285,589 – Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 157 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 3. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 3.2 Financial risk factors continued The following table details the Group’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial liabilities. These amounts represent the contractual undiscounted net cash inflows and outflows on derivative instruments that settle on a net basis, and the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement. When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments. Between Between Between Between Less than 3 and 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 3 months 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2017 Cross currency swaps – 2,436 – 2,436 27,698 – Outflow foreign exchange derivatives 70,935 17,514 16,122 4,228 – – Inflow foreign exchange derivatives (69,307) (16,860) (15,300) (4,095) – – Net settled foreign exchange derivatives 110 – – – – – Total derivatives 1,738 3,090 822 2,569 27,698 – Between Between Between Between Less than 3 and 6 and 1 and 2 and More than 3 months 6 months 12 months 2 years 5 years 5 years USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2016 Cross currency swaps – 1,894 8,936 1,894 13,210 – Outflow foreign exchange derivatives 63,535 7,355 10,935 2,167 – – Inflow foreign exchange derivatives (62,148) (6,775) (9,945) (2,108) – – Net settled foreign exchange derivatives 317 – – – – – Total derivatives 1,704 2,474 9,926 1,953 13,210 – 3.3 Capital risk management The Group’s principal objective when managing capital is to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders. The Group is also subject to financial covenants under its facility agreement. These covenants require the Group to remain within certain thresholds used for calculating financial ratios that are primarily based on financial indebtedness, EBITDA and interest expenses. The capital structure of the Group consists of the net debt (note 12) and the capital and reserves attributable to equity holders of the parent. The capital risk management policy remains unchanged from the previous period. 158 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 3.4 Fair value measurement The following table provides the level of the fair value hierarchy within which the carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are categorized. Year ended 31 December 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 14) – 2,464 – 2,464 Derivatives used for hedging Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 14) – 1,664 – 1,664 Total – 4,128 – 4,128 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 14) – 1,298 – 1,298 Derivatives used for hedging Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 14) – 2,017 – 2,017 Cross currency swaps (note 14) – 27,621 – 27,621 Total – 30,936 – 30,936 Year ended 31 December 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets at FVTPL Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 14) – 1,859 – 1,859 Equity securities (note 14) 64 – – 64 Derivatives used for hedging Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 14) – 2,097 – 2,097 Total 64 3,956 – 4,020 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial liabilities at FVTPL (re-presented) Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 14) – 943 – 943 Contingent consideration (note 17) – – 1,542 1,542 Derivatives used for hedging Forward foreign exchange contracts (note 14) – 2,363 – 2,363 Cross currency swap (note 14) – 18,319 – 18,319 Total – 21,625 1,542 23,167 There were no transfers between Level 1 and 2 in the current and prior periods. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 159 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 3. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 3.4 Fair value measurement continued Assets and liabilities in level 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts: Discounting cash flow method. The fair value represents the future cash flows that are discounted using a free-risk yield curve adjusted for credit risk. The future cash flows is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date. Cross currency swaps: Discounting cash flow method. The future cash flows are discounted using the interest yield-curve attributable to each currency (including the currency basis spreads). The resulting fair value of the leg measured in foreign currency is translated using the spot exchange rate. There were no changes in valuation techniques during the period. Assets and liabilities in level 3 Contingent consideration: At 31 December 2016, the fair value represented the present value of the expected payments discounted at a risk-adjusted rate of 7.4%. The expected payments were determined by considering the underlined target revenue from the most recent financial budget approved by the management. A risk premium attributable to likelihood of the realization of the financial target was embedded into the discount rate. Reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances: 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 AT 1 JANUARY 1,542 4,640 Acquisition of business – – Settlement – (1,667) Amount reversed within ‘Cost of Sales’ (1,598) (1,667) Earn out true-up to ‘Cost of Sales’ 31 145 Unwinding of discount to ‘Finance costs’ (note 10) 25 91 AT 31 DECEMBER – 1,542 Loss attributable to the liability held at the end of the period Loss included in ‘Cost of sales’ – 7 Loss included in ‘Finance costs’ – 2 – 9 The Group reversed the last portion of the contingent consideration related to the acquisition of Akcelerant Software LLC for the period covering the financial year ending 31 December 2017 as the annual target under the terms of the Sale and Purchase agreement was not achieved. 160 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 3.5 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Derivatives transactions entered into by the Group are governed by ISDAs or equivalent. Such agreements permit the Group for net settlement with the same counterparty in the normal course of business and, also, give the right to set-off exposure with the same counterparty in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of either the entity or the counterparty. The Group concluded a set-off agreement with one of its Partners in the current year. Under the terms of the agreement, the amounts payable are offset against receivable and the net amounts are settled between the parties. Year ended 31 December 2017 Gross Amount Amount Amount amount set-off reported not set off Net amount USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets Trade receivables (note 13) 85,929 (1,450) 84,479 – 84,479 Derivatives financial assets (note 14) 4,128 – 4,128 (2,146) 1,982 Total 90,057 (1,450) 88,607 (2,146) 86,461 Financial liabilities Trade payables (note 17) 26,362 (1,450) 24,912 – 24,912 Derivatives financial liabilities (note 14) 30,936 – 30,936 (2,146) 28,790 Total 57,298 (1,450) 55,848 (2,146) 53,702 Year ended 31 December 2016 Gross Amount Amount Amount amount set-off reported not set off Net amount USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Financial assets Trade receivables (note 13) 78,397 (2,202) 76,195 – 76,195 Derivatives financial assets (note 14) 3,956 – 3,956 (2,102) 1,854 Total 82,353 (2,202) 80,151 (2,102) 78,049 Financial liabilities Trade payables (note 17) 28,914 (2,202) 26,712 – 26,712 Derivatives financial liabilities (note 14) 21,625 – 21,625 (2,102) 19,523 Total 50,539 (2,202) 48,337 (2,102) 46,235 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 161 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The resulting accounting estimates may differ from the actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions Impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 2.8. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates (note 16). If the future sales and the size of the market opportunities are significantly lower than management’s estimates the carrying value of goodwill may need to be reduced accordingly. However, unless any downturn is particularly severe and pervasive, it is unlikely to have a material impact on the carrying value of goodwill. At 31 December 2017 the carrying amount of the goodwill amounts to USD 521.7 million (2016: USD 440.1 million). Deferred income taxes The Group recognizes deferred tax assets on carried forward losses and other temporary differences. The amount recognized is based on management’s estimates and assumptions with regards to the availability of future taxable profits at the subsidiaries where the carried forward losses or temporary differences exist. At 31 December 2017 the carrying amount of the deferred tax asset amounts to USD 21.9 million (2016: USD 19.0 million). Critical judgments in applying the Group’s accounting policies Revenue recognition As detailed in note 2.17, the Group is required to make an assessment for each new software license contract as to whether the underlying software requires significant modification or customization by the Group in order to meet the customer’s requirements. If significant modification or customization is required, then the license fee is recognized based on percentage-of-completion. However, the majority of such modifications or customizations have not been deemed significant in current or prior periods. The Group also exercises judgment in assessing uncertainties surrounding the probability of collection when payment terms are linked to service implementation milestones or other various contingencies exist. These assessments are made at the outset of the contract. In respect of service revenue, the management exercises judgment in determining the percentage of completion, specifically with regards to the total man-days remaining to complete the implementation. Internally generated software development As detailed in note 2.7, the Group is required to make an assessment for each ongoing project in order to determine at what stage a project meets the criteria outlined in the Group’s accounting policies. Such assessment may, in certain circumstances, require significant judgment. In making this judgment, the Group evaluates, amongst other factors, the stage at which technical feasibility has been achieved, management’s intention to complete and use or sell the product, likelihood of success, availability of technical and financial resources to complete the development phase and management’s ability to reliably measure the expenditure attributable to the project. The total development expenses for the period was USD 203.2 million (2016: USD 178.7 million) and the total capitalized development costs was USD 50.5 million (2016: USD 45.6 million). 5. GROUP COMPANIES The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Temenos Group AG and the following entities as of 31 December 2017: 2017 2016 Ownership Ownership Company name Country of incorporation interest interest AMEE EASY SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% AMEE IP HOLDINGS PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% INFINITIVE PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% PROVISIO TECHNOLOGIES PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% RUBIK ESOP TRUSCO PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% RUBIK FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGY PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% RUBIK IP HOLDINGS PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% RUBIK MORTGAGES PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% 162 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2017 2016 Ownership Ownership Company name Country of incorporation interest interest STARGATE INFORMATION SYSTEMS PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% SWIFT EL-TEN SERVICES PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% TEMENOS AUSTRALIA PTY LIMITED Australia 100% 100% TEMENOS AUSTRALIA FINANCIAL PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% TEMENOS AUSTRALIA MESSAGING PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% TEMENOS AUSTRALIA OPERATIONS PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% TEMENOS AUSTRALIA SERVICES PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% TEMENOS AUSTRALIA TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% TEMENOS SOLUTIONS AUSTRALIA PTY LIMITED* Australia 100% 0% TEMENOS OSTERREICH GMBH**** Austria 0% 100% TEMENOS BELGIUM SA Belgium 100% 100% ODYSSEY FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGIES S.A. Belgium 100% 100% TEMENOS SOFTWARE BRASIL LTDA Brazil 100% 100% TEMENOS HOLDINGS LIMITED British Virgin Islands 100% 100% TEMENOS BULGARIA EOOD Bulgaria 100% 100% TEMENOS CANADA INC. Canada 100% 100% TEMENOS SOFTWARE CANADA LIMITED** Canada 0% 100% IGEFI CANADA INC. Canada 100% 100% TEMENOS SOFTWARE (SHANGHAI) CO. LIMITED China 100% 100% TEMENOS COLOMBIA SAS Colombia 100% 100% TEMENOS COSTA RICA SA Costa Rica 100% 100% TEMENOS (RUSSIA) LIMITED Cyprus 100% 100% TEMENOS MIDDLE EAST LIMITED Cyprus 100% 100% TEMENOS DENMARK APS Denmark 100% 100% TEMENOS ECUADOR SA Ecuador 100% 100% TEMENOS EGYPT LLC Egypt 100% 100% TEMENOS FRANCE SAS France 100% 100% TEMENOS HOLDINGS FRANCE SAS France 100% 100% VIVEO GROUP SAS France 100% 100% VIVEO FRANCE SAS France 100% 100% IGEFI FRANCE SARL France 100% 100% ODYSSEY FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGIES GMBH Germany 100% 100% TEMENOS DEUTSCHLAND GMBH Germany 100% 100% IGEFI DEUTSCHLAND GMBH Germany 100% 100% TEMENOS HELLAS SA Greece 100% 100% TEMENOS HONG KONG LIMITED Hong Kong 100% 100% IGEFI HONG KONG LIMITED Hong Kong 100% 100% TEMENOS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED India 100% 100% FINANCIAL OBJECTS SOFTWARE (INDIA) PRIVATE LIMITED India 100% 100% IGEFI SOFTWARE INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED India 100% 100% TEMENOS SYSTEMS IRELAND LIMITED Ireland 100% 100% IGEFI IRELAND LIMITED Ireland 100% 100% TEMENOS ISRAEL LIMITED Israel 100% 100% TEMENOS JAPAN KK Japan 100% 100% TEMENOS KAZAKHSTAN LLP Kazakhstan 100% 100% TEMENOS EAST AFRICA LIMITED Kenya 100% 100% TEMENOS KOREA LIMITED Korea 100% 100% TEMENOS FINANCE LUXEMBOURG SARL Luxembourg 100% 100% TEMENOS LUXEMBOURG SA Luxembourg 100% 100% TEMENOS SOFTWARE LUXEMBOURG SA Luxembourg 100% 100% ODYSSEY GROUP S.A. Luxembourg 100% 100% IGEFI GROUP SARL Luxembourg 100% 100% TEMENOS (MALAYSIA) SDN BHD Malaysia 100% 100% Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 163 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 5. GROUP COMPANIES CONTINUED 2017 2016 Ownership Ownership Company name Country of incorporation interest interest TEMENOS MEXICO SA DE CV Mexico 100% 100% TEMENOS NORTH AFRICA LLC Morocco 100% 100% TEMENOS (NL) BV Netherlands 100% 100% TEMENOS HOLLAND BV Netherlands 100% 100% TEMENOS INVESTMENTS BV Netherlands 100% 100% TEMENOS PANAMA S.A. Panama 100% 100% TEMENOS PHILIPPINES INC. Philippines 100% 100% TEMENOS POLSKA SP.Z.O.O Poland 100% 100% FINCH SOFTWARE LIMITED Republic of Mauritius 100% 100% TEMENOS ROMANIA SRL Romania 100% 100% TEMENOS SINGAPORE PTE LIMITED Singapore 100% 100% IGEFI SINGAPORE PTE LIMITED Singapore 100% 100% TEMENOS SINGAPORE FT PTE LIMITED* Singapore 100% 0% TEMENOS AFRICA (PTY) LIMITED South Africa 100% 100% DBS GLOBAL SOLUTIONS (PTY) LIMITED South Africa 100% 100% TEMENOS HISPANIA SL Spain 100% 100% TEMENOS HEADQUARTERS SA Switzerland 100% 100% IGEFI SA*** Switzerland 0% 100% IGEFI LICENSING SARL*** Switzerland 0% 100% TEMENOS (THAILAND) CO. LIMITED Thailand 100% 100% TEMENOS EURASIA BANKA YAZILIMLARI LTD SIRKETI Turkey 100% 100% TEMENOS USA, INC. USA 100% 100% TRINOVUS SYSTEMS LLC USA 100% 100% IGEFI US LLC USA 100% 100% TEMENOS UKRAINE LLC Ukraine 100% 100% TEMENOS UK LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% FE MOBILE LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% FINANCIAL OBJECTS LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% FINANCIAL OBJECTS (UK) LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% FINANCIAL OBJECTS INTERNATIONAL LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% WEALTH MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% FAIRS LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% GENISYS TECHNOLOGY LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% IGEFI UK LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% LYDIAN ASSOCIATES LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% FINO SOFTWARE SERVICES LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% WEALTH MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE LIMITED United Kingdom 100% 100% ODYSSEY FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGIES PLC United Kingdom 100% 100% EDGE IPK LTD United Kingdom 100% 100% TEMENOS VIETNAM COMPANY LIMITED Vietnam 100% 100% In addition to the Group companies listed above, some Group subsidiaries maintain branches or representative offices at the following locations: Beirut (Lebanon); Dubai (United Arab Emirates); Riyadh (Saudi Arabia); Moscow (Russia); Prague (Czech Republic); Kiev (Ukraine); Taipei (Taiwan); Islamabad (Pakistan); Jakarta (Indonesia); New-York (USA); Tunis (Tunisia); Nantes (France); Hong Kong (Hong Kong); Helsinki (Finland); Colombo (Sri Lanka) and Renens (Switzerland). * Companies acquired/set up as part of acquisition of business in 2017. ** Merger of company Temenos Software Canada Limited with Temenos Canada Inc in 2017. *** Merger of companies IGEFI SA and IGEFI Licensing Sarl with Temenos Headquarters SA in 2017. **** Liquidation of Temenos Osterreich GMBH in 2017. Significant restrictions Other than those described in note 12, there is no significant restriction on the Group’s ability to access or use assets, and settle liabilities of the above entities. 164 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 6. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Prior year acquisitions There was no acquisition in year ending 31 December 2016. Current year acquisitions Rubik Financial Limited On 22 May 2017, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Rubik Financial Limited based in Australia. Founded in 2007, Rubik is an Australia based software company providing banking, wealth management and mortgage broking solutions, primarily in Australia and also internationally across Asia and the Middle East. Rubik has more than 150 employees servicing 930 direct clients. The combination of Rubik and Temenos creates a leader in the Australian market, enabling Temenos to benefit from increased scale and to accelerate growth across its key target segments. The Australian market represents a significant opportunity for Temenos, with spending on banking software forecast to grow at an 8% CAGR in the medium term and with the 4th largest investment market globally driven by the superannuation scheme. The goodwill arising from the acquisition is mainly attributable to the cross-selling opportunities with the acquired customer base and the expansion of the Group’s presence into the Australian market. The goodwill recognized is not tax deductible for income tax purposes. Fair value of the consideration transferred at acquisition date USD 000 Cash consideration 52,645 Total Fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed USD 000 Cash and cash equivalents 2,865 Trade and other receivables 5,735 Property, plant and equipment (note 15) 480 Intangible assets (note 16) 34,531 Deferred tax asset (note 19) 4,162 Trade and other payables (9,099) Provision for other liabilities (208) Deferred tax liabilities (note 19) (1,137) Borrowings (11,551) Deferred revenues (2,084) Total 23,694 Goodwill (note 16) 28,951 Acquisition-related costs included in ‘General and administrative’ line in the statement of profit or loss 1,529 Net consideration paid in cash 52,645 Cash and cash equivalents acquired (2,865) Cash outflow on acquisition 49,780 The fair value of the trade and other receivables approximates its carrying value and it is expected to be fully recoverable. The revenue and profit or loss contributed by the acquired business in the period between the date of acquisition and the reporting date are USD 18.3 million and USD 0.4 million loss, respectively. This information includes the amortization of the acquired intangible assets and the fair value adjustment of the acquired deferred income liability with the related tax effect. Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2017, the Group’s consolidated statement of profit or loss would have reported a pro-forma revenue of USD 747 million and a pro-forma profit of USD 136.1 million. These amounts reflect the adjustment of the acquired deferred income liability and the amortization of the acquired intangible assets with the related tax effect, assuming that the fair value adjustments applied from 1 January 2017. The initial accounting has been provisionally completed at 31 December 2017. The Group does not expect any significant adjustments to the fair value of the net assets. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 165 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 7. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) has been identified as the Group’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO). He regularly reviews the Group’s operating segments in order to assess performance and to allocate resources. The CODM considers the business from a product perspective and, therefore, recognizes the reporting segments as: ‘Product’ and ‘Services’. Other representation of the Group’s activity such as regional information is also presented to the CODM but it is not primarily used to review the Group’s performance and to make decisions as to how to allocate resources. These two reporting segments are the Group’s only operating segments, hence there is no segmental aggregation. The ‘Product’ segment is primarily engaged in marketing, licensing, developing and maintaining the Group’s software solutions, including software development fees for requested functionality, as well as providing hosting and subscription arrangements. The ‘Services’ segment represents various implementation tasks such as consulting and training. The CODM assesses the performance of the operating segments based on the operating contribution. This measure includes the operating expenses that are directly or reasonably attributable to the reporting segments. Unallocated expenses mainly comprise of restructuring costs, termination benefits, acquisition related costs, share-based payment expenses, offices-related expenses and any other administrative or corporate overheads that cannot be directly attributable to the operating segments. Segment revenues provided to the CODM exclude the fair value adjustment recognized on deferred income liability acquired in business combination and hence total revenues allocated to the two segments exceed the IFRS reported figures. Assets attributed to the reporting segments represent the net trade receivables and the accrued income (note 13). The table below summarizes the primary information provided to the CODM: Product Services Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Revenues 590,882 506,569 145,784 128,526 736,666 635,095 Operating contribution 293,328 245,308 28,419 23,576 321,747 268,884 Total assets 151,562 137,394 89,013 84,210 240,575 221,604 All revenues are derived from external customers. The Group has a large number of customers and no individual customer contributed more than 10% of the total Group’s revenue in the current and prior year. The accounting policies applied to the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting policies described in note 2 with the exception of the fair value adjustment on deferred income liability acquired in business combination. Intersegment transactions are recognized as part of the allocated expenses. They are based on internal cost rates that excludes any profit margin. For goodwill impairment testing purposes, goodwill of USD 521.7 million was allocated to the segment products. 2017 2016 Reconciliation to Group’s consolidated financial statements USD 000 USD 000 Total operating contribution from the reportable segments 321,747 268,884 Fair value adjustment on acquired deferred income liability (1,303) (1,059) Depreciation and amortization (note 8) (85,007) (76,074) Unallocated expenses (57,132) (42,528) Finance costs – net (note 10) (17,357) (17,116) Profit before taxation 160,948 132,107 166 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 2017 2016 Total assets USD 000 USD 000 Total assets allocated to the reportable segments 240,575 221,604 UNALLOCATED ITEMS: Other receivables 28,436 26,652 Cash and cash equivalents 167,855 194,340 Other financial assets 4,128 4,020 Property, plant and equipment 16,385 15,788 Intangible assets 795,961 690,097 Deferred tax assets 21,943 19,001 Total assets per the statement of financial position 1,275,283 1,171,502 Geographical information 2017 Revenues from external customers USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 30,883 United Kingdom 50,833 Luxembourg 51,908 United States of America 56,195 Denmark* 37,474 Ireland 36,660 TOTAL – MATERIAL COUNTRIES 263,953 Rest of Europe 144,597 Middle-East and Africa 107,907 Rest of Asia* 139,907 Rest of America* 78,999 TOTAL REVENUES 735,363 * Singapore and Canada are not separately reported in the 2017 geographical information as the revenues from external customers attributed to it was not material. Denmark has been added to 2017 geographical information as the revenue from external customers is deemed material. 2016 Revenues from external customers USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 36,924 United Kingdom 40,319 Luxembourg 54,644 United States of America 37,549 Singapore 41,482 Ireland 33,658 Canada 33,504 TOTAL – MATERIAL COUNTRIES 278,080 Rest of Europe 163,574 Middle-East and Africa 97,288 Rest of Asia 68,665 Rest of America 26,429 TOTAL REVENUES 634,036 Revenues are based on the location where the license and maintenance is sold or the service is provided. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 167 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 7. SEGMENT INFORMATION CONTINUED 2017 Non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 123,618 Luxembourg 358,389 United Kingdom 56,502 France 64,307 United States of America 69,635 Australia 65,236 Other countries 74,659 Total 812,346 2016 USD 000 Switzerland (country of the Group’s domiciliation) 110,644 Luxembourg 343,711 United Kingdom 52,227 France 56,533 United States of America 75,032 Other countries 67,738 Total 705,885 8. EXPENSES BY NATURE 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Third party licenses and commissions 18,503 14,227 Personnel costs and external consultants 409,540 356,002 Depreciation and amortization (notes 15 and 16) 85,007 76,074 Travel expenses 27,368 25,113 Rent and other occupancy costs 19,871 18,186 Marketing and other professional costs 17,992 14,958 Other costs 29,245 25,813 Capitalized development costs (note 16) (50,468) (45,560) 557,058 484,813 168 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 9. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Wages and salaries 253,068 214,775 Termination benefits 5,741 2,479 Social charges 50,901 44,266 Defined contribution pension costs 6,256 5,701 Defined benefit pension costs (note 21) 1,626 2,478 Cost of employee shares schemes (note 25) 32,661 24,813 350,253 294,512 Included in the employee benefit expenses, is the remuneration of the key management personnel as illustrated below: 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Key management personnel of Temenos Group AG – Short-term cash compensation and benefits 6,426 5,655 – Post-employment benefits 138 142 – Share-based payment 15,623 14,400 22,187 20,197 Non-Executive Directors – Short-term benefits 788 662 Remuneration of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee in accordance with the Swiss Code of Obligations and the Swiss Ordinance against Excessive Compensation in Stock Exchange Listed Companies can be found in the Compensation report of the annual report. 10. FINANCE COSTS – NET 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Finance income: – Interest income on short term bank deposits and investments 1,738 132 – Interest income on non-current trade and other receivables 121 119 – Net gain on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments – 6,988 Total finance income 1,859 7,239 Finance costs: – Interest expense on financial instruments measured at amortized costs (12,887) (13,005) – Change in fair value of contingent consideration (25) (91) – Other financing costs* (3,811) (4,016) – Net loss on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments (1,254) – – Foreign exchange loss, net (1,239) (7,243) Total finance costs (19,216) (24,355) Finance costs – net (17,357) (17,116) * Other financing costs mainly comprise of transaction fees relating to the issuance of financing facilities, commitment fees attributable to the undrawn portion of banking facilities and fees related to guarantees in issue. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 169 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 11. EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. . 2017 2016 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company (USD 000) 138,406 115,834 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (in thousands) 69,927 68,718 Basic earnings per share (USD per share) 1.98 1.69 Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. For the periods presented in these consolidated financial statements, the Group has only one category with a potential dilutive effect: ‘Instrument granted to employee under share based payment’. For the period ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017, this category was fully dilutive. 2017 2016 Profit used to determine diluted earnings per share (USD 000) 138,406 115,834 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year (in thousands) 69,927 68,718 Adjustments for: – Share options and restricted shares (in thousands) 3,012 3,309 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share (in thousands) 72,939 72,027 Diluted earnings per share (USD per share) 1.90 1.61 12. NET DEBT ANALYSIS 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Cash at bank and in hand 103,452 140,265 Short term deposits with banks 46,455 49,068 Other short term liquid investments 17,948 5,007 Cash and cash equivalents* 167,855 194,340 Borrowings – repayable within one year (including overdraft) (note 18) (5,885) (102,780) Borrowings – repayable after one year (note 18) (434,299) (269,182) Cross currency swaps – cash flow hedges (note 14) (27,621) (18,319) Net Debt (299,950) (195,941) * Included in the cash and cash equivalents is USD 6.3 million (2016: USD 10 million) that is held in jurisdiction where regulatory exchange controls exist and, therefore, are not available for general use by the Group outside of such jurisdiction at the reporting date. 170 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities Cross currency Cross swaps – currency – Borrowings Borrowings Principal Interest short term long term Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 31 December 2016 (18,319) (1,759) (102,780) (269,182) (392,040) Cash flows (82) 3,561 125,719 (148,781) (19,583) Acquisition of business (note 6) – – (11,551) – (11,551) Fair value and foreign exchange movement (9,220) – (7,923) (15,902) (33,045) Other non-cash movements – (3,036) (9,350) (434) (12,820) At 31 December 2017 (27,621) (1,234) (5,885) (434,299) (469,039) 13. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Trade receivables 93,498 86,425 Provision for impairment (9,019) (10,230) Trade receivables – net 84,479 76,195 Accrued income 156,096 145,409 VAT and other taxation recoverable 8,649 7,490 Other receivables 4,610 4,510 Prepayments 15,177 14,652 Total trade and other receivables 269,011 248,256 Less non-current portion (10,379) (16,296) Total current trade and other receivables 258,632 231,960 Trade and other receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. As the total carrying amount of the current portion of the trade and other receivables is due within the next 12 months after the reporting date, the impact of applying the effective interest method is not significant and, therefore, the carrying amount equals to the contractual amount or the fair value initially recognized. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above. The credit quality of these receivables are periodically assessed by reference to external credit ratings (if available) or to historical information about their default rates. The Group does not hold any collateral as security. Fair values of the trade and other receivables qualified as financial assets and measured at amortized cost Carrying amount Fair value 2017 2016 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Current trade and other receivables 240,643 215,848 240,643 215,848 Non-current trade and other receivables. 10,379 16,296 10,057 15,864 251,022 232,144 250,700 231,712 The carrying amounts of the current trade and other receivables approximate their fair value. The fair value measurement of the non-current trade and other receivables is based on a discounted cash flow approach using a free-risk yield curve adjusted for credit risk and is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 171 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 13. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED Aging of the net trade receivables past due but not impaired 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Past due less than 30 days 30,207 23,083 Past due 31-90 days 14,568 8,761 Past due 91-180 days 8,878 8,184 Past due 181-360 days 6,219 7,315 More than 360 days 9,149 10,804 69,021 58,147 The Group believes that the unimpaired amounts that are past due are fully recoverable as there are no indicators of future delinquency or potential litigation. Movements in the provision for impairment The allowance account is used for impairment of trade receivables. The other classes do not contain any impaired assets. 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 10,230 23,552 Provision for impairment 3,064 2,803 Used amounts (3,505) (16,033) Recoveries (251) (8) Unused amounts (529) (119) Exchange loss or (gain) 10 35 At 31 December 9,019 10,230 Management acknowledges that there is an inherent risk linked to the Group’s trade receivables in respect of the complexity of the Group’s business and the existence of mid to long projects. Included in ‘Sales and marketing’, is USD 11.1 million (2016: USD 9.5 million) of impairment loss related to trade receivables. The Group has provided for the adverse probable outcome on a limited number of projects that are facing some implementation difficulties or funding issues. 14. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 2017 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Forward foreign exchange contracts – cash flow hedges 1,664 2,017 2,097 2,363 Forward foreign exchange contracts – held for trading 2,464 1,298 1,859 943 Cross currency swaps – cash flow hedges – 27,621 – 18,319 Available-for-sale investment – – 64 – At 31 December 4,128 30,936 4,020 21,625 Reported as follows: Current 3,967 3,184 3,866 10,062 Non-current 161 27,752 154 11,563 At 31 December 4,128 30,936 4,020 21,625 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets as reported in the statement of financial position. Available-for-sale investment financial assets reported in 2016 represented equity securities of a publicly listed company in Australia. These instruments were disposed of in 2017. 172 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 15. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Fixtures Leasehold fittings & Land and improvements Vehicles equipment buildings Total Year ended 31 December 2017 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 COST At 1 January 2017 14,266 471 45,337 2,524 62,598 Foreign currency exchange differences 497 20 2,199 133 2,849 Additions 1,035 42 4,706 – 5,783 Acquisition of business (note 6) 180 – 300 – 480 Retirements/Disposals (893) (18) (4,503) – (5,414) 31 December 2017 15,085 515 48,039 2,657 66,296 DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT At 1 January 2017 11,857 320 34,260 373 46,810 Foreign currency exchange differences 339 10 1,627 22 1,998 Charge for the year 1,100 55 5,149 47 6,351 Retirements/Disposals (803) (11) (4,434) – (5,248) 31 December 2017 12,493 374 36,602 442 49,911 NET BOOK VALUE 31 December 2017 2,592 141 11,437 2,215 16,385 Year ended 31 December 2016 COST At 1 January 2016 13,553 473 43,172 2,578 59,776 Foreign currency exchange differences (572) (6) (1,697) (54) (2,329) Additions 1,491 140 4,733 – 6,364 Retirements/Disposals (206) (136) (871) – (1,213) 31 December 2016 14,266 471 45,337 2,524 62,598 DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT At 1 January 2016 11,671 384 31,777 334 44,166 Foreign currency exchange differences (490) (4) (1,333) (7) (1,834) Charge for the year 857 56 4,568 46 5,527 Retirements/Disposals (181) (116) (752) – (1,049) 31 December 2016 11,857 320 34,260 373 46,810 NET BOOK VALUE 31 December 2016 2,409 151 11,077 2,151 15,788 Leased assets, where the Group is a lessee, mainly comprise of Information Technology (IT) hardware and some office equipment. Fixtures fittings & equipment USD 000 Net book value at 31 December 2017 – Net book value at 31 December 2016 3 In all cases the assets leased are pledged as collateral against the finance lease liability. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 173 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 16. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Internally generated software development Computer Customer costs Goodwill software related Total Year ended 31 December 2017 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 COST At 1 January 2017 375,059 440,066 150,906 127,900 1,093,931 Foreign currency exchange differences 9,846 52,654 13,349 14,318 90,167 Additions 50,468 – 3,018 – 53,486 Acquisition of business – 28,951 18,850 15,681 63,482 Retirements/Disposals – – (568) – (568) 31 December 2017 435,373 521,671 185,555 157,899 1,300,498 AMORTIZATION At 1 January 2017 244,934 – 93,669 65,231 403,834 Foreign currency exchange differences 6,750 – 7,805 8,005 22,560 Charge for the year 39,921 – 23,938 14,797 78,656 Retirements/Disposals – – (513) – (513) 31 December 2017 291,605 – 124,899 88,033 504,537 NET BOOK VALUE 31 December 2017 143,768 521,671 60,656 69,866 795,961 Year ended 31 December 2016 COST At 1 January 2016 332,202 462,541 152,410 133,038 1,080,191 Foreign currency exchange differences (2,703) (22,475) (4,865) (5,138) (35,181) Additions 45,560 – 3,492 – 49,052 Acquisition of business – – – – – Retirements/Disposals – – (131) – (131) 31 December 2016 375,059 440,066 150,906 127,900 1,093,931 AMORTIZATION At 1 January 2016 211,532 – 75,894 54,767 342,193 Foreign currency exchange differences (1,691) – (3,418) (3,666) (8,775) Charge for the year 35,093 – 21,324 14,130 70,547 Retirements/Disposals – – (131) – (131) 31 December 2016 244,934 – 93,669 65,231 403,834 NET BOOK VALUE 31 December 2016 130,125 440,066 57,237 62,669 690,097 Amortization charge of USD 74.9 million (2016: USD 66.8 million) is included in the ‘Cost of sales’ line; USD 0.3 million (2016: USD 0.4 million) in ‘Sales and marketing’ line; USD 1.3 million (2016: USD 1.5 million) in ‘Other operating expenses’ line and USD 2.2 million (2016: USD 1.8 million) in ‘General and administrative’ line. 174 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the ‘Product’ reportable segment. 2017 2016 Carrying Discount Carrying Discount amount Growth rate rate amount Growth rate rate USD 000 % % USD 000 % % ‘Product’ segment 521,671 1 10.17 440,066 1 10.75 521,671 440,066 The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit (CGU) is determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projections based on the most recent financial budget approved by the management covering a four-year period (2016: a four-year period) and then inflated over a perpetual period using the estimated growth rate assigned to the countries where the cash-generating unit operates. The growth rate does not exceed the long term average growth rate for the software industry in which the CGU performs its operations. The growth rate and the pre-tax discount rate used in the calculation are presented above. Budgeted cash flow projections are determined based on the expectation of the future client signings of the Group’s current pipeline. Budgeted gross margin is based on expectations of market development and efficiency leverage. Management believes that any reasonable change in any of the key assumptions on which the recoverable amount is based would not cause the reported carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit. The discount rate represents the Group’s Weighted Average Cost of Capital adjusted for tax effect to determinate the pre-tax rate as required by IFRS. 17. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Trade payables 24,912 26,712 Accrued expenses 86,228 61,423 Contingent consideration (note 3.4) – 1,542 Other payables 13,512 15,194 Total trade and other payables 124,652 104,871 Less non-current portion – (1,542) Total current trade and other payables 124,652 103,329 Except for contingent consideration, trade and other payables are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost. As the total carrying amount is due within the next 12 months from the balance sheet date, the impact of applying the effective interest method is not significant and, therefore, the carrying amount equals to the contractual amount or the fair value initially recognized. Contingent consideration reported in 2016 was initially and subsequently measured at fair value. Fair values of the trade and other payables qualified as financial liabilities and measured at amortized cost Carrying amount Fair value 2017 2016 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Current trade and other payables 121,240 97,466 121,240 97,466 Non-current trade and other payables – – – – 121,240 97,466 121,240 97,466 The carrying amounts of the current trade and other payables approximate their fair value. The fair value measurement of the non-current trade and other payables is based on a discounted cash flow approach using a free-risk yield curve adjusted for credit risk and is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The carrying amounts of the current trade and other payables measured at fair value as well as their level in the fair value hierarchy are disclosed in note 3.4. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 175 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 18. BORROWINGS 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 CURRENT Other loans 58 33 Unsecured bonds 5,827 102,747 5,885 102,780 NON-CURRENT Other loans 145 68 Unsecured bonds 434,154 269,114 434,299 269,182 Total borrowings 440,184 371,962 Fair values of the borrowings Carrying amount Fair value 2017 2016 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Other loans 203 101 197 101 Unsecured bonds 439,981 371,861 449,149 373,320 440,184 371,962 449,346 373,421 The fair value measurement of the non-current other loans is based on a discounted cash flow method using the LIBOR or Swaps curve adjusted for credit risk and is within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The fair value measurement of the bonds is derived from their quotation on the SIX Swiss Exchange and is within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. The carrying amounts of the borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Swiss Francs 439,981 371,861 Other currencies 203 101 440,184 371,962 Unsecured bonds The Group holds the following unsecured bonds: ·· CHF 100 million with a coupon of 2% paid annually on 31 January. The bond will mature on 31 January 2019 at par and was issued in 2014; ·· CHF 175 million with a coupon of 2% paid annually on 17 June. The bond will mature on 17 June 2022 at par and was issued in 2015; and ·· CHF 150 million with a coupon of 1.75% paid annually on 5 April. The bond will mature on 5 April 2024 at par and was issued in 2017. Bank facilities The Group holds a multicurrency revolving credit facility of USD 500 million. The pertinent details are as follows: ·· Interest at LIBOR plus variable margin, which is calculated by reference to certain financial covenants; ·· The facility terminates on 19 February 2021; and ·· Commitment fees are due on the undrawn portion. As at 31 December 2017, a total of nil (2016: nil) was drawn under this new agreement. The facilities granted are subject to various financial covenants which have been adhered to during the reported periods. 176 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 19. TAXATION Tax expense 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Current tax on profits for the year 24,469 22,800 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,063 1,599 Total current tax 25,533 24,399 Deferred tax – origination and reversal of temporary differences (2,990) (8,126) Total tax expense 22,542 16,273 Temenos Group AG is incorporated in Switzerland but the Group operates in various countries with various tax laws and rates. Consequently, the effective tax rate may vary from period to period to reflect the generation of taxable income in tax jurisdictions. A reconciliation between the reported income tax expense and the amount computed using a basic Swiss statutory corporate tax rate of 24.1% (2016: 24.1%), is as follows: 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Profit before tax 160,948 132,107 Tax at the domestic rate of 24.1% 38,789 31,839 Non-taxable income and expenses (39,915) (2,891) Net deferred tax impact on utilization and recognition on losses 2,786 (3,665) Tax adjustments related to prior periods 1,063 1,599 Reversal of deferred tax assets on intellectual property 56 739 Non-taxable consolidation adjustment on intellectual property amortization (5,374) (6,369) Other movement on deferred tax assets and liabilities, including rate changes (458) 1,168 Effects of different tax rates 17,926 (18,368) Overseas withholding tax 4,249 7,497 Other tax and credits 3,420 4,724 Total tax expense 22,542 16,273 There is no income tax expense or tax credit arising relating to components of other comprehensive income (2016: USD nil) and no income tax charged or credited directly to equity (2016: USD nil). Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. Deferred tax assets and liabilities shown in the consolidated balance sheet are as follows: 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Deferred tax assets – to be recovered after more than 12 months 10,144 6,898 Deferred tax assets – to be recovered within 12 months 11,799 12,103 Deferred tax assets 21,943 19,001 Deferred tax liabilities – to be recovered after more than 12 months (14,107) (16,240) Deferred tax liabilities – to be recovered within 12 months (1,301) (377) Deferred tax liabilities (15,408) (16,617) Net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 6,535 2,384 An assessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets is made on a country by country basis, based on the weight of available evidence including factors such as recent earnings history and expected future taxable income. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that realization of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 177 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 19. TAXATION CONTINUED The Group has not recognized deferred tax assets of USD 55,866 thousand (2016: USD 53,612 thousand) in respect of losses amounting to USD 457,686 thousand (2016: USD 246,060 thousand) that can be carried forward against future taxable income. Losses amounting to USD 209,631 thousand (2016: USD 118,851 thousand) will expire within the next five years, USD 54,417 thousand (2016: USD 22,425 thousand) will expire within five to ten years and USD 10,254 thousand (2016: USD 28,558 thousand) will expire within ten to 20 years. There are no unrecognized deferred tax liabilities. The Group has recognized deferred tax assets of USD 204 thousand (2016: USD 260 thousand) in respect of temporary differences arising on an intra-group transfer of intellectual property. The gross movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 2,384 (5,874) Income statement credit 2,990 8,126 Foreign currency exchange differences (1,864) 132 Acquisition of business 3,025 – At 31 December 6,535 2,384 The movement in deferred tax assets is as follows: Taxable Tax intellectual Taxable losses property goodwill Other Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 2016 15,757 1,032 518 – 17,307 Credited (charged) to the income statement 2,502 (739) (109) – 1,654 Foreign currency exchange differences 73 (33) – – 40 At 31 December 2016 18,332 260 409 – 19,001 Credited (charged) to the income statement (1,295) (56) (121) – (1,472) Acquisition of business – – – 4,162 4,162 Foreign currency exchange differences 43 – – 209 252 At 31 December 2017 17,080 204 288 4,371 21,943 The movement in deferred tax liabilities is as follows: Intangible fair value adjustment Other Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 2016 (23,181) – (23,181) Credited to the income statement 6,826 (355) 6,471 Acquisition of subsidiaries – – – Foreign currency exchange differences 93 – 93 At 31 December 2016 (16,262) (355) (16,617) Credited to the income statement 5,496 (1,034) 4,462 Acquisition of business (1,137) – (1,137) Foreign currency exchange differences (2,064) (52) (2,116) At 31 December 2017 (13,967) (1,441) (15,408) 178 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 20. PROVISIONS FOR OTHER LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Legal Property Termination provision provision benefits Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 At 1 January 2017 461 243 364 1,068 Foreign currency exchange differences 54 22 61 137 Increase in provisions recognized in profit or loss – 373 2,882 3,255 Acquisition of business – 208 – 208 Used during the year (56) (541) (657) (1,254) Unused amounts reversed during the year (60) (16) (16) (92) 31 December 2017 400 289 2,634 3,323 Reported as follows: 2017 Current 400 51 2,634 3,085 Non-current – 238 – 238 31 December 2017 400 289 2,634 3,323 2016 Current 461 111 364 936 Non-current – 132 – 132 31 December 2016 461 243 364 1,068 Legal provision The amounts represent provisions for certain legal claims brought against the Group. The balance at 31 December 2017 is expected to be utilized in 2018. Management believes that the outcome of these legal claims will not give rise to any significant loss beyond the amounts provided at 31 December 2017. Property provision The amounts represent the net present value of the estimated future costs associated with onerous leases and dilapidations. Provision for onerous lease represents the lowest cost to exit the lease contract. Provision for dilapidations represents the estimated costs to be incurred at the date of exit. The non-current portion has not been discounted as the effect of the time value was not material. The non-current portion of USD 238 thousand relates to dilapidation costs that will be settled when the related leases are terminated which is not expected to occur within the next 12 months. Termination benefits The amounts represent the benefits payable for the period with no future economic benefits to the Group. The carrying amount is expected to be fully utilized in 2018. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 179 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 21. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The Group maintains defined contribution plans for its employees of which many are state-sponsored. The relevant contributions are charged to the statement of profit or loss when incurred. No assets or liabilities are recognized in the Group’s statement of financial position in respect of such plans, apart from prepayments and accruals not settled at the reporting date. In certain countries, the Group has a legal obligation to make one-time payments to employees reaching retirement age or departing. Such gratuities are based on the amount of the employees’ final salary and their length of service. With the exception of India, these plans are unfunded. These plans are categorized as defined benefit plans. The Swiss funded defined benefit pension plans represents the principal portion of the Group’s defined benefit obligation at the reporting periods. Pension plans in Switzerland Swiss based plans entitle retired employees to receive either a capital or an annual pension payment. Final benefit is based on retirement savings accumulated over the working life period of the employees. The plans are administrated by separate funds that are legally separated from the entity. One plan is funded through institutional investments and one plan is funded by the conclusion of an insurance contract. Swiss based pension plans are governed by the Swiss Federal Law on Occupational Retirement, Survivors’ and Disability Pension Plans (LPP), which stipulates that pension plans are to be managed by independent and legally autonomous units. Plan participants are insured against the financial consequences of old age, disability and death. The various insurance benefits are governed in regulations, with the LPP specifying the minimum benefits that are to be provided. The employer and employees pay contributions to the pension plan. In case the plan’s statutory funding falls below a certain level, various measures can be taken such as the increase of the current contribution, lowering the interest rate on the retirement account balances or a reduction of the additional prospective benefits. The employer can also make additional restructuring contributions. The Swiss based pension plans are administrated by a legal foundation under the supervision and management of one of the largest insurance company for pension plans based in Switzerland. The Board of Trustee is composed of equal numbers of employee and employer representatives. Its responsibilities are to set-out the strategy of the plans, approve the budget for the administrative expenses etc. Each individual plan is then governed by a sub-committee that is equally composed of representatives of employer and plan participant. The primary objective of this committee is to implement the investment strategy set out by the Board of Trustee. It mainly consists of determining the asset allocation, the investment structure and approving the delegation to an asset manager. The committee is also responsible for the appropriation of the prospective result within the framework set out by the LPP. As all the plans within the Group are not exposed to materially different risks and as a significant portion of the Group’s obligation is contributed by the Swiss plans, the management has decided not to present additional disaggregation of the disclosures presented below unless explicitly required by IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. The amounts recognized in the statement of financial position at 31 December are as follows: 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Present value of funded obligations 40,884 36,360 Fair value of plan assets (36,942) (29,965) Deficit of funded plans 3,942 6,395 Present value of unfunded obligations 3,794 2,781 Net liability in the statement of financial position 7,736 9,176 180 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements The movement in the net defined benefit liability (asset) over the year is as follows: Present value Fair value of Effect of of obligation plan assets Total asset ceiling Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2017 39,141 (29,965) 9,176 – 9,176 Current service costs 2,467 – 2,467 – 2,467 Past service costs (1,162) – (1,162) – (1,162) Other cost 102 18 120 – 120 Interest expense/(income) 537 (336) 201 – 201 1,944 (318) 1,626 – 1,626 Remeasurements (included in OCI): – Return on plan assets, excluding interest income – (1,846) (1,846) – (1,846) – Actuarial loss (gain) from: – demographic assumptions 202 – 202 – 202 – financial assumptions (310) – (310) – (310) – experience adjustment 1,140 – 1,140 – 1,140 – Change in asset ceiling – – – – – 1,032 (1,846) (814) – (814) – Exchange differences 1,924 (1,470) 454 – 454 Contributions: – Employers – (2,706) (2,706) – (2,706) – Plan participants 862 (862) – – – Payment from/to plans: – Benefit paid (225) 225 – – – – Settlements – – – – – 2,561 (4,813) (2,252) – (2,252) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 44,678 (36,942) 7,736 – 7,736 BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2016 33,600 (25,711) 7,889 19 7,908 Current service costs 2,076 – 2,076 – 2,076 Settlements 117 – 117 – 117 Other cost – 116 116 – 116 Interest expense/(income) 449 (280) 169 – 169 2,642 (164) 2,478 – 2,478 Remeasurements (included in OCI): – Return on plan assets, excluding interest income – (522) (522) – (522) – Actuarial loss (gain) from: – demographic assumptions 311 – 311 – 311 – financial assumptions 157 – 157 – 157 – experience adjustment 1,998 – 1,998 – 1,998 – Change in asset ceiling – – (19) (19) 2,466 (522) 1,944 (19) 1,925 – Exchange differences (1,012) 803 (209) – (209) Contributions: – Employers – (2,926) (2,926) – (2,926) – Plan participants 1,037 (1,037) – – – Payment from plans: – Benefit paid 531 (531) – – – – Settlements (123) 123 – – – 433 (3,568) (3,135) – (3,135) BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 39,141 (29,965) 9,176 – 9,176 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 181 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 21. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED The defined benefit obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method. This reflects service rendered by employees to the date of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions primarily regarding discount rates used and projected rates of remuneration growth. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds or government bonds in countries where there is not a deep market in corporate bonds. Plan assets comprise 2017 2016 Equity securities: – Quoted 18% 19% – Unquoted 0% 0% Fixed income securities: – Quoted 15% 13% – Unquoted 0% 0% Real estate 11% 12% Insurance contracts 54% 53% Other 2% 3% 100% 100% The committee of each plan annually performs an asset-liability assessment. The objective of such assessment is to select an appropriate asset allocation to match cash flows of the assets with the plan obligations while maximizing the return and minimizing the risk. Actuarial assumptions These defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as currency risk, interest rate risk and market risk (investment risk). Actuarial assumptions are based on the requirement set out by IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’. They are unbiased and mutually compatible estimates of variables that determine the ultimate cost of providing post-employment benefits. They are based on market expectations at the reporting date for the period over which the obligations are to be settled. They are set on an annual basis by independent actuaries. Actuarial assumptions consist of demographic assumptions such as employee turnover, disability, mortality and financial assumptions such as interest rates, salary growth and consumer price inflation. The actuarial assumptions vary based upon local economic and social conditions. The following are the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as weighted averages): 2017 2016 Discount rate 1.46% 1.39% Inflation 0.66% 0.67% Future salary growth 2.36% 1.79% 182 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumption is: 2017 Change in Increase Decrease assumption USD 000 USD 000 Discount rate 50bps (1,989) 2,136 Future salary growth 0.50% 558 (568) 2016 Change in Increase Decrease assumption USD 000 USD 000 Discount rate 50bps (1,796) 1,964 Future salary growth 0.50% 575 (553) The sensitivity analysis are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur since some of the assumptions are correlated. The sensitivity analysis have been calculated using the same methodology as applied when determining the pension liability in the statement of financial position. Expected contributions to post-employment defined benefit plans for the year ending 31 December 2018 are USD 2,318 thousand. At 31 December 2017, the weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligation was 12 years (2016: 10 years). 22. SHARE CAPITAL As at 31 December 2017, the issued shares of Temenos Group AG comprised 70,849,924 ordinary shares of a nominal value of CHF 5 each. All issued shares are fully paid. The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in the year ended 31 December 2017 are summarized below: Number Total number of shares issued, as at 31 December 2016 69,621,124 Treasury shares (1,133,853) Total number of shares outstanding, as at 31 December 2016 68,487,271 Creation of new ordinary shares out of conditional capital for share-based payment transactions 1,228,800 Issuance of treasury shares for share-based payment transactions 1,012,266 Acquisition of treasury shares (share buy-back) (1,653,929) Total number of shares outstanding, as at 31 December 2017 69,074,408 As at 31 December 2017, the number of treasury shares held by the Group amounted to 1,775,516 (2016: 1,133,853). Temenos Group AG also has conditional and authorized capital, comprising: Authorized shares available until 10 May 2019 13,900,000 Conditional shares that may be issued on the exercise of share-based payment transactions 2,945,426 Conditional shares that may be issued in conjunction with financial instruments 6,607,904 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 183 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 23. SHARE PREMIUM AND OTHER RESERVES Negative premium Employee Discount arising on share on shares creation of Share options issued to Temenos premium reserve employees Group AG Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Balance at 1 January 2016 (23,783) 149,282 (205,559) (68,456) (148,516) Cost of share options (note 25) – 24,813 – – 24,813 Exercise of share-based payment transactions 139,949 – (170,253) – (30,304) Costs associated with equity transactions (242) – – – (242) Balance at 31 December 2016 115,924 174,095 (375,812) (68,456) (154,249) Cost of share options (note 25) – 32,661 – – 32,661 Exercise of share-based payment transactions 106,098 – (170,593) – (64,495) Costs associated with equity transactions (204) – – – (204) Balance at 31 December 2017 221,818 206,756 (546,405) (68,456) (186,287) Share premium The share premium primarily includes the following transactions: ·· Premium on issuance of new shares at a price above the par value; ·· The equity component determined at the issuance of the convertible bond in 2006 and the premium resulting from the early redemption occurred in 2010; ·· Expenses associated with equity transactions; and ·· Gains or losses on the sale, issuance or cancellation of treasury shares. Share options reserve As detailed in note 25, the Group has issued instruments to employees. The fair value of these instruments is charged to the statement of profit or loss over the period that the related service is received, with a corresponding credit made to the share options reserve. Discount on shares issued to employees As detailed in note 25, the Group has issued instruments to employees. When the instruments are exercised, the Group fulfills its obligations by issuing newly created shares out of conditional capital or by reissuing treasury shares purchased by the Group. To the extent that the consideration received by the group in respect of these shares issued or reissued are less than their fair value at the time of exercise, this amount is allocated to discount on shares issued to employees. Negative premium arising on creation of Temenos Group AG Temenos Group AG was incorporated on 7 June 2001. The issued and outstanding shares of Temenos Holdings Limited (previously known as Temenos Holdings NV) were exchanged shortly before the initial public offering for Temenos Group AG shares, thus rendering Temenos Holdings Limited a wholly owned subsidiary of Temenos Group AG. The number of shares acquired was 40,104,336 which prior to the exchange had a nominal value of USD 0.001 per share, totaling USD 39 thousand. The new shares in Temenos Group AG were issued at nominal value of CHF 5 which resulted in a negative premium of USD 113,538 thousand. Expenses related to the initial public offering of Temenos Group AG, and share premium items arising prior to the creation of Temenos Group AG, were recorded against this account. A deficit of USD 62,277 thousand was recorded to share premium on the cancellation of shares repurchased in 2000. This was transferred into ‘negative premium arising on creation of Temenos Group AG’ during the period ended 31 December 2001. 184 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 24. OTHER EQUITY Fair value gains Cumulative Available(losses) on translation for-sale qualifying cash adjustment Investment flow hedges Total USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 USD 000 Balance at 1 January 2016 (108,630) 63 (1,517) (110,084) Currency translation differences (17,173) – – (17,173) Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Personnel costs’ – – 1,521 1,521 Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Software licensing revenue’ – – (1,089) (1,089) Transfer to deferred revenues – – (1,020) (1,020) Transfer to finance costs – – 1,106 1,106 Net fair value gain – (45) (4,384) (4,429) Balance at 31 December 2016 (125,803) 18 (5,383) (131,168) Currency translation differences 41,196 – – 41,196 Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Personnel costs’ – – (256) (256) Transfer to profit or loss within ‘Software licensing revenue’ – – 494 494 Transfer to deferred revenues – – 1,115 1,115 Transfer to finance costs – (18) 6,041 6,023 Net fair value loss – – (10,745) (10,745) Balance at 31 December 2017 (84,607) – (8,734) (93,341) 25. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS Share options Share options are granted to executive board members and selected employees. Share options are conditional on the employee completing a specified period of service (the vesting period). The vesting period for the unvested options is a minimum of three years and the options have a contractual term of ten years. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the options in cash. A summary of the movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 3,000 $31.94 30,215 $25.08 Forfeited during the year – n/a – n/a Exercised during the year – n/a (27,215) $23.83 Outstanding at the end of the year 3,000 $31.94 3,000 $31.94 All of the outstanding options (2016: 3,000) were exercisable at the balance sheet date with a weighted average exercise price of USD 31.94 (2016: USD 31.94). No options were exercised during the year, the options exercised during 2016 had a weighted average share price at the time of exercise of USD 54.57. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 185 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 25. SHARE BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Share appreciation rights Share appreciation rights are granted to executive board members and selected employees. Share appreciation rights are conditional on the employee completing a specified period of service and are only exercisable if the Group achieves specified cumulative earnings per share targets. In case of over achievement of earnings per share targets, certain share appreciation right grants may be increased by a maximum of 40% of the original grant. The vesting period for the unvested share appreciation rights is a minimum of three years and the share appreciation rights have a maximum contractual term of ten years. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the share appreciation rights in cash. A summary of the movements in the number of share appreciation rights outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise rights price rights price Outstanding at the beginning of the year 8,480,851 $32.84 11,248,918 $23.20 Granted during the year 1,977,621 $68.97 2,217,660 $45.56 Forfeited during the year (154,000) $42.31 (125,332) $31.59 Exercised during the year (3,298,197) ($23.14) (4,860,395) $16.15 Outstanding at the end of the year 7,006,275 $46.89 8,480,851 $32.84 431,144 of the outstanding share appreciation rights (2016: 2,224,091) were exercisable at the balance sheet date with a weighted average exercise price of USD 18.60 (2016: USD 16.19). In 2016, 1,801,203 were restricted for sale until 15 February 2017. The share appreciation rights exercised during the year had a weighted average share price at the time of exercise of USD 75.49 (2016: USD 48.78). As described above, in case of over achievement of earnings per share targets, certain share appreciation right grants may be increased by a maximum of 40% of the original grant. There are no further share appreciation rights to be issued as a result of the application of the over achievement provisions from the 2015 grant (2016: nil). As at 31 December 2017 there are 4,327,760 remaining share appreciation rights (2016: 4,579,260) that may be subject to the over achievement provisions with a weighted average exercise price of USD 55.57 (2016: USD 40.38). Share options and share appreciation rights outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual lives as follows: Remaining 2017 contractual Exercise price (USD) Number life (years) 6.75-13.91 38,112 1.56 14.2-18.1 164,442 4.54 20.28-26.26 202,590 4.27 31.94-36.85 2,647,828 6.64 43.69-49.12 1,973,043 8.10 53.38-65.92 212,660 8.58 70.87-103.74 1,770,600 9.16 7,009,275 Remaining 2016 contractual Exercise price (USD) Number life (years) 7.30-10.91 54,430 2.11 13.70-14.75 1,480,795 5.80 15.21-18.65 190,434 3.09 20.83-26.26 498,432 5.57 31.94-36.85 4,021,100 7.69 43.69-49.12 2,013,000 9.13 53.38-57.07 201,660 9.63 63.1068.74 24,000 9.89 8,483,851 186 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Fair value of stock options and share appreciation rights The fair value of options and share appreciation rights granted during the period is determined using an ‘Enhanced American Pricing Model’. The weighted average fair value of options and share appreciation rights granted during the period was USD 15.99 (2016: USD 10.28). The significant inputs into the model were: weighted average share price at grant date of USD 68.96 (2016: USD 46.72), weighted average exercise price of USD 68.97 (2016: USD 45.56), standard deviation of expected share price returns of 30% (2016: 30.82%), weighted average option lives of 3.81 years (2016: 3.49 years), weighted average annual risk-free interest rate of 2% (2016: 0.98%) and weighted average expected dividend yield of 1% (2016: 1.17%). The volatility measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of daily share prices over the relevant historical period. Loyalty and Profit share plan shares 2017 2016 Number of Number of shares shares Outstanding at the beginning of the year – 168,798 Granted during the year 14,521 – Forfeited during the year – (1,178) Exercised during the year – (167,620) Outstanding at the end of the year 14,521 – Loyalty shares Loyalty shares are conditional on the employee completing a specified period of service. The vesting period is three years and there is no maximum contractual term. The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle the Loyalty shares in cash. No loyalty shares were granted in 2017 nor 2016. There are no outstanding loyalty share as at 31 December 2017 nor at 31 December 2016. Loyalty shares outstanding at the beginning of 2016 were all exercised in 2016. Profit share plan For the year ended 31 December 2017 the short term incentive plan in place for the senior management with specific bonus targets were offered a choice of receiving the final bonus in cash or 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares (with 20% uplift). 14,521 deferred shares were committed under this scheme. Other Senior staff who fall under the Employee Short term variable plan will be paid 50% of their bonus (due in 2017) in cash and 50% in shares with 20% uplift. Expense The total expense recorded in the income statement in respect of employee share options, share appreciation rights, performance and loyalty shares and the profit share plan is USD 32,661 thousand (2016: USD 24,813 thousand). 26. DIVIDEND PER SHARE Dividend is proposed by the Board of Directors and must be approved by the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders. The dividend proposed for the 2017 financial year is amounting to CHF 45 million (CHF 0.65 per share) and it is not yet recorded as a liability. This amount may vary depending on the number of shares outstanding as of the ex-dividend date. The dividend paid in 2017 related to 2016 financial year amounted to CHF 38.8 million (CHF 0.55 per share). Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 187 Financial statements NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 27. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES The Group has obligations under operating leases relating to office premises and leased equipment. The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. Payments recognized as an expense are as follows: 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 Lease expense 16,697 16,292 Sub-lease income (1,519) (1,753) 15,178 14,539 The future aggregate minimum lease and sub-lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases are as follows: 2017 2016 USD 000 USD 000 No later than 1 year 15,299 13,574 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 33,568 28,759 Later than 5 years 6,791 6,196 Total 55,657 48,529 The Group’s principal contingent liabilities arise from property rental guarantees, performance guarantees and bid bonds issued in the normal course of business. The Group is also involved in various lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings incidental to the normal conduct of its operations. These matters mainly include the risks associated with personnel litigation, tax claims and contractual disputes. As at 31 December 2017, the guarantees in issue were USD 11.4 million (2016: USD 9.8 million). Although an estimate of the future financial effects cannot be reliably and precisely estimated at the reporting date, it is not anticipated that any material liabilities will arise from these contingent liabilities other than those provided for in note 20. 28. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES Remuneration of Executive and Non-Executive Directors is described in note 9. Equity compensation for Executive and Non-Executive Directors granted in the form of options, SARs and shares is described in note 25. There were no other significant transactions with related parties during the year ended 31 December 2017. 29. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD There are no reportable events that occurred after the reporting period. 188 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS ON THE UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the statutory auditor to the General Meeting of TEMENOS Group AG, Geneva REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion We have audited the financial statements of TEMENOS Group AG, which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December 2017, income statement and notes for the year then ended, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements as at 31 December 2017 comply with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards. Our responsibilities under those provisions and standards are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the entity in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the requirements of the Swiss audit profession and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit approach Audit scope We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where subjective judgments were made; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. Our audit opinion aims to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material, if individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements. Based on our professional judgment, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall materiality for the financial statements as a whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate, on the financial statements as a whole. Overall materiality CHF 7,000,000 How we determined it 0.5% of total assets, rounded Rationale for the materiality benchmark applied We chose total assets as a benchmark to determine the overall materiality as we consider total assets to be the most appropriate measure for a holding company and is a generally accepted benchmark. We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements above CHF 350,000 identified during our audit as well as any misstatements below that amount which, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. Report on key audit matters based on the circular 1/2015 of the Federal Audit Oversight Authority We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors for the financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the provisions of Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors is responsible for assessing the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 189 Financial statements REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS ON THE UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with Swiss law and Swiss Auditing Standards, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: ·· Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. ·· Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. ·· Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made. ·· Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the entity to cease to continue as a going concern. We communicate with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the Board of Directors or its relevant committee with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors or its relevant committee, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS In accordance with article 728a paragraph 1 item 3 CO and Swiss Auditing Standard 890, we confirm that an internal control system exists which has been designed for the preparation of financial statements according to the instructions of the Board of Directors. We further confirm that the proposed appropriation of available earnings complies with Swiss law and the company’s articles of incorporation. We recommend that the financial statements submitted to you be approved. PricewaterhouseCoopers SA Guillaume Nayet Yazen Jamjum Audit expert Auditor in charge Geneva, 16 February 2018 190 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements UNCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET As at 31 December 2017 2016 CHF 000 CHF 000 ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS Liquid funds 535 6,893 Receivables from other group entities 104,555 172,844 Prepayments 309 406 Total current assets 105,398 180,143 NON-CURRENT ASSETS Long-term receivables from other group entities 170,676 270,676 Investments in subsidiaries (note 2) 1,134,683 858,304 Total non-current assets 1,305,359 1,128,980 Total assets 1,410,757 1,309,123 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY CURRENT LIABILITIES Trade payables 388 432 Payables to other group entities 412 4,229 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities (note 7) 5,689 104,750 Other liabilities 541 738 Tax payable 849 3,191 Deferred unrealized exchange gain 552 1,579 Total current liabilities 8,432 114,919 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Long-term interest-bearing liabilities (note 7) 423,883 274,362 Long-term interest-bearing payables to other group entities 154,100 154,100 Total non-current liabilities 577,983 428,462 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY Share capital (note 3) 354,250 348,106 Ordinary legal reserve (note 4) 11,749 11,353 Share premium (note 4) 70,850 132,349 General reserve from capital contributions (note 4) 150,842 189,622 Reserve for treasury shares from share premium (note 4) 149,449 – Reserve for treasury shares (note 4) 46,275 65,330 Retained earnings (note 4) 40,927 18,982 Treasury shares (note 5) – – Total shareholders’ equity 824,343 765,742 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 1,410,757 1,309,123 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 191 Financial statements UNCONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT For the year ended 31 December 2017 2016 CHF 000 CHF 000 Income from investments in subsidiaries (note 8) 12,000 15,000 Financial (expense)/income (5,446) (3,397) Expenses associated with the maintenance of the Register of Shareholders and other expenses (2,688) (3,017) PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 3,867 8,586 Taxation (580) (660) PROFIT OF THE YEAR 3,286 7,926 192 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 1. LEGAL STATUS AND PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Temenos Group AG (‘the Company’) was incorporated in Glarus, Switzerland on 7 June 2001 as a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft). Since 26 June 2001 the shares of Temenos Group AG have been publicly traded on the SIX Swiss Exchange. Temenos Group AG is the ultimate holding Company of the Group and is not otherwise engaged in trading, financing or investing activities, except as the holder of all the issued and outstanding shares of the subsidiaries described in note 2. The financial statements of Temenos Group AG comply with the requirements of the Swiss Accounting Legislation (Title 32 of the Swiss Code of Obligations (SCO)). Valuation principles Assets are valued at no more than their acquisition cost. Investments in subsidiaries are valued individually except when they are combined due to their similarity in terms of activities and geographical location. Treasury shares are valued at historical acquisition value without subsequent valuation adjustment. Gains and losses from disposals of treasury shares are recorded directly in capital reserves. Liabilities are valued at nominal value. All assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated according to the exchange rates applicable on the balance sheet date. Income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and all foreign exchange transactions are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on their respective transaction dates. Resulting foreign exchange differences are recognized in the income statement, except unrealized gains that are deferred on balance sheet as per the Swiss Code of Obligations. 2. LIST OF DIRECT SUBSIDIARIES The following are the direct subsidiaries of the Company, which are wholly-owned unless otherwise indicated (percentage of voting rights). Voting rights Temenos Holdings Limited, British Virgin Islands (holding company) 40,105 shares of a nominal value of USD 1 each. 100% Temenos Headquarters SA, Switzerland (holding and licensing company) 1,000 shares of a nominal value of CHF 100 each. 100% Temenos Investments BV, Netherlands (holding company) 180 shares of a nominal value of EUR 100 each. 100% Temenos Egypt LLC, Egypt (operating company) 2 shares of a nominal value of EGP 100 each. 50% Temenos Luxembourg SA, Luxembourg (operating company) 47,250 shares of a nominal value of EUR 25 each. 100% Temenos Finance Luxembourg SARL, Luxembourg (financing company) 37,500 shares of a nominal value of EUR 1 each. 100% Temenos UK Limited, United Kingdom (holding and operating company) 10,994,218 shares of a nominal value of GBP 0.20 each. 100% Temenos USA Inc., USA (operating company) 100 shares of a nominal value of USD 0.01 each. 100% Temenos Panama SA, Panama (dormant company) 100 shares of a nominal value of USD 100 each. 100% Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 193 Financial statements NOTES TO THE UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 3. SHARE CAPITAL As at 31 December 2017, the share capital amounts to CHF 354,249,620 and is composed of 70,849,924 shares with a nominal value of CHF 5. The shares issued by the Company during the year are set out below: 2017 2016 Value Value Quantity CHF Quantity CHF Total number of Temenos Group AG shares issued, as at 1 January 69,621,124 348,105,620 66,617,568 333,087,840 Shares issued and allotted under Employee Share Option Schemes 1,228,800 6,144,000 3,003,556 15,017,780 Total number of Temenos Group AG shares issued, as at 31 December 70,849,924 354,249,620 69,621,124 348,105,620 Temenos Group AG also has conditional and authorized capital, comprising: 2017 Authorized shares that may be issued in the context of acquisition or for the purpose of expanding the scope of shareholders in connection with the quotation of shares on national and foreign stock exchange (available to the Board until 10 May 2019) 13,900,000 Conditional shares that may be issued on the exercise of employee share options 2,945,426 Conditional shares that may be issued in conjunction with financial instruments 6,607,904 The holdings of more than 3% of the voting rights of all registered shares, as at 31 December 2017 are as follows: Martin and Rosmarie Ebner 14.09% Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company 7.25% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 4.93% BlackRock, Inc. 4.68% 194 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 4. SHARE PREMIUM AND CAPITAL RESERVES Reserve for General treasury Ordinary reserve shares Reserve for Share legal Share from capital from share treasury Retained Treasury capital reserve premium contributions premium shares earnings shares Total CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 CHF 000 Balance at 1 January 2016 333,088 11,249 – 220,795 – 16,864 59,627 – 641,623 Appropriation of available earnings: – to General legal reserve – 103 – – – – (103) – – Repayment of ‘General Reserve from Capital Contributions’ as per 2016 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) resolution – – – (31,173) – – – – (31,173) Share capital and share premium on creation of conditional capital 15,018 – 132,349 – – – – – 147,367 Reserve for treasury shares movement of the year – – – – – 48,466 (48,466) – – Profit of the year – – – – – – 7,926 – 7,926 Balance at 31 December 2016 348,106 11,353 132,349 189,622 – 65,330 18,982 – 765,742 Appropriation of available earnings: – to General legal reserve – 396 – – – – (396) – – Repayment of ‘General Reserve from Capital Contributions’ as per 2017 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) resolution – – – (38,780) – – – – (38,780) Share capital and share premium on creation of conditional capital 6,144 – 87,950 – – – – – 94,094 Reserve for treasury shares movement of the year – – (149,449) – 149,449 (19,055) 19,055 – – Profit of the year – – – – – – 3,286 – 3,286 Balance at 31 December 2017 354,250 11,749 70,850 150,842 149,449 46,275 40,927 – 824,343 The reserve for treasury shares increased to CHF 195,724,630 in line with the value of treasury shares held by Temenos Group AG through a subsidiary as at 31 December 2017 (2016: CHF 65,330,129). Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 195 Financial statements NOTES TO THE UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 5. TREASURY SHARES, INCLUDING SHARES HELD BY SUBSIDIARIES (CARRYING VALUE) Temenos Group AG holds directly or through a subsidiary a total of 1,775,516 shares at 31 December 2017 (2016: 1,133,853) that entirely may be used in conjunction with M&A, for resale or for allotting to members of the Temenos Employee Share Option Schemes. 2017 2016 Value Value Quantity CHF 000 Quantity CHF 000 TEMENOS GROUP AG 1 January – – – – Acquisitions – – – – Disposals – – – – 31 December – – – – OTHER CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 1 January 1,133,853 65,330 638,157 16,864 Acquisitions 1,653,929 187,607 938,946 61,757 Disposals (1,012,266) (57,212) (443,250) (13,290) 31 December 1,775,516 195,725 1,133,853 65,330 Total balance as of 31 December 1,775,516 195,725 1,133,853 65,330 6. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Together with several of its subsidiaries, Temenos Group AG is a guarantor under the Group facility agreement concluded by Temenos Finance Luxembourg Sarl as borrower, in February 2016 for a maximum total amount up to USD 500 million. 7. BONDS ISSUED BY TEMENOS GROUP AG In March 2014, the Group issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 100 million and a coupon rate of 2.00% paid annually on 31 January. The bond will mature on 31 January 2019 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. In June 2015, the Group issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 175 million and a coupon rate of 2.00% paid annually on 17 June. The bond will mature on 17 June 2022 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. In April 2017, the Group issued a senior unsecured bond with a nominal value of CHF 150 million and a coupon rate of 1.75% paid annually on 5 April. The bond will mature on 5 April 2024 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. 2017 2016 CHF 000 CHF 000 Bond CHF 100,000,000 – 2.00% – 31 March 2014 – 31 January 2019 99,931 99,500 Bond CHF 175,000,000 – 2.00% – 17 June 2015 – 17 June 2022 174,634 174,862 Bond CHF 150,000,000 – 1.75% – 5 April 2017 – 5 April 2024 149,317 – Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 423,883 274,362 Bond CHF 100,000,000 – 2.75% – 25 April 2013 – 25 July 2017 – 101,012 Accrued bond interests at year-end 5,689 3,738 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 5,689 104,750 Total bonds issued by Temenos Group AG 429,571 379,113 196 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements 8. INCOME FROM INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES Temenos Group AG recognized an income from investments in subsidiaries of CHF 12 million following the decision of one of its direct subsidiaries made in November 2017 to distribute a dividend in relation to the 2017 fiscal year. 9. PROPOSAL FOR THE APPROPRIATION OF AVAILABLE EARNINGS Based on the approved and audited financial statements for the financial year 2017, the Board of Directors proposes to the General Meeting to distribute an ordinary dividend in cash amounting to CHF 0.65 per share, for a total amount of CHF 45,000,000 (this amount may vary depending on the number of treasury shares and of shares created out of the conditional capital as of the ex-dividend date). This distribution shall be declared out of the disposable amount of the General reserve from capital contributions as at 31 December 2017 taking the legal form of an ordinary dividend in cash. From a tax standpoint, this ordinary dividend constitutes a repayment of part of the general reserve from capital contributions. As a result, the General reserve from capital contributions at 31 December 2017, amounting to CHF 150,842,332, will be reduced as follows: 2017 2016 CHF 000 CHF 000 RESERVES FROM CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS Balance before distribution 150,842 189,622 Repayment of General reserve from capital contributions* (45,000) (38,780) Balance after distribution 105,842 150,842 RETAINED EARNINGS Retained earnings brought forward 18,586 59,523 Transfer to Reserve for Treasury shares 19,055 (48,466) Net income 3,286 7,926 Retained earnings available for appropriation 40,927 18,982 Appropriation to legal reserves (164) (396) Retained earnings to be carried forward 40,763 18,586 * 2016 comparative has been corrected from CHF 37,668,000 to CHF 38,779,741 to reflect the actual payment made in 2017. The dividend paid was CHF 0.55 per share as approved by the General Meeting. The difference is explained by the amount of treasury shares as of the ex-dividend date. Provided that the proposal of the Board of Directors is approved, the shares will be traded ex-dividend as of 18 May 2018 (Ex date). The dividend record date will be set on 22 May 2018 (Record date). The dividend will be payable as of 23 May 2018 (Payment date). Temenos treasury shares are not entitled to dividends. 10. NUMBER OF FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT EMPLOYEES Temenos Group AG does not have any employee as of 31 December 2017 and 2016 and consequently no pension liabilities. 11. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, CASH-FLOW STATEMENT AND MANAGEMENT REPORT According to article 961d paragraph 1 of the Swiss Code of Obligations, additional information, the cash-flow statement and the management report are not presented, as Temenos Group AG prepares the consolidated financial statements in accordance with a recognized financial reporting standard. 12. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE These financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 13 February 2018 and will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting of shareholders for approval on 15 May 2018. There were no other significant events after the balance sheet date. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 197 Financial statements NOTES TO THE UNCONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 December 2017 continued 13. DISCLOSURE OF COMPENSATION AND PARTICIPATIONS AS PER ARTICLE 663C OF THE SWISS CODE OF OBLIGATIONS (SCO) Shareholdings and Equity Incentives Non-Executive Directors 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Name Position Shares Shares S. Giacoletto-Roggio Vice-Chairman 11,000 11,000 I. Cookson Member 15,500 18,250 T. de Tersant Member 3,000 3,000 E. Hansen Member 11,000 11,000 G. Koukis Member – – A. Yip Member – – P. Spenser Member – N/A Executive Chairman and Executive Committee members’ As at 31 December 2017 SARs Exercise Number of Number of Grant price vested unvested Name Position Shares year1 Plan USD SARs SARs A. Andreades Executive Chairman 752,629 2014 2015 scheme2 35.45 380,949 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 325,000 49.12 46,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 291,900 D. Arnott CEO 57,500 2014 2015 scheme2 35.45 507,932 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 432,000 49.12 66,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 354,000 M. Chuard CFO/COO 65,000 2014 2015 scheme2 35.45 253,966 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 258,000 49.12 35,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 254,300 A. Loustau CTO 3,673 2014 2015 scheme2 35.45 49,689 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 45,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 29,400 M. Winterburn CPO 3,975 2014 2015 scheme2 35.45 82,815 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 65,000 2017 2017 scheme 70.87 45,000 (1) Two grants were issued in 2014: the 2014 grant in February 2014 and the 2015 grant in November 2014. (2) The SARs granted under the 2015 scheme vested on 13 February 2018. The numbers above include the overachievement at 110.42%. 198 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements As of 31 December 2016 SARs Exercise Number of Number of Grant price vested unvested Name Position Shares year1 Plan USD SARs SARs A. Andreades Executive Chairman 1,057,134 2014 2014 scheme2 34.38 360,000 2015 scheme 35.45 345,000 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 325,000 49.12 46,000 D. Arnott CEO 409,933 2014 2014 scheme2 34.38 480,000 2015 scheme 35.45 460,000 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 432,000 49.12 66,000 M. Chuard CFO/COO 284,140 2014 2014 scheme2 34.38 240,000 2015 scheme 35.45 230,000 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 258,000 49.12 35,000 A. Loustau CTO 500 2012 2013 scheme 14.75 227,504 2014 2015 scheme 35.45 45,000 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 45,000 M. Winterburn Group Product Director 500 2012 2013 scheme 14.75 227,508 2014 2015 scheme 35.45 75,000 2016 2016 scheme 43.69 65,000 (1) Two grants were issued in 2014: the 2014 grant in February 2014 and the 2015 grant in November 2014. (2) The SARs granted under the 2014 scheme vested on 14 February 2017. No options and/or shares were held on 31 December 2017 and 2016 by persons related to the members of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee. Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 199 Financial statements FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (in millions of US dollars except earnings per share) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenues 735.4 634.0 542.5 468.7 467.8 Operating expenses (557.1) (484.8) (445.7) (350.5) (374.3) OPERATING PROFIT 178.3 149.2 96.8 118.2 93.5 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 160.9 132.1 78.1 106.3 82.4 NET PROFIT AFTER TAX 138.4 115.8 66.3 91.6 68.2 EBITDA 263.3 225.3 171.2 167.8 142.5 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (IN USD) 1.90 1.61 0.95 1.32 0.98 CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 299.7 257.6 227.2 190.3 169.3 Current assets 430.5 430.2 440.8 427.4 372.4 Non-current assets 844.8 741.3 788.2 498.5 545.9 TOTAL ASSETS 1,275.3 1,171.5 1,229.0 925.9 918.3 Current liabilities (excluding deferred revenues) 177.8 246.0 143.7 110.4 125.5 Deferred revenues 232.5 216.3 213.2 179.9 171.8 Total current liabilities 410.3 462.4 356.9 290.3 297.3 Non-current liabilities 485.4 310.0 496.8 293.6 212.8 Total liabilities 895.8 772.4 853.7 583.9 510.1 Total equity 379.5 399.1 375.3 342.0 408.2 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,275.3 1,171.5 1,229.0 925.9 918.3 200 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS CAPITAL STRUCTURE STATISTICS ON TEMENOS SHARES The registered share capital is divided into 70,849,924 shares with Registered shares of CHF 5 nominal 2017 a par value of CHF 5. Sector Technology/Software APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS Market Segment SIX Main Market Temenos expects to pay a dividend of CHF 0.65 in 2018. Index Member SMIM/SPI Swiss Security No 124 5391 REGISTER OF SHAREHOLDERS areg.ch ag ISIN No CH0012453913 Fabrikstrasse 10 Symbol TEMN 4614 Hägendorf Number of issued shares at 31.12.2017 70,849,924 Switzerland Number of registered shares at 31.12.2017 70,849,924 www.areg.ch Market price high/low (CHF) 69.60/131.80 Market Price 31.12.2016 (CHF) 70.90 INVESTOR RELATIONS Adam Snyder Market Price 31.12.2017 (CHF) 125.00 Head of Investor Relations Market Capitalization high/low (CHFm)* 9,463/4,849 Share capital nominal value at 31.12.2017 (CHFm)* 354 Max Chuard * Based on the number of registered shares at the time. Chief Financial Officer/Chief Operating Officer Key figures per share 2017 2, Rue de l’Ecole-de-Chimie 1205 Geneva Basic earnings per share (USD) 1.98 Switzerland Diluted earnings per share (USD) 1.90 Non-IFRS earnings per share (USD) 2.45 Phone: +41 (0) 22 708 1150 Fax: +41 (0) 22 708 1160 Consolidated shareholders’ equity (USDm) 379.5 E-mail: TemenosIR@temenos.com Consolidated shareholders’ equity per share (USD) 5.36 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Major shareholders of Temenos Group AG* (as of 19/03/2018) 15 May 2018 Number Percentage of voting of the share Name rights capital Martin and Rosmarie Ebner 9,983,971 14.09% Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company 5,109,271 7.21% The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3,491,249 4.93% BlackRock, Inc. 3,092,091 4.36% Artisan Partners Limited Partnership 2,180,153 3.08% * On the basis of Temenos Group AG registered capital of 70,849,924 shares and based on the disclosure notifications received. Please refer to page 101 for the status as of 31.12.2017 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEMENOS SHARE PRICE Volume (RHS) Price CHF (LHS) 1600000 140 1400000 120 1200000 100 1000000 80 800000 60 600000 40 400000 200000 20 0 0 Jan-17 Feb-17 Mar-17 Apr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Jul-17 Aug-17 Sep-17 Oct-17 Nov-17 Dec-17 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 201 Appendix TEMENOS WORLDWIDE OFFICES The following list is as of March 2018. For any AMERICAS Mexico updated information please visit our website: Mexico City www.temenos.com/contact-us Brazil Temenos Mexico S.A. de C.V. Sao Paolo Paseo de la Reforma No.505 Temenos Software Brasil Ltda Piso 15 Suite 15D Av Brig Faria Lima, 3144 – 3rd Floor Colonia Cuauhtemoc São Paulo, SP Mexico, D.F. 06500 Brazil Mexico Tel: +55 11 3568 2549 Tel: +52 55 3601 4400 Fax: +52 55 3601 4401 Canada Toronto USA Temenos Canada Inc. Birmingham 2425 Matheson Boulevard East, Suite 400 Temenos USA, Inc. Mississauga, ON L4W 5K4 850 Corporate Parkway South Canada Suite 118 Tel: +1 905 214 7600 Birmingham, AL 35242 Fax: +1 905 214 7699 USA Tel: +1 205 991 5636 Vancouver Fax: +1 205 991 5633 Temenos Canada Inc. 13450 102nd Avenue Boston Suite 1170 IGEFI US, LLC (Temenos Multifonds) Surrey, BC V3T5X3 100 High Street, Suite 1504 Canada Boston, MA 02110 Tel: +1 604 501 0331 USA Tel: +1 617 603 9400 Winnipeg Fax: +1 617 603 9444 IGEFI Canada Inc. (Temenos Multifonds) 201 Portage Avenue Lubbock 18th floor Temenos USA, Inc. Winnipeg, MB R3B 3K6 2811 S Loop 289, Suite 17 Canada Lubbock, TX 79423 Tel: +1 204 926 8590 USA Tel: +1 806 748 4200 Colombia Fax: +1 806 748 9696 Bogota Temenos Colombia SAS Miami Parque 93, Street 93A #13-24 5th floor Temenos USA, Inc. Bogota, D.C. CP: 110221 200 South Biscayne Boulevard Colombia Suite 3580 Tel: +57 1 667 2640 Miami, FL 33131 USA Costa Rica Tel: +1 305 704 5100 San Jose Fax: +1 305 704 5101 Temenos Costa Rica S.A. Sabana Norte New York Avenida 5, calle 42 y 44 IGEFI US, LLC (Temenos Multifonds) Edificio Nueva #4260, Segundo Piso Suite 2340, Harborside Plaza 5 San Jose 185 Hudson Street Costa Rica Jersey City, NJ 07311 Tel: +506 2543 1200 USA Tel: +1 617 603 9400 Ecuador Quito Orlando Temenos Ecuador S.A. Temenos USA, Inc. Orellana 500 300 Primera Boulevard Calle Orellana 1349 Suite 444 Benalcázar, Quito Lake Mary, FL 32746 Ecuador USA Tel: +593 2 400 8400 Tel: +1 407 732 5200 Fax: +593 2 400 8401 Fax: +1 407 732 5201 202 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements Philadelphia South Africa Denmark Temenos USA, Inc. Johannesburg Copenhagen 40 General Warren Boulevard Temenos Africa (Pty) Ltd Temenos Denmark ApS Malvern, PA 19355 1st Floor, Building A, Suite 3 Vibenshus Lyngbyvej 2 USA Monte Circle Office Park Bygning 5, 2.sal Tel: +1 610 232 2800 64 Montecasino Boulevard 2100 Copenhagen Fax: +1 610 232 2801 Fourways, Gauteng 2191 Denmark Johannesburg Tel: +45 8988 1332 Republic of South Africa MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA Tel: +27 11 510 0000 France Fax: +27 11 510 0001 Nantes Egypt Viveo France S.A.S. Cairo United Arab Emirates CA Nantes Gare Temenos Egypt LLC Dubai Immeuble Skyline 16, El Khartoum Street Temenos Middle East Ltd 22, Mail Pablo Picasso Heliopolis, Cairo (UAE Branch) 44000 Nantes Egypt Dubai Internet City France Tel: +2 02 2414 3886 Dubai Islamic Bank Building Tel: +33 2 40 95 36 74 Office 201, 202 Israel Dubai Paris Tel Aviv United Arab Emirates Temenos France S.A.S. Temenos Israel Ltd Tel: +971 4 391 3100 Viveo France S.A.S. Rothschild Boulevard 22 Fax: +971 4 391 3117 17/19, rue Guillaume Tell 11th Floor 75017 Paris Tel Aviv 6688218 Dubai France Israel Temenos Middle East Ltd Tel: +33 1 44 09 55 00 T: +972 732 844 513 or 566 (UAE Branch) Fax: +33 1 44 09 55 99 Dubai Internet City Kenya Aptec Building, EIB-03 Germany Nairobi Office # G-01, P.O. Box 500060 Frankfurt am Main Temenos East Africa Ltd Dubai Temenos Deutschland GmbH Nairobi Delta Corner United Arab Emirates Walther-von-Cronberg-Platz 2, Colosseo Delta Corner Tower Tel: +971 4 391 3100 60594 Frankfurt am Main Chiromo Road Fax: +971 4 391 3117 Germany 7th floor, Rooms: 702,703,704 Tel: +49 696 65 37 0 Westlands, 00800 Fax: +49 696 65 37 100 Nairobi EUROPE Kenya Grosswallstadt T: +254 730 11 2176 Belgium Temenos Deutschland GmbH La Hulpe Einsteinstraße 2 Lebanon Temenos Belgium S.A. 63868 Großwallstadt Beirut Parc du Nysdam Germany Temenos Middle East Ltd Avenue Reine Astrid 92 Tel: +49 69 66537 0 (Lebanon Branch) 1310 La Hulpe Fax: +49 69 66537 3100 Monte Libano Center 11th Floor Belgium Jdeidet El Metn Tel: +32 27252599 Greece Beirut Athens Lebanon Czech Republic Temenos Hellas S.A. Tel: +961 3 876 287 Prague L. Syngrou and Amfitheas 2 Fax: +961 1 878 653 Financial Objects International Ltd N. Smirni 17122 (Czech Republic Branch) Athens Saudi Arabia Zitna 1578/52 Greece Riyadh Prague 2 Tel: +30 211 1094 600 / +30 211 1094 601 Temenos Middle East Ltd 120 00 Fax: +30 210 6855 702 (Saudi Arabia Branch) Czech Republic Office No. 203 Tel: +420 2228 74215 Ireland Cerecon Building no. 12 Fax: +420 2 2232 7204 Dublin Ollaya, P.O. Box 250821 IGEFI Ireland Ltd (Temenos Multifonds) Riyadh 11391 No. 2 Custom House Plaza, Level 1 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Harbourmaster Place Tel: +966 1 215 0267 / 0511 Dublin 1 Fax: +966 1 416 2898 Ireland Tel: +353 1 5187400 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 203 Appendix TEMENOS WORLDWIDE OFFICES continued EUROPE continued Spain Newcastle Upon Tyne Madrid Genisys Technology Ltd Luxembourg Temenos Hispania S.L. Bede House Luxembourg Paseo de la Castellana 79, 6th floor All Saints Business Centre Temenos Luxembourg S.A. 28046 Madrid Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE1 2ES Temenos Software Luxembourg S.A. Spain United Kingdom 21 rue du Puits Romain Tel: +34 91 343 20 99 Tel: +44 191 245 2000 L-8070 Bertrange Fax: +34 91 344 70 51 Fax: +44 191 245 2001 Luxembourg Tel: +352 42 60 801 Switzerland Fax: +352 42 91 92 Geneva ASIA PACIFIC Temenos Headquarters S.A. Luxembourg 2 rue de l’Ecole-de-Chimie Australia IGEFI Group S.à r.l. (Temenos Multifonds) 1205 Geneva Melbourne 7, Rue des Primeurs Switzerland Temenos Australia Financial Pty Ltd L-2361 Strassen Tel: +41 22 708 11 50 Level 1, 850 Collins Street, Luxembourg Fax: +41 22 708 11 60 Docklands, Victoria 3008 Tel: +352 26 44 211 Australia Fax: +352 26 44 21 44 Lausanne Tel: +61 2 9488 4000 Temenos Software Luxembourg S.A. Netherlands (Renens Branch) Sydney Amsterdam Avenue des Baumettes 23 Temenos Australia Financial Pty Ltd Temenos Holland B.V. 1020 Renens Level 10, 85 Castlereagh Street ‘World Trade Center’, Tower B, Level 10 Switzerland Sydney, NSW 2000 Strawinskylaan 1035 Tel: +41 21 310 00 00 Australia 1077 XX Amsterdam Fax: +41 21 310 00 99 Tel: +61 2 9488 4000 The Netherlands Tel: +31 20 3445 010 Zürich Bangladesh Fax: +31 20 3445 029 Temenos Headquarters S.A. Dhaka Tödistrasse 36 Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd Poland 8002 Zürich Suite # 7D, 7th floor Krakow Switzerland Saiham Sky View Tower Temenos Polska sp.z.o.o. Tel: +41 22 708 11 50 45, Bijoynagar, Dhaka 1000 Al. Bora-Komorowskiego 25C Fax: +41 22 708 11 60 Bangladesh 31-476 Krakow Tel: +880 283 914 86 Poland United Kingdom Tel: +48 12 3966 223 Berkshire China Temenos UK Ltd Shanghai Romania 1015 Arlington Business Park Temenos Software Shanghai Co. Ltd Bucharest Theale, Reading Yue Xiu Tower, 10th floor, Room 1008 Temenos Romania S.R.L. Berkshire, RG7 4SA No. 388, Fushan Road 319 Splaiul Independentei, Sema Park United Kingdom Pudong new District Courtyard 1, Wing C, Ground and 3rd Floor Tel: +44 1184 021336 Shanghai, 200122 6th District, Bucharest, 060044 Tel: +44 207 4233700 China Romania Tel: +86 21 60871380 Tel: +40 31 710 22 64 Hemel Hempstead Fax: +86 21 60871378 Fax: +40 31 710 88 82 Temenos UK Ltd 2 Peoplebuilding Hong Kong Russia Maylands Avenue Temenos Hong Kong Ltd Moscow Hemel Hempstead Unit No. 5504, 55th Floor, Central Plaza Temenos Middle East Ltd Herts, HP2 4NW 18 Harbour Road (Russia Branch) United Kingdom Wanchai, Hong Kong 9 Zemlyanoi Val Street, 4th floor Tel: +44 2074 233700 China Office 4041 Tel: +852 2866 2562 Moscow 105064 London Fax: +852 2528 0345 Russian Federation Temenos UK Ltd Tel: +7 495 411 50 50 71 Fenchurch Street, 5th floor Fax: +7 495 411 50 51 London, EC3M 4TD United Kingdom Tel: +44 20 7423 3700 Fax: +44 20 7423 3800 204 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements India Indonesia Taiwan Bangalore Jakarta Taipei Temenos India Private Ltd Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd (Bangalore Branch) (Indonesia Representative Office) (Taiwan Branch) IBC Knowledge Park Indonesia Stock Exchange Tower 1 Taipei Manhattan Center Block D, 3rd Floor 15th Floor, Suite 1507 Shin Kong Manhattan Building 4/1, Bannergatta Road Jl.Jend Sudirman kav 52-53 Suite 1413, 14F, Xinyi Rd. Sec. 5 Near Dairy circle Jakarta 12190 Xinyi District 11049 Bangalore 560029 Indonesia Taipei India Tel: +62 21 51400382 Taiwan Tel: +91 80 41376000 Fax: +62 21 51400383 Tel: +886 2 8758 2338 Fax: +91 80 41121221 Fax: +886 2 8758 2333 Japan Bangalore Tokyo Thailand Temenos India Private Ltd Temenos Japan K.K. Bangkok (Bangalore Branch) 9F Shinnisseki Building Temenos (Thailand) Co. Ltd Safina Towers Private Limited 3-4-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku Bubhajit Building, 11th Floor #3, Ali Asker road Tokyo 100-0005 20 North Sathorn Road, Silom Bangalore 560052 Japan Bangrak, Bangkok 10500 India Tel: +81 3 5219 0655 Thailand Tel: +91 80 6679 7000 Fax: +81 3 5219 0659 Tel: +662 236 9391 Fax: +91 80 6679 7111 Fax: +662 236 9394 Malaysia Chennai Kuala Lumpur Vietnam Temenos India Private Ltd Temenos (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd Hanoi 146 Sterling Road Level 33, ILHAM Tower, No.8 Temenos Vietnam Co. Ltd Nungambakkam Jalan Binjai 50450 Kuala Lumpur 11th FL, 14 Lang Ha Street Chennai 600 034 Malaysia Ba Dinh Dist., Hanoi India Tel: +603 2117 5335 Vietnam Tel: +91 44 2822 2001 Fax: +603 2117 5334 Tel: +844 772 4328/4327 Fax: +91 44 2822 2099 Fax: +844 772 4329 Philippines Chennai Manila Temenos India Private Ltd Temenos Philippines Inc. (Perungudi Branch) Tower 2, Room 2715, The Enterprise Centre, KG 360° – IT Business Park; Second Floor 6766 Ayala Avenue corner Paseo de Roxas Plot N° 41, N° 232/1 Makati City, 1226 Dr. MGR Salai, North Veeranam Salai Philippines OMR Bypass Road, Perungudi Tel: +63 2 885 8441 Chennai 600 096 India Singapore Tel: +91 44 6623 3000 Singapore Fax: +91 44 6223 3001 Temenos Singapore Pte Ltd 5 Shenton Way Mumbai #18-01 UIC Building Temenos India Private Ltd Singapore 068808 (Mumbai Branch) Singapore 123, Hubtown Solaris, Tel: +65 6511 6388 N S Phadke Marg, Andheri Eas, Fax: +65 6538 0818 Mumbai 400069 Helpdesk India T: 1800 557 2877 Tel: +91 22 26820542 F: 1800 557 2977 Fax: +91 22 26820543 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 205 Appendix SOURCES 1 Gartner, ‘Magic Quadrant for Global Retail Core Banking’, Gartner, Vittorio D’Orazio, Don Free, July 2017. Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner’s research organisation and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. 2 ‘The Forrester Wave’™: Digital Banking Engagement Platforms, Q3 2017’, Forrester, Jost Hoppermann, July 2017, ‘The Forrester Wave’™: Customer-Centric Global Banking Platforms, Q3 2016’, Forrester, Jost Hoppermann, June 2016 and ‘Global Banking Platform Deals Survey 2017’, Forrester, Jost Hoppermann, April 2017. 3 ‘Ovum Decision Matrix: Selecting a Core Banking System in the European Market, 2016-17’, Ovum, Noora Haapajärvi, March 2016, ‘Ovum Decision Matrix: Selecting a Digital Banking Platform 2017-18’, Ovum, Noora Haapajärvi, December 2016 and ‘Ovum Decision Matrix: Selecting an Anti-Financial Crime Solution 2017-18’, Ovum, Matthew Heaslip, December 2017. 4 ‘Annual Sales League Table 2017’. IBS Intelligence, April 2017. 5 ‘Ubiquitous Digital for Channel Banking: Global Digital Platforms Solutions Vendors, Multi-Product Provider Edition, 2016’, Celent, Stephen Greer, June 2016 and ‘European Wealth Management Technology Vendors: Evaluating Core Banking Platform Vendors’, Celent, Ashley Globerman, February 2017. 6 IDC – ‘IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Core Banking Solutions 2015 Vendor Assessment’, IDC, Karen Massey, Andrei Charniauski, Michael Araneta, Jerry Silva, January 2015, ‘Worldwide Wealth Management Front-and Middle-Office Solutions 2014 Vendor Assessment, IDC, Thomas Zink, January 2015 and ‘IDC MarketScape: European Mobile Banking Software Solutions 2017 Vendor Assessment’, IDC, Lawrence Freeborn, May 2017. 7 Banking Technology Awards, December 2017 and December 2016. 8 FSTech Awards 2017, February 2017. 9 ‘Searching for profitability in a fast-changing world’, The 10th annual Temenos survey of challenges, priorities and trends in the financial services sector. 10 World Retail Banking Report 2017. 206 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Overview Performance Operating responsibly Governance Financial statements NOTES Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 207 Notes NOTES 208 Temenos Group AG Annual Report 2017 Design and Production Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper. www.carrkamasa.co.uk Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. This document is printed on Cocoon Silk 100; process chlorine free (PCF) paper containing 100% recycled fibre approved by the FSC®. Temenos Headquarters SA 2 Rue de L’Ecole-de-Chimie CH-1205 Geneva Switzerland Tel: +41 22 708 1150 Fax: +41 22 708 1160 www.temenos.com ©2018 TEMENOS HEADQUARTERS SA – all rights reserved. Warning: This document is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction of this document, or any portion of it, may result in civil and criminal penalties, and will be prosecuted to the maximum extent possible under law. TEMENOS and TEMENOS T24 are registered trademarks and is a trademark of the TEMENOS Group. For further details on the registered TEMENOS Group trademarks – please refer to the website www.temenos.com.
