Annual Report 2017/2018 harvest Tomorrow’s Ethics, transparency renewal and integrity 3 About the report 36 Compliance Program 5 Our brand 39 Risk Management 7 Business 41 Corporate Governance Leader’s Message 8 Now we are Atvos Local development 44 Social Energy: Shared value participative management 11 Our way of creating 46 Believing in people and sharing value and in the future Table of 12 Business model Environmental impact Contents 13 Value to society 49 Responsibility in cultivating 14 Materiality Matrix 52 Eco-efficiency in the industry Business 54 Strategy for weather changes performance 17 Productivity in the field GRI appendix 62 GRI Standards Disclosures 21 Sugarcane suppliers management 75 GRI Content Index 24 Efficiency in the industry How to use this document 27 Financial Performance Click this icon to Home Interactive access the chapters menu Click this icon to return your interest to the table of contents Commitment Arrows Check page by page Print with the members through the arrows at the lower right corner Use this shortcut to print the PDF content 30 People development 32 Member’s health Natural Capital Manufactured Capital Human Capital Intellectual Capital Social and Financial Capital and safety relationship Capital Locate, at the pages footer, the references to value generation in the six capital types of the Integrated Report Interactive menu About the report Our Annual Report, a comprehensive We have consolidated, in the GRI document directed to all the audiences Annexes section, the answers to the with which we relate, expands the indicators of the Prioritized Standards. commitment of the members of Atvos This content is organized in accordance with the ethical, fair and transparent with the themes of our materiality matrix action. The purpose of this publication and makes references to the other is to demonstrate how we conduct our pages of the report when relevant. The activities in pursuit of the strategic information presented covers the period objectives set by the Administration between April 1, 2017 and March 31, 2018 Council, adopting the best practices and the sugarcane crop year cycle. instruments to internationally minimize socio-environmental impacts and leverage This document is also our Progress the benefits of our business model. Communication (COP) for the Global Compact, an initiative promoted by the In a pioneering way, in the Brazilian UN to engage organizations around the sugar and ethanol industry, we have promotion and strengthening of ten adopted in this report the principles principles, which aim to ensure respect and guidelines of the Integrated Report, for human rights and to the decent work, a global platform supported by the protection to the environment and the International Council for Integrated fight against corruption. Our adherence Reporting (IIRC), to communicate the to the Global Compact, fully compliant breakthroughs and results achieved in with our values and principles, was the 2017/2018 crop year, with objectivity carried out in 2016. and clarity. With this, we intend to demonstrate how we create value in different types of capital, benefiting shareholders and investors with a better risk management and resource allocation. The data presented on the performance and economic, social and environmental impacts of our business are in accordance Comments and suggestions with the standards of the Global on the contents of this Reporting Initiative (GRI), an international report should be sent to organization that has established comunicacao@atvos.com recognized parameters for the reporting and communication of corporate sustainability management. 3 Tomorrow’s renewal In 2017, as we complete ten years of operations in the generation of clean and renewable energy from sugarcane, we will introduce our new brand to the market: Atvos. The renewal of our identity goes far beyond the name change. It represents a more up-to-date and contemporary position to face the challenges and the need for growth in the Brazilian sugar and ethanol sector. The orange of our logo is energetic and vibrant, as people who have eye shine and optimism to make our company one of the largest producers of sugar, ethanol and electricity in Brazil. Our name is the sum of words that translate our actions into a better world: attitude and atmosphere. We are pioneers and were born for a more sustainable future. We are a company formed by people engaged in improving the quality of life in Brazil and in the world through renewable energy. We are transparent and we are always open and willing to dialogue, with ethics in all our actions. This is the essence of the Atvos personality. Interactive menu Our brand In order to build our brand and new positioning, we conducted an online survey with the internal audience and worked for five months on an investigation and market analyzed the positioning of the main players in the sector. analysis project, structuring the brand platform and defining our new name and verbal and visual identity. The As we concluded the diagnosis of our image, we project was carried out by a creative committee formed by have identified that the sustainability of our business, company leaders, responsible for approving all work steps. our commitment to society, the courage and the determination to seek new paths are some of the The first phase consisted of the investigation of the attributes perceived and recognized by our audiences. sugar-energy sector and diagnosis of our image. At this We also understand that the capacity for achieving and stage, we performed in-depth interviews with leaders of transforming our members, the way we value people our business and with customers, partners, representatives in relationships and the strength of our organizational of financial institutions and opinion formers. Also, we culture are seen as market differentials. 5 Interactive menu With these subsidies, we carried out the second stage of the project: the construction of our new brand platform. Supported by Odebrecht Entrepreneurial Technology (TEO), BRAND which defines our organizational culture, the CONVICTION brand platform expresses our position, our personality and our conviction: people who People who renew tomorrow renew tomorrow. Guided by the brand platform, the creative committee started working on building our new POSITIONING name. The chosen one was Atvos, an abstract name that expresses our firm and daring We are a company attitude towards a cleaner and renewable formed by people tomorrow. Our orange color, which sets us with a high capacity of AUDIENCE accomplishment so apart in the market, translates the vibration of VALUES as to improve the quality people who are breaking new ground just as For companies we did ten years ago when we began planting of life in Brazil and Engaged with in the world, through operating in the sugarcane in the new agricultural frontiers. development. renewable energy. biofuels sector and The transparency with which we conduct all seeking an engaged our relationships and continuous evolution are partner and Committed to the committed to their striking in the construction of our logo. outcome needs, able to PERSONALITY provide security in Our new brand boosts the renewal of our energy and our commitment to improving We are transparent. commercial relations. people’s quality of life. It is the result of more We are pathfinders. than ten years of operations in the sugarenergy sector, a period in which we have We are engaged. matured, operationally grown and achieved striking and significant results. We know there are opportunities and new businesses to be carried out, hence we will create innovative paths and continue to be pioneers. Our TEO (OET) Odebrecht Entrepreneurial Technology tomorrow has already begun. 6 Interactive menu Business Leader’s Message The world increasingly walks towards low carbon of our relations with agricultural partners, so plantations and those of our partners to economy driven be renewable energy sources. important to our business. reach, faster, our installed milling capacity The search for innovations and new ways to of 37 million tons, which will consolidate a promote economic and social growth, with low All these advances have the same objective: to new economic and social level for Atvos, its environmental impact and without increasing the produce increasingly more ethanol and electric members and the community. concentration of greenhouse gases in energy based on raw material cultivated with our atmosphere is in the global agenda for respect to the environment and to people. We are people who renew our tomorrow and sustainable development. we know that our future has already started! Safety to our collaborators is an immeasurable After over ten years operating in the value for our company. In the last harvest, we sugar-energy industry, with boldness and endeavored to keep the best SHE (Safety, Health accomplishment capability, we noticed that and Environment) indices of the sugar-energy time has come to renew in order to face new industry by developing actions of qualification and challenges and opportunities. We adopted a awareness, in addition to empowering of leaders for new brand, Atvos, which represents our dissemination of good practices. determination and strength to break new grounds and potentiate the advantages of biofuel and Our commitment is to contribute to the growth bioelectricity we generate from sugarcane. of communities in municipalities where we operate, generating jobs and income, doing business with We believe that ethanol is the most sustainable ethics, integrity and transparence. As signatory alternative, from the social-environmental and of UN “Global Compact”, and the “Corporate Pact economic point of view, to replace fossil fuels for Integrity and against Corruption”, by Ethos and, due to that, we are ready for a leap in Institute, we are always open to dialogue with quality and productivity. society and committed with the engagement of our production chain in the corporate integrity agenda. In the 2017/2018 harvest, we invested R$ 570 million and planted 56 thousand hectares Being Atvos means to have responsible and of sugar cane, 16% more than in the previous innovative attitudes to build today, the tomorrow cycle. We implemented innovations in cultivation we want. Fully focused on the generation of results, and adopted new technologies like monitoring of we will keep on promoting balanced and long-term sugar cane plantations by satellite and drones relations with our partners, generating value to our to increase productivity. We reinforced our shareholders and to society. commitment with qualification of our collaborators and improved the excellence level in our industrial In the coming years, we will continue to invest Luiz de Mendonça units. We act in the strengthening and growth in growth and productivity of our sugar cane Business Leader 7 Interactive menu Now we are Atvos We are people who renew tomorrow We are capable of continually and dream of a future in which renewing the Brazilian energy matrix, society is driven by clean and offering ways to replace fossil fuels renewable energy. We formed Atvos, a and reduce the carbon footprint we company that produces ethanol, VHP all leave on the planet. sugar and electric energy, committed to the environment and to people. We are a company formed by people who make a difference. Every We work to build, in the present, a year, we build a new tomorrow with different and better world for the new vibration, pride and joy. We seek generations. We cultivate and harvest new technologies, invest and create sugarcane in an area of 450,000 projects to perfect our productive hectares, in four Brazilian states, processes and break new ground so with the certainty that our business that our energy can be more and generates wealth and development more present in the life of Brazilians. for the populations of the cities in which we are present since 2007. We are transparent and willing to dialogue in everything we do. In nine agroindustrial units, We know that partnerships can distributed in six productive poles, we speed up the renewal we wish, and transform sugar cane into products we are open for others to join our that generate sustainable energy to purpose, sharing the values, ethics move electrical equipment, vehicles and integrity we cultivate on a and the lives of millions of people. day-to-day basis. 8 Interactive menu How we renew tomorrow 2017/2018 crop figures 9 11 thousand agroindustrial members units who work 6 productive 25.8 Araguaia Pole poles million Morro Vermelho Unit distributed in tons of sugar cane (Mineiros) 4 states GROUND of the Brazil. Água Emendada Unit MATO (Perolândia) GROSSO 1.8 GOIÁS billion Taquari Pole Goiás Pole liters of Rio Claro Unit We have been the ETHANOL Alto Taquari Unit (Caçu) first company (Alto Taquari) MATO in the sugar1.8 Costa Rica Unit (Costa Rica) GROSSO DO SUL Corporate Office energy sector to achieve thousand SÃO (Campinas) GWh PAULO the I-REC of ELECTRICITY Eldorado Pole certificate, exported Headquarters which guarantees Eldorado Unit (São Paulo) (Rio Brilhante) the traceability of renewable energy São Paulo Pole generated from Santa Luzia Pole 456.3 Conquista do Pontal Unit biomass thousand Santa Luzia Unit (Nova Alvorada do Sul) (Mirante do Paranapanema) Learn more on page 25 tons of VHP SUGAR Alcídia Unit (Teodoro Sampaio) 9 Interactive menu Shared value 10 Interactive menu Our way of creating and sharing value We are born into a world that calls for more Natural capital Manufactured capital renewable energy and sustainable development. By uniting people and our strength, we cultivate intelligent solutions and discover new ways to To cultivate sugarcane at the new agricultural The production of sugar, ethanol and renew the future. frontiers, we depend on favorable weather electricity is carried out in industrial facilities conditions, soils with enough nutrients for the with state-of-the-art equipment. In crops, we In the 2017/2018 crop, we gathered members development of tillage and rainwater. In the use advanced technologies such as satellite from different areas to identify, in a joint and regions where we operate, we promote the monitoring and UAVs (unmanned aerial collaborative manner, how our business generates recovery and conservation of preservation vehicles) to increase productivity and reduce areas and improve the quality of the land. Thus, planting and harvest failures. The supply of value and positively impacts society in six we directly contribute to capturing CO2 from biofuel and energy produced from biomass different types of capital. the atmosphere and to minimizing the impacts increases the presence of renewable sources arising from the concentration of greenhouse in the national energy matrix, strengthening gases in the atmosphere. the fight against climate change. Human capital Intellectual capital Social and relationship capital Financial capital People are our strength to The knowledge acquired by our The strength of our brand and transparency The marketing of the products and the open up possibilities, overcome members throughout our history in our relationship with all our stakeholders trust of our clients, together with the challenges and make changes. differentiates our performance in the is the basis on which we build initiatives and operations carried out with financial The alignment of the members sugar-energy sector. The search for actions that encourage the development of institutions, promote the generation of with the values and the new technologies and innovations communities in the municipalities in which revenues and the allocation of resources corporate culture impel the in the cultivation and processing of we are present. With openness to dialogue, we according to the investment pipeline. Our conduct of business with ethics, sugarcane is aimed at increasing participate in sectorial discussions with the presence in the new agricultural frontiers integrity and transparency. productivity and quality in agricultural goal of contributing to the growth and strengthens the municipal administrations Our commitment generates a and industrial operations. Thereby, sustainability of the entire sugarcane due to the collected taxes, increasing the pleasant work environment and we contribute to increasing the industry. The credibility of our clients and the capacity of investments in services for the in which there is recognition competitiveness of the sugar-energy pride of our members reinforce our ability to population. It also promotes the development for the achievement of positive sector in the supply of renewable generate value. of productive chains, creating employment results. energy sources. opportunities and generating income. 11 Interactive menu Business model 1. 2. 3. 4. We grow sugarcane In our units, we have increased our Our products Our business contributes the new agricultural frontiers, efficiency of processes to consume benefit customers and for the growth of the sugarwith innovation and technology less natural resources and invest in the society with clean and energy sector and the generation to increase productivity development of our members renewable energy of wealth for the country Social Energy Program R$ 2.4 billions 57 thousand new hectares 5 non-taxed air vehicles 14% reduction 100% of the 86.5 thousand hectares • 74 projects pent with suppliers cultivated in the (VANTs) to monitor the in the level of mechanized of preserved areas and • 150 thousand people benefited in the 2017/2018 2017/2018 crop. sugarcane plantations harvest losses harvesting and legal reserves • 100% of the units impacted crop, promoting 500 hectares cultivated in relation to the planting operations the generation in a meiosis system, a 2016/2017 crop of value in local practice that reduces productive chains costs and expands Business R$ 448.2 million Efficiency in operations Commitment with 854MW installed capacity, 11% reduction Performance paid to 36 • 50% reduction in the shipment of waste to landfills the members which represents 7.54% in diesel • R$ 570 million agricultural • 4% reduction in water consumption per ton of • 43% of the internally of the plants supplied by consumption invested in the partners in the processed cane: 1.3 million liters saved trained leaders, generating a sugarcane biomass in Brazil in cut and 2017/2018 crop 2017/2018 crop, reduction in turnover and costs transshipment • R$ 1.1 billion in fostering • 638 thousand hours operations operating cash the generation of of training generation opportunities and • + 2 thousand members • In five years, we income on the trained on compliance in raised productivity new agricultural the 2017/2018 crop by 57% (grinding/ • Savings of R$ 3 million with headcount) the reduction of absenteeism in the last three years We can produce We are able to We are able to co-generate natural 700 thousand tons of VHP to produce 3 billion liters of ethanol, 3.1 thousand GWh sugar, a product we export to a biofuel used in compact cars and of electricity, which is countries of all continents green polyethylene enough to serve more than manufactured 15 million people. human intellectual social and relationship financial 12 Interactive menu Value to society Our voluntary commitments Our participation Our purpose of renewing tomorrow and the value that our activities and investments in initiatives Global Pact way we conduct our business help meet the generate for society. recognized by global demand for a radical transformation of research and society and the consumption model towards Our work is also in line with the ten articulation on Companies for sustainable development. The 2030 Agenda, principles of the Global Compact and themes related the Climate released by the United Nations in 2015, is we are committed to the adoption of to sustainable CiViA currently the main document proposing a practices that strengthen human rights, development transnational plan of action to put the world labor relations, environmental preservation creates on a new path of balanced growth. and the fight against corruption. As opportunities so Business Climate signatories to this UN initiative, we seek that we can identify Initiative The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (ODS to work together with society and to make global trends in (IEC or BCI) or SDG), which bring together 169 goals to be these universal and fundamental principles sustainability achieved by 2030, are the core of the 2030 increasingly integrated into our operations, and enhance our Business Pact Agenda and allow us to relate the kind of corporate culture and business strategy. strategy, adapting for Integrity them to our reality. and Against Corruption Our activities and investments AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND SUSTAINABLE CITIES CLIMATE have the CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND COMMUNITIES ACTION ATVOS potential to the renewal of a contribute commitment to the tomorrow directly and more of all strongly to the ODS: Ensuring Promoting sustained, Making cities Taking urgent reliable, inclusive and and human action to sustainable, sustainable economic settlements combat climate modern and growth, the full and inclusive, secure, change and its affordable productive resilient and impacts energy for all and employment and sustainable decent jobs for all 13 social and relationship Interactive menu Materiality matrix Our ability to renew tomorrow, MATERIAL Network Brazil creating value in a sustainable WE SUPPORT way for all the society, is based THEMES on the efficient management of risks and opportunities related AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 1. Respect for 7. Approaching human rights environmental to different externalities and Business challenges aspects that may have an performance impact on our business. 2. Non-participation in human rights violations To identify and model our activities, we have the Materiality Matrix, which DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 3. Support for 5. Abolishment brings together five themes on Commitment freedom of of child labor association which we seek to improve our with the performance and ensure the members 4. Eradication of 6. Elimination of sustainability of investments. forced labor discrimination Thus, we align our strategy with initiatives that promote the DECENT WORK AND sustainable development of ECONOMIC GROWTH the whole society, such as the Ethics, Sustainable Development Goals transparency 10. Fight against corruption and the Global Compact. and integrity DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES CLIMATE ACTION 1. Respect for 8. Environmental human rights responsibility Local development 2. Non-participation in human rights violations AFFORDABLE AND SUSTAINABLE CITIES CLIMATE CLEAN ENERGY AND COMMUNITIES ACTION 7. Approaching 9. Diffusion of Environmental environmental environmentally challenges friendly impact technologies 8. Environmental responsibility 14 Interactive menu Business performance Our contribution to the ODS Through the production of AFFORDABLE AND SUSTAINABLE CITIES ethanol and the export of CLEAN ENERGY AND COMMUNITIES electricity generated from biomass, we contributed to increase the share of renewable sources in the national energy matrix. 15 Interactive menu Field productivity and industry efficiency are the levers that drive value creation in our business model. With the application of the best agricultural techniques, planning and quality management in the operations, we seek to increase the amount of sugarcane produced in each hectare, as well as the volume of products converted from the raw material transformation in our agroindustrial units . This is how we offer clean and renewable energy, with manufactured financial competitiveness in costs and a more rational use of natural resources. Ethanol production (millions of liters) Grounding and CTT 2,042 VHP sugar production Exported electricity 34.7 34.1 1,935 1,822 (GWh) 33.3 (thousands of tons) Ground sugar cane (millions of tons) 1,402 1,282 1,181 CTT (cut, 29.3 28.3 transshipment and 559 2,155 25.8 2,121 1,779 transportation cost) 455 456 R$/ton of ground cane Hydrated 640 653 641 Anhydrous 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 16 Interactive menu Productivity in the field Increasing sugarcane productivity is a continuous years, we strengthen investments to achieve SPH and TRS evolution challenge to our business model. The growth of the performance gains in these indicators. amount of sugarcane harvested per hectare provides 128.0 129.5 129.5 cost reductions, lower environmental impacts and Our agriculture occupies an area of increased volume of ethanol, sugar and energy produced approximately 450 thousand hectares, adding the in industrial units. areas in which we realize the planting and those that are managed by the agricultural partners. SPH 77 70 (tons of cane In the last harvest, we maintained the performance of In these farms, we use the best techniques and 65 per hectare) the previous cycle in relation to total recoverable sugar incorporate new technologies, in all stages of the TRS (total recoverable (ATR or TRS) and recorded a reduction of 7% in tons of process, to ensure that sugar cane grows properly sugar) sugarcane per hectare (TCH or SPH). For the next few and healthy. 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 17 financial manufactured Interactive menu Quality of operations Our planting and harvesting operations The main benefit of this new indicator analysis The Agricultural are 100% mechanized and the members methodology is the greater visibility of the Production Meetings working on these fronts are continuously opportunities for improvement that exist in the have already resulted in: trained so that all the stages are carried stages of the agricultural process, according to the out with the best quality to increase the productivity of sugarcane plantations. reality of each pole. The new dynamic facilitates the centralized management of the activities and Increase of 46% In 2017/2018, we implemented the accelerates the technical support to the members in the application of Cana + Forte (Stronger Cane) program, who work in the field operations. correctives in the creating an integrated awareness of all roots (that originates stages of the operation to obtain better the harvest of the results for each harvest. following year) Aimed at professionals working in the field, Cana + Forte has 10 drivers Increase of 27% that must be followed in agricultural of phosphating operations. The program was born with in soil preparation, the objective of reducing trampling, which improves which occurs when machines pass on the rooting of the sugarcane planting lines, damaging plants the budding of the next cycle because of the compaction and decrease of soil permeability. In the 2017/2018 crop, trampling events had a reduction of 57% in Introduction leaf relation to the previous cycle. fertilization in 81.5 thousand In search of a new leap in productivity, we structure the Agricultural Production hectares, Meetings (RPA), which allow the alignment to increase the of the planning and quality management productivity of areas in the agroindustrial poles. areas with a greater potential The teams that work in corporate support and those in the units evaluate, in fortnightly meetings, all indicators Reduction related to agricultural operations. At these meetings, aspects such as pest control, soil 14% preparation depth, trampling occurrences, in the level fertilized areas and other quality control of of losses cultural practices are discussed. in crops 18 intellectual human Interactive menu Innovation and technology Investment in new technologies is another front in which we work to increase our productivity in the field. In the 2017/2018 crop, we invested approximately R$ 8 million in the acquisition of equipment that enables the digital monitoring of the crop, greater control in the application of agricultural inputs and better monitoring of the climatic conditions. In all agroindustrial units, the soil fertilization process started to be carried out in an automated manner, through systems that control the exact amount of inputs to be used in the area, according to the previous mapping performed by the technical teams. Without the manual operation of the members, we reduce the risk of wastage and insufficient applications and improve the conditions for the development of plants. The use of satellite imagery and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) has also provided improved quality and productivity in sugarcane plantations. These technologies allow practically real-time monitoring of crop development, harvesting information such as planting or harvest failures, presence of weeds or pests, and other qualitative data. By the end of the 2018/2019 crop, all units will have the new tools, enabling accuracy in crop forecasting. In the 2017/2018 crop, all of our units now have the Single Harvest Transhipment Queue (FUT), a technology that optimizes this operation through the communication between radiocommunication towers and on-board computers installed in the harvesters. The tool indicates the best route to be followed in the cane field and, thus, reduces the downtime of machines and the amount of tractors used in the operation. 19 intellectual manufactured Interactive menu INNOVATION IN THE FIELD Learn how we invest to be more efficient in the production of sugarcane and create value in the entire production chain Plantation nourishmet Quality of Computers and other digital operations equipment ensure the application of agricultural We monitor all agricultural inputs in the correct quantity processes, evaluating different in each area of the cane field. indicators to maximize the Thus, we have reduced the production of sugarcane costs of crop formation and in our crops. We continually used the resources rationally observed aspects related to the for fertilization and soil quality of seedlings used in the correction. plant, planned varieties, input dosages losses in harvesting, among others. Thereby, we adjust our operations to obtain maximum efficiency combined with greater agronomic gain. Planning We have a team of experts focused on analyzing data and building the best strategies to achieve Pest our short, medium and control long-term goals. In addition, We follow-up the these professionals are Technological sugarcane development responsible for monitoring operational performance breakthroughs and monitor the occurrence The use of unmanned aerial of plagues and diseases through a sophisticated vehicles and satellite imagery that can affect growth and indicator Management enables real-time digital monitoring crop productivity. By using System. of crops, which gives more agility state-of-the-art software and and efficiency in daily decisions. with the support of renowned Georeferencing sugarcane plantations research institutions, we conduct improves planting planning, distribution of chemical and biological control in seedlings and the flow of rainfall, making an effective and sustainable way. harvest more efficient. 20 Interactive menu Sugarcane suppliers management The agricultural partners are a group of rural producers who, together with Atvos, work to renew the future and to increase the supply of renewable energy in the Brazilian energy matrix. These entrepreneurs are an important link in our business model, increasing the sugarcane cultivation OUR capacity in the new frontiers of the sugarCOMMITMENTS energy sector. WITH THE Our relationship with these producers, SUPPLY CHAIN who supply raw material for our industries, We have adopted a proactive is conducted through the Strong Partners program, launched in 2016 in the first and preventive approach, with a meeting of the program, which brought dedicated team, in relation to all together all suppliers in Campo Grande commitments with Security, Health, (MS). In addition to monitoring productivity Environmental Protection and Human and compliance with signed contracts, the program has made it possible to improve Rights, qualifying and directing the environmental performance, care for people partners to internalize these issues and compliance with the legal and labor as values in business aspects of these partners. We prioritize the contracting of The “Commitment to Sustainability in the Sugarcane Chain”, signed during the suppliers close to the regions of the first meeting of Strong Partners, is the company’s operations, supporting its basis of the relationship we establish with development to that meet suppliers within the program. This driver, quality standards compatible based on the ten principles of the Global with the business Compact, strengthens the involvement of producers around important issues towards a sustainable development such as respect for human rights, fight against child labor and degrading conditions, preservation of natural areas, anti-corruption and legal compliance. 21 social and relationship Interactive menu On a semiannual basis, we performed In the 2017/2018 harvest, the agricultural Areas of cultivation contracted with agricultural the Sustainability Verification Round partners provided approximately 25% of the partners (thousands of hectares) of Agricultural Partners. Throughout total sugarcane processed in the period. They the harvest, in addition to the were responsible for the agricultural activity 49 constant monitoring carried out by in about 180 thousand hectares, counting the partnership team at each pole, on the continuous and close monitoring of 27 31 producers receive two specific visits from the teams of the agroindustrial poles for 104 51 60 a multidisciplinary Atvos team, which the development of the operations and Suppliers previous to the program assesses the adherence of the activities procedures. New suppliers 45 40 28 Planned expansion areas to the Sustainability Procedure in the 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 Supply Chain of Sugarcane. An internal document guides the implementation of the evaluation procedure conducted by our members and enables the identification of positive points, good practices and improvement points, which are addressed through action plans signed between Atvos and partners. The Sustainability Procedure is the result of our Sustainability Guideline, which guided, until the 2017/2018 harvest, the incorporation of good practices in agroindustrial units and the relationship with partners, suppliers and lessees. In 2018, we launched the Sustainability Policy, a document that improves the understanding of sustainability applied to our business and relationships. As of the 2018/2019 harvest, the Sustainability Policy will replace the Sustainability Guideline as a parameter of our management. 22 Interactive menu Development of the Stronger We have carried out We implemented We have We have 2017 Partners program the 1st Round of Sustainability the “Preliminary Sustainability conducted the 2nd Round of conducted the 1st training on with agricultural Assessment” Sustainability. atmospheric partners, Procedure of the emissions for by Atvos’ new Suppliers of agricultural multidisciplinary the Program. partners. team. February April September to April December to November July October April to June Heated local economy We have jointly At the 1st Strong We have 2016 2018 built the Partners Meeting, 36 6.4 conducted the “Sustainability we signed the agricultural 3rd Sustainability Procedure in the Supply Chain for “Sustainability Commitment in partners for million Check. Sugar Cane”, a the Sugarcane supplying tons of sugarcane document Chain” with which guides our agricultural the actions of partners. our members in the evaluation R$ 448.2 R$ 433.8 of agricultural million million partners. paid to paid to land agricultural partners sugarcane partners Data referring to the 2017/2018 crop 23 social and financial relationship Interactive menu Efficiency in the industry Our industries have grounded a total of 25.8 Produced from a renewable raw material, Power generation capacity is one of the main differentials million tons of sugarcane in the 2017/2018 harvest, the sugar and ethanol we manufacture supply of our business model. Our site The industrial structure was a reduction of 9% in relation to the previous period, customers in Brazil and abroad. In the 2017/2018 designed and built with high efficiency boilers, high capacity impacted by climatic factors such as prolonged crop, 100% of our biofuel was sold in the country, turbogenerators and plants that work with energy balance drought and frost in Mato Grosso do Sul. The result mainly serving fuel distributors. VHP sugar is fully optimization, reducing the need for own consumption. In the was partially offset by greater efficiency in industrial exported through contracts signed with trading 2017/2018 crop, the Conquista do Pontal unit implemented operations, which are focused on continuously companies, which ship the product to refineries in control processes with artificial intelligence that raised the increasing the sugar recovery capacity of the plant. countries with an input deficit. export of electric energy around 3%. The Total Corrected Recovered (RTC) indicator is The electric energy we generate from biomass, used by the sugar and ethanol industry to assess besides supplying 100% of the energy demand of Efficiency in the industrial operations the level of efficiency of industrial operations. In our industries, is a clean and renewable option that 9.7 9.0 the last crop year, we obtained an improvement of contributes to reduce the emissions of greenhouse 8.4 1 percentage point in the RTC of our units, which gases in the national energy matrix. With 1.8 represents a gain of the order R$ 23 million. This thousand GWh exported in the 2017/2018 harvest, evolution reflects the efforts and investments we make our units account for almost 9% of the total energy in preventive maintenance, equipment regulation and from sugarcane bagasse made available in the 91.7 92.1 93.1 RTC (total to increase the qualification of our professionals. National Interconnected System (SIN). corrected recovered) TAH (tons of sugar per hectare) 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 24 manufactured Interactive menu Sustainability with quality Our products are certified according to the most important The same unit has a Bonsucro™ certification, the international standards for the sugar-energy sector, which attest the standard establishing social and environmental criteria for the sustainability of our productive process and the benefits they production of sugarcane, requiring respect for human rights and bring to society. We are the first company to generate biomass the adoption of good practices throughout the chain of custody in energy to win the International Renewable Energy Certificate and order to avoid environmental impacts. In addition, it is certified by to be able to issue and transfer I-RECs to the market. International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC), a global The I-RECs are an international platform that provides large initiative for value chain sustainability. energy consumers with the guarantee of acquiring the energy The ethanol we produce meets the requirements set by EPA, the supply generated from renewable sources. US environmental agency, which awards certification under the They can therefore prove the offset of emissions from sources Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS2) program. Our biofuel also serves the of fossil origin. The Conquista do Pontal Unit, at the São Paulo North American market in accordance with the LCFS (Low Carbon Pole, was certified in the 2017/2018 crop. Fuel Standard) by CARB, the California state agency responsible for actions to control air pollution and combat climate change. 25 natural Interactive menu Value for customers In our industry, we operate with the Our certifications commercialization of commodities whose quality standards are determined by regulations and certification systems widely Morro Vermelho Unit recognized by customers. The pricing of Renewable Fuel sugar and ethanol accompanies market Standard (RFS2) Santa Luzia Unit prices, according to the supply and demand Araguaia Santa Luzia Renewable Fuel conditions of the products. Pole Pole Standard (RFS2) Água Emendada Unit Renewable Fuel Our close relationship with customers, as Standard (RFS2) well as commercial strategies and after-sales services that we adopt are differential that boost our ability to generate value and move forward in building a new future. Our units have, for example, extended hours for the Costa Rica Unit loading of trucks and, since 2016, practice Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS2) logistic scheduling, a system that allows Eldorado Eldorado Unit Taquari Renewable Fuel customers to pre-schedule the time to load Pole Alto Taquari Unit Pole Standard (RFS2) the trucks and significantly reduce waiting California Air Resources Board time in the queues. (Carb) and Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS2) The installation of an electronic flow control equipment in the ethanol loading bays is another innovation that adds value in our relationship with our customers, because it is more accurate than the manual system of Alcídia Unit measurement by arrows and scales. As the California Air Resources Board (Carb) product loading automation system, which gives more safety and agility to the process Rio Claro Unit of truck shipping and dispatching. Our service Conquista do Pontal Unit Assurance Plan by the teams also work closely to customers so as São Paulo International Certificate of Goiás Environmental Protection to provide a reference service to solve the Pole Renewable Energy (I-REC), Bonsucro Pole of the United States demands of day-to-day operations. (production and chain of custody), (EPA) and Renewable Fuel California Air Resources Board Standard (RFS2) (Carb), International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC), Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS2) and São Paulo Agro-Environmental Protocol 26 intellectual social and relationship Interactive menu Financial Net revenue (R$ million) performance The 2017/2018 crop was, as the Despite the challenges, we reached last cycles, a challenge for the whole an operational cash generation of 4,847 4,426 sugarcane industry. The ratio of sugar around R$ 1.1 billion, making it possible 4,243 3,678 in the international market underwent to maintain the investment plan for a reduction due to oversupply of the the period. We allocated about R$ 570 product, while the price of ethanol was million in our operations, 27% higher than negatively impacted by the higher supply the 2016/2017 crop, which enabled a 2015/2016 2016/20171 2016/20172 2017/2018 at the end of the 2016/2017 crop, by the 16% increase in sugarcane planting. The growth in imports in early 2017 and a by a expectation is that, with this increase in change in the taxation of biofuels, which planting, we will have a higher volume of Ebitda put an end to the presumed PIS and raw material processed in the next crops. 37.8 36.3 COFINS credit. 30.2 Net revenue for the 2017/2018 harvest In addition to the macroeconomic reached R$ 4.2 billion, 4% less than factors, sugarcane production throughout the previous cycle. Ebitda in the period, the Central-South region was lower than with no fair value effects on biological 1,834 the previous harvest due to climatic assets, totaled R$ 1.5 billion, with a 1,480 1,539 1,110 factors, such as a prolonged drought and margin of 36%, 4% above the previous frosts. According to data released by crop. Another highlight of the period was the Sugarcane Industry Union (UNICA), the evolution of the gross margin, which 2015/2016 2016/20171 2016/20172 2017/2018 grinding at mills dropped 1.8% in relation reached 22.5%, against 16.7% and 8.5% Ebitda without biological assets (R$ million) to the 2016/2017 harvest. in the previous two crop years. Ebitida margin (on net revenue) Our net debt was R$ 9.3 billion at the Indebtedness close of the 2017/2018 crop, with 2% due in the short term (2019/2020 crop). 10.3 The company’s leverage level (Net Debt/ 4.7 6.1 In the 2017/2018 Ebitda) was 6.1 times. crop, the net income was positive in 11,473 9,327 1. Pro-forma data. For better comparison purposes, the R$ 308 million, with 8,598 data consider 12 months of the co-generation operation. a cash operational 2. It considers three months of operation of electricity co-generation. generation amounting 2015/2016 2016/20171 2017/2018 to R$ 1.1 billion Net debt (R$ million) Leverage ratio 27 financial Interactive menu Our contribution to the ODS Commitment with the We guarantee decent work conditions, DECENT WORK AND value the diversity of our membership ECONOMIC GROWTH and promote the inclusion of young people in the labor market. We invest members in the graduation and awareness of our members, so that they have domain over the business and multiply in their families and communities the socio-environmental commitments we assume. 28 Interactive menu These are the people who renew the future with the actions they practice in the present. At Atvos, we form a team of 11,000 members who have the will and ability to achieve a more sustainable future, driven by a solid and consolidated corporate culture. The strength of our human capital comes from leaders who develop their teams by human positive example and recognize achievements. Distribution of members by gender MEN WOMEN 9,361 1,676 Distribution of Distribution of members by members by region time at the company of work 5.75% 2,463 11.95% 15.91% 8,574 66.39% Southeast Up to 6 months Midwest From 1 to 2 years From 2 to 4 years old Over 4 years 29 Interactive menu People development The values and beliefs that guide the specifically aimed at young people aged way our members work in the field, in the between 17 and 22 years and promotes industry, in automotive workshops and in the qualification during the cycle of a our administrative offices are expressed year and a half of training, a period in by Odebrecht Entrepreneurial Technology which participants become apprentices (TEO), whose principles and criteria are of Atvos. In this relation, besides the recognized by the entrepreneurial spirit, professionalization, the apprentices the ability to influence the actions, in are introduced to the concepts and the search for what is right and for the foundations of our corporate culture to planned delegation, based on trust in act in line with these principles. the human beings and their capacity to evolve. Our Policy on People, approved and disclosed at the beginning of the 2018/2019 harvest, is the guideline that orients the growth and development of our human capital. The Action Program (PA or AP) brings together the objectives and goals Successors mapping + Selective process TEO is practiced on a daily basis, through the Action Program (PA or AP), to be attained by members, with the agreed every year-harvest between support of a leader and follow-up of The formation of people aligned with our purpose of renewing leaders and led. It is through the PA Cycle strategic indicators tomorrow boosts our ability to generate value with the production of that we practice the planned delegation, ethanol, sugar and electricity in an increasingly efficient and higher we stimulate the synergy between areas, 2 quality way. As a further structured action of renewal and sustainability we evaluate the performance and results achieved by the members, with an open 1 NG AGR EE of our future, we started in the 2017/2018 harvest of our Succession Program, whose first stage consisted in mapping members with the and transparent dialogue between leaders N NI M potential to occupy Atvos’ leadership positions. E and led. Committed to the established PL In this cycle, we identified potential successors for 74% of key A NT pact, each professional seeks their own positions. These people are being accompanied in a Structured manner development, combining the strategic by their leaders and with the support of the company’s People team. objectives of the business with their In the 2018/2019 harvest, our goal is to develop self-knowledge MENTORI THE PA personal objectives and for their career. actions and training tools that support the successor’s preparation CYCLE 3 JUDG NG for the new challenges, putting them in a state of readiness for future This way of working, developing, and demands. recognizing people begins with our Parallel to the Succession Program and in line with the renewal Acreditar Jr. (YoungApprentice) and ME of the future in an ethical, fair and transparent manner, we worked Internship Programs, with the selection 5 NT in the 2017/2018 harvest to redesign our strategy of selecting ne of young people with bright eyes and a ASSE ME NT professionals. Our goal is to identify people who, throughout the SS desire to expand knowledge within the selection process, show the same spirit of integrity and resilience that sugar and energy sector. Acreditar Jr. is 4 we develop in our members. 30 human Interactive menu In addition to our youth entry In the 2017/2018 harvest, training programs at Atvos, we have structured hours for coordinators and managers, actions that give continuity to the engaged in the Leadership Program, Youth evolution cycle of continuous and accelerated increased by 64% compared to at Atvos development. The second step in the the previous period. For leaders training of members is the Young participating in the Operational In the 2017/2018 crop, 166 members Partner Program (trainee), which Leadership Program, the increase participated in the Atvos Youth program. stimulates young people to develop was 44%. Currently, these people occupy the behavioral skills for professional development, with courage to open new We also have internal operational following positions at the company. paths and aligned with our corporate improvement programs, such as culture. The third stage of this journey the Self-Service Training of the 9% are Managers is the Atvos Youth Program, in which Learn by Doing Program, and we Of the the participants know the challenges of our sector, followed by accelerated maintain partnerships with equipment suppliers that contribute 28% are Coordinators Current Member frame, knowledge acquisition, and are encouraged to build new solutions for to continuous improvement and safe operation. Together with the 4% are Experts 13% the renewal of tomorrow. of our S System institutions (SENAI, SESI and SENAR), we train technical and 22% are Supervisors coordinators and Youth training programs add value operational professionals, with to our business model, accelerating specific training for the activities 7% are Engineers 10%of integration and capability of members, of the sugar-energy sector. supervisors helping them occupy leadership positions in the company. Thus, we 27% are Analysts come from the Program promote diversity and coexistence among the generations, achieving a lower rate of rotation in the long-term, offering continuous challenges for the growth and professional development Atvos of people. Youth Young Partner of which Our leaders are oriented to direct the members for an ethical, fair and Internship Program 282 48% Program have participated transparent action in our day to day. In participants in the Young Partner addition to our permanent compliance Acreditar Jr. 263 Program agenda, we have training programs that aim to increase the knowledge of our 1.137 475 participants interns leaders and stimulate their performance as entrepreneurs of their business: the young Exercising Leadership Program and the participants Operational Leadership Program. *Since 2007 31 human Interactive menu Member’s health and safety Ensuring the safety of our members in all business activities is part of our fundamental principles of respect for Management of safety, health and environment The EHS Management System, called “Attitude”, is composed of 16 Elements life and appreciation of people. All our activities are performed according to Identification and Information on the standards and requirements of Commitment Analysis of Risks Products and Capability the Attitude System, which contains and Leadership and Impacts on HSE Processes Management performance indicators related to Environment, Health and Safety (HSE). Partner and Service 14 Organizational Standards and Behavioral Providers The main benefits of implementation Synergy Procedures Development Management and monitoring of the Attitude System are the rigor in procedures and focus on risk prevention, more effective than remediation of the impacts caused by accidents in operations. The awareness of all members and the close action to the leaders responsible for the presence in the field and by the leaderled dialogue focused on the behavior of RACs (standard and teams, are key to continuously improving Deployment of Logistics Emergency Verification procedure protocols Facilities and Operations Readiness and in EHS for risk activities) our operations. Processes Response Among the practices we adopt to Effective Integrity of Change Treatment Communication Facilities and management of Deviations increase the safety of our members and Culture Equipment and Losses are the safety checks that leaders 9 periodically carry out at the poles. Structuring Elements Management elements This process is accompanied by the completion of the Attitude Card, which encourages leaders to be present in the areas (pedagogy of presence) and to guide their teams. 73% 86% of implementation of compliance for the Attitude with the RACs Golden Rules system 32 human intellectual social and relationship Interactive menu On a monthly basis, leaders are Accident frequency rates* The Attitude Card evaluated according to established goals for the Attitude Card, from 1.52 is the foundation for those responsible for the operational 1.12 the implementation areas to the superintendents of the poles. Another important tool is the 0.96 and monitoring of the notification of violations of the Atvos 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 Attitude System, placing Gold Rules, nine guidelines that all members must follow in order to *The frequency rate is calculated by the number of accidents reportable every 1 million man-hours worked. leaders on the front line perform safely. to ensure the safe attitudes of all members In our Management System, we also follow-up several indicators related Accident severity rates* to the safety and health conditions 222 221 of our members and the attainment of the targets set for the period. In addition to the severity and frequency of accidents, we monitor occurrences in the transport of sugarcane, 54 transportation of members, with light vehicles, machinery agricultural and 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 support fleet. *The severity rate is calculated by the number of days lost and debited every 1 million man-hours worked. In the 2017/2018 crop, despite all the efforts and control systems, we recorded the death of a member of the Taquari Pole, who fell asleep Vehicle safety indicator* during the ride and flipped the truck 3.4 Transport of sugar cane he was driving. The event led to the Support fleet development of a pilot program for the Light vehicles evaluation of members susceptible Transport of members to fatigue and drowsiness at work. 2.02 1.92 Between November 2017 and January 1.65 2018, 50 members were evaluated 1.16 0.79 0.91 according to the process developed by the pole and corporate health teams, 0.71 0.91 based on methodologies recognized 0.72 0.65 0.5 and validated in Brazil and abroad. 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 *Calculated by the number of occurrences every 1 million kilometers driven by the evaluated fleet 33 social and relationship Interactive menu Our contribution to the ODS Our commitment to the DECENT WORK AND guarantee of labor rights and ECONOMIC GROWTH to the promotion of safe and inclusive work environments is non-negotiable. Through the Compliance Program, we ensure the systematic management of these and all other aspects related to ethical conduct. Ethics, transparency and integrity 34 Interactive menu human intellectual Our Commitment Our future is in our hands. That is why we have this commitment to our business, to our people and to the future. The path to a more sustainable future is built with ethics, integrity and transparency. This is the right way to form partnerships and strengthen relationships with our customers, suppliers, members, shareholders, governments and society. Our Commitment toward Ethical, Fair and Transparent Acting is what guides us in how we generate value and renew tomorrow. Fighting and not tolerating Being aware that deviations from conduct, 1 corruption in any of their forms, including extortion and bribery. 6 whether by action, omission or complacency, attack society, destroy the laws and destroy the image and reputation of the whole Atvos. Ensuring at Atvos, and throughout the 2 7 Saying no, firmly and determinedly, business value chain, the practice of the to business opportunities that Compliance System, always updated conflict with this Commitment. with the best references. Adopt ethical, integrity and Individually and collectively contribute 3 transparent principles in the relationship with public and private agents. 8 for necessary changes in the markets and in environments where there may be inducements to deviations from conduct. 4 9 Never invoking cultural or Incorporating the performance evaluation or usual conditions of the market in Members’ Action Programs, in compliance as justification for undue actions. with the Compliance System. Ensuring transparency in information, 5 Being convinced that this Commitment which must be accurate, comprehensive and accessible and regularly disclosed. 10 will keep us on the path to Survival, Growth and Perpetuity. 35 Interactive menu Compliance Program Renewing tomorrow and generating implementation of Compliance in Atvos Partnership in favor of integrity value for shareholders and society in is continuous and guided by the leaders’ the long-term are only possible with an performance in the accomplishment of ethical, fair and transparent action by the PA Cycle with the led. In the 2017/2018 harvest, we adhered to the “Business all our members. This way of growing Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption”, an initiative and perpetuating our business, in As part of our Compliance System, we developed by the Ethos Institute of Business and Social line with our values, has always been provide the Ethics Line, a communication Responsibility. As signatories to the Pact, we have increased present in the strategic decisions of channel that works uninterruptedly to our management through the platform developed by Ethos the leadership, guiding the relationship receive complaints about conducts to assess the maturity of integrity promotion practices and with shareholders, governments, that violate our Commitment to an provide support for process improvement. customers, suppliers, communities in the Ethical Fair and Transparent Action. Among the indicators analyzed in the first round of maturity municipalities in which we operate and The communication flow between the evaluation, we identified that our governance structure and other stakeholders. whistleblowers and the Ethics Line is practices are in the most advanced stage of scale proposed managed by an external company, which by Ethos. We have also found opportunities to improve our In 2017, following the evolution of increases the secrecy and confidentiality management in aspects such as the formalization of our society’s demands and legislation of the reports and information provided. actions to support public policies for social development regarding the implementation of and the reinforcement of the communication of our ethical compliance systems in organizations, The receipt of reports through the values, expressed in the Commitment to Ethical, Integral and our Administration Council approved the Ethics Line opens the opportunity for the Transparent Actions. The improvement in these indicators is “Policy on Compliance with Ethical, Fair improvement of our performance in that it one of the objectives defined for the 2018/2019 harvest. and Transparent Actions”, by Atvos. This contributes to direct the accomplishment Among the commitments we have undertaken is the document establishes the guidelines of continuous improvements both in our dissemination and training of our members and partners in for developing training, prevention and processes and in the members’ behavior. the value chain on the Brazilian anti-corruption legislation. awareness actions we carry out to ensure Currently, more than 400 Brazilian companies are part of the that the performance of our members One of the main evolutions that we Integrity Pact. is in accordance with the commitment carried out in the Ethics Line in the In addition to the Ethos Institute, we also act strategically made to society, with ten items to be last harvest-year was the provision in different sectorial associations that promote the followed with neither exceptions nor of an attendant for receiving the discussion about the adoption of good management flexibilizations. communications, acting in conjunction practices in the sugar-energy sector and that work towards with the electronic platforms that the development of the value chain. We integrate the councils To support our members in operating already existed (0800 website and of regional associations that are relevant to the sector, in compliance with Our Commitment answering machine). Almost 30% of present in the states in which we have units installed: Unica and Compliance Policy, we have the communications received in the (SP), Biosul (MS), Sifaeg (GO) and Sindalcool (MT). In addition, implemented the Compliance System, 2017/2018 harvest were collected we participate in the National Sugar-Energy Forum (FNS), an a set of measures that aims to prevent, through human service, proving the entity that currently brings together 16 state associations detect and remedy risks to ethical, fair benefit of broadening the accessibility representing the sugar, ethanol and energy sectors. and transparent actions. The System of the channel. 36 human intellectual social and relationship Interactive menu How our Compliance System works Channel Management Ethics Line We have increased the accessibility of the channel by hiring an attendant, allowing the report to be made directly to a person Engagement in collective actions We have adhered to the “Business Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption” by the Ethos Institute 7 We have reinforced our commitment to the civil Risk Monitoring society, such as the Development Objectives and controls Sustainable and the Global Pact, by the UN 8 We have performed the annual Detect internal audit plan to improve internal controls, policies and other guidelines Third Party Compliance 6 We have developed the due diligence process and created the supplier risk map • Over 2.5 thousand suppliers evaluated in the 2017/2018 harvest • the goal is to reach 100% of the supplier base in the 5 Remedying risks and 2018/2019 harvest strengthening controls Learn more on page 40 We have established procedures 9 and approval instances for deliberations according to the 4 Prevent risk appetite defined by internal policies and controls Communication and training We have executed an internal communication campaign to inform the rules and operation of the Compliance System to 3 Remedy all the members Disciplinary measures We have conducted a training session on Compliance with our members in face-to-face actions and through electronic 2 10 We have defined the measures to be practiced to improve the performance platforms • 98% of office members have been trained 1 of members and to prevent the violation of the guidelines expressed in our • 72% of the agroindustrial poles members have been trained Commitment to an Ethical, Fair and • the training schedule will continue in the 2018/2019 Transparent Performance harvest Compliance Policies and Governance other guidelines We have created the Risk assessment Compliance Committee and controls We have approved CLICK HERE and disclosed for supporting the and get to know our Policy on We have developed the matrix our Policy on performance of the Compliance with an Ethical, Fair of risks that allows us to Compliance with Administration Council and Transparent Performance identify and prioritize situations an Ethical, Fair We have structured the that can impact our business. and Transparent Compliance area, led by Learn more on page 39 Performance R-Compliance 37 intellectual Interactive menu 331 members trained in the offices at São Paulo and Campinas (98% of the target audience) 1,755 members trained by multipliers 265 in the poles leaders trained in the agroindustrial poles Training for members The accomplishment of training and qualification Compliance Dialogues, integrated into the Daily on an online platform and received the certificate for members on the subject of compliance was Security Dialog (DDS or DSD). The program was of integrity in accordance with a subsequently one of the main actions that we carried out in the structured and designed in the last cycle and will completed evaluation. In the 2018/2019 harvest, 2017/2018 harvest. The initiatives we conducted begin in the 2018/2019 harvest. we began to evaluate mechanisms to include the aimed to give transparency to our Commitment One of the key differentiators in our compliance completion of this training in the Action Program to an Ethical, Fair and Transparent Performance training program is the customization content for evaluation cycle, as one of the requirements for and to the guidelines of the Policy on Compliance, each type of audience to be engaged. Thereby, we variable remuneration. detail the Compliance System and anti-corruption generate value for the action by ensuring that the Another action initiated in 2017 and reinforced legislation, expose risk situations to our business topic addressed is the most appropriate one for the in the 2018/2019 harvest is the completion of the and clarify the types of behavior that are not operational reality. An example of such a strategy Transparency Form, a document in which each accepted in our performance. is the greater focus on issues such as rights to member identifies and previously communicates Training on compliance has involved around equal opportunities in the workplace, in training to Atvos situations in which conflicts of interest 2,300 members in the last harvest and will sessions for field professionals whose activities are may occur. Our leaders are advised to previously continue to be carried out in 2018, seeking to less exposed to risks such as money laundering or communicate, through the form, different types of involve 100% of the workforce. For the teams that corruption with public agents. situations such as the hiring of relatives or suppliers work in agricultural operations, the training will In addition to face-to-face training, about 2,100 with whom they are acquainted and declare their take place on an ongoing basis, through the Daily members (all with intranet access) were trained impediment to participate in decision-making. 38 human intellectual Interactive menu Risk management To support the management of operations Our risk management and the control of external factors that Risks can be classified in 4 types: may impact on the business’s ability to generate value and to perpetuate itself, we developed in the 2017/2018 harvest a matrix that identifies and prioritizes all strategic, financial, social and environmental compliance and operational risks for Atvos. STRATEGIC FINANCIAL COMPLIANCE OPERATIONAL In the process of designing the matrix, our leaders were engaged in a round of interviews To analyze them, our leaders consider several factors. and invited to evaluate the risks related to One of them is the evaluation of following impacts their performance areas, considering its probability and the frequency of occurrence, Financial Onto the company’s image as well as the size of the impact in eight Compliance About People different aspects. After this evaluation, our Regarding Business Continuity Strategic Risk Map presents those of greater relevance, supporting the definition of action plans for Legal About the environment control and mitigation. The monitoring of these aspects, as well The strategic matrix helps monitor as the management of compliance with our the main external factors that may impact our business Commitment, is the responsibility of all the members. To support this process, we carry out the annual internal audit plan, which aims to improve internal controls, policies Climate Governmental Environmental Consolidation Technological Changes in and other company’s guidelines. In line with changes and regulatory legislation of renewable changes consumption the strategic planning, the internal audit pricing policies sources patterns plan is based on the strategy matrix and for electric considers the priority risks, the financial and power accounting materiality of the processes, the generation reports to the Line of Ethics channel, as well as the results of previous audits. 39 intellectual Interactive menu Compliance Due dilligence in the supply chain in the supply chain Improved risk management processes Of the 2,500 suppliers evaluated in and process control have led to an the last harvest, 436 were classified in SUPPLIERS APPROVAL evolution in the mechanisms we use to the highest level of criticality. Through IN THE DIGITAL SYSTEM ensure compliance of our suppliers with a computerized system, we seek more the legislation and our Commitment. In the detailed public domain information 2,542 2017/2018 harvest, about 2,500 companies about the activities of these suppliers, approved suppliers that provide materials and services to to structure a reputational assessment. Atvos, in addition to the agricultural Thus, we classify suppliers in four risk partners, underwent a new approval and categories: low, medium, high and critical. LEVEL 0 risk assessment process (due dilligence). One of the differentials of this model 1,397 Suppliers approved with no restrictions The focus of the assignment is the is governance for the decision-making identification and mitigation of risks in process, involving high-risk suppliers. the chain of supplies. The first step is Since the last harvest, to achieve these LEVEL 1 to register and evaluate a compliance hirings, the leaders of the agroindustrial questionnaire answered by the suppliers poles need the approval of the Business 547 themselves, together with certificates and Leader. Critical risk suppliers, in turn, approved suppliers after reassessment other public documents. According to the can only be contracted once they are of the compliance questionnaires answers provided, companies are classified approved by the Business Leader and at different criticality levels, demanding a Administration Council. LEVEL 2 greater depth of analysis to be performed. In the 2018/2019 harvest, we will 436 continue the process for evaluation and suppliers that may present risks to our prioritization of our suppliers according business. These partners are managed to the level of criticality and degree of according to four categories. risk. Our company has more than 10 thousand partners and our goal is to LOW RISK have 100% of them included in this reputational mapping. Thus, we minimize AVERAGE RISK the risks to our operations while creating HIGH RISK hiring requires opportunities to positively influence the approval by the Business Leader supply chain towards the adoption of good governance and compliance practices. CRITICAL hiring requires RISK approval by the Administration Council 40 intellectual social and relationship Interactive menu Corporate governance Our governance COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE structure We are part of the Odebrecht Group, which operates globally in different strategic productive sectors, FINANCIAL, and we have a corporate governance ADMINISTRATION INVESTMENT structure that guarantees COUNCIL AND AUDIT autonomy when conducting the COMMITTEE decision-making process. The Administration Council has the responsibility to disseminate and preserve the concepts of Odebrecht PEOPLE Entrepreneurial Technology (TEO) AND with a view to the survival, growth ORGANIZATION and perpetuity of our capacity to COMMITTEE renew tomorrow. The Administration Council is composed of six members, one of The Compliance Committee which is independent, in accordance continuously monitors the with the criteria described in our implementation of the Compliance Policy. The work of Compliance System, through the body is supported by three a direct interaction with the Permanent Committees, which Responsible for Compliance, the R-COMPLIANCE aid the assessment of risks and Atvos leader who reports directly externalities, subsidizing the to the Administration Council. decision-making and deliberation The financial management process. processes are widely discussed in the meetings of the Finance, One of the main benefits of our Investment and Audit Committee. BUSINESS governance model, as provided by The development of the members, LEADER the leadership reporting dynamics remuneration strategies and to the Administration Council, is other issues sensitive to our the close and strategic follow up human capital, are in charge of of the business evolution by the the guidelines of the People and shareholders. Organization Committee. 41 intellectual Interactive menu Local development Our contribution to the ODS Our investments in the communities where we operate, through Social DECENT WORK AND SUSTAINABLE CITIES CLIMATE Energy, extend the commitments that we take internally with the ECONOMIC GROWTH AND COMMUNITIES ACTION economic development and the promotion of a low carbon economy. The contribution to sustainable cities and communities is strengthened by the empowerment of the Community Councils, which implement and monitor actions in each locality. 42 Interactive menu Our presence in the new agricultural frontiers of Brazil contributes to renew the future of municipalities and communities with opportunities for employment and income generation. We have a commitment to society to act collaboratively in promoting sustainable growth, making people 74 protagonists in building a world that moves with clean and renewable energy. projects We support and invest in education, culture, undertaken health and empowerment of those who since 2009 are close to us on this journey. R$ 25 million Invested by Atvos social and relationship R$ 10 million invested by partners, such as the local city halls 150 thousand people benefited 3.9 thousand people who are qualified in the communities 43 Interactive menu Social Energy: participate management The formation of partnerships with society Social Energy around common goals and aligned with our Management Community Council Thematic Commissions values broadens the positive perception Leader of the agro-industrial Culture about the presence of our business in pole and responsible for People regions where the sugarcane culture was Education and Administration not widespread until then. The impact we Productive Activities Mayor and municipal secretary generate for communities by investing in Health, Safety and Environmental projects and initiatives that meet the main Two representatives of civil Preservation local demands, adds value to the way we society conduct the company’s strategy. To guide this action model and ensure Mineiros that the investments we make are in line 9 municipalities with our Commitment with an Ethical, Fair MATO have Community and Transparent Performance, we have GROSSO Councils installed counted since 2009 on the Social Energy Perolândia Program, which defines the guidelines for the application of the financial resources destined to donations and supports to GOIÁS 2 municipalities socioenvironmental projects. Social Energy Caçu In deployment process has a participatory management structure Alto Taquari that brings together representatives of Cachoeira Atvos, local public authorities and local Alta communities. Costa Rica MATO In 2018, the Social Energy held the GROSSO DO SUL first edition of the Local Sustainability One of the main benefits of participatory Seminar in the city of Deodápolis (MS), Nova Alvorada management is the mitigation of the risk do Sul involving the local community in the that the projects supported under the SÃO discussion on topics that are important Social Energy are directed to strengthen PAULO for the socioeconomic development of local governments’ short-term platforms, Deodápolis* the region. The participants also heard losing focus on the generation of continuous about the social and environmental value and of the perpetuity of initiatives. Glória de Dourados* projects we have already accomplished In addition, the program encourages the and discussed the challenges and Mirante do creation of more sustainable productive Teodoro Sampaio Paranapanema opportunities for including the handicap chains with a potential for the diversification in the labor market. of sources of local income generation. *Initiated in the 2018/2019 crop 44 social and relationship Interactive menu Generating social value for Atvos In 2017, we conducted a survey with different audiences to evaluate the perception of the company’s image and reputation. The study followed the methodology of the Reputation Institute, which evaluates different sizes of the company’s performance and consolidates its reputation in an indicator referred to as Pulse. The results of the research allowed one to identify the value that the Social Energy Program generates for Atvos, mainly in the Citizenship dimension. The evaluation of members, partners and influencers (representatives of the company) raises the grade achieved by the company. In the municipality of Costa Rica (MS), where there is a number of projects implemented, we achieved evaluations above 80 points in all the issues related to Corporate Citizenship. The rating scale ranges from 0 to 100. The Social Energy also has the potential to improve public perception of our performance on issues related to the Governance and Ethics dimension. The guidelines adopted by the program increase the assessment that the company respects laws, rules and standards, modulating the ethical and transparent relationship with representatives of the local public power. 45 human social and relationship Interactive menu Believing in people and in 80 people have already been trained the future by Acreditar na Diversidade (Believe in Diversity) Our relationship with the communities of the municipalities in which we operate is also strengthened by investing in training and preparing people for a more sustainable future. We carry out the programs Acreditar (Believe) and Acreditar na Diversidade (Believe in Diversity) with the aim of helping young people and adults to be ready to take advantage of career opportunities in the labor market. The Acreditar program benefits the residents of the cities in which we are present through professional qualification and technical learning, even without belonging to the Atvos staff. The Acreditar na Diversidade program is an initiative to qualify and include people with disabilities (PCDs) in the labor market. The program began at the São Paulo Pole in 2016, the year in which it was recognized at the United Nations (UN) headquarters, in the “Best Companies for Workers with Disabilities” award. In the 2017/2018 harvest, the Acreditar na Diversidade was expanded to three more agroindustrial poles: Taquari, Eldorado and Araguaia. With this, three new classes were qualified in the municipalities of Costa Rica and We have been recognized as one of the Best Deodápolis (Mato Grosso do Sul) and Mineiros (Goiás), totaling about 80 Companies for Workers with Disabilities* * A recognition granted by the Department for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in the State of São Paulo beneficiaries. 46 human social and relationship Interactive menu Our contribution to the ODS We generate clean AFFORDABLE AND energy for the Brazilian CLEAN ENERGY energy matrix through Environmental our products and incessantly seek eco-efficiency in our processes. Hence, SUSTAINABLE CITIES we have assumed a AND COMMUNITIES impact privileged position for the development of strategies for mitigation and adaptation to climate change, in CLIMATE ACTION addition to minimizing consumption of natural resources and the generation of waste. 47 Interactive menu Through our operations in the sugar-energy sector, we benefit society by supplying bioenergy and biofuels produced from sugar cane, a clean and renewable source that contributes to reducing the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere. Our way of cultivating and fertilizing the soil promotes the recovery of degraded areas without causing deforestation, and it also promotes the conservation of Permanent Preservation Areas and Legal natural Reserves. With an efficient management of natural resources, our emissions and waste, we renew our own way of being. 8% increase in the by-product utilization index 5 million 4% 74% tCO2e avoided by the use reduction reduction of ethanol as fuel and In the disposal of In water consumption electricity exported in the residues to landfills In the industry, per ton of 2017/2018 harvest ground cane 4% 41% 6% reduction reduction reduction in diesel consumption for in total energy consumption, cutting and harvesting in the generation of contaminated waste per maintaining 97% of the per ton of sugarcane matrix from renewable million tons of sugarcane sources 48 Interactive menu Responsibility in cultivation Preparing the soil with care and The area cultivated dedication is the first step so that the with sugar cane cane can grow healthy and productive. With attention to details and an increased in 16% unceasing pursuit of efficiency in agricultural operations, we raised the compared to the quality level of the sugarcane crop in the previous crop new frontiers for the sugar-energy sector. Thus, we have also generated value in natural capital, especially by enriching cultivated soils and preserving and restoring natural vegetation. In the 2017/2018 harvest, we planted an area of more than 56 thousand hectares, considering Atvos’ own operations and those managed by the agricultural partners. Most of the cultivation (82%) was related to the renewal of our sugarcane plantations, which will bring greater productivity in the coming cycles with the adoption of advanced agricultural techniques, cutting-edge technologies and greater process control. This evolution in quality in cultivation is one of the main factors that will support our ability to increase productivity of sugarcane, together with the continuous improvement of performance in the management of environmental aspects. To ensure this growth in a sustainable way, we monitor different eco-indicators related to our activities in the field and industry. 49 natural manufactured Interactive menu One of these indicators is what monitors Our eco-indicators also allow us to the consumption of diesel in agricultural evaluate the use of by-products in the activities that are fully mechanized in field. This close follow-up, initiated in the planting and harvesting. The performance 2016/2017 harvest, contributed for us to have improvement in this aspect, besides the had a more favorable performance in the environmental gains, also generates cost 2017/2018 cycle, an increase of savings and more value for our business. 3.3 percentage points. In the 2017/2018 harvest, we reached a volume equivalent to 1.7 liters of diesel for each ton of cane harvested. By-products use ratio (%) Our way of cultivating the soil also promotes the efficient reuse of significant by-products of the sugar, ethanol and bioelectricity production process: vinasse, filter cake and ashes from boilers where biomass is used for energy co-generation. 22.6 20.9 Instead of being disposed of as waste, these inputs return to the field, following best practices and controls to avoid impacts to the environment. The use Preserving biodiversity of vinasse, in particular, follows all the 2016/2017 2017/2018 guidelines of the Vinasse Application Plan The production of sugarcane in our units also (VAP), developed in accordance with the strengthens the preservation of and the recovery technical standards established by the of natural vegetation and fauna existing in these environmental bodies. locations. In accordance with the environmental legislation, our own and leased areas in the six agroindustrial poles amount to 86.5 thousand hectares between Permanent Preservation Areas Diesel consumption (APPs) and Legal Reserves. at cutting and harvest (liters/ton of cane) Annually, we monitor several aspects that influence the capacity for biodiversity in these areas. We analyze the quality of the water in 2.0 the regions surrounding the cane plantations, 1.8 1.7 in addition to the survey of fauna and flora and other factors that attest that our presence in these regions does not generate negative impacts that are relevant to the environment. 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 50 natural manufactured Interactive menu Control of fires in the plantations Our harvest is 100% mechanized and we do not practice controlled burns for sugarcane cutting. The occurrence of accidental fires in sugarcane is one of the main environmental risks that we seek to control and minimize in our business model, also focusing on increasing productivity. We have an eco-indicator monitored on a daily basis that records events of this type in our areas. In the 2017/2018 harvest, we recorded 63 fires, which resulted in a ratio of 3.06 occurrences for each million tons of sugarcane harvested 33% worse than the 2016/2017 harvest. That result demanded the intensification of actions and prevention measures for the 2018/2019 harvest. Within the Attitude Management System, which covers the guidelines and protocols for the security of our operations, there is a specific procedure (RAC Requirements for Critical Agricultural Farming Activities), which sets out the guidelines for prevention and fire fighting, as well as the technical training of operators and brigades. The document defines all measures to be taken with a focus on mitigating the environmental impacts and preserving the physical integrity of the members. 51 intellectual natural Interactive menu Ecoefficiency in the industry The continuous search for greater efficiency in the industrial processes promotes diverse gains for our business model. Increased productivity, reduced operating costs and less pressure on the availability of natural resources in the regions where we are present increase our capacity to generate shareholder value and strengthen our commitment to society of working for the renewal of the productive model in the sugar-energy sector. Water is one of the main resources we use in industries for the production of sugar, ethanol and electricity. Used for cooling equipment, it is obtained by means of abstraction in underground rivers and wells, according to the granting limits established by environmental bodies. Our goal is to Each year, we reduce our need for abstraction Our actions for the rational use of water were reduce water with investments in recirculation systems recognized in 2017 at the 13th edition of the Fiesp consumption for and, additionally, by increasing the utilization Prize for Water Conservation and Reuse. The Conquest capacity of the water extracted in the grinding Unit of Pontal was highlighted in the awards with the 1m 3 per ton of sugarcane. In the 2017/2018 harvest, our project “Optimization of Water Consumption in a of ground cane total water abstraction decreased by 12% Sugarcane Energy Unit”, in which it demonstrated the compared to the previous period, mainly due to effectiveness of a series of measures implemented improvements in facilities that increased our to reduce consumption in production processes. water recirculation capacity. In the last harvest, the unit located in Mirante do Paranapanema (SP) achieved savings of approximately Water consumption in industry In the last harvest, we also achieved a rate of 222.7 thousand cubic meters. (m³/ton of ground cane) 1.06 cubic meters of water used for each ton of sugarcane processed in the industry. This All the effluent we generate in our industries is reused 1.09 1.10 evolution has been continuous in recent years, in our production process. Wastewater is mixed with 1.06 due to improvements in equipment, and our goal vinasse for application in the fertigation of plantations, is to reach a rate of 1 cubic meter for each ton of closing a virtuous cycle of environmental gains and raw material by 2021. productivity in the field and industry. 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 52 natural manufactured Interactive menu Management of residues Reducing waste generation and sending these materials to landfills is also a shipment for co-processing; and the adequacy of recyclable material 74% of the total waste priority in the environmental management of our activities. In the 2017/2018 harvest, collectors in all units. In the Araguaia Pole, these actions allowed no waste to disposed of in the however, there was a 29% increase in be sent to landfills. 2017/2018 harvest were total waste generated in comparison with the previous cycle, caused by the The more efficient waste management, destined to recycling increase in the volume of scrap, resulting in addition to reducing the environmental from the replacement of equipment in the impacts of our activities, generates industries and new projects implemented. value by reducing costs. In the 2017/2018 It is noteworthy that all this material harvest, expenses related to waste was sold and reused in metallurgical treatment totaled R$ 1.9 million. But companies and the like. as part of the materials that would be disposed (scrap, big bags, hoods of The shipment of waste to landfills harvesters, among others) was sold decreased 73.5% on the same basis as recyclable material or reused in of comparison. This performance was other production chains, there was possible due to the sensitization of the the generation of revenue in the order members to improve the separation of of R$ 1.2 million. This enabled 61% of materials, replacement of paper towels the waste management budget to be for automatic hand dryers in bathrooms, reversed in new financial resources and composting of organic waste, waste improvements to the units. Landfill residues Contaminated residues (tons) (tons/million tons of cane) 35 28 19 11 13 3 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 2015/2016 2016/2017 2017/2018 53 natural Interactive menu Strategy for weather changes Impacted by climate changes caused by an increased concentration of greenhouse gases (GHG) in the atmosphere, the world calls for more clean and renewable energy in the future. We exist to break new ground and cultivate smarter solutions, generating value by delivering products that contribute to the consolidation of a low-carbon economy. The sugarcane ethanol we produce and the electricity we generate from biomass emit less GHGs than fossil fuels and therefore have the potential to drive the growth of society in a more sustainable and environmentally positive way. In addition, sugarcane plantations and forest preservation areas absorb and store carbon from the atmosphere during their growth, helping to reduce the effects of global warming. The potential of Brazilian ethanol to reduce GHG emissions is recognized worldwide and has become one of the main topics on the Brazilian agenda since 2015, when the Paris Agreement was signed at COP-21, demanding the strengthening of biofuels in the national energy matrix. According to a study by the Ministry of the Environment, the sugar-energy sector has the potential to mitigate up to 756 million tons of equivalent CO2 (tCO2e) between 2020 and 2030, with investments in the expansion and modernization of industries and growing areas. In 2016, Brazil issued 2.3 billion tCO2e, according to data from the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimating System, created by the NGO Climate Observatory. 54 natural Interactive menu By ratifying the Paris Agreement, signed between establishing the mechanisms of operation of the countries with the objective of preventing global the RenovaBio and the 10% reduction goal in average temperature from rising more than 2ºC, Brazil CO2 emissions from the national fuel matrix, to be has committed to reduce its GHG emissions by 37%, achieved by 2028. By 2019, targets should be set By means of by 2025, compared to 2005 levels. Increased use of ethanol is one of the initiatives planned at national for national fuel distributors to reduce or offset GHG emissions from the use of fossil fuels. RenovaBio, Brazil level to achieve this objective. seeks to attain the In order to achieve the goals proposed, the Brazilian For this compensation, distributors are required to purchase decarbonization credits (CBios), 10% reduction goal government introduced, through Act Nº 13,576/2017, the National Biofuels Policy RenovaBio, which aims monetary securities that will be issued by biofuel due to GHG avoided emissions. Thus, RenovaBio in CO2 emissions to promote the expansion of biofuels. In 2018, the is the first national initiative for pricing carbon from the national federal government, through the Ministry of Mines and Energy, initiated the regulation of the program, in Brazil and will encourage the efficient production of biofuels. fuel matrix 55 Interactive menu Scenarios for carbon specification As a way of anticipating a context of carbon pricing in Brazil, we conducted an internal study in the last harvest to evaluate the possible impacts of this change on our revenues, investments and operations. Having RenovaBio as a base, we analyzed four possible scenarios in order to define the internal carbon pricing of Atvos, considering occasional taxation and the implementation of an emission trading system. Internal carbon pricing is a practice that has been adopted by companies around the world to improve risk and opportunity management and to include the impacts of climate change on corporate strategy. Following this trend, our analyzes sought to evaluate how the lowest emission intensity of GHG could positively impact Atvos’ financial capital, in addition to the environmental gain. In all the scenarios evaluated, we realized that there are opportunities for financial gains for the company, due to the capacity to reduce GHG emissions resulting from the use of our products. Our participation in forums on the topic of carbon pricing, such as the simulation of the Emission Trading System, promoted by the Getulio Vargas Foundation (FGV), has allowed the deepening of our knowledge and the sharing of experiences. In addition to the internal carbon pricing study, we have developed our 10-year emissions plan, which estimates the GHG emissions forecast for our operations over the next decade and points to opportunities for developing improvement actions. This evaluation was done by considering the agricultural plan and the forecast of expansion for cane plantations within the next ten years. 56 intellectual financial Interactive menu The footprint of ethanol carbon To calculate the CBios that each Conference in Luxembourg, one of GHG emissions in the producer can market, the regulatory the main global events on life cycle life cycle of hydrated ethanol bodies are developing a tool based analysis in production processes. on the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of biofuels, considering the emissions The ACV of ethanol evaluated resulting from the productive the stages of the production USE OF BIOFUEL processes in the agricultural process at the Rio Claro Unit and industrial areas. In 2017, we in Goiás, and identified the INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION AND DISTRIBUTION concluded, in partnership with the main aspects that impact GHG FGV, a study on the carbon and emissions in biofuel production. CANE PRODUCTION ANDTRANSPORT 7% hydroelectric footprint of hydrated In addition, the results led to the ethanol production. The assignment definition of ecoindicators to was carried out under the monitor our performance in relation 17% Entrepreneurship Applied Life Cycle to GHG emissions and the search Initiative (CiViA) and the conclusions for synergies between the different 76% were presented at the Lyfe areas with a focus on continuous Cycle Management International process improvement. 57 intellectual social and relationship Interactive menu Renewable electricity The production of electricity in our plants, the sugar cane harvest cycle industrial units is carried out by burning guarantees the supply of biomass in the biomass (sugar cane bagasse), through the sugarcane industries in the Centera clean and renewable source. As sugarcane South region of the country. sequesters carbon during its growth, emissions from this stage of the production Our industrial operations are 100% process are biogenic and therefore fueled by the energy that we generate deemed neutral. with biomass. The continued growth of this energy efficiency is relevant to our This environmental benefit was recognized, business model, insofar as it increases in the 2017/2018 harvest, with the our capacity to export the energy qualification of the Conquista Pontal Unit surplus to the National Interconnected for the issuance of International Renewable System (SIN or NIS) and expands the Energy Certificates (I-RECs), which prove capacity to generate revenue from the renewable origin of energy purchased by this product. our customers (read more on page 25). In the 2017/2018 harvest, our industries The bioelectricity generated from sugar consumed a total of 61 thousand GJ of cane has as one of its main advantages the energy. This result is practically the same capacity to increase the national energy as the one we had in the previous cycle matrix with a renewable source in periods maintaining a 97% ratio of renewable considered critical for hydroelectric plants. sources in our energy matrix diesel is Between April and November, when there used only for the moving machines in is a decrease in rainfall in the reservoirs of agricultural operations. Energy total consumption (thousand GJ) Our energy matrix 65 61 is composed of 97% of renewable sources 2016/2017 2017/2018 58 natural manufactured Interactive menu GHG emissions management One of the main environmental benefits provided In our production chain, the main GHG emissions and is an important tool for us to compare by our business is the capture of CO2 from the are caused by the use of nitrogen fertilizers our performance to other national companies atmosphere, in addition to GHG emissions that and diesel consumption, as well as production and identify opportunities for improvement. are avoided with the use of ethanol and biomass and logistics processes. In order to increase our The emissions inventory according to the in the place of fossil fuels Annually, we measure efficiency, we continuously seek to increase the GHG Protocol has been published since 2016 the environmental value we generate for society use of rail and ethanol pipelines for the production and, two years in a row, is subject to external through the inventory we elaborate according to flow, thus reducing the impacts caused by the use verification. the methodology developed by researchers from of trucks on the highways. the State University of Campinas (Unicamp) for the Increasing the environmental benefits of sugar-energy sector. We also account for our emissions according our products, generating value for customers to the guidelines of the Brazilian GHG Protocol and society, is what drives us. This is how we program. This inventory considers the period improve people’s quality of life and as, together GHG Emission inventory (millions of tCO2e)1 between January 1 and December 31 of each year with all our audiences, we renew tomorrow. C In the B 2017/2018 harvest, 4.95 A 5.39 tCO2e the net mitigation tCO2e effect of our products 1.43 and activities was + = tCO2e 0.99 tCO2e 5.4 million tons of Emissions Stock of as fuel and with to Land Use Relative emission Effects of avoided ethanol carbon in due to the production, mitigation processing, net equivalent CO2 the electricity Change transport and export (LUC)2 inputs 1. Considers the three main greenhouse gases (CO2, CH4 and N2O), and are used as characterization factors for the conversion into tCO2 and global warming potentials for a 100-year horizon (AGWP100) defined by the IPCC (2013). The methodology was proposed by researchers Isaias C. Macedo, Joaquim E. A. Seabra e João E. A. R. Silva. 2. The LUC estimates have some uncertainty due to the deficiency of soil carbon balance data. The calculation method used considered IPCC Tier 1 default factors and was improved with the latest regional data from the Harmonized World Soil Database (HWSD). 59 natural intellectual Interactive menu 6.4 million of tons of CO2 ceased to be emitted by the use of our products or were captured by our agricultural operations. Understand how this happens. 1.19 3.76 million of tCO2e ceased to be million issued because of our of tCO2e and export of electricity ceased to be emitted due to the use of ethanol we bring about 1. In the cultivation areas, the 2. After being processed in the industrial units, the sugar cane 3. The use of ethanol for moving the carbon is absorbed by sugar cane and trees growing in the 1.43 generates a large amount of bagasse (biomass). This material is burned in modern boilers and the steam moves turbines in conational fleet, in the place of gasoline, helps to reduce CO2 emissions. Plants preservation areas. The conversion million generation units, which supply electricity. Bioenergy contributes with modern production systems of lands that had other uses, such of tCO2e were to reducing the need to power fossil fuel-fired power plants, such generate ethanol with 80% less CO2 as pastures, generates a positive stored in our areas as diesel, and reduces carbon emissions into the atmosphere. emissions compared to gasoline. effect known by the acronym LUC In addition, it is generated during the dry season, strengthening (Land Use Change). national energy security. 1.8 The ethanol we One hectare of cane produce is also used for thousand GWh planted to produce producing biopolymers, ethanol has a inputs used by different was the total energy positive effect in the types of industries our units exported to sense of avoiding for manufacturing the electric grid in the and absorbing green plastic. This 2017/2018 harvest. In approximately 100% sustainable a year, this amount is 12 tons CO2 material is used in equivalent to: packaging of various • Supply 979 thousand products, pots and residences other items present on • To supply the energy a daily basis. needs of 3 million people (population equivalent to In the 2017/2018 those of Campo Grande, Our Conquista do Pontal harvest, 9% of the Cuiabá and Goiânia) Unit is certified to issue ethanol we produce I-RECs, which guarantee was destined for the origin of renewable manufacturing energy generated from green plastic. biomass 60 Interactive menu GRI Appendix 61 Interactive menu GRI Standards Disclosures 102-1 biomass (bagasse). VHP sugar is 100% Organization name exported to refineries that process the VHP sugar Atvos Agroindustrial S.A. product in their own units. Ethanol is mostly distribution marketed to fuel distributors located in 102-2 Brazil. Approximately 90% of the biofuel was 6.4% Activities, brands, products and services sold to these customers, which distribute 9.2% Atvos is one of the largest Brazilian producers of hydrated ethanol to fuel retailers and the ethanol, sugar and renewable electricity from the addition of anhydrous ethanol to gasoline. processing of sugarcane. The products commercialized The remainder of marketed ethanol serves 59.4% services serve customers in the domestic and foreign individual customers and distributors who use 24.9% Asia markets, with economic and environmental benefits the product for other purposes, such as the America recognized by customers and specialists, especially the production of biopolymers. In the 2017/2018 Africa ability to contribute to the fight against climate change harvest, the volume of sales of these two Europe by replacing fossil fuels. To learn more about operations products by region took on the configuration and products, see page 9. presented in the graphs to the side. The electricity generated from the biomass 102-3 of sugarcane, a clean and renewable source, Location of headquarters supplies the energy demand of the industrial Distribution of 102-4 units and the surplus is exported to the ethanol volume Operations locations National Interconnected System (SIN). This 8.0% The headquarters of Atvos is located in the city of volume complies with the agreements entered São Paulo (Brazil). The office is located at Rua Lemos into with marketers and distributors operating 9.2% Monteiro, 120, 13th floor. The company also has a in the free and captive markets for the commercial office in the municipality of Campinas (São purchase and sale of electricity. 10.3% 60.9% Paulo | Brazil) and industrial units located in the states of Goiás, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul and São 102-7 Paulo. To learn more, see page 9. Organization size São Paulo 11.5% Rio Grande do Sul Fully controlled by Odebrecht S.A., Atvos is Paraná 102-5 a company with operations in four Brazilian Mato Grosso Nature and legal property states Goiás, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso Goiás Atvos is a publicly-held joint-stock company that do Sul and São Paulo. The company’s assets integrates the Odebrecht Group. include six agroindustrial poles, in which are the nine units that produce VHP sugar, ethanol 102-6 and electricity. In addition, there are corporate Markets served offices in the municipalities of São Paulo and At its agroindustrial centers, Atvos produces three Campinas. In the 2017/2018 harvest, Atvos types of sugarcane products: VHP sugar, ethanol had a team of 11,005 members and had a net anhydrous or hydrated and electric energy from revenue of R$ 4.2 billion. 62 Interactive menu 102-8 102-10 Information on employees and with previous harvest amounts. The distribution of Significant changes in the organization other workers these suppliers by type of product/service and by and/or its supply chain Atvos closed the 2017/2018 harvest with region is shown in the graphs below. In the 2017/2018 harvest, energy assets were 11,005 members in its staff, relatively stable in incorporated by the legal entities of the units, with relation to the 11,121 members at the end of the no impact on the share capital. The reorganization previous harvest. Distribution of suppliers by is part of the commitments made by Atvos in the product/service process of financial restructuring finalized in June Table of members in the 2017/2018 crop 2016. With regard to the management of suppliers, 11.7% the homologation process started to count on by labor contract1 5.7% a specific questionnaire for due diligence of the Indefinite time Definite time 28.8% companies. For more information, see page 40. By gender 8.4% Men 9,222 121 102-11 Women 1,548 114 Approach to the precautionary principle TOTAL 10,770 235 10.2% Atvos’ activities do not generate any risk of serious By region and irreversible environmental impact. Through Southeast 2,371 75 19.9% 15.3% the health, safety and environment management Midwest 8,399 160 model, referred to as the Attitude System, and the TOTAL 10,770 235 Inputs Services in general risk matrix of the company, all potential risks to the 1. Considers members, apprentices and Young Partners. Sugarcane Transport 1. Agricultural and environment are avoided or mitigated. industrial equipment, Logistic services leasing of agricultural Materials machinery and 102-12 Agricultural services equipment and services Other1 of machinery and External initiatives equipment. 102-9 In the 2017/2018 harvest, Atvos adhered to the Ethos Supply chain Institute’s Integrity and Anti-Corruption Business Atvos’ supplier management is structured on two Pact. The commitment triggered a broad internal fronts. A specific team is assigned to monitor the process of engagement and evaluation in relation agricultural partners, who deliver the sugarcane Distribution of suppliers to the company’s maturity in the areas proposed by by region in the company’s plants. In the 2017/2018 the Pact. As a result, the goal of improving Atvos’ harvest, Atvos had 36 partners, who produced 1.5% performance across the 13 indicators assessed 6.0% 6.4 million tons of sugarcane and generated by the initiative was formally included among the expenditures of around R$ 448 million. In addition Business Leader goals. to these, the partnership program also includes Throughout the harvest, the company maintained its land partners, whose 1.2 thousand contracts participation in the Global Pact and on the business 34.9% in the harvest totaled R$ 434 million. For more 57.6% initiatives of the Sustainability Studies Center of information on the agricultural partnership EAESP-FGV (GVCes). Within the scope of the Global program, see page 21.The other companies that Pact, Atvos participates in the thematic groups provide products and services for Atvos are on Agriculture and Food, Energy and Climate and corporately managed by the Supply area. In the Sustainable Development Objectives. At GVCes, last Southeast 2017/2018 harvest, payments made to the 3,000 year’s efforts were targeted at life cycle (CiVia) and Midwest contracted suppliers totaled R$ 2.4 billion, in line South carbon pricing (EPC) initiatives. Other regions 63 Interactive menu 102-13 102-17 102-42 Participation in associations Mechanisms for guidelines and Process of identification and Throughout the last harvest, Atvos maintained complaints related to ethical conduct selection of stakeholders its commitment to the main sector entities and The Ethics Line, available to all Atvos’ 102-43 the regions in which it operates. The company stakeholders, is the channel for the referral of Approach for engaging stakeholders integrates working groups and the governance doubts, concerns and complaints related to 102-44 of the Association of Bioenergy Producers of compliance with company laws and guidelines. Main topics and concerns raised Mato Grosso (Biosul), the Union of the Ethanol Managed by an external company, the by stakeholders Manufacturing Industry of the State of Goiás mechanism allows anonymous manifestations The engagement with Atvos’s various (Sifaeg), the Union of Sugar and Alcohol Industries to be carried out and ensures confidentiality stakeholders is carried out in different of the state of Mato Grosso (Sindalcool) and and non-retaliation. areas, based on the business demands and the Sugar Cane Industry Union (Unica). It also The channel is available through the expectations of these audiences. Corporately, has a representative in the steering committee institutional website (in two languages) the company conducts a reputation research of the National Sugar and Energy Forum (FNS) and by telephone 0800 721 8434. with its stakeholders. The last edition was in and follows the discussions within the scope of For more information, see page 36. the first quarter of 2017 and the next one is the National Confederation of Industry (CNI), scheduled for 2018. The results of this research the Parliamentary Front for the Valuation of the 102-18 are used to design actions and initiatives Sugarcane Sector in the National Congress of the Governance structure in the seven evaluated attributes: products Institute for Studies of Industrial Development Atvos’ Administration Council is composed and services, innovation, work environment, (Udop) and the Ethanol Supply Monitoring of six members, one of them independent. governance and ethics, citizenship, leadership Committee (WEMA). The body has three permanent advisory and management and financial performance. committees: Finance, Investments and Audit; Among the other mechanisms of engagement, 102-14 People and Organization; and Compliance. the following stand out: Statement of the highest executive For more information, see page 41. • Members: monthly Coffee with the Leadership Refer to page 7 to read the Atvos Business in the units, in which the professionals discuss Leader message. 102-40 the main aspects of the business with the List of stakeholder groups leader of the locality. 102-15 Atvos’s main stakeholders are its members, • Communities: the development of the Social Main impacts, risks and opportunities customers, agricultural partners and Energy Community Councils gather regional The elaboration of the corporate risk matrix of suppliers, as well as community leaders and leaders and Atvos representatives to prioritize Atvos in the 2017/2018 harvest prioritized the representatives of local governments, NGOs, the demands of social investment in each main impacts generated by the company and the universities and the press. municipality. factors that may affect its business. For more • Agricultural partners: regular visits from information, see page 39. 102-41 teams to monitor the activities of partners Collective and promote the Stronger Partners Meeting, 102-16 negotiation agreements aiming at the continuous improvement of Values, principles, rules and standards of All Atvos members are covered by collective performance. conduct negotiation agreements. The latest engagement process specifically The principles of the Odebrecht Entrepreneurial focused on defining the content of the report Technology (TEO) and the Policy on Compliance was conducted in 2015, through an on-line with an Ethical, Fair and Transparent performance inquiry to stakeholders. The result of this are the main drivers of Atvos’ conduct. For more initiative was the definition of five material information, refer to page 36. themes that guide the Atvos Annual Report. 64 Interactive menu 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 102-50 Reported period Management financial statements Atvos Annual Report covers the following entities: The Annual Report covers the crop year 2017/2018, which runs from April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018. approach Agro Energia Santa Luzia S.A.; Brenco Companhia Brasileira de Energia Renovável S.A.; Destilaria 102-51 Alcídia S.A.; Rio Claro Agroindustrial S.A.; Usina Date of the most recent report published 103-1 Eldorado S.A.; and Usina Conquista do Pontal The last report was published in 2017, referring Explanation of the material theme S.A. In addition to these, the company’s financial to the 2016/2017 harvest. and its Boundary statements also include subsidiaries Odebrecht 103-2 Agroindustrail International Corp., Pontal 102-52 Management approach and its components Agropecuária S.A. and OER Mineiros Energia S.A. Report cycle 103-3 Atvos annually publishes its report on accountability Evaluation of the management approach 102-46 in aspects of business sustainability. The management of material themes Process of defining the content of the report for Atvos is presented in the Annual Report. Refer and limits of the material themes 102-53 to the pages as indicated in the table below to The material themes, which guide the content of Contact point for questions related learn more about the policies, practices, results the Annual Report of Atvos, were defined by a to the report and progress achieved by the company. process of materiality developed in 2015, which Doubts, comments and suggestions about the involved external audiences and the prioritization Atvos Annual Report can be sent to Material theme of aspects in relation to corporate strategy. comunicacao.agroindustrial@atvos.com Get to know the management For more information on the preparation of the Materiality Matrix, refer to the 2015/2016 102-54 Business Pages 15 to 27 performance Harvest Annual Report, available at http://ra2016. Reporting statements in accordance with GRI odebrechtagroindustrial.com/. Standards Commitment with Pages 28 to 33 This report has been prepared in accordance with the members 102-47 the GRI Standards: Essential option. Ethics, transparency Pages 34 to 41 List of material topics and integrity The material themes of Atvos are: Business 102-55 Local Pages 42 to 46 performance, Commitment to members, Ethics, GRI content index development transparency and integrity, Local development The content summary of GRI is presented Environmental impact Pages 47 to 60 and Environmental impact. between pages 75 and 77. 102-48 102-56 Re-submission of information External assurance No information has been re-submitted. Only the economic-financial data went through external and independent verification. The 102-49 information that meets the prioritized GRI Changes in the report process indicators has been validated by the technical There was no change in the scope or limits of and administrative areas of Atvos. the material themes of the report. 65 Interactive menu Business performance 201-1 Distributed and generated direct economic 308-1 Statement of Value Added New suppliers whose selection criteria 2017/2018 2016/20171 2015/2016 included environmental criteria Generated direct economic value Tempo determinado 414-1 Sales of goods, products and services 4,737,135 5,270,267 4,201,955 New suppliers whose selection process Inputs acquired from third parties (1,815,465) (2,198,691) (1,874,222) included social Gross added value 2,921,670 3,071,576 2,327,733 All agricultural partners undergo assessments Depreciation, amortization and exhaustion (1,416,442) (1,679,421) (1,332,672) related to socio-environmental criteria. This Net added value 1,505,228 1,392,155 995,062 monitoring is already started in the selection Added value received upon transfer 105,540 700,140 833,054 of partners and continued throughout the Total added value to be distributed 1,610,768 2,092,285 1,828,115 performance period, through the Stronger Distributed economic value Partners Program. In the 2017/2018 harvest, People and charges 833,592 785,744 836,095 14 new partners were hired, contributing Government and society (taxes, fees and contributions) 511,016 326,624 169,967 to the expansion of cultivated areas in a Assignment of fiscal losses (federal taxes)² (1,626,774) responsible manner. Financers (interest and rents) 1,584,629 2,562,568 2,568,995 For the other suppliers, the approval Profit (loss) in the year 293,994 (1,579,806) (1,744,613) process verifies the legal compliance of Non-controllers participation 14,311 (2,835) (2,329) the companies before their contracting, especially in aspects related to labor and tax 1. Considers 12 months of the co-generation operation. 2. Tax losses under the rules established in the Tax Regularization Program obligations and environmental licensing, when (PRT) and Special Tax Regularization Program (PERT) established by 204-1 applicable. Implemented in the 2015/2016 Provisional Measure 766/2017 and Act 13,496/17. Expenditure ratio on local suppliers harvest, the system has been consolidating: The percentage of expenses with local suppliers the percentage of contracted suppliers that (located at the same state of Atvos’ agroindustrial went through this evaluation was 66.8% in units) was 55.4% in the 2017/2018 harvest, the last period, compared to 42.1% in the compared to 54.7% in 2016/2017. 2016/2017 harvest. 66 Interactive menu Commitment with the members 401-1 Number of hirings and dismissals1 Hiring and rotativity (turnover) rate In the last period, Atvos’ turnover rate was 2017/2018 2016/2017 13.76%, above 12.10% recorded in the 2016/2017 Hiring Dismissals Hiring Dismissals Tempo determinado harvest. This increase occurred mainly among By gender the leaders of the agroindustrial units, as Men 1,619 1,605 1,704 1,790 the company is at a time of reviewing the Women 293 304 360 411 professional profile for these positions. As the TOTAL 1,912 1,909 2,064 2,201 new positioning adopted by the company aims to By age group increase the operational quality, it was necessary Up to 30 years 897 600 1,137 1,037 to seek professionals more aligned to this Between 30 and 50 years 928 1,141 851 1,032 strategic focus. Over 50 years 87 168 76 132 TOTAL 1,912 1,909 2,064 2,201 By region Southeast 285 300 361 420 Midwest 1,627 1,609 1,703 1,781 TOTAL 1,912 1,909 2,064 2,201 1. It considers only professionals with an indefinite contract (members and Young Partners) and does not consider layoffs due to cash reduction. Hiring and rotativity rates 2017/2018 2016/2017 Hiring 1 Rotativity 2 Hiring 1 Rotativity2 Tempo determinado By gender Men 85% 11.57% 83% 9.77% Women 15% 2.19% 17% 2.29% TOTAL 100% 13.76% 100% 12.06% By age group Up to 30 years 47% 4.33% 55% 5.7% Between 30 and 50 years 49% 8.23% 41% 5.7% Over 50 years 5% 1.21% 4% 0.7% TOTAL 100% 13.76% 100% 12.10% By region Southeast 15% 2.16% 17% 2.3% Midwest 85% 11.60% 83% 9.8% TOTAL 100% 13.76% 100% 12.10% 1. Number of hirings in the category/total of hirings in the period. It considers only 2. Number of layoffs/average headcount. It considers only professionals with an professionals with an indefinite contract (members and Young Partners) and does indefinite contract (members and Young Partners) and does not consider layoffs not consider layoffs due to cash reduction. due to cash reduction. 67 Interactive menu 403-2 Types of injuries and injury rates, occupational Health and safety indicators for members Safety and health indicators of third parties diseases, lost days and absenteeism; and in the 2017/2018 harvest1 in the 2017/2018 harvest1 number of casualties Men Women Men Women Accident frequency and severity rates are Accident frequency rate 2 1.25 0.14 Accident frequency rate 2 0.49 0.00 continuously monitored by the Environment, Accident severity rate3 103 152 Accident severity rate3 20 0 Health and Safety (EHS) teams, both in the Absenteeism rate4 135 60 1. No cases of occupational diseases have been reported. consolidated and segmented view between 2. The frequency rate is calculated by the number of accidents reportable 1. No cases of occupational diseases have been reported. members and third parties. 2. The frequency rate is calculated by the number of accidents reportable every 1 million man-hours worked. 3. The severity rate is calculated by the number of days lost and debited In the last harvest, the consolidated attendance every 1 million man-hours worked. every 1 million man-hours worked. 3. The severity rate is calculated by the number of days lost and debited rate was 1.12, above the target of 0.90, mainly due every 1 million man-hours worked. to occurrences in the off-season. The severity rate, 4. The absenteeism rate is calculated by the days lost per medical report at each 1,000 Members. in turn, ended the year in 221, impacted by the fatal accident of a member from the Taquari Pole. The professional drove a truck and fell asleep during the trip, causing the vehicle to tilt. The occurrence led to the creation of a pilot program for the assessment of individuals susceptible to fatigue and drowsiness at work. 404-1 Average annual training hours per employee In the 2017/2018 harvest, more than 638 thousand training hours were promoted, totaling an average of 58 hours per member. Average hours of training per member in each functional category1 2017/2018 2016/2017 2015/2016 Men Women Men Women Men Women Tempo determinado Directors 6.1 11.0 4.4 na 5.2 na Managers and coordinators 32.1 33.0 35.1 33.6 32.3 18.7 Technicians 51.0 33.4 46.1 33.3 55.5 29.1 Administrative 23.9 21.3 42.7 38.3 24.9 14.0 Operational Leaders 75.1 77.2 44.9 48.4 66.0 47.3 Operations/Production 64.5 58.7 55.1 57.4 59.1 54.6 Maintenance 43.4 38.2 40.6 46.0 51.7 35.9 Other 137.8 150.3 49.8 46.5 51.3 44.2 TOTAL 59.2 51.2 51.3 51.6 55.3 37.4 1. Considers members, apprentices and Young Partners. 68 Interactive menu Ethics, transparency and integrity 205-3 Confirmed cases of corruption and actions taken The Ethics Line Channel has received four In the fiscal and tax area, the agility and complaints related to corruption, one of which proactivity to avoid notices are also relevant was still under investigation at the end of the guidelines for preventive action. In the last period, with one being considered unfounded harvest, these efforts to adjust the units and and two confirmed. Of these two cases,one render accounts to regulatory entities, especially was related to the favoring of suppliers by a for recording invoices, avoided the risk of tax member, who was dismissed from the company. assessments in the amount of R$ 816 million. The suppliers involved were prevented from The 15 assessments paid in the period totaled providing services to Atvos. In the other one, the R$ 924 thousand. About 77% of this total investigations confirmed the existence of front was linked to three deficiency assessments companies to obtain administrative licenses. The of registration of documentation, an advisory company blocked such firms, refusing to make obligation for collecting taxes. any undue payments to obtain bimonthly. 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areas In the labor scope, Atvos disbursed the total amount of R$ 370 thousand due to three agreements with the Labor Ministry. Among these, the most significant, in the amount of R$ 300 thousand, was related to the framing of some of the members as civil firemen, due to their activities as firefighters. In addition, the Santa Luzia unit paid R$ 220 thousand related to administrative fines of the Ministry of Labor and Employment, applied by the extraordinary thirdparty day. In all Poles, teams conduct periodic evaluations in the field to verify compliance with legal requirements, besides holding monthly meetings or facilities with the leadership (depending on each Pole) to discuss cases received and possible improvement actions. 69 Interactive menu Local development 203-1 413-2 Investments in infrastructure and services offered Operations with significant, actual There were no direct investments made in infrastructure, or potential negative impact on local in the regions where Atvos operates, in the 2017/2018 communities harvest. The main negative local impacts and potential risks in the localities where Atvos operates are 413-1 consolidated in the company’s risk matrix. Operations with formal community engagement, All these aspects are continuously monitored impact assessment and/or development programs and mitigated in order to contribute to the All the operational units count on the Social Energy, company’s good relationship with local whose participative management model guarantees the audiences and to the institutional reputation. constant dialogue between the company, the community Among the measures adopted, we may mention and the local government in mapping and prioritizing the development of Social Energy, which development demands in the municipalities. Since prioritizes in a participatory and inclusive way 2009, when it began to be implemented, the program the social investments in the municipalities, has already supported 74 projects with investments of and the responsible cultivation practices, which around R$ 25 million, more than 70% of this amount mitigate the risk of soil and water contamination allocated by Atvos and the remainder by local partners. and ensure the promotion of human rights. 70 Interactive menu Environmental impact 301-1 Consumed materials (tons) Materials used by weight or volume 2017/2018 2016/2017 Throughout the harvest, the intensification of Sugarcane actions for the growth of the productivity of the Own processed cane 19,053,194 20,790,763 plantation, with a greater application of nitrogen Processed cane from agricultural partners 6,776,624 7,527,934 fertilizers and correctives, led to a 21% increase in Subtotal 25,829,818 28,318,697 the consumption of agricultural inputs. However, Agricultural inputs climatic effects affected the volume of sugarcane Soil correctors 491,763 394,528 harvested, which was 9% lower than the 2016/2017 Insecticides 486 305 harvest. With this, the weight of the materials Fungicides 36 42 consumed by Atvos totaled 26.6 million tons, a Herbicides 4,763 4,584 reduction of 8% in the annual comparison. Fertilizer 155,863 141,752 Other organic fertilizers 1,910 2,001 Subtotal 654,821 543,212 Industrial inputs Lim 9,342 11,895 Sulphuric acid 11,782 13,030 Hydrochloric acid 133 180 Soda 1,140 1,842 Antibiotics 22 6 Inorganic chemicals 925 380 Organic chemicals 516 866 Subtotal 23,860 28,199 Fuels Diesel 48,791 49,525 Ethanol 2,070 2,034 Subtotal 50,862 51,559 Totals Materials from renewable sources1 25,835,943 28,324,299 Materials from non-renewable sources 723,417 617,367 TOTAL 26,559,360 28,941,666 1. It includes biodiesel, equivalent to 7.2% of the total diesel consumed. 71 Interactive menu 302-1 Energy generation and consumption (GJ) Energy consumption within the organization 2017/2018 2016/2017 The generation of energy by burning biomass in the Tempo determinado A. Energy generated by burning of fuels boilers was impacted throughout the harvest by the Sugarcane bagasse 65,286,406 70,513,339 lower volume of sugarcane harvested, reflecting climatic Diesel 2,147,976 2,071,710 factors, such as a prolonged drought and frosts in Biodiesel 171,751 136,936 Mato Grosso do Sul. Therefore, it was necessary to Ethanol 55,996 55,004 increase the electricity consumption of the grid. In the Total energy generated by burning fuels 67,662,130 72,776,989 consolidated view, the company consumed 61 million GJ, Percentage of energy generated from fuels 97% 97% a reduction of 6% compared to the previous harvest. from renewable sources B. Electricity acquired Electricity 54,993 44,878 303-1 C. Electricity sold Water consumption by source Electricity exported 6,658,950 7,763,445 303-3 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (A+B-C) 61,058,173 65,058,422 Reused and/or recirculated water The improvement of water recirculation systems in the industry and the minimization of leaks and losses by evaporation contributed to 304-1 contributes to the preservation of the reducing the total volume of water collected by Operating sites within or adjacent Cerrado and protection of reload areas of Atvos. In the last harvest, 33.4 thousand cubic meters to preservation areas or with a high the Guarani aquifer. were collected, a reduction of 13% in relation to the value for biodiversity • Taquari Pole: 80,135 hectares near previous period. The percentage of reuse of water Atvos promotes the cultivation of sugarcane Environmental Preservation Areas (APA or reached 54%, compared to the result of only in areas that were already used to other EPA) and the Emas National Park, relevant for 42%, recorded in 2016/2017. economic purposes. At the end of each the protection of springs in the region and for crop, the company presents to the state preserving the Cerrado biome. environmental body a Self-Monitoring Report, Water collection (thousand m3) with results of water quality analyzes of rivers 2017/2018 2016/2017 2015/2016 in the area of influence of each unit and Surface water 32,852 37,575 35,951 monitoring of local fauna and flora, among Groundwater1 568 659 657 other evidences that ensure the absence TOTAL WATER COLLECTED 33,420 38,234 36,608 of negative impacts on biodiversity. At four 1. Only the São Paulo data were obtained by flow meter in the underground agroindustrial poles, Atvos has its own areas collection wells. The other volumes were estimated based on the granting licenses. around other conservation units: • São Paulo Pole: 2,138 hectares adjacent to Morro do Diabo Park and the Mico-LeãoPreto Ecological Station, both important for Water recirculation1 the preservation of the Atlantic forest. 2017/2018 2016/2017 2015/2016 • Eldorado Pole: 392 hectares in the APA of Reused volume (thousand m ) 18,091 3 16,120 16,066 Várzeas of the Ivinhema River, which is part Percentage over total amount 54% 42% 44% of the Paraná River Basin. 1. Considers the capture of the Goiás pole for irrigation. Excluding this use, Atvos’ • Araguaia Pole: 3,813 hectares in the average reuse rate would be 64%, compared to 50% in the previous harvest. Cushioning of the Emas National Park, which 72 Interactive menu 304-2 305-1 Significant impacts of biodiversity activities, GHG direct emissions (scope 1) fertilizers and correctives, increased emissions from products and services 305-2 operations. Atvos activities do not generate significant Relative indirect GHG emissions The highlight in the Atvos inventory is the emissions impacts on biodiversity. The company to electricity consumption (scope 2) avoided by its products. In Unicamp’s methodology, continually evaluates the conservation areas 305-3 this is evident in the 5 million tCO2e avoided by and water sources in its units, through annual Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) the use of ethanol produced and the exported fauna monitoring, and performs the periodic Atvos carries out an inventory of its GHG emissions electric energy. In the GHG Protocol methodology, accountability to environmental regulatory according to two methodologies: the one by the the contribution is only accounted for by the own bodies. The protected areas also serve to Brazilian Program GHG Protocol, applied on the data of consumption of electricity: by the co-generation of create ecological corridors, as in the case of the fiscal year, and another one developed by Unicamp renewable energy from the bagasse in its boilers, the São Paulo Pole, favoring the movement specifically for agribusiness, whose information is Atvos avoids the acquisition of electric energy and, of animal species. The risk of contamination determined by crop year. Over the last period, the therefore, the emissions of scope 2 amount to only 2 of soil and water bodies is mitigated by intensification of actions to increase the productivity thousand tCO2e. the Vinasse Application Plan (PAV or VAP), of sugarcane, especially the application of nitrogen drawn up according to the applicable legal requirements, and by the discipline in its Inventory of GHG emissions (million tCO2e)1 application. The safety, health, and environment management model, referred to as the Attitude 2017/2018 2016/2017 2015/2016 System, has eco-indicators related to the A. Emission related to production, processing, transportation and inputs 0.99 0.90 0.90 consumption of agrochemicals, considering B. Emissions avoided with the use of ethanol as fuel and energy 4.95 5.38 5.50 the plantation area and the level of toxicity exceeding electricity of these inputs. Another risk in operations is C. Carbon stock from Land Use Change (LUC)2 1.43 1.37 1.30 fauna running-over, managed by the Vehicle EFFECT OF NET MITIGATION (A-B-C) 5.39 5.85 5.90 Safety Program, which includes, among other 1. It considers the three main greenhouse gases (CO, CH and N O), and are used as characterization factors for the conversion into tCO and the potential of global warming for a 100-year horizon (AGWP100) defined by the IPCC (2013). The methodology was proposed by researchers Isaias C. Macedo, Joaquim E. Seabra and João tools, the speed limitation of the machines, E. A. R. Silva. georeferencing and incident follow-up through 2. The LUC estimates have some uncertainty due to the deficiency of soil carbon balance data. The calculation method used considered IPCC Tier 1 default factors and was improved with the latest regional data from the Harmonized World Soil Database (HWSD). a specific ecoindicator. GHG emissions inventory (thousand tCO2e) GHG Protocol methodology 2017 2016 2015 Scope 1 Gross direct emissions 692.63 629.70 638.09 Biogenic emissions 5,484.47 6,146.55 5,831.90 Biogenic removal (change of land use) 1,433.16 1,349.00 1,297.50 Scope 2 Indirect emissions (electricity consumption) 2.24 1.13 1.73 Scope 3 Indirect emissions (other) 109.00 115.16 325.39 Biogenic emissions 8.89 9.50 18.06 73 Interactive menu 306-2 307-1 Residues by type and method of disposal previous harvest this percentage was 67%). Non-compliance with environmental In the 2017/2018 harvest, Atvos disposed 6.5 With regard to hazardous waste, the company laws and regulations thousand tons of waste, a volume 29% higher than reduced its volume by 15%, reflecting initiatives In the 2017/2018 harvest, Atvos received in the previous period. This increase was mainly for better separation of materials and continuous three assessments for fires in Agricultural due to the replacement of equipment, which led monitoring of the eco-indicator of contaminated areas. In one of them, the company signed to the greater disposal of scrap. Among the nonwaste (tons of waste for each one million tons a Term of Civil and Criminal Composition dangerous waste, priority is given to recycling, which of cane harvested), which recorded the best of Damage, with the payment of a fine in accounted for 84% of the total generated (in the historical result. the amount of R$ 100 thousand, avoiding the initiation of criminal action. At the São Paulo pole, the company Disposed residues (tons) signed the conversion of 22 administrative 2017/2018 2016/20171 2015/2016 proceedings, in the total amount of Tempo determinado R$ 7.8 million, into the adherence to the Hazardous Recycling 61 133 237 Nascentes Program with the reforestation Recovery 376 259 186 of 51 hectares. Atvos exceeded this legal Incineration 14 99 1 requirement and made a commitment to Co-processing 227 401 780 recover 70 hectares, contributing to the Re-use 13 9 0 construction of ecological corridors in Other 140 74 0 the fragments of Mata Atlântica in the Subtotal 831 974 1,203 state of São Paulo. Non-hazardous The costs of this conversion were Recycling 4,760 2,688 2,684 significantly lower, in the order of Recovery 0 445 434 R$ 1.3 million. Two other favorable Incineration 33 15 25 decisions to the company that stood out Co-processing 603 570 1,193 in the year were the suspension of the Landfill 41 155 332 injunction that prevented the air spraying Composting 145 159 240 in the São Paulo pole. Other 60 7 106 Subtotal 5,642 4,038 5,015 Totals Dangerous 831 974 1,203 Non-dangerous 5,642 4,038 5,015 TOTAL 6,473 5,013 6,218 74 Interactive menu GRI content index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions GRI 101 | Foundations 2016 General standards Organizational profile 102-1 | Organization’s name 62 102-2 | Activities, brands, products and services 62 102-3 | Headquarters location 62 102-4 | Operation location 62 102-5 | Nature and legal property 62 102-6 | Markets served 62 102-7 | Organization size 62 102-8 | Information on employees and other workers 63 102-9 | Supply chain 63 102-10 | Significant changes in the organization and/or its supply chain 63 102-11 | Approach to the precautionary principle 63 102-12 | External iniciatives 63 GRI 102 | 102-13 | Participation in associations 64 General disclosures 2016 Strategy 102-14 | Statement of the highest executive 64 102-15 | Main impacts, risks and opportunities 64 Ethics and integrity 102-16 | Values, principles, rules and standards of conduct 64 102-17 | Mechanisms for guidelines and complaints related to ethical conducts 64 Governance 102-18 | Governance structure 64 Stakeholders engagement 102-40 | List of stakeholder groups 64 102-41 | Collective negotiation agreements 64 102-42 | Process of identification and selection of stakeholders 64 102-43 | Approach to stakeholder engagement 64 102-44 | Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders 64 75 Interactive menu GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions General standards Reporting practices 102-45 | Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 65 102-46 | Definition process of the report content and limits for material themes 65 102-47 | List of material topics 65 102-48 | Information re-submission 65 GRI 102 | 102-49 | Changes in the report process 65 General disclosures 2016 102-50 | Period reported 65 102-51 | Date of most recent report published 65 102-52 | Report cycle 65 102-53 | Contact point for issues related to the report 65 102-54 | Reporting statements in accordance with the GRI Standards 65 102-55 | GRI content index 65 102-56 | External assurance 65 Material theme | Business performance GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explaining the material theme and its Boundary 65 approach 2016 103-2 | Management approach and its components 65 103-3 | Management approach evaluation 65 GRI 201 | Economic 201-1 | Direct economic value generated and distributed 66 performance 2016 GRI 204 | Procurement 204-1 | Expenditure ratio with local suppliers 66 practices 2016 GRI 308 | Environmental 308-1 | New suppliers whose selection process included environmental criteria 66 evaluation of suppliers 2016 GRI 414 | Social evaluation 414-1 | New suppliers whose selection process included social criteria 66 of suppliers 2016 Material theme | Commitment to members GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explaining the material theme and its Boundary 65 approach 2016 103-2 | Management approach and its components 65 103-3 | Management approach evaluation 65 GRI 401 | Employment 2016 401-1 | Hiring and rotation ratio 67 GRI 403 | Health and safety 403-2 | Types of injuries and injury rates, occupational diseases, lost days and 68 at work 2016 absenteeism; and number of casualties GRI 404 | Training and 404-1 | Average annual hours of training per employee 68 education 2016 76 Interactive menu GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Material theme | Ethics, transparency and integrity GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explaining the material theme and its Boundary 65 approach 2016 103-2 | Management approach and its components 65 103-3 | Management approach evaluation 65 GRI 205 | Anti-corruption 205-3 | Confirmed cases of corruption and actions taken 69 2016 GRI 419 | Socioeconomic 419-1 | Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic areas 69 Compliance 2016 Material theme | Local development GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explaining the material theme and its Boundary 65 approach 2016 103-2 | Management approach and its components 65 103-3 | Management approach evaluation 65 GRI 203 | Indirect economic 203-1 | Investments in infrastructure and services offered 70 impacts 2016 GRI 413 | Local comunities 413-1 | Operations with a formal community engagement, evaluation 70 2016 of impacts and/or development programs 413-2 | Operations with a significant, actual or potential negative impact, 70 on local communities Material theme | Environmental impact GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explaining the material theme and its Boundary 65 approach 2016 103-2 | Management approach and its components 65 103-3 | Management approach evaluation 65 GRI 301 | Materials 2016 301-1 | Materials used by weight or volume 71 GRI 302 | Energy 2016 302-1 | Energy consumption within the organization 72 GRI 303 | Water 2016 303-1 | Water catchment by source 72 303-3 | Reused and/or recirculated water 72 GRI 304 | Biodiversity 304-1 | Operating sites within or adjacent to preservation areas 72 2016 or with a high value to biodiversity 304-2 | Significant impacts of biodiversity activities, products and services 73 GRI 305 | Emissions 2016 305-1 | GHG direct emissions (scope 1) 73 305-2 | Indirect GHG emissions related to electricity consumption (scope 2) 73 305-3 | Other GHG indirect emissions (scope 3) 73 GRI 306 | Effluents and 306-2 | Residues by type and disposal method 74 residues 2016 GRI 307 | Environmental 307-1 | Non-compliance with laws and environmental regulations 74 compliance 2016 77 Credits Responsible for Sustainability Mônica Alcântara Responsible for publishing Guilherme Bourroul GRI and integrated report consultancy, editorial coordination and design usina82 Photos Eduardo Moody, Anderson Meneses and Atvos collection Rua Lemos Monteiro, 120 Edifício Odebrecht São Paulo 13th floor – Butantã São Paulo (SP) – 05501-050 www.atvos.com 78
