SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 A VALUE-CREATING BUSINESS MODEL Kungsleden’s business model is designed to create sustainable value for shareholders, tenants and other stakeholders through three interacting core actions – active sustainable management, strategic acquisitions and value-creating development and improvement. EXTERNAL DRIVERS STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS THE MODERN OFFICE • SUSTAINABILITY • URBANISATION INDIVIDUALISM • DIGITALISATION Positive interaction between stakeholders is critical to Kungsleden’s business, which is why we endeavour to BUSINESS MODEL achieve trusting and long-term relationships featuring our core values of professionalism, ACTIVE consideration and joy. SUSTAINABLE TENANTS MANAGEMENT SEK 1,538 million of SHAREHOLDERS & operating net in 2017 CAPITAL MARKETS LENDERS ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYEES AND SUSTAINABLE SPACES THAT SUPPLIERS ENRICH PEOPLE’S VALUEWORKING STRATEGIC DAY CREATING WIDER SOCIETY ACQUISITIONS DEVELOPMENT AND IMPROVEMENT SEK 485 million of acquisitions in 2017 SEK 925 million of investment in 2017 OPTIMISATION COMPLETE IN 2017. EXPAND AND SEK 1,860 M OF KUNGSLEDEN’S RESOURCES AND CAPITAL OPTIMISE DIVESTMENTS IN • 222 properties •2  70,000 sq.m of residential THE YEAR. • 11 clusters development rights • 109 employees • Relationships with suppliers, The sale of our non-strategic • SEK 14,192 million of equity sector partners, municipalities properties was completed in 2017. • 1,755 client relationships and other parties As a consequence, transactions going • Structural capital and processes forward will focus on strategic acquisitions of attractive properties in the right locations. Our business model has been realigned accordingly. 2 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CREATED FOR RESULTS ACHIEVED OUR STAKEHOLDERS: In 2017, we beat our target of reducing FOR TENANTS energy consumption by 3 per cent •2  ,159,000 sq.m of leasable area annually in 2014–2020. • Attractive and functional premises in the right location at the right price • Offices of the future Decrease in likefor-like portfolio in 2017: -5.9% • Management close to clients Our head office at FOR SHAREHOLDERS & Lustgården 12 in THE CAPITAL MARKETS Stockholm secures • SEK 437 million of dividends At year-end 2017, Kungsleden had LEED Platinum • EPRA NNNAV per share: SEK lease agreements in place with a certification 70.63 total of 1,755 clients across a broad • Share price performance in range of sectors. 2017: 5.3% gains FOR LENDERS •B  a1 rating from Moody’s • LTV ratio of 47,9% • Stable repayment OUR CONTRIBUTION TO WIDER SOCIETY ALLOCATION OF KUNGSLEDEN’S RESOURCES IN 2017, SEK M Operating expenses excl. personnel, 740 61 Green Leases Employees, 165 signed in 2017. FOR EMPLOYEES Total: Dividend to shareholders, 437 •S  EK 98 million of salaries SEK 1,777 m Interest payments to lenders,, 434 and benefits CSR investments, 1 • Professional development • Job satisfaction FOR WIDER SOCIETY Kungsleden is an equal •V  ibrant clusters and sustainaopportunities workble locations, where people place, where 53% of are happy personnel are women • 100+ jobs and SEK 45 million and 47% are men. of social security contributions 53/47 • Environmentally accredited properties • Energy optimisation • Equal opportunities employer FOR SUPPLIERS +7.4% Ba1 47.9% •S  EK 1,500 million of procurement EPRA NNNAV credit rating with a LTV ratio increased by 7.4% to positive outlook SEK 70.63 per share. from Moody’s Kungsleden works with a particular Focus Policy focus on five segments that have been Environment • Sustainability Policy & Strategy identified in its materiality analysis. Corporate social • Sustainability Policy & Strategy The following table indicates those responsibility segments classified as focuses by Diversity • Sustainability Policy & Strategy Kungsleden and its stake­holders, and • Gender Equality & Diversity Policy the policies followed to assure work Business ethics • Sustainability Policy & Strategy • Procurement Policy going forward. • Guidelines for Internal & External Business Networking • Guidelines for Incidental Employment & Conflicts of Interest • Code of Conduct for Suppliers Health & safety • Alcohol & Drug Policy • Occupational Health & Safety Policy • Health & Wellness Policy • Sustainability Policy & Strategy • Code of Conduct for Suppliers KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 3 CLOSE INTERACTION WITH STAKEHOLDERS Kungsleden’s core stakeholders are its tenants, employees, shareholders, suppliers, partners and municipalities. Its relationships with them have a great impact on the company’s progress, and accordingly, Kungsleden puts great emphasis on understanding their needs. Kungsleden’s ambition is to evolve in harmony with its We review two of our most important stakeholders in more surroundings and be responsive to all its stakeholders. We detail on pages 17–18-tenants and employees. Positive maintain continuous dialogue with stakeholders, and map interaction with both of these groups is crucial to us realising what is important to them by conducting stakeholder analysis. our vision. COMMUNICATING WITH STAKEHOLDERS – FORUMS FOR DIALOGUE AND KEY ISSUES TENANTS EMPLOYEES FORUMS FOR DIALOGUE KEY ISSUES FORUMS FOR DIALOGUE KEY ISSUES •C  ontinuous dialogue main­ • Expedient, healthy and safe premises • Regular employee meetings •O  pportunities for training tained by personal visits, • Stable tenants • Goal-setting and appraisal and skills management phone calls and emails • Availability interviews • Salary & benefits • Events • Business ethics • Pay review interviews • Work/life balance • Customer services • Vibrant and attractive environments • Employee satisfaction survey • Diversity • Customer satisfaction surveys • Cost efficiency • Staff conferences • Structure & tools • Customer surveys for impro• Energy consumption • Health & safety vements • Waste management • Customer service • Communication campaigns • Environment and land decontamination • Business ethics • Green Lease collaborations • Customer services LENDERS SHAREHOLDERS WIDER SOCIETY FORUMS FOR DIALOGUE AND THE CAPITAL • Quarterly reports MARKETS • • Presentations Scheduled meetings • Property viewings • Seminars • Capital markets days KEY ISSUES •L  ong-term stable and sustainable business model • Stable financing • Good business ethics FORUMS FOR DIALOGUE • Environmental risks and remediation FORUMS FOR DIALOGUE • Annual Reports •C  ontacts with municipalities, regulators • AGMs and other opinion-formers • Quarterly reports • Various types of collaborative meeting • Roadshows and one-to-one meetings with the business community • • Capital markets days Continuous dialogue SUPPLIERS • Collaborative agreements with non-profit organisations KEY ISSUES FORUMS FOR DIALOGUE KEY ISSUES •R  egular contact and interaction •C  ontribute to sustainable development •L  ong-term, stable and sustainable • Tendering requirements pursuant to • Create sustainable, vibrant and attractive business model, targets and strategy Kungsleden’s procedures environments that enrich people’s • Attractive funding mix • Profitable growth KEY ISSUES working lives • Value-creating earnings • L  ong-term, stable partner • Access and safety • Sustainability and corporate governance • Customer service • Cultural and architectural values • Corporate communication • Quality • Diversity and jobs • Energy consumption • Business ethics • Occupational health & safety risks 4 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR CUSTOMERS AND TENANTS – KEY STAKEHOLDERS WITH HIGH STANDARDS At year-end 2017, Kungsleden had lease agreements with 1,755 Being close to tenants is another priority, so we have a local tenants in our 222 properties. The key to our long-term success office presence in nine locations. is understanding their needs and exceeding their expectations. The contemporary business world is fast moving and tenants SUSTAINABILITY – A SHARED INTEREST are demanding in terms of flexibility, function and quality of Our tenants are exhibiting a growing interest in sustainability service. This is why we put a big emphasis on dialogue, responaspects which is fully consistent with our own ambitions. An siveness and knowledge of our tenants’ circumstances. increasing number of companies sign up to Green Leases, for example. The travel survey we conducted in 2017 in the Kista WE WELCOME, CONTRIBUTE AND SUPPORT City and Stockholm City East clusters indicated that tenants Kungsleden’s client proposition is to provide attractive and want good cycle and public transport access. Tenant engagefunctional premises in the right locations and at the right ment in Östersund has contributed to us implementing the price, and to do something extra. We have added three cuslargest solar power plant in the Swedish County of Jämtland. tomer pledges that guide us in our relationships with tenants: • We will be welcoming. Current and prospective tenants should always feel well they receive a positive encounter and are respected in every contact with Kungsleden. Our premises should also create an inviting first impression. “It’s important to be present, available • We should contribute to our tenant’s business. Through and responsive. I want to understand responsiveness, sector knowledge, property expertise and new approaches, we should deliver solutions that benefit our my tenants and identify solutions that tenants’ businesses. are good for all parties.” • We should make things easier. With high quality of service and state-of-the-art services, we simplify our tenants’ everyEVA-LOTTA SVENSSON, ASSET MANAGER day situations. LEADING-EDGE OFFICE EVOLUTION As a long-term, customer-oriented property owner, it is natural TEN LARGEST TENANTS, 31 DECEMBER 2017 for us to follow trends on the office market, and to develop our Tenants Rental value, SEK M properties and relationships to remain at the leading edge. Nowadays, tenant wants and needs largely define the layout of ABB 268 commercial premises, which means property owners like KungBring Frigoscandia 55 sleden need to be sensitive to trends and fleet footed. Tenant Biz Apartments 38 needs are also changing with increasing frequency. One of the Swedish Armed Forces 37 main trends in office premises is the emergence of smaller, flexiICA 36 ble offices that are also attractive, contemporary meeting places, The Municipality of Västerås 33 called co-working concepts. This process is being driven by digSveriges Television 24 italisation and changing values in working lives. New technolWestinghouse Electric 24 ogy is reducing the need for permanent workspaces and physical The Swedish Board of Customs & Excise 22 meetings, thanks to progressively improving digital meeting Artexis Nordic 21 platforms and permanent connection. These concepts are proTotal, 10 largest tenants 558 viding clients with an opportunity to occupy smaller spaces, and to be part of a creative context with other types of business. Other 1,676 Kungsleden’s first response to this trend is its office and Total, Kungsleden 2,234 meeting space B26 in Västerås. This concept, which has already attracted great interest, features creativity, efficiency and job TENANTS BY SECTOR, 2017 satisfaction, and will house office spaces, co-working with shared lounges, a roof terrace, restaurant and café, as well as Services, 16% conference facilities. Businesses and freelancers can book perWholesaling and manent or flexible workspaces. commission salesl, 15% Foods, 9% PROCESS TO IMPROVE CUSTOMER RELATIONS Retailing, 8% Education & training, 8% Every year, Kungsleden conducts a customer satisfaction survey, Public administration, 7% whose results serve as the basis for prioritised actions for the Real estate & construction, 7% coming year. The results for 2017 was a customer satisfaction Manufacturing , 6% index of 72, an increase with 2 points compared to the year Health & social care, 6% Culture, 3% before. The result is one point below industry average and the Other, 15% target for 2018 is to be in line with the rest of the industry. We are working continuously on improving customer relations, Kungsleden’s tenants range from large international corporations to through channels including extended dialogue and fast feedpublic operations, authorities and young tech companies in a variety of industries. The largest industries are services (16 per cent) and back. Other high priorities include enhancing our fault reportretail & commodity trading (15 per cent), but a large number of ing procedures, making an active contribution to the developother industries are also represented and the spread is high. ment of locations and creating meeting places in our clusters. KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 5 EMPLOYEES – EFFECTIVE AND MOTIVATED Kungsleden’s vision for employees for 2020 is to be the most of graduates. The Royal Swedish Society of Engineering attractive workplace with an efficient organisation and motivated Science’s Jobbsprånget program is offering recent immigrants employees that achieve good results. This is important for a chance to enter the labour market . Our search and selection enabling us to attract, hire and retain the competent profesprocess was also overhauled to ensure continued efforts to sionals we need for our business. Our corporate culture is based promote equal opportunities and diversity. on professionalism, consideration and joy. At year-end 2017, 110 people worked for Kungsleden on A WORKING ENVIRONMENT everything from property operations through leasing and transTHAT PROMOTES PROGRESS actions to development projects. Many decisions are taken at Our working environment should be secure, healthy and offer the edges of our organisation, which means our people have good potential for continuous development. The company ample opportunity to influence their work. Kungsleden as a nurtures its employees, encourages healthy lifestyles, and where company, and the market we operate on, are in rapid and extennecessary, we provide private health insurance for all staff, sive change, which is demanding for flexibility. Work at Kungwhich includes personal guidance, conversational therapy, sleden is in continuous development, and there’s always a lot to aftercare and rehabilitation. Our annual employee satisfaction learn. Employee development is a priority, and subject to survey identifies areas of improvement, which provides input annual discussion at appraisal interviews between staff and to the management of health and safety work. first-line managers. INCREASING JOB SATISFACTION HR MANAGER LEADING OUR WORK As in previous years, the year’s employee satisfaction survey had We appointed a Human Resources Manager in the year to a high response rate and our Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) intensify efforts on HR issues. We also took the decision to was 4.2, the same as the previous year, while our job satisfacproduce a new HR strategy. Activities associated with the tion index increased somewhat, to 73 percent. The segments of strategy start implementation in 2018, although important goals, the working environment and new at work achieved the steps were already taken in 2017. The implementation of our highest results. We still face some challenges in health, stress core values continued and permeate the whole operation and all and organisational efficiency, which are partly attributable to processes. We assure our managers’ capability of providing leadthe journey of transformation the company is taking. The ership consistent with our core values through a leadership conresults have been published and discussed at departmental ference and an all-new leadership forum. Our managers should level, management level and collectively company wide, to help engender an atmosphere open to questioning and that plan actions for 2018. drives motivation, simultaneous with making the expectations The management team held a one-day conference focusing of our employees clear. on the results, and development work on internal processes is also being conducted. Like the rest of the sector, Kungsleden DIVERSITY CREATES OPPORTUNITIES experienced high staff turnover in the year, which means initiaTo address and understand our tenants, Kungsleden needs a tives to retain and attract the right staff will remain an imporworkforce that reflects wider society. In terms of gender balance, tant part of our HR strategy going forward. we have basically achieved our target. Our overall staffing is 53 per cent women and 47 per cent men. There are somewhat more women than men in our management team, while within “Kungsleden offers room for property management, there are somewhat more men than women. Our age diversity has improved in recent years, with ambition and there’s great 23 per cent of staff in the 30–39 age group and 38 per cent aged between 40 and 49. However, other diversity aspects do collaboration between teams” need addressing. We operate a graduate trainee programme EMMA SJÖBERG, MARKNADSANSVARIG & PROJEKTLEDARE that is bringing in younger employees and increasing the share GENDER BALANCE GENDER BALANCE AGE PROFILE, % LENGTH OF SERVICE, % KUNGSLEDEN, % MANAGEMENT, % Women, 53% Women, 66% <30, 9% <1 yrs., 9% Men, 47% Men, 34% 30–39, 23% 1–3 yrs., 42% 40–49, 38% >4 yrs., 49% >50, 30% 6 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 AN INTERNSHIP TO INCREASE DIVERSITY­ Manhal Naddour, who moved to Sweden from Syria in 2015, did an internship with Kungsleden in 2017, which was part of Kungsleden’s collaboration in the Jobbsprånget programme conducted by IVA, the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Science, intended to accelerate the integration of newly arrived graduates into Swedish working life. “The internship was valuable for me in many respects. I gained a better understanding of how Swedish workplaces function, improved my Swedish and developed professionally. I’ve also acquired a professional network and new friends,” says Manhal Naddour. Sustainability Manager Maria Sandell served as Manhal’s trainer, and offered new insights. “Learning about sustainability work is so interesting. Unfortunately, not many companies utilise it in Syria. I’ve become aware of the significance of sustainability issues, how they affect businesses positively, and ultimately, result in a better society.” Manhal has some suggestions for other interns and employers participating in the programme: “What I’d like to say to interns is to make sure that they’re on time, and focus on creating good relationships. The Jobbsprånget internship is a good opportunity because it is a well-structured programme, and you get good support. The advice I’d offer to employers is to be open and clear about your expectations and maintain good dialogue right through the internship. The biggest challenge for me was understanding Swedish working culture and traditions, so I think information regarding the practical aspects of them would be really valuable.” “I’ve become aware of how sustainability issues can influence businesses positively.” KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 7 LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS THAT ENABLE SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Sustainability permeates the whole of Kungsleden and is a natural part of our business model. Sustainability is self-evident and a success factor. We create long-term tenant relationships, attract and retain employees, strengthen and protect our brand, and increase profitability through ambitious and well-considered sustainability work. ENVIRONMENT – OUR TENANTS ARE GETTING Kungsleden wants to reflect the diversity of society, and accordMORE DEMANDING ingly create opportunities in its encounters with customers and Kungsleden’s properties and clusters should develop and be employees and developing its business. administered sustainably over time. We want to reduce our cliWe have made a lot of progress in gender balance and have mate footprint and operating expenses, simultaneous with being basically achieved our target. Our age profile has also improved an attractive tenant that satisfies customer wants and needs. in recent years, as many younger staff have joined us. Our main Our tenants are becoming more demanding, contributing to us efforts are now focused on increasing ethnic diversity. We adopting an ambitious sustainability strategy that encompasses: overhauled our search & selection process in 2017, focusing • Working actively to reduce the consumption of finite on diversity. resources and negative environmental impact. • Taking responsibility for people and our surroundings by BUSINESS ETHICS – HIGH STANDARDS being a strong force of change that collaborates with tenants, AT EVERY STEP municipalities and other local stakeholders. Kungsleden maintains high business ethical standards and a • By investing in new technology, continuous analysis and professional corporate culture on market and transparent terms, adjustment of existing plant, and focusing on solar power which benefits our profitability and brand. We involve employplants, reduce energy consumption by 20 per cent between ees, customers and suppliers in our ambition to maintain very 2014 and 2020. high ethical standards. Our employees work in accordance with • Sustainability issues are integrated right through our busiagreed guidelines, and we have a dedicated Code of Conduct ness – for example, all our development projects have a dedifor Suppliers that is appended to contracts in major procurecated sustainability programme specifying the project’s ment processes. objectives and requirements. We consider our suppliers as an extension of our own • Introduce Green Leases with shared undertakings to reduce business – sustainable and cost-efficient supply chains are a climate impact in partnership with our tenants. The target prerequisite for us collectively contributing to sustainable for 2017 was 50 Green Leases, and we signed 61. development. In our relationships with suppliers, and in pro• Environmentally certify our properties, mainly using the curement, it is especially important to ensure the absence of internationally accepted standard LEED. Our target is for corruption and bribery, to promote healthy competition and 50 per cent of our property values to be certified by 2020. ensure good working conditions. We monitor compliance regularly through audits. SAFETY – FOCUSING ON HIGH-RISK Our core values of professionalism, consideration and joy are WORKING ENVIRONMENTS important for realising this. We take professional attitude in We take a proactive approach to safety in and around our propour skills segments and show each other respect. We distance erties so we can provide secure and healthy working environourselves from all forms of corruption and neither receive nor ments for tenants, staff as well as contractors on building sites. offer, promise nor provide undue advantage. As we manage a growing number of development projects, we are also gaining responsibility for high-risk working environments – building sites. This is why we are sharpening the focus on occupational health & safety issues, to minimise incidents and accidents. Obviously, we will comply with applicable legislation and safety procedures at all building sites. We conduct inspections and assessments of potential areas of improvement during workplace visits. DIVERSITY – A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITIES By maintaining an inclusive corporate culture founded on the equal value of all people, that distances itself from all forms of discrimination or offensive special treatment, we create the Kungsleden’s offices on Warfvinges väg Stockholm gained LEED potential for everyone to contribute with their full potential. Platinum Interior Design certification in 2017. 8 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 THE LARGEST SOLAR POWER PLANT IN JÄMTLAND Kungsleden is installing 734 solar panels, dimensioned to generate over 160,000 kWh per year, at its property Karlslund 5:2 in Östersund. This plant will be the largest of its type in Jämtland, and significantly larger than Kungsleden’s previous solar installations. “Solar cells are really getting more interesting now that the pricing of plants is falling,” explains Maria Sandell, Kungsleden’s Sustainability Manager. “Another important reason we can execute this initiative is the great commitment and interest from tenants in the property and our technical manager Magnus Duveskog.” The property’s large, flat, and unshaded roof suits solar panels perfectly, and the power generated corresponds to the heating of over ten average-sized family houses. A number of other solar cell projects are ongoing or planned for 2018 in Skania, Gothenburg and Stockholm. KEY FACTS ÖSTERSUND SOLAR POWER PLANT Panel type: monocrystalline No.: 734 Estimated annual generation: 163,773 kWh Roof area: 1,200 sq.m KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 9 SUSTAINABILITY – ACTIVITIES AND OUTCOMES Kungsleden upscaled its activities in sustainability during 2017, consistent with its strategy of sustainability aspects permeating its whole business. ENVIRONMENT ENERGY AND EMISSIONS ENERGY-SAVING MEASURES LIKE-FOR-LIKE PORTFOLIO 8.8 -5.9% Kungsleden’s ambition is to progressively reduce the energy consumption and emissions of its operations. SEK Its long-term goal is to reduce energy consumption by 20 per cent between 2014 and 2020, i.e. by 3 per cent annually. M OF ENERGY ENERGY CONSUMPTION In like-for-like portfolio terms, with climate-corrected values, COST SAVINGS IN 2017 REDUCTION IN 2017 energy consumption decreased by 5.9 per cent in 2017. The energy savings measures executed in 2017 reduced energy costs by some SEK 8.8 million. Additionally, adjustKungsleden’s head office at the property Lustgården 12 secured ments of existing plant contributed to energy savings in the LEED Platinum certification in the year. Supporting documenyear, which generated a total saving of approximately SEK 13 tation for certification of the properties Reykjavik 2 and Bormillion. gafjord 5 in Kista was filed before year-end. A decision on cerIn order to reduce its emissions, Kungsleden utilises certitification of these properties is expected in the first quarter of fied-source hydropower energy. Oil heating boilers are only 2018.The property Gårda 19:10 also secured Swedish Environpresent in a few properties, which are scheduled for conversion mental Building certification in the year, and Borgarfjord 5, or demolition. Torsnäs 1 and Färöarna 3 also secured GreenBuilding certificaKungsleden is constructing a solar power plant at a property tion. in Östersund. A combined small-scale solar cell plant and Good collaboration with tenants is critical for achieving sunscreens were installed at the property Tynnered 1:13 in environmental goals. Accordingly, Kungsleden has impleGothenburg. mented the objective of introducing Green Leases that include undertakings to reduce environmental impact for both property ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION AND GREEN owner and tenant. The aim was to sign at least 50 new Green LEASES Leases in 2017. The tenant response was positive, and 61 new Work on environmentally certifying portfolio properties conGreen Leases were signed. All Kungsleden’s management tinued, and by year-end 2017, 10 per cent of total property resources also received training on Green Leases in the year. values were environmentally certified. A new certification strategy was adopted in the year, with the goal of half of the port­ SUSTAINABILITY IN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS folio (in book value terms) holding environmental certification Kungsleden implemented procedures to capture sustainability according to the internationally recognised standard LEED issues in cluster development and development projects in the by year-end 2020. All properties should be certified before year. Workshops were held in eight clusters to plan for the year-end 2025. The choice of LEED for environmental accredidevelopment of each location. As a result, all clusters identified tation offers good potential for international comparisons priority sustainability focuses and activities for the coming and green bonds. years. ENERGY CONSUMPTION GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, 2017 MWh 290,000 280,000 District heating, 88% Electricity consumption, 6.4% 270,000 District cooling, 4.9% Heating oil, 0.6% 260,000 -5.9% Gas, 0.1% 250,000 240,000 In total, emissions reduced from 9.7 kg/sq.m to 6.9 kg/sq.m in 230,000 2017. 220,000 2016 2017 10 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 As examples, Kista City is pursuing an environmental and Employee incidental employment was mapped at employee diversity profile, while Stockholm City East and Danderyd interviews for reasons including reducing the risk of conflicts Office are adopting a health profile. The clusters have practical of interest. action plans covering measures such as installing cycle storage No cases of corruption were discovered in the year, although and cycle workshops, increasing the number of charging points a number of instances of conduct in conflict with the company’s for electric vehicles and cycles, and completing environmental values at individual level were discovered. These were dealt certification processes. with in accordance with the stipulations of the Code of Conduct. Sustainability has also been integrated into the development Our employees have undertaken to comply with guidelines and project proces. A sustainability programme has been prepared policies, and have access to a whistleblower function for for all development projects, specifying the goals and requirereporting suspected breaches (see page 108 for a list of applicable ments for each project. The Sustainability Manager also participolicy documents). Reporting is possible via email or regular pates regularly in projects to ensure that they satisfy the standmail. Six informative meetings on the Code of Conduct were ards of the adopted sustainability programme. held in the year, two with tenants and four with employees. Commuting patterns were surveyed at the Stockholm City Kungsleden regards its suppliers as an extension of its own East and Kista City clusters in the year. The aims were to find operations. Before being accepted as a supplier, each supplier out people’s commuting habits, and identify possible improvehas to sign our Code of Conduct for Suppliers. ments to increase satisfaction at the location. The research indiIn tandem with us producing the Code in 2016, it was cated that there was a significant difference in commuting presented for over 150 suppliers and Kungsleden’s core values methods between different properties in the same location, and and guidelines for internal and external business networking, that closeness to public transport links does not always mean health & safety plans, electronic registers of staff on building high public transport usage. Respondents stated their wish for sites, and order and safety regulations at Kungsleden’s sites more charging stations for electric vehicles and cycles, as well were also discussed at these meetings. as more cycle stands and storage points, and implementation Supplier meetings focusing on our Code of Conduct and has already commenced. business ethics will be arranged in 2018, similar to those in 2016. SAFETY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MORE BUILDING SITES REQUIRE MORE SAFETY Kungsleden takes responsibility for its surroundings and people Safety issues are becoming more complex and important as by working actively on the management of its properties and Kungsleden gains responsibility for more building sites related collaborating with tenants, municipalities and other local to its development projects. 16 audits and site visits were constakeholders. This results in attractive locations. ducted in 2017. The intention was to follow up on procedures, Our objective is to make an active contribution to a safer policies and compliance. The visits primarily dealt with safety, and more inclusive society. For this reason, Kungsleden’s has business ethics and labour law issues. The audits had outcomes been a main sponsor of the Fryshuset project since 2010. including new procedures for ensuring that Kungsleden’s Code Kungsleden’s was contributed to Swedish youth entrepreneurof Conduct is attached to all agreements with contractors, ship initiative Sveriges ungdomsentreprenör, which inspires, and initiatives to improve safety at building sites. Audits will supports and motivates young people to realise their dreams. continue in 2018. Campaigns to remind people about safety work are also GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS conducted each quarter, on issues such as snowfall from rooves, We see clear connections between our work and the UN’s trip hazards and safety in roofing work. Global Sustainable Development Goals, which is why we have mapped our operations linked to these goals. BUSINESS ETHICS The mapping process was conducted through several creative Kungsleden has an Ethical Council that deals with issues and work meetings in partnership with an external consultant, incidents on business ethics matters, and the risk of undesirable coordinated by Kungsleden’s Sustainability Manager Maria activities. Internal training programmes on internal and external Sandell. Those goals judged most relevant to Kungsleden are business networking, conflicts of interest and incidental Gender Equality, Affordable and Clean Energy, Reduced employment that started in 2016 continued in 2017. Inequality and Sustainable Cities and Societies. KUNGSLEDEN AND GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GOAL 5: GENDER EQUALITY Kungsleden makes a contribution to gender equality by serving as a role model for the Swedish business community and continuing GOAL 11: SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND SOCIETIES to work proactively for women and men having As a major, long-term property owner, Kungsleden has equal opportunities in their work and careers. the potential to influence public transport in the surKungsleden has basically even gender division roundings of its properties. Kungsleden also has the at the company’s management levels. potential to influence planning, inclusion, resource-efficiency and adaptation to climate change in its clusters. GOAL 7: AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY By adjusting existing technology and investing in GOAL 10: REDUCED INEQUALITY energy-efficient plant, Kungsleden can reduce the By working actively on vibratnt urban spaces where there are energy consumption of its properties. Kungsleden spontaneous meetings between people whatever their background, can source renewable energy for its property portKungsleden enables encounters that contribute to reducing inequalities. folio to promote the realignment of its energy mix Kungsleden also works actively on an open corporate culture that is inclusive to more renewable sources, as well as contributing and creates the potential for disadvantaged people to enter the labour market. its own locally produced energy. KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 11 RESPONSIBLE RISK MANAGEMENT Kungsleden is, like all operations, exposed to risks of different character. Some risks can be minimized through thorough and thoughtful analysis and related activities. Other risks – such as macroeconomic development and rent developments on the real estate market as a whole – we can’t affect, but, however, be well prepared for and, through the right strategy, reduce our sensitivity to. Kungsleden has a structured risk management process with contributions from all parts of the business. The Board has the overall responsibility for risk management and has delegated the operational responsibility to the CEO. Below, Kungsleden presents the most important risks in sustainability and how these are handled. Risk category and definition Management ENVIRONMENT Kungsleden has categorised all its properties according to the risk The risk of soil contamination, which generates remediation costs, of soil contamination and takes proactive measures. At the time of mainly in tandem with development, when property usage acquisition, it maps the risk of soil contamination, environmentally changes. Extreme weather events and climate change can also hazardous building materials and climate risks. Climate change is cause a risk of property damage. managed by continuously improving maintenance. BUSINESS ETHICS AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS Kungsleden’s internal activities are governed by policies and guideThe risk of impropriety against Kungsleden by staff or suppliers lines. Externally, work is governed by a Code of Conduct for Suppliers. that can damage the company’s finances, brand and employee Kungsleden also utilises external and internal communication on well-being. business ethics actively. Kungsleden has an internal Ethical Council that deals with potential incidents. SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND HUMAN RIGHTS Kungsleden utilises a clear Code of Conduct for Suppliers, and Kungsleden has a large supplier base, and many participants are suppliers are kept informed of the importance of them conducting active on its major projects. If there are difficulties in overthemselves in accordance with its core values: professionalism, viewing supply chains, there is a risk of activities that conflict consideration and joy. with Kungsleden’s values. 12 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 IN-DEPTH SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION (GRI INDEX AND EPRA) This section provides additional disclosures that are necessary for Kungsleden to fulfil its commitment to report on sustainability work in accordance with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) C4 Core Guidelines, EPRA (European Public Real Estate Association) recommendations on sBPR (Best Practices Recommendations on Sustainability Reporting), and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act’s sustainability reporting standards. This section also constitutes Kungsleden’s COP to the UN Global Compact and satisfies the standards of the Active level. It is not a standalone report, but offers more depth on Kungsleden’s sustainability work, which has already been dealt with in previous sections of the Annual Report. Kungsleden works with a particular focus on five segments that have been identified in its materiality analysis. The following table indicates those segments classified as focuses by Kungsleden and its stake­holders, and the policies followed to assure work going forward. Focus Policy Environment • Sustainability Policy & Strategy Corporate social • Sustainability Policy & Strategy responsibility Diversity • Sustainability Policy & Strategy • Gender Equality & Diversity Policy Business ethics • Sustainability Policy & Strategy • Procurement Policy • Guidelines for Internal & External Business Networking • Guidelines for Incidental Employment & Conflicts of Interest • Code of Conduct for Suppliers Health & safety • Alcohol & Drug Policy • Occupational Health & Safety Policy • Health & Wellness Policy • Sustainability Policy & Strategy • Code of Conduct for Suppliers ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-10 Total workforce Number 2017 2016 2015 Total number of employees 110 110 102 Of which women 58 56 54 Number of permanent salaried 58 54 52 employees – Of which full-time 58 53 52 – Of which part-time 0 1 0 Number of temporary employees 0 2 2 Of which men 52 54 48 Number of permanent salaried 52 54 47 employees – Of which full-time 52 53 47 – Of which part-time 0 1 0 Number of temporary employees 0 0 1 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements coverage MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES All of Kungsleden’s 110 employees are party to collective bargaining G4-18 Process for defining material aspects agreements. G4-19 Material sustainability aspects Report content is based on a materiality analysis conducted in 2015. The EXTERNAL UNDERTAKINGS materiality analysis consisted of a competition analysis and assessment of Kungsleden’s current sustainability work, as well as views from two execuG4-14 Application of precautionary approach tive meetings with representatives of Accounting, HR, Environment, Legal Kungsleden has joined the UN Global Compact, whose environmental Services, Corporate Communication and Marketing. These meetings also undertakings include a precautionary approach. dealt with Material gathered from interviews with tenants and questionnaires completed by investors and financial analysts at shareholders’ meetG4-15 Commitment to external economic, environmental ings at capital markets days. and social principles or initiatives Kungsleden maintains an ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders, and The Global Compact, Global Reporting Initiative, EPRA, BREEAM, has supplemented its materiality analysis and selection of aspects with LEED, Construction Product Assessment. appraisals of this dialogue process. Kungsleden examined the relevance of its materiality analysis in 2017 in a G4-16 Memberships of associations and national research project entitled ”KPI 2030: The Sustainable Properties of the Future,” which was conducted by members of the City of Stockholm’s Forum for or international advocacy Sustainable Properties, and researchers at Mälardalen University College, Fossilfritt Sverige (”Fossil Free Sweden”), Sweden Green Buildings Luleå University of Technology and the University of Richmond. The project Council, the Forum for Sustainable Cities, Construction Product Asidentified 7 core segments that can be associated with tenant interests in sessment, the LEED Council and GRESP are all associations where sustainability in their premises. Tenants are a key stakeholder group that Kungsleden serves in an active role on organisation governing bodies. sets trends within Kungsleden’s sustainability work. The results of this research will be reconciled against Kungsleden’s materiality analysis in 2018. 13 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 G4-20 Internal boundaries for each sustainability aspect G4-21 External boundaries of each sustainability aspect Impact of aspects on stakeholders Owners & Kungsleden’s sustainability aspect Tenants Employees capital markets Lenders Suppliers Wider society Energy Emissions Environmental impact of products and services Soil contamination and remediation Labelling of products & services Anti-corruption Supplier assessment of working conditions Diversity & equal opportunities Employee skills management Employee health & safety Customer health & safety Financial performance The table illustrates where Kungsleden’s materiality aspects have a direct impact on different stakeholder groups. G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries See changes in the method for G4-CRE3 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 The organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement The table above and on page 16 lists Kungsleden’s most important stakeholders, how we maintain dialogue with them and the issues the various stakeholders view as most important. These stakeholders are important to Kungsleden because they have a major impact on the company, or are impacted by the company’s operations. We review how we address the wants and needs of our stakeholders through this Annual Report. REPORTING PROFILE G4-56 The organisation’s values, principles, G4-28 Reporting period standards and norms of behavior G4-29 Publication of most recent Annual Report The extensive implementation process of Kungsleden’s core values – G4-30 Reporting cycle professionalism, consideration, joy – continued in 2017. The Code of Kungsleden’s Annual & Sustainability Report is for the period 1 January Conduct, published in 2016, has been secured through operations with to 31 December 2017. Reporting is annual The most recent Sustainability a special focus on local offices. Audits of code of conduct compliance Report was uploaded to www.kungsleden.se on 28 March 2017. have been conducted on suppliers. Health & safety procedures were also reviewed in the year. G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding To encourage individuals and clarify best practice in Kungsleden’s core values and highlight good examples and role models, Kungsleden the report or its contents has created “Culture Bearer of the Year”. The whole company has been Maria Sandell, Sustainability Manager involved, submitting nominations for colleagues judged to be worthy e-mail: maria.sandell@kungsleden.se of recognition. A jury has selected the winner, who will be named in Phone: +46 (0)8 503 05200 Q1 2018. Web: www.kungsleden.se/en G4-32 GRI Content Index G4-33 Assurance process Kungsleden reports its sustainability work in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act’ s sustainability reporting standards Kungsleden’s Policy Documents and GRI’s accounting option G4 Core. The Sustainability Report is also • Alcohol & Drug Policy part of Kungsleden’s sustainability report pursuant to the requirements • Occupational Health & Safety Policy of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and contains information on the • Health & Wellness Policy company’s initiatives within the environment, social conditions and human resources, respect for human rights and anti-corruption. • Sustainability Policy & Strategy • Procurement Policy Apart from this section, sustainability reporting is included on the following pages of the Annual Report: • Gender Equality & Diversity Policy Chapter Strategic Direction, pages 12–25 • Guidelines for Internal & External Business Networking Section Sustainability – activities and outcomes, pages 56–57 • Guidelines for Incidental Employment & Conflicts of Interest The Sustainability reporting has not been externally reviewed. The • Code of Conduct for Suppliers auditor’s statement on the existance of the Sustainability Report is available on Kungsleden’s website. 14 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Kungsleden made 57 investments in energy projects in 2017, generatG4-EC1 Direct economic value ing savings of 8.9 GWh for a cost of SEK 36.1 million. Kungsleden also All businesses have a direct impact on the economy through taxation, has procedures to fine-tune and adjust the function of all its current payments to business partners, as well as salaries, pensions and social plant at least twice per year. security contributions for employees. The following diagram illustrates how Kungsleden’s revenues in 2017 were divided between different G4-CRE1 Energy intensity in buildings stakeholder groups. G4-CRE3 Emission intensity in buildings OUR CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY IN 2017, SDK M DIVIDED AS FOLLOWS Operating expenses excl. personnel, 740 PURCHASED ENERGY Employees, 165 PER M2: EMISSIONS PER M2: 151 9.7 Total: Dividend to shareholders, 437 SEK 1,777 m Interest payments to lenders, 434 Social investment, 1 kWh/sq.m CO2/sq.m Directly created value amounted to SEK 3,972 million and retained economic value amounted to SEK 2,195 million in 2017. ENERGY G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation ENERGY CONSUMPTION MWh 400,000 Kyla 300,000 17,443 Värme 14,323 14,850 El 200,000 162,223 180,618 164,613 100,000 114,323 112,262 104,195 0 2015 2016 2017 Electricity Heating Cooling New method for computing water volumes. The hot water share has been separated from district heating for 2017 which only affects district heating consumption marginally. KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 15 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) Greenhouse gas emissions per scope (ton CO2E) 2017 2016 2015 Scope 1 97 129 226 Scope 2 13,668 16,383 17,517 Total greenhouse gas emissions and allocated by scope. Scope Activity Activity data Conversion factor Scope 1 Oil purchased by Kungsleden that is not Internal gathering of statistics of Heating oil: 0.268 ton CO2/MWh reinvoiced to customers based on separate purchased oil and reinvoicing systems. measurement or invoicing of actual Source: Statistics Sweden. Conversion of Statistics Sweden consumption. energy statistics to CO2 emissions, 29 May 2009 v.2 Scope 1 Business travel with fleet vehicles and Travel by fleet vehicles is based on Greenhouse gas emissions based on distance company cars. odometer readings and travel by company travelled, and car manufacturer data on cars is based on compensation for mileage. emissions per kilometre . Source: Car manufacturers Scope 2 Electricity purchased by Kungsleden that is Internal gathering of statistics of purchased Certified renewable energy: 4 g CO2/kWh not reinvoiced to customers based on electricity and reinvoicing systems. separate measurement or invoicing of actual consumption. Source: Dinel Scope 2 District heating that is purchased by Internal gathering of statistics of purchased Data from each district heating provider. Kungsleden that is not reinvoiced to district heating and reinvoicing systems. customers based on separate measurement or invoicing of actual consumption. LAND DEGRADATION, CONTAMINATION PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING AND REMEDIATION G4-CRE8 Environmental certifications in new G4-CRE5 Land remediated and in need of remediation construction, extensions and reconstructions In 2017 Kungsleden worked according to the plan created after the Kungsleden has utilised various environmental classification systems mapping process executed in 2016, when all properties held were in recent years depending on the system appropriate to each building. categorised according to be contamination situation in one of the A new target for portfolio properties being classified according to following five categories. All new acquisitions have been systematically LEED by 2035 was set in 2017. Half of the portfolio should be classireviewed and classified by contamination situation fied by 2020. At present, Kungsleden’s portfolio has LEED classified properties within new production and existing buildings, and buildings Category 1: Contamination detected that requires remediation certified according to the Silver environmental classification and EU Category 2: MIFO class 1 or 2 or other motivation for investigation Green Building standard. Kungsleden evaluates the potential for LEED required. Potential detection of contamination that reclassification in all major projects, during conversion/new production. quires remediation programme LEED is an international system covering many aspects of the Category 3: MIFO class 3 or 4 or contamination detected that does environmental segment, and has a strong international reputation. not require remediation In terms of value, 10 per cent of the property portfolio has some Category 4: Risk of contamination, but none detected and no sector form of environmental classification. classification Category 5: No contamination detected and no reason for suspicion NUMBER OF ENVIRONMENTALLY CLASSIFIED PROPERTIES 5 This assessment is based on documentation in public records and LEED internal materials and investigation. Kungsleden has not been imposed 4 Green Bu with any instructions for remediation of soil contamination. No port­ folio property is currently classified in category 1. Miljöbyg 3 2 1 0 2015 2016 2017 Environmental Building Green Buildning LEED 16 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES G4-PR2 N  umber of incidences of non-compliance with G4-LA12 Composition of the Board of Directors and regulations and voluntary codes concerning the the Executive Management, and breakdown health and safety impacts of products and servicof employees per employee category es during their cycle, by type of outcome There were no incidences of non-compliance with regulations and 2017 2016 2015 voluntary codes regarding customers’ health & safety in 2017. Kungs­ Board of Directors leden conducted audits in the year that identified several areas of Number of women 5 4 4 improvement. This was followed up by clarification of procedures and – Of which aged less than 30 0 0 0 the production of action-plans. – Of which aged 30–50 0 0 0 – Of which aged over 50 5 4 4 G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction Number of men 2 3 3 The outcome of the year’s Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) was an – Of which aged less than 30 0 0 0 increase from 70 to 72. Customer satisfaction was surveyed in 2017, – Of which aged 30–50 0 0 0 with customers rating Kungsleden 61 for environmental consideration, which can be compared to the real estate sector overall average of 66. – Of which aged over 50 2 3 3 Kungsleden was down by one point on the previous year, compared to Management the sector overall, which was also down by one point on average. Number of women 6 5 5 Kungsleden will continue to present clearer information on its environ– Of which aged less than 30 0 0 0 mental and sustainability work locally and company wide in 2018. – Of which aged 30–50 4 5 5 – Of which aged over 50 2 0 0 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY Number of men 3 5 6 G4-LA6 Accidents, occupational injuries and sick leave – Of which aged less than 30 0 0 0 – Of which aged 30–50 0 2 2 Long-term Total sickTotal sickness – Of which aged over 50 3 3 4 Schedusickness ness absence/scheduled led worabsence, absence, working days Other employees king days days days (%) Number of women 58 51 49 Total, women 101,750 1,372 4,694 4.6 – Of which aged less than 30 4 6 3 Total, men 98,148 855 855 0.9 – Of which aged 30–50 42 39 39 Total 199,898 2,227 5,549 2.8 – Of which aged over 50 12 6 7 Number of men 52 49 42 – Of which aged less than 30 6 5 3 G4-CRE6 Percentage of the organisation operating in – Of which aged 30–50 25 28 23 verified compliance with an internationally – Of which aged over 50 21 16 16 recognized health and safety management Total 110 110 102 system Kungsleden complies with occupational health & safety legislation, and accordingly, has safety representatives. NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination TRAINING AND EDUCATION and corrective actions taken G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management No cases of discrimination were reported in the year. Read more about G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Kungsleden’s work to counter discrimination on pages 18, 22 and 56–57. performance and career development reviews Kungsleden operates an internal skills management process with the ANTI-CORRUPTION associated digital support tools that are available to all staff. This proG4-SO3 Number and percentage of operations cess was clarified for the affected parties in 2017. A schedule of the assessed for risks related to corruption and HR calendar, which clarifies the timing of various actions in the year, is the significant risks identified published on the intranet. In 2017, 63 per cent of staff had appraisal inG4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption terviews. This fairly low share is due to factors including an unusually policies and procedures high number of employees changing manager in the year. In the employee satisfaction survey, 88 per cent of respondents stated that they G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and had received goal-setting and appraisal interviews with their first-line actions taken managers during the past 12 months. Individually tailored support is Kungsleden prepared a new Code of Conduct for Suppliers in 2016, which offered on termination of employment. largely conforms to real estate sector organization Fastighetsägarna’s Code of Conduct. Work on informing and securing support for the Code of Conduct continued in 2017, through training programmes and dialogue with staff and suppliers, as well as communication with tenants regarding Kungsleden’s core values and its Guidelines for Internal & External Business Networking, as well as health & safety plans, electronic records of staff on building sites and safety regulations at Kungsleden’s workplaces. Every contractor must sign the Code of Conduct before being accepted as a Kungsleden supplier. In addition to its Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Kungsleden operates Guidelines for Internal & External Business Networking, Guidelines for Incidental Employment & Conflicts of Interest, as well as a new Procurement Policy. All employees have been informed and received training regarding these guidelines. Kungsleden also has an Ethical Council dealing with issues and incidents relating to business ethics. Kungsleden executed a review of corruption risks within the company in the year, and identified that there is an increased risk. Individuals representing identified business entities within Kungsleden, and who are exposed to a greater risk of corruption through their positions, have been offered additional information on the implication of Kungsleden’s business ethical guidelines and policies. The risk analysis also resulted in an action plan, encompassing actions including internal work on values, improvements to templates and tools and targeted audits. In tandem with the review in 2017, a number of cases of conduct conflicting with the company’s values were identified and dealt with in accordance with internal guidelines KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 17 EPRA SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES Estimation of landlord-obtained utility consumption Effective 2016, Kungsleden is reporting in-depth sustainability perforAll data reported has been measured and verified. There were no mance measures for the company based on the EPRA’s (European estimations. Public Real Estate Association) sBPR (Best Practices Recommendations on Sustainability Reporting). Third party assurance Kungsleden’s indicators reported pursuant to EPRA have not been EPRA PERFORMANCE MEASURES verified by a third party. Kungsleden is reporting sustainability performance measures for 15 of the EPRA sBPRs. It is reporting indicators for energy, greenhouse gas Boundaries-reporting on landlord emissions, water, waste and share of environmentally-certified buildand tenant consumption ings, prepared in accordance with the most recent guidelines from Kungsleden reports on the energy purchased by the property owner, EPRA; sBPR. Energy consumption is reported in MWh, emissions in i.e. by Kungsleden. Kungsleden does not report tenants’ energy contons, water consumption in m3, emission intensity in kg/m2, energy sumption because it basically does not have access to these statistics. intensity in kWh/m2 and water intensity in litres/m2. Kungsleden cannot directly influence tenant energy consumption, which to some extent, renders the statistics less relevant. See the EPRA OVERARCHING RECOMMENDATIONS EPRA table for the data reported, Organisational boundary The boundary of reporting originates with the properties were KungNormalisation sleden has operational control pursuant to the principles of the GreenKungsleden utilises the Swedish Meteorological & Hydrological house Gas Protocol. Kungsleden has adopted this approach because it Institute’s standards to normalise energy for heating. provides us with the best potential to report and quality-assure statistics that Kungsleden can directly impact. Other properties, whether Analysis-segmental analysis customer is responsible for agreements for delivering energy, water (by property type, geography) and waste, are not included. When the customer is responsible for Kungsleden reports sustainability data pursuant to the building types these agreements, Kungsleden is not in possession of metrics data, of office and retail premises, industrial buildings and projects. and accordingly, reporting outcomes is problematic. Disclosure on own offices Coverage Kungsleden’s own offices are included in the statistics, but not reportContinuous and active work is ongoing on the properties that ed separately. Kungsleden owns and manages to gain access to relevant performance data. Narrative on performance Available performance data is something Kungsleden values beChanges from 2016 to 2017 for sustainability key figures and savings cause it creates the potential for effective and positive management achieved are stated in the index for 2017. No data reported was restated. of properties. Kungsleden now has access to performance data for much of its Location of EPRA Sustainability Performance portfolio. The share of properties included in indicators is reported for each performance measure. in companies’ reports However, Kungsleden does not have access to performance data for The reporting of sustainability key figures pursuant to EPRA sBPR is all properties. Primarily, measurements of waste are missing due to formulated in this index, which is part of the Annual Report for 2017. waste contractors being unable to deliver statistics for all properties. Some absolute data for energy and water is also absent due to changReporting period es in the portfolio resulting from acquired, divested and development The reporting of sustainability key figures pursuant to EPRA sBPR is properties. Kungsleden works continuously to gain access to all relefor the calendar year, i.e. 1 January to 31 December. vant performance data wherever possible. At year-end 2017, Kungsleden owned a total of 222 properties, compared to 269 properties at year-end 2016, excluding land. COMPLEMENTARY EPRA DATA Property type: Property type: Industrial & Property type: Property type: EPRA Comment Unit Retail & stores warehouse Offices Other Elec-Abs Elektricitet absolute data MWh 8,698 15,871 56,843 2,426 Elec-Lfl Elektricitet like for like MWh 8,670 10,221 40,542 1,884 DH&C-Abs District heating and district cooling MWh absolute data 12,303 56,714 118,602 5,395 DH&C-Lfl District heating and district cooling MWh like for like 11,326 32,829 82,710 4,779 Fuels-Abs Emissions absolute data MWh 93 328 0 0 Fuels-Lfl Emissions like for like MWh 0 328 0 0 Energy-Int Energy intensity kWh/sq.m 139.1 125.3 145.5 183.7 GHG-Dir-Abs Direct emissions absolute data Ton CO2 17 88 0 0 GHG-Indir-Abs Indirect emissions absolute data Ton CO2 552 5,468 8,627 174 GHG-Dir-Lfl Direct emissions like for like Ton CO2 0 88 0 0 GHG-Indir-Lfl Indirect emissions like for like Ton CO2 533 2,877 6,023 101 GHG-Int Emission intensity KgCO2/sq.m 3.6 9.4 7.1 4.1 Water-Abs Water absolute data m3 32,382 118,264 382,634 15,700 Water-Lfl Water like for like m3 29,180 81,522 268,099 15,700 Water-Int Water intensity m3/sq.m 320 265 423 431 18 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 KUNGSLEDEN AND GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GOAL 5: GENDER EQUALITY Kungsleden makes a contribution to gender equality by serving as a role model for the Swedish business community and continuing to work proactively for women and men having equal opportunities in their work and careers. Kungsleden has basically even gender division at the company’s management levels. GOAL 11: SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND SOCIETIES As a major, long-term property owner, Kungsleden has the potential to influence public transport in GOAL 7: AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY the surroundings of its properties. Kungsleden By adjusting existing technology and investing in also has the potential to influence planning, incluenergy-efficient plant, Kungsleden can reduce the sion, resource-efficiency and adaptation to energy consumption of its properties. Kungsleden climate change in its clusters. can source renewable energy for its property portfolio to promote the realignment of its energy mix to more renewable sources, as well as contributing its own locally produced energy. GOAL 10: REDUCED INEQUALITIES By working actively on vibratnt urban spaces where there are spontaneous meetings between people whatever their background, Kungsleden enables encounters that contribute to reducing inequalities. Kungsleden also works actively on an open corporate culture that is inclusive and creates the potential for disadvantaged people to enter the labour market. GRI INDEX General standard disclosures Comment See G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation on sustainability strategy p 5 (CEO’s statement) G4-3 The name of the organisation p1 G4-4 The primary products and services p1 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters p 115 G4-6 The country where the organisation operates p1 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p 64–67 G4-8 Markets the organisation serves p1 G4-9 The scale of the organisation p1 G4-10 Total number of employees GC principle 3,6 p 1, 107 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p 107 G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain p 12–13 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period p 2–3 G4-14 Whether and how the organisation addresses the precautionary principle GC principle 7 p 107 G4-15 External economic, environmental and social charters, principles the organization subscribes to or endorses p 107 G4-16 Memberships of associations p 107 G4-17 List of entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements p 31 G4-18 Process for defining report content p 107 G4-19 Identification of material sustainability aspects p 108 G4-20 Report on internal aspect boundaries for each sustainability aspect p 108 G4-21 Report on external aspect boundaries for each sustainability aspect p 108 G4-22 Effect of any restatements in previously reported information p 108 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods p 108 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation p 108 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders p 108 G4-26 Approach for stakeholder engagement p 108 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to these issues p 108 G4-28 Reporting period p 108 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report p 108 G4-30 Reporting cycle p 108 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report p 108 G4-32 Report of ’in accordance’ option & GRI Content index p 108 G4-33 External assurance p 108 G4-34 Report on the organisation’s governance structure p 64–67 G4-56 Describe the organisation’s values, codes of conduct, etc. GC principle 10 p 108 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 19 GRI index cont. Specifika standard­ indikatorer EPRA Comment Comment See DMA Financial performance p 12–15, 109 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p 109 DMA Energy p 14, 22, 56, 108 G4-EN3 Elec-Abs Energy consumption within the organisation GC principle 8 Elec-Lfl DH&C-Abs DH&C-Lfl Fuels-Abs Fuels-Lfl p 56, 108 G4-EN6 Projects to reduce energy consumption & achievements GC principle 6 p 56, 108 G4-CRE1 Energy-Int Energy consumption per square metre p 109 DMA Emissions p 56 G4-EN15 GHG-Dir-Abs Direct greenhouse gas emissions GC principle 7, 8 GHG-Dir-Lfl p 110 G4-EN16 GHG-Indir-Abs Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from energy production GC principle 7, 8 GHG-Indir-Lfl p 110 G4-CRE3 GHG-Int Greenhouse gas emissions per square metre p 109 DMA Environmental impact of products & services p 56 G4-EN27 Actions to mitigate environmental impact from properties GC principle 9 p 56 DMA Soil contamination & remediation p 110 G4-CRE5 Contaminated & remediated soil p 110 DMA Labelling of products & services p 110 G4-CRE8 Number and percentage of environmentally certified properties p 14, 110 G4-PR5 Outcome of customer satisfaction surveys p 17, 111 DMA Customer health & safety p 22, 57 G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with laws, regulations and voluntary codes regarding customers’ health & safety p 111 DMA Employee health & safety GC principle 4, 5 p 18, 22, 57 G4-LA6 Sickness absence & work-related injuries, accidents & illnesses p 111 G4-CRE6 Proportion working in accordance with health & safety management system GC principle 4, 5 p 111 DMA Employee skills management p 111 G4-LA10 Skills management programme p 111 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews GC principle 6 p 111 DMA Diversity & equal opportunities GC principle 1, 2, 4 p 18, 22, 111 G4-LA12 Breakdown of organisation by gender & age group GC principle 6 p 111 G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination GC principle 6 p 111 DMA Supplier assessment of working conditions p 57 DMA Anti-corruption p 57, 111 G4-SO3 Proportion of organisation analysed in terms of risk of corruption GC principle 10 p 111 G4-SO4 Information & training on corruption guidelines GC principle 10 p 111 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption & actions taken GC principle 10 p 111 20 KUNGSLEDEN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017
