2017 FINANCIAL REPORT AND REGISTRATION DOCUMENT contents Editorial from the Chairman and CEO 2 Profile 4 1 Introduction to the Group 1.1. History AFR 9 10 6 Company financial statements 6.1. Financial statements AFR 241 242 1.2. Business sector 11 6.2. Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements 244 1.3. A proﬁtable growth strategy 13 6.3. Five-year ﬁnancial summary 259 1.4. Organization of internal control 21 6.4. Statutory auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial 1.5. Risk factors 28 statements 260 2 Corporate governance 2.1. Implementation framework for corporate 39 7 Information concerning the company and its share capital AFR 265 governance principles 40 7.1. Information concerning the company 266 2.2. Management structure 40 7.2. Information on share capital 269 2.3. Composition, organization and operation 7.3. Financial authorizations 274 of the Board of Directors 41 7.4. Employee shareholding 275 2.4. Group management bodies 67 7.5. Stock market and dividend information 278 2.5. Remuneration policy 68 3 Corporate S ocial Responsibility 91 8 Annual General Meeting 8.1. Agenda for the Combined General Meeting 281 3.1. Commitment and management 92 of 16 May 2018 282 3.2. Stakeholders 95 8.2. Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ 3.3. Challenges and road map 99 report to the Combined General Meeting 3.4. Reporting process 101 of 16 May 2018 AFR 283 3.5. Ethical compliance 103 8.3. Statutory auditors’ special report 3.6. A responsible employment policy 107 on regulated agreements and commitments 297 9 3.7. A corporate citizen 124 3.8. Sustainable innovations meeting Additional information 301 consumer expectations 127 3.9. Reduction of environmental impacts 134 3.10. Report by one of the statutory auditors, 9.1. Glossary 302 appointed as an independent third party, 9.2. Declaration by the person responsible on the consolidated human resources, for the Registration Document containing environmental and social information the annual report AFR 303 included in the management report 144 9.3. Statutory auditors and audit fees AFR 304 4 9.4. Cross-reference table for the Annual Financial Report, Management Report Commentary on the Ànancial year AFR 147 and Corporate Governance Report 9.5. Cross-reference table for the Registration 306 4.1. 2017 highlights 148 Document 308 4.2. Commentary on consolidated sales 152 9.6. Cross-reference table, Grenelle II, 4.3. Commentary on the consolidated results 157 GRI and global compact 311 4.4. Commentary on SEB S.A.’s results 159 4.5. Outlook 161 4.6. Post-balance sheet events 162 5 Consolidated financial statements AFR 163 5.1. Financial statements 164 5.2. Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 169 5.3. Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 233 5.4. History of signiﬁcant consolidated items Items in the Annual Financial Report are identified in the contents and ratios 238 with the help of the symbol AFR Registration Document 2017 and Annual Financial Report The world leader in Small Domestic Equipment, €6,485m IN REVENUE IN 2017 Groupe SEB pursues a multi-specialist strategy with top-ranking 9.2% positions in small electrical appliances and a strong global leadership in cookware. Its mission is making consumers’ everyday ORGANIC SALES GROWTH lives easier and more enjoyable and contributing to better living all around the world. Operating in nearly 150 countries, Groupe SEB has built strong 45% positions across continents through a product offering, both global and local, addressing consumer expectations throughout the world. INCREASE IN NET PROFIT This offering is enhanced by an exceptional brand portfolio. The Group’s success is rooted in its long-term vision, committed to 33,600 achieving the right balance between growth and competitiveness EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE in order to create value for all its stakeholders. AT 31/12/2017 This Registration Document was filed with the French Financial Markets Authority (Autorité des Marchés Financiers or AMF) on 29 March 2018, in accordance with Article 212-13 of the AMF’s general regulations. It may be used as a basis for financial transactions if it is accompanied by an AMF information memorandum. This document was drawn up by and is the responsibility of the issuer and its Chairman and CEO. This Registration Document is available on Groupe SEB’s website, www.groupeseb.com and on the AMF website, www.amf-france.org. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 1 Editorial from the Chairman and CEO Editorial from the Chairman 2 and CEO GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Editorial from the Chairman and CEO Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2017: another great year Groupe SEB once again posted an excellent year in 2017. Sales amounted to nearly €6.5 billion, up 30%, with a €1.15 billion contribution to Group revenue from WMF in its first year of consolidation. Our organic growth, at +9.2%, was vigorous and driven by all our geographic regions and product families. OUR 2017 Our Operating Result from Activity rose by more than 30%, our net income by 45%, and we ended the year with a net debt/adjusted EBITDA ratio of 2.4. WMF’s PERFORMANCE STANDS performance was consistent with our expectations, generating an accretion of 22% AS PROOF OF THE on net earnings per share. The ambitious objectives we had set for ourselves in 2017 have thus been exceeded. These results should, furthermore, be viewed in the light RELEVANCE OF OUR of high comparatives, as 2015 and 2016 were already excellent years. They stand as BUSINESS MODEL, proof of the relevance of our business model, the robustness of our fundamentals, the THE ROBUSTNESS OF continuous improvement of our competitiveness and the outstanding commitment of all our employees, whom I would like to thank at this point. OUR FUNDAMENTALS, Promising start of WMF within the Group THE CONTINUOUS 2017 was also a year of transformation for the Group with the integration of WMF. IMPROVEMENT OF OUR Substantial work was already carried out to implement new organizations now COMPETITIVENESS AND operational -, harmonize processes, pool certain central functions and start unlocking synergies in purchasing, the supply chain and manufacturing. Value accretive projects THE OUTSTANDING were launched, with the first concrete initiatives aimed at developing the Consumer COMMITMENT OF ALL business including in particular a strengthened strategy in the high-end segment – OUR EMPLOYEES and activating the acceleration program in Professional Coffee. We are aligned with our roadmap and all the teams, on both sides, are mobilized in a spirit of constructive cooperation, to seize the many opportunities arising from this exciting project. Obviously, considerable work still remains to be done, and some projects will take time to deliver their full potential. But, as with Supor 10 years ago, we are confident in our ability to take best advantage of this transformative acquisition. Stepping up in 2018 In a probably more challenging general environment, and bearing in mind the demanding comparison basis set by the Group, including WMF, we have begun 2018 with great determination and a two-fold objective. Firstly, in a Small Domestic Equipment market that we believe should remain buoyant, we aim to continue the Group’s profitable growth within its former scope by leveraging our main strategic pillars: innovation, the power of our brands, a multi-channel distribution, global presence and our competitiveness. Secondly, we will continue to integrate WMF, by intensifying the projects initiated in 2017 and, in particular, by implementing the investment and acceleration plans in the professional coffee business while at the same time taking actions to boost profitability in Small Domestic Equipment. This will enable us to start generating tangible synergies in line with our objectives for 2020. Against this backdrop, Groupe SEB in 2018 aims to achieve further organic sales growth, improve its Operating Result from Activity and continue to reduce its indebtedness. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 3 ProÀle Groupe SEB THE WORLD LEADER IN SMALL DOMESTIC EQUIPMENT An extensive and diversified product offering Cookware: • Frying pans, saucepans, pressure cookers, kitchen tools and utensils, baking trays, food storage containers, vacuum flasks and mugs Small electrical appliances: Development KITCHEN ELECTRICS: • Electrical cooking: deep fryers, rice cookers, electrical pressure cookers, supported by a strong informal meal appliances, waffle makers, meat grills, toasters, multicookers innovation dynamic • Beverage preparation: coffee makers (filter and pod), espresso machines, electric kettles, home beer-tapping machines, soya milk makers • Food preparation: blenders, cooking food processors, kitchen machines, mixers, €225m beaters INVESTED IN INNOVATION IN 2017 HOME AND PERSONAL CARE: • Linen care: steam irons and generators, garment steamers • Personal care: hair care equipment, depilators , bathroom scales > 1,300 PEOPLE WITHIN THE • Home care: cylinder vacuum cleaners with or without dust bag, steam and upright INNOVATION COMMUNITY vacuum cleaners 542 • Home comfort: fans, heaters, air treatment Professional coffee machines PATENTS FILED IN 2017 Presence across the entire value chain, from production to distribution • 40 production sites worldwide, manufacturing nearly 70% of products sold • A multichannel distribution: mass retail, specialist retailers, traditional stores, proprietary stores (Group retail) and e-commerce • Top ranking positions in over 25 countries • 33,600 employees in 150 countries (31 December 2017) • A strategy focusing on ethical, socially fair and ecologically responsible longterm development 4 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Our values AN UNRIVALED BRAND PORTFOLIO ENTREPRENEURIAL DRIVE Core brands > GLOBAL VISION > LEADERSHIP GLOBAL FOR CHANGE > DETERMINATION > INITIATIVE AND AGILITY PASSION FOR REGIONAL INNOVATION > PASSION FOR PRODUCTS > PIONEERING > DARING PROFESSIONALISM > PRAGMATISM > KNOW-HOW > HIGH STANDARDS Premium brands GROUP SPIRIT > SHARED AMBITION > TRUST > TRANSPARENCY RESPECT BtoB brands FOR PEOPLE > RESPECT > LOYALTY > SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Executive Committee Thierry Harry Touret Vincent Léonard, de La Tour d’Artaise, Bertrand Senior Executive Senior Executive Chairman and Chief Neuschwander, Vice-president, Vice-president, Executive Ofﬁcer Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Human Resources Finance Stéphane Laﬂèche, Philippe Crevoisier, Cyril Buxtorf, Luc Gaudemard, Executive Executive Executive Executive Vice-president, Vice-president, Vice-president, Vice-president, Industrial Operations Products and Innovation EMEA Americas Frédéric Verwaerde, Vincent Tai, Executive Executive Vice-president, Vice-President, Asia Asia since 01/01/2018 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 5 2017 key Àgures SALES AND ORGANIC GROWTH OPERATING RESULT FROM ACTIVITY AND OPERATING MARGIN Other 2017 non-financial 4,770 5,000 6,485 428 505 678* indicators 33,600 + 9.2% EMPLOYEES + 6.1% + 8.0% 10.5% > 1,200 10.1% 9.0% PROPRIETARY STORES, HALF OF WHICH ARE IN CHINA 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 177 Sales in €m ORfA in €m ETHICAL, SOCIAL AND Organic growth th Operating margini ENVIRONMENTAL AUDITS OF OUR SUPPLIERS DILUTED NET EARNINGS PER SHARE NET DEBT AND FINANCIAL AND DIVIDEND LEVERAGE AT 31 DECEMBER 4.14 5.15 7.50 316 2,019 1,905 93% 2.8** OF SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES SOLD ARE LARGELY REPAIRABLE 2.4 2.0 1.72 1.54 0.6 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Diluted earnings per share in € Net debt in €m Dividend in € Net debt/adjusted EBITDA * Before one-off impacts of WMF purchase price allocation: -€17m. Other Asian countries ** Net debt/Proforma adjusted EBITDA (with WMF). 9% China 59% 20% Western Europe 43% Breakdown €6,485m MATURE of sales MARKETS South America by region 6% 41% North America EMERGING MARKETS 10% Other EMEA countries 12% 6 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Shareholders & stock market information Data sheet PLACE OF LISTING SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE IN 2017 Euronext Paris, Compartiment A Share price € Volume (number of shares) ISIN CODE FR0000121709 200 1,600,000 LEI CODE 190 969500WP61NBK098AC47 1,400,000 LISTING DATE 180 27 May 1975 1,200,000 170 STOCK MARKET INDICES +20% CAC ® Mid 60, SBF ® 120, 160 1,000,000 CAC ® Mid & Small, CAC ® All-Tradable, 150 800,000 STOXX ® Europe 600, Vigeo Europe 120, 140 MSCI Global, +11% 600,000 FTSE4Good 130 OTHER INFORMATION 120 400,000 IAS index – Eligible for DSS 110 200,000 NUMBER OF SHARES 50,169,049 shares with a par value of €1 100 0 TICKERS Jan Fe Ma Ap Ma Ju Ju Au Se Oc No De . 17 b. 1 rch ril y1 ne ly 1 g. 1 pt. t. 1 v. 1 c. 1 Reuters : SEBF.PA 7 17 7 17 7 7 17 7 7 7 17 Bloomberg : SK.FP Volume SEB SBF 120 adjusted MARKET CAPITALIZATION AT 31/12/2017 €7,749m BREAKDOWN SHAREHOLDER BASE: OF VOTING RIGHTS: At 31/12/2017, as a % of the share capital (EGM) At 31/12/2017, as a% of effective votes (EGM) Employees Employees 3.8% Treasury shares 4.1% FFP Invest 1.1% FFP Invest 5.0% 6.8% FSP FSP 5.3% 3.6% VENELLE FLOAT VENELLE FLOAT INVESTISSEMENT INVESTISSEMENT and Associates* 44.1% and Associates* 32.3% 19.6% 26.5% FÉDÉRACTIVE FÉDÉRACTIVE and Associates* and Associates* 21.2% 26.8% * Founder Group 40.8% * Founder Group 53.3% GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 7 8 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 1.1. 1.2. History Business sector 10 11 1 The Small Domestic Equipment market 11 Multiple forms of competition 12 The professional coffee market 12 1.3. A profitable growth strategy 13 A strong product innovation dynamic 13 An unrivaled brand portfolio 15 A global and diversified presence 16 A multi-channel distribution strategy 17 An active acquisition policy 18 The need for competitiveness 19 1.4. Organization of internal control 21 Introduction Organization of internal control and key players 21 1.5. Risk factors 28 Risk identification and control process Description of main risk factors and associated management plans 28 30 to the Group Insurance 36 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 9 1 Introduction to the Group History 1.1. History Acquisitions Organic growth Innovations 1857 Creation of a tin-plating workshop in 2003-04 Further development in Asia Selongey in the Burgundy region, France (Thailand and Malaysia) 1932 First hand-crank food mill by Moulinex 2004 Acquisition of All-Clad, a high-end cookware specialist in the United States 1944 The company takes the name S.E.B. (Société d’Emboutissage de Bourgogne) 2004 Repelente anti-mosquito fan by Arno 1953 Launch of the Super Cocotte pressure 2005 Acquisitions of the Brazilian company, cooker, which was to give rise to the Seb Panex, and the Italian company, Lagostina brand 2006 Actifry, “low-fat” fryer with only a spoonful of oil 1954 The first Tefal non-stick pan and the first Calor steam iron 2007 Acquisition of a majority shareholding in the Chinese company, Supor 1967 Seb invents the odorless electric fryer 2007 Silence Force vacuum cleaner by Rowenta 1968 Acquisition of Tefal and its European subsidiaries (Germany, Belgium, 2011 Acquisitions of Imusa in Colombia Denmark, Netherlands, Italy) and Asia Fan in Vietnam 1972 Acquisition of Calor 2011 Acquisition of a majority shareholding in the Indian company, Maharaja Whiteline 1972 Opening of subsidiaries in England and the US 2011 Creation of the SEB Alliance investment fund 1973 Creation of Groupe SEB 2011 Acquisition of an additional 20% capital 1975 Initial public offering of SEB S.A. interest in Supor 1975 Opening of a subsidiary in Japan 2012 Cookeo multicooker by Moulinex, Freemove cordless iron, and Steampod, 1978 First Tefal raclette grill the professional hair-straightening solution, in partnership with L’Oréal 1981 First Calor electronic iron 2013 Cuisine Companion, the first cooking food 1988 Acquisition of the German company, processor by Moulinex and Optigrill, the Rowenta intelligent grill 1991-93 Opening of subsidiaries: Mexico, Poland, 2014 Cookeo Connect, the connected version of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Cookeo Turkey, Canada, and Portugal 2015 Acquisition of the Scandinavian company, 1994 Seb Clipso pressure cooker with innovative OBH Nordica opening mechanism 2016 Capital stake in Supor increased to 81% 1994 Dymbo vacuum cleaner by Rowenta 2016 Acquisition in Germany of EMSA, the 1994-96 Further international expansion (Russia, United kitchen utensil and accessory specialist Arab Emirates, Brazil and Argentina) 2016 Acquisition of WMF, the world leader in 1995 Pots and pans with Ingenio removable professional automatic coffee machines handles by Tefal and leader in cookware in Germany 1997-98 Opening of subsidiaries in Australia 2017 Acquisition of the Swiss company, and South Korea Swizzz Prozzz, which specializes in mini hand choppers 1997-98 Acquisitions of the Brazilian company, Arno, and the Colombian company, 2017 Air Force 360, the all-in-one cordless Volmo (Samurai brand) handstick vacuum cleaner 2000 Thermospot by Tefal (heat indicator 2017 Body Partner by Tefal, the connected integrated in the nonstick surface) bathroom scales 2001 Moulinex-Krups takeover 10 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group Business sector 1.2. Business sector THE SMALL DOMESTIC EQUIPMENT MARKET 1 Groupe SEB has forged over the years a leadership position and expand its product offering by regularly introducing new materials. a world reference status in Small Domestic Equipment. This sector The kitchen utensil and accessories market includes, for example, covers cookware and small electrical appliances, accounting spatulas, ladles, skimmers, kitchen knives, vacuum flasks and respectively for approximately 30% and 70% of its sales (excluding mugs, food storage boxes and containers, etc. By combining professional coffee). sustained organic growth and a strategy of industry consolidation exemplified by the recent acquisitions of Swizzz Prozzz, EMSA and The global Small Domestic Equipment market is divided into WMF, Groupe SEB now ranks among the top five global players many distinct national and regional markets with their own local in this segment. However, its share of this highly fragmented but consumer cooking, eating and product utilization habits. It also extremely promising market remains limited. lacks comprehensive coverage by research panels (primarily GFK) or other market research bodies. This at times makes it difficult to At worldwide level and from a long-term perspective, the Small reconcile industry figures (inclusion of new categories or geographic Domestic Equipment sector has demonstrated its resilience during segments, for example) in order to produce a global picture. Based periods of crisis and solid development within a neutral or positive on the latest available statistics and Group estimates, the size of the economic environment. This performance reflects the combined market addressed is currently estimated at approximately €40 billion impact of various factors: for small electrical appliances and €22 billion for cookware and ■ global consumption trends driven by a growing interest in health and kitchen utensils. wellbeing, encouraging the development of “home-made” products; ■ The small electrical appliances market targeted by Groupe SEB ■ moderate but steady growth in most mature markets, with a high includes several segments varying considerably in size, and ranked installed base though unevenly spread across product families, below according to their overall weighting: responsiveness to innovation, a robust replacement market and ■ electrical cooking: rice cookers, electrical pressure cookers, a trading up trend reflecting demand for higher status products. multicookers, toasters, deep fryers, grills and barbecues, At the same time, the entry-level segment, driven by demand for sandwich-makers, table-top ovens, induction hobs, etc.; basic, low-priced products, has remained steady; ■ beverage preparation: kettles, coffee makers (filter and pod, ■ overall solid but more volatile growth in emerging markets, espresso machines); according to the general environment and events. These markets are experiencing strong demand from first-time buyers and their ■ food preparation: blenders, kitchen machines, heating/cooking buoyant growth is fueled by rising consumption stemming from the food processors, beaters, mixers, citrus squeezers and juicers, greater purchasing power of a booming middle class, increasing etc.; urbanization and the development of modern retail channels, ■ linen care: ironing (dry and steam irons, steam generators and particularly e-commerce; garment steamers), semi-automatic washing machines, etc.; ■ the co-existence of “global” products addressing universal needs ■ personal care: hair care appliances (hairdryers, blow-drying or easy to tailor on a country scale with a product offering adapted hairstylers, hair straighteners), hair trimmers, depilators , to the specific lifestyles and consumption habits (particularly in bathroom scales. The Group does not operate in the dental care relation to food) in local markets; or men’s shaving segments which are accordingly excluded from ■ an average sale price of around €50 for a small electrical appliance its target market; in Europe, for example, largely affordable by the general public ■ home care: vacuum cleaners; and requiring no credit or a limited use of credit. Sales are further ■ home comfort: fans, heaters, air treatment appliances. boosted by in-store or online traffic, driven by promotional Groupe SEB has built a global reference position in the small campaigns within a very competitive market environment; electrical appliance market that it addresses. This position is based ■ strong seasonality, shared by all market players, largely linked to on number one rankings in several categories, top-tier positions in the high percentage of products sold during holiday periods or others, and a reinforced presence in new product families. for special events (back to school, Christmas, Chinese New Year, ■ The cookware and kitchen utensil market breaks down more Singles’ Day, Black Friday, etc.); or less evenly between the two segments. For cookware (mainly ■ strong contributions for many years from products and solutions frying pans, saucepans, pressure cookers, bakeware and oven developed in partnership with major consumer goods players, as dishes) Groupe SEB is the undisputed leader and is continuing to for example in the case of single-serve coffee making. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 11 1 Introduction to the Group Business sector On top of these specific moves, changes in distribution are playing a banners with a physical presence. As a result, growth in this market is crucial role in the emergence of new consumer purchasing behavior: currently being broadly driven by e-commerce: major online specialists the rapid development in many countries – mature and emerging – (pure players like Amazon, Tmall, JD.com, Nova Pontocom, etc.) as of alternative distribution networks, in particular e-commerce, has well as the websites of initially “physical” retailers (“bricks-and-mortar” profoundly transformed the market, boosting online sales (particularly retailers). for small electrical appliances), sometimes to the detriment of retail MULTIPLE FORMS OF COMPETITION In a global context, the very nature of the Small Domestic Equipment Arcelik in Turkey; Bork and Polaris in Russia; Newell Brands, which market requires a strategy that is both global and local in order to mainly addresses North America, Hamilton Beach Brands and effectively address the expectations of consumers around the globe. SharkNinja on the American continent; Mallory, Mondial, Britania The expansion of international brands, which can in some cases and Tramontina (cookware) in South America; and Panasonic in be marketed under strong local/regional brands in their domestic Asia; market, falls in line with this two-pronged approach and combines ■ local competitors, notably in booming Asian emerging markets the benefits of both economies of scale and solid positions in local (China, India and Indonesia), driven by buoyant domestic markets markets. On this basis, Groupe SEB is the only player boasting such and, in the case of China, by growth in exports, both regionally broad international reach, supported by a portfolio containing a (particularly South-East Asia) and worldwide. In China, the Group’s wealth of global brands and brands with local leadership positions. main competitors are Midea and Joyoung for small kitchen electrics This gives it a strategic advantage versus a very disparate range of and ASD for cookware; competitors consisting of: ■ specialists concentrating on one or two product segments: in small ■ large global groups (with, for some of them, only a marginal electrical appliances with innovative technologies, for example exposure to the small electrical appliance sector). Philips and Dyson and iRobot, or with high-end positioning, such as Vorwerk Electrolux, for example, have a diversified product offering and and Jura; and in cookware, for example the French company Le a huge international presence. These two players are joined by Creuset, which specializes in cast iron cookware; Spectrum Brands and Conair, which mainly roll out their product ■ private labels or white label goods in large part focused on ranges in Europe and the US, while Bosch-Siemens and Braun aggressively priced entry-level products from Chinese sub(P&G) are principally active in Europe. De Longhi completes the contractors which, however, have a market share that is weak list: this major player in coffee and food preparation is expanding overall in terms of small electrical appliances. Conversely, in its sectoral and international presence; cookware, the Group’s main competitors internationally are often ■ major cookware manufacturers marketing a broad product private labels; range internationally, such as the US group Meyer, and the German ■ finally, certain companies’ activities and brands are present in companies Fissler and Zwilling-Staub; both B2B and consumer segments, as in the cases of Kitchen ■ numerous international players in the highly fragmented kitchen Aid (Whirlpool), Magimix (Robot-Coupe), Jura, and Vorwerk, for utensils market, including Tupperware, Rubbermaid (Newell example. Brands), Ikea, Oxo (Helen of Troy), Thermos and Lifetime Brands; Generally speaking, in both small electrical appliances and cookware, ■ groups or companies operating primarily in their domestic competition is intense and has been reinforced by additional pressure market or a small number of reference markets: Magimix, on prices exerted by retailers in order to maintain or boost traffic in Taurus, Imetec, Severin, in particular, in several European countries; stores in response to strong momentum in on-line sales. THE PROFESSIONAL COFFEE MARKET The acquisition of WMF has represented a great opportunity for services), and whose sales are driven by rapid growth in out-of-home Groupe SEB to enter the highly attractive market of professional consumption of speciality and premium coffees. automatic coffee machines for hotels, restaurants, cafés, bakeries The Group has positioned itself as the undisputed global leader in this and convenience stores. high concentrated market segment through two brands, WMF and On a professional coffee machine market worth nearly €8 billion Schaerer. Franke, Thermoplan and Melitta are also global benchmark globally (source: Estin & Co.), Groupe SEB has thus penetrated a players, alongside more minor groups in this segment but with a strong very specific segment: fully automatic machines, which represent presence in other categories (La Cimbali, Rancilio through the Egro approximately 25% of the total market (including equipment and brand, and Jura). 12 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group A proﬁtable growth strategy 1.3. A profitable growth strategy On the one hand, Groupe SEB’s expansion is based on a strategy of steady growth, driven by a strong product innovation policy, a it relies on a constant search for competitiveness, which is achieved via a complete manufacturing base and a rigorous and responsible 1 global presence, an unrivaled brand portfolio within the industry and purchasing policy. a capacity to work with all distribution channels. On the other hand, A STRONG PRODUCT INNOVATION DYNAMIC Innovation is firmly rooted in the Group’s values and is one of its most The 2000s marked a new acceleration in the product offering renewal powerful development and differentiation drivers. It gives the Group process through: the leading edge required to stay ahead of the competition and fight ■ the Group’s first partnerships, developed from 2006 onwards commoditization. The Group uses innovation to offer new products, with leading food industry operators, which gave it access to new designs, or differentiated marketing approaches. This provides real product categories, such as pod coffee machines and home beeradded value for consumers, allowing Groupe SEB to stand out in an tapping machines; effective way and thus strengthen its positioning and conquer new ■ the introduction of several innovative products, in response to markets. new consumer expectations (nutrition and health, home-made, convenience, well-being, etc.), often leading to major commercial A LONG-TIME COMMITMENT success: the Actifry fryer with only a spoonful of oil; the Silence Force Cyclonic 4AAAA and Silence Force Extreme vacuum cleaners, The Group’s history is one of continual innovations and breakthroughs which combine power with very low noise levels; silent fans, the incorporating unique concepts, new features and ingenious Airforce 360 versatile handstick vacuum, smart appliances (Cookeo discoveries. These innovations have been reflected in tangible and Optigrill), and the Cuisine Companion cooking food processor; advances in the everyday life of consumers. Iconic products, such as anti-limescale iron and high pressure steam generator irons, etc.; the Seb pressure cooker or the Moulinex hand-crank food mill, paved ■ the introduction of new features such as a self-cleaning iron the way for the first electrical appliances in the 1950s and 1960s: sole-plate, fast-heating steam generators, and wireless irons in irons, coffee grinders, the Charlotte and Marie multi-purpose food linen care; heating and cooking blenders in the food preparation processors, etc. The design of products making everyday life easier segment; anti-mosquito fans in home comfort, etc. and eliminating tedious tasks continued to develop at a faster pace in Innovations are now largely based on digital technology, with the the 1960s and 1970s with new steam irons, vacuum cleaners, kitchen development of connected products to improve the daily life of the machines and the launch by Seb of odorless deep fryers. The 1970s consumer, but also associated services offered as part of a global and 1980s marked the arrival of more sophisticated functions with the ecosystem (e.g. kitchen recipes updated on mobile app). Groupe introduction of electronically enhanced products: bathroom scales, SEB’s new connected devices aim to provide more customization, programmable coffee machines, etc. This era also saw the emergence efficiency and immediacy. The most recent launches include: Cookeo of new lifestyles, reflected in the launch of informal meal appliances Connect by Moulinex (monitoring of recipe creation and guidance such as the raclette grill and home espresso coffee makers. In the from tablet or mobile), i-Companion (connected version of the Cuisine decade from 1990 to 2000, both Groupe SEB and Moulinex brought Companion cooking food processor by Moulinex), Latte Smart by new simplicity to the world of small electrical appliances, including Krups (preparation and recording of a coffee recipe from a mobile pressure cookers with simplified closing mechanisms, removable app), Cooking Connect by Tefal (connected kitchen scales) and Body handles for frying pans and saucepans, compact vacuum cleaners Partner by Tefal (connected bathroom scales). with triangular-shaped heads, coffee makers incorporating dosergrinders, frying pans with a visual heat indicator, food processors including storage systems, etc. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 13 1 Introduction to the Group A proﬁtable growth strategy A VIRTUOUS STRATEGY At the same time, the Group has developed partnerships with universities, schools, engineering firms, testing laboratories, research institutes and other companies with which it collaborates on major projects. Reinforcing and effectively exploiting these research networks allow it to accelerate its innovation process, expand its scope of intervention and benefit from additional expertise in a broad range of fields (materials, information and communications INNOVATION technologies, electrical engineering, food sciences and technologies, etc.). Examples include projects in the field of health and nutrition, such as Nutrition-Santé-Longévité, Vitagora and Q@limed. The PROFITABLE GROWTH VALUE CREATION Group also contributes to better living and general health as an EIT FOR THE GROUP FOR RETAILERS Knowledge Innovation Community member and is a major stakeholder in France and international markets within the FoodTech ecosystem that seeks to anticipate new food-related trends. In association with other companies specialized in different sectors (food industry, consumer goods, digital transition, etc.), the Group takes part in these CUSTOMER SATISFACTION projects by designing and marketing connected objects, developing a AND LOYALTY culinary platform with Orange, launching an online cooking platform (www.foodle.fr) and developing partnerships with both large groups and startups. Groupe SEB’s innovation strategy is consistent with a pragmatic Lastly, inspired by the idea of fablabs (labs dedicated to creativity approach to product creation that involves both Business Unit teams and materialization), Groupe SEB now has a SEBLab gathering the and Head Office departments in research and development, industry, various tools conducive to new product creation. This space for purchasing, logistics and strategic marketing, design and quality. New experimentation brings together mixed teams (marketing, research, products are the result of the in-depth analysis of consumer needs design, internal and external experts) to work on the same project (which include both expressed and latent needs), the invention of in short sessions (four days on average): the aim is to shorten the breakthrough concepts, the use and evaluation of new technologies innovation cycle for certain products and identify the potential of new and the creation of differentiating or one-of-a-kind designs. For ideas more quickly. Groupe SEB, innovation is part of a virtuous circle: as a creator of value for customers/retailers and a source of progress and satisfaction for consumers, it generates profitable growth which makes it possible SEB ALLIANCE: FINANCING AND PARTNERING to reinvest in innovation to restart the cycle. INNOVATIVE START-UPS In 2017, in order to accelerate product development and launches, In May 2011, the Group created an investment company, SEB Alliance, Groupe SEB decided to set up a global Innovation hub for the small to improve its technology monitoring system by investing in innovative, electrical domestic appliance business in Écully, France. The aim is to technology-focused companies in areas such as connected home bring together all of the Innovation chain’s main players in this market on and digital applications, robotics, well-being and population aging, a single site. 230 employees from the marketing and research teams will and reducing the environmental footprint. be relocated to the Group’s global headquarters by the summer of 2018. In this context, SEB Alliance favors acquiring initial minority stakes The Group also plans to implement a shared, collaborative approach (5-15% of the share capital), for an average amount of approximately to innovation internally. The Group has, therefore, structured relations €1 million. SEB Alliance has invested directly in around ten companies within its innovation community, comprising 1,300 employees, using since it was created, in areas that are consistent with Groupe collaborative tools that make it possible to enrich the collective vision SEB’s strategic areas for innovation and could result in consumer on strategic issues and to promote the sharing of knowledge and applications, such as: best practices. ■ digital/Big Data, with Alkemics (a specialist in product data This approach is also open to external partners. In 2013, the Group exchange between brands and retailers); launched an open site for innovators, “Innovate with Groupe SEB”, ■ beauty/health with Feeligreen (active and passive patch technologies targeting inventors, scientists, researchers and designers who want for cosmetic and therapeutic applications); to propose an innovation to the Group. The site offers three ways ■ the Internet of Things with SeniorAdom (telecare that enables of working together: propose an invention, join the Groupe SEB people with reduced mobility to remain at home) and robotic innovation network or take part in challenges based around themes connected products with Robart (smart navigation solutions) and set by the Group. SEB&You, launched in December 2015, also directly Keecker (voice-enabled multimedia robot); involves consumers in the innovation process, inviting them to test new concepts or areas of innovation: since late 2015, 1,037 products have been tested and the community now has 2,800 members. 14 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group A proﬁtable growth strategy ■ air purification with Ethera (solutions to measure and purify indoor new range of robot vacuum cleaners by Rowenta has been launched, air); incorporating Robart navigation technology. ■ water filtration with Memtech (filtration solutions based on an In order to further expand the scope of its watch and its ecosystem innovative membrane technology). (in the US, China and very specific sectors), SEB Alliance has also These companies provide technological “bricks” that the Group can forged strategic partnerships with three multi-corporate investment 1 use to accelerate in certain areas of innovation. For example, the funds (Cathay Innovation, Technocom 2 and Xange Digital 3) that the collaboration with Ethera has resulted in the creation of a new range company may accompany in co-investment. of air purifiers (Intense Pure Air by Rowenta); and, more recently, the SINCE 2011 IN 2017 44 companies financed (1) 3 PARTNER FUNDS * > 1,500 11 direct investments startup dossiers received 33 indirect investments * (1) SEB Alliance is a strategic financial At end-December 2017 investor in these funds Shared technology 3 main target sectors Watch R&D and Business Digital and connected home Collaboration R&D collaboration Wellbeing and population ageing Prototypes and studies International scope Reducing the environmental footprint Co-development of which Europe, Commercial partnerships the US and China MAJOR INVESTMENTS IN INNOVATION: to €138.5 million (€104 million in 2016). Excluding WMF, investment €225 MILLION IN 2017 in strategic marketing stood at €81 million (compared with €75 million in 2016). The R&D teams have been significantly strengthened over Each year, the Group invests significant amounts in R&D, product the last few years, in terms of both employee numbers and employee design, strategic marketing, or range optimization in order to better qualifications, with the hiring of highly specialized engineers, for target consumer expectations, enabling it to stand out as one of the instance. These specialists bring expertise in cutting-edge fields such most innovative players in its industry. In 2017, gross investment in as coatings and materials, connected products, batteries, motors, R&D excluding CIR (research tax credit) and capitalization amounted food processing, sensors, etc. AN UNRIVALED BRAND PORTFOLIO The Group has a portfolio of 29 brands, the largest in its industry, ■ Core brands that are very well known and whose coverage is which is a strong pillar for its strategy of profitable growth. This multiglobal (Tefal, Rowenta, Moulinex and Krups) or regional (Arno in brand strategy gives it a broad coverage of its markets. Brazil, Supor in China, Imusa in Colombia, and Seb and Calor in France). These brands’ coverage may vary greatly depending on Each brand has a clearly defined identity that is expressed through its the product family; from specialist brands (such as Moulinex and product selection, functionalities and the look of its products, or its Krups in kitchen electrics, and Rowenta in non-kitchen electrics) communication platform. There are three main sub-groups: to more general brands (e.g. Tefal and Supor). GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 15 1 Introduction to the Group A proﬁtable growth strategy ■ Premium brands (WMF, Lagostina, All-Clad and Silit), distributed In addition to the management of its brand portfolio, the Group pursues through selective channels. These are managed in a specific way, a strategy of partnerships to develop new concepts and step up its guaranteeing strong, uniform expression of their identity and values sales through the co-branding of two high-profile brands. Accounting (communication, design, pricing policy, etc.) for almost 10% of sales, these partnerships are major drivers of ■ BtoB brands (WMF, Schaerer and Hepp) are only sold B to B to innovation and growth for the Group. Joint development agreements professionals. have also been signed with major names in the food industry, such as Nestle for Nespresso and Dolce Gusto, and Heineken for BeerTender The Group’s digitization strategy is fully integrated with the positioning and The Sub, and in the cosmetics industry, such as L’Oréal for and communication of these brands in their market. In this context, Steampod. Some partnerships also impart image, associating our the global Consumer brands have overhauled their platforms, products with other brands or organizations (WWF, etc.), with licensing websites and social networks in order to be perfectly in line with their agreements with brands such as Elite, or with endorsement contracts target consumers. This project, which was launched in 2015, is now where, for example, cookware lines are developed in collaboration with completed and the new brand platforms are fully operational. renowned chefs such as Jamie Oliver or Thomas Keller. A GLOBAL AND DIVERSIFIED PRESENCE Over the last 40 years, the Group has successfully developed strong SALES BY REGION IN 2017 positions across all continents with a commercial presence in nearly 150 countries as a result of an expansion strategy combining internal Other Asian countries growth with acquisitions. It has leading positions in Western Europe, 9% China, Russia, Japan, Brazil, Colombia, Turkey, etc. The Group’s strong local presence is due to the relevance of its offering China and its capacity to adapt to the needs of different markets. Its global 20% Western Europe presence enables it to seize opportunities for profitable growth in 43% the various countries in which it has a presence, and to diversify its exposure to different economies. In 2017, 59% of its sales were €6,485m generated in mature countries (53% excluding WMF) and 41% in South America emerging countries (47% excluding WMF). 6% North America 10% Other EMEA countries 12% With WMF 16 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group A proﬁtable growth strategy A MULTI-CHANNEL DISTRIBUTION STRATEGY The Group works with an extremely large and diverse network of SALES BY DISTRIBUTION CHANNEL distributors, giving it a decisive competitive edge. It develops constructive long-term relationships with customers on the basis of the most extensive product offering on the market and with strong brands, which are vectors of growth and profitability for each of the Hypermarkets 21% Specialists 19% 1 parties. The network mainly comprises mass food retailers, specialist retailers as well as convenience stores or groups of independents, of which there are still overweighted in emerging markets. The percentage of online sales continues to grow rapidly (representing close to one Other Traditional quarter of sales in 2017), driven by both e-commerce specialists (pure 28% 31% players) and bricks-and-mortar retailers, including specialist brands, as they ramp up their online presence (click-and-mortar). Excluding WMF In addition, the Group also has a network of stores, either directly operated or under franchise, numbering more than 1,200 at the end Customer relations is one of the Group’s core concerns and it seeks of 2017: their positioning may be multi-brand (Home & Cook and Tefal operational excellence both in the supply chain, to guarantee the Shops) or mono-brand (Supor Lifestores and, more recently, WMF). best levels of service, and in-store, to ensure that its products are This network, which is the Group’s biggest customer, represents nearly promoted on its customers’ shelves and websites. This approach is 7% of consolidated sales, but may exceed more than 20% in some supported by investment in marketing and advertising, which has been countries (e.g. Turkey and Japan). These stores showcase the diversity significantly strengthened in recent years: excluding WMF, it amounted of the Group’s offering and represent a unique opportunity to get close to €480 million in 2017 (including €74 million in expenditure reclassified to the consumer and improve our understanding of market trends. from Supor), compared to €435 million in 2016. The objectives remain as follows: ■ further strengthen brand and product recognition through advertising; ■ continue to roll-out of the best in-store execution through category management, effective merchandising, the creation of dedicated shop-in-shops and promotional events; ■ guide and support the Group’s new product launches; ■ accelerate digital marketing (brand websites, digital campaigns, data marketing, etc.) and support the ramp up of e-commerce. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 17 1 Introduction to the Group A proﬁtable growth strategy AN ACTIVE ACQUISITION POLICY Acquisitions are another pillar of the Group’s development strategy. The Group first acquired EMSA, specialized in the design, As an operator in the Small Domestic Equipment market, which is manufacturing and distribution of kitchen utensils and accessories. still highly fragmented, the Group is positioning itself as the industry EMSA is a well-known brand in German-speaking countries and is the consolidator. The Group’s history is one of numerous transactions market leader in thermoware and food storage containers in Germany. which have enabled it to achieve leadership status in many countries EMSA also operates in the rest of Europe and the Middle-East. It and product categories. reported €85 million in sales in 2016. In addition to having the necessary financial capacity, external This was followed by the acquisition of WMF, a German industrial growth requires an ability to integrate new acquisitions effectively flagship with three major business lines: professional automatic coffee and to generate synergies. Groupe SEB has built up considerable machines, Small Domestic Equipment (cookware and small electrical experience over the years in integrating new acquisitions. Following appliances) and hotel equipment. Through this strategic acquisition, Moulinex-Krups in 2001-2002, it acquired All-Clad in the United States Groupe SEB: in 2004, Panex in Brazil and Lagostina in Italy in 2005, Mirro WearEver ■ acquired a solid worldwide leadership in the very attractive in the United States in 2006, and acquired a controlling interest in professional coffee machines market characterized by strong China-based Supor in late 2007. The latter stood out because growth, high profitability and significant recurring revenue reflecting of the major challenges it presented (geographical and cultural important contributions from after-sales operations; remoteness, language barrier, more complex integration, coordination ■ considerably strengthened its position in the cookware segment of communications between two listed companies, etc.). The Group’s stake was increased in several stages (20% in December 2011, 1.6% by becoming the leader in Germany, with, in particular, a high-end in January 2015, and 7.91% in June 2016) bringing its current holding stainless steel product offering; up to 81.17%. ■ gave a further boost to its development, following EMSA’s acquisition, in the key kitchen utensils and accessories market; Furthermore, in February 2011, the Group acquired Imusa, a Colombian cookware company. In May 2011, it took control of a ■ consolidated its portfolio by adding strong new brands including the Vietnamese company – Asia Fan – specializing in the production iconic WMF as well as Schaerer, Silit, Kaiser, and Hepp; and sale of fans, and in December, it acquired a 55% stake in an ■ accessed a network of 200 proprietary retail outlets in Germany, Indian company – Maharaja Whiteline – specializing in small electrical providing a powerful vehicle for promoting its image and sales. appliances. In 2014, it announced the acquisition of the remaining In 2017, the Group continued its expansion in kitchen utensils with the shares of Maharaja Whiteline and Asia Fan. In 2015, it acquired acquisition of Swiss company Swizzz Prozzz, a specialist in mini hand OBH Nordica, a major operator in small electrical appliances in the choppers with high-performance multiple blades. Swizzz Prozzz’s Scandinavian markets. products, which are very complementary to those of the Group, had 2016 marked a new stage for the Group with two strategic acquisitions previously been marketed under license through various kitchen utensil in Germany in May. brands, generating pro forma annual sales of around €10 million. 18 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group A proﬁtable growth strategy THE NEED FOR COMPETITIVENESS This is one of Groupe SEB’s major strategic pillars, complementary ■ technological poles reinforce the centers of product expertise to growth. The Group’s competitiveness is based on a powerful and through their knowledge of key technologies in relation to materials, versatile manufacturing base, long-term optimization of industrial productivity and a rigorous and responsible purchasing policy. plastics, and electronics. At relevant sites, project platforms foster collaboration between marketing teams and centers of industrial expertise in the development 1 of the product offering. This makes it possible to promote the A COMPLETE MANUFACTURING BASE concept of the “technical basis” to standardize sub-assemblies and components, in order to be more responsive to customer demand. Throughout the world, the Group’s manufacturing base is set to respond to market characteristics: To ensure and optimize the competitiveness of its manufacturing base, the Group continues to adapt its factories, taking account of economic ■ European manufacturing targets mainly mature markets. French market realities by adjusting production volumes or rescaling sites, and European plants are dedicated to products for which the transferring operations from one entity to another, refitting sites, strict Group is a market leader. To this end, the Group takes advantage of control of manufacturing costs, refocusing production and outsourcing technological barriers in relation to product concepts or processes; according to needs. ■ manufacturing in emerging markets focuses on the needs of these markets and, for mature markets, on products for which the Group In 2017, the Group began the final phase of the reorganization of wishes to retain control of its specific technologies (concerning its industrial facilities in Brazil, combining the Brazilian production products and processes); activities of Mooca and São Bernardo do Campo within a single, modern industrial site at Itatiaia in Rio de Janeiro State. ■ outsourcing production for basic products or those for which the Group lacks a strong leadership position or as part of partnership The small electrical appliances plant at Mooca, in the heart of the arrangements. São Paulo megalopolis, was suffering from productivity levels below Group standards as well as major logistical limitations. The new plant After acquiring EMSA and WMF, it has 40 manufacturing sites which in Itatiaia is located in a fast-growing industrial area with a design produce 68% of the products sold by the Group throughout the world. that is fully in line with all of the Group’s industrial and environmental The other 32% are outsourced, in particular in China. standards. A new logistics center is located nearby, which is helping to optimize customer service across Brazil’s entire South Region. SALES BY ORIGIN OF PRODUCTION The relocation took place in several phases: it began in November 2016 with the iron manufacturing lines and ended with completion of the Americas full relocation of Mooca’s lines at the end of August 2017. This has been followed, in a second phase, by the relocation of São Bernardo 6% Other do Campo’s cookware lines, which is scheduled for completion at the 1% end of the first half of 2018. This project highlights the Group’s commitment to modernize its Outsourced Europe products manufacturing base in a country where economic conditions remain 31% very volatile and the foreign exchange environment calls for significant 32% gains in productivity. CONTINUAL OPTIMIZATION OF INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTIVITY Asia Launched in 2011, our global industrial and operational excellence 30% program, OPS (Opération Performance SEB) continued to roll out “fundamentals” (5S, TPM, etc.) to achieve further improvements in the productivity of our sites. This practical program of continuous The Group’s industrial strategy aims to best serve markets by performance improvement: continuously improving competitive performance and quality over ■ links health and performance in all Group improvement projects; the long-term. ■ involves all hierarchical levels (managers, technicians, and The Group’s industrial competitiveness comes from its edge as a operators) and all departments; designer of products, especially through its centers of expertise and ■ aims to share best practices, so as to build a real Group technological poles: manufacturing culture; ■ centers of product expertise bring together the specific expertise ■ results in a common language with the aim of promoting a Group in research and development, industrialization and production for spirit; a given product category; ■ and is reflected in a single, scalable framework resulting from a fully collaborative approach. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 19 1 Introduction to the Group A proﬁtable growth strategy Since its launch, the OPS program has enabled the Group to ensure A RIGOROUS AND RESPONSIBLE a high level of quality in both its processes and its products. The PURCHASING POLICY commitment of the new sites acquired by the Group to incorporating these principles is a highly effective way of introducing an approach of Purchasing combines both production procurement, which covers excellence and continuous performance improvement. In China, this requirements for materials (metals, plastics, paper/cardboard has helped with the ramp-up of the Supor Shaoxing site, which is the packaging, etc.) and components (parts, sub-assemblies, etc.) for Group’s largest small electrical appliance site. The OPS program was manufacturing, non-production purchasing (transport and logistics, presented at the 11 production sites of EMSA and WMF in 2017, with services, information systems, travel, etc.) and purchases of sourced a view to a roll-out in 2018. finished products. Generally speaking, and for a number of years, purchases have increasingly been managed at Group level, through Although it is in a mature phase, the projects and workshops in 2017 a panel of approved suppliers and the use of shared global product continued to broaden the program’s coverage to support services family platforms making it possible to consolidate volumes and and services peripheral to production. As well as industrial activities standardize materials and components. This approach makes it and maintenance, it now covers logistics, human resources, control possible to optimize negotiations (on price, quality, on-time delivery, and purchasing. etc.) and to develop pooled procurement offering greater flexibility Focusing on the involvement and empowerment of teams across all between manufacturing sites and increased synergies within the areas of the value chain, the program now relies on a new matrix: Group. health and safety, quality, cost, time, involvement and environment. For The Group’s direct spend policy is based on reducing costs by seeking each business, maturity grids by process were developed according to out and selecting the most competitive suppliers at the same time as 5 levels. These grids, which were updated and evaluated in 2017, will introducing suppliers to the Group’s approach to innovation and its be rolled out across all sites in 2018, with a dual objective: achieving required quality standards. Amongst other things, this policy makes by the end of 2019 the level of maturity required for all businesses it possible to establish and maintain a real partnership with the bestin order to enter the Plant of the Future, standardize measurement performing suppliers and to closely involve them in the improvement approaches and improve performance. process and the Group’s objectives in terms of competitiveness. In early 2013, the Group also introduced the PCO (Product Cost Since 2017, WMF has been in the Group’s direct purchasing scope, Optimization) project which aims to reduce the cost price of present with the gradual integration of some of its key suppliers into the products, optimize the future product offering, and increase perceived Group’s panel. In this temporary configuration, in 2017, the panel of value. The approach consists in applying a method for analyzing direct suppliers for manufacturing supplies comprised 463 suppliers products and taking into account customer concerns by involving (475 in 2016), with a global purchasing coverage of 72% (compared experts (R&D, marketing, design, manufacturing, etc.) as part of with 85% in 2016). multidisciplinary group workshops, to challenge existing solutions Non-production purchases continue to follow the same process and invent new ones. aimed at better qualifying approved suppliers and building an acrossThese improvement plans are systematically supported by the Group’s the-board Group purchasing methodology with a panel of approved approach to health and safety, as safety of personnel in the workplace suppliers representing 37% of non-production purchases (versus 42% is a key priority for the Group. A three-year plan has been launched in 2016: WMF is in the process of joining the panel). The purchasing in this regard, with the aim of steadily decreasing the number of office team undertakes to cover a very broad range of expenditures and workplace accidents. This plan must enable the Group to cut by half an increasingly large international scope for sourcing. Calls for tender the number of accidents at the end of this period. For further details, are launched on a regular basis and cross-functional teams thoroughly refer to Chapter 3 on Corporate Social Responsibility on pages 115 rework our specifications to optimize purchasing in new fields. to 118. For sourced finished products, the organizational set-up Lastly, another key component of the Group’s competitiveness is the strengthens purchasing quality processes by ensuring technical and supply chain, which is managed on a global level with the aim of methodological assistance from Group teams for suppliers. At the rationalizing finished product inventory, optimizing the quality of this same time, it demonstrates the Group’s desire for upstream integration inventory and implementing a process to improve customer service of suppliers in the product development processes in order to foster and ensure customer satisfaction. To deliver these results, the Group greater fluidity in creating the product offering. With this approach, focuses on a series of common and shared processes, supported the Group has been concentrating its panel of approved finishedby the roll-out of plans to optimize the global logistics chain, from product suppliers for a number of years: in 2017, 72 companies marketing company sales forecasts to planning capacities and represented 80% of purchases made. The Group’s approved supplier production. At the same time, the creation of a Supply Chain School panels consist of carefully selected and tested companies in terms enables is to develop the aptitudes and skills of our specialist teams. of both performance (lead times, quality, cost, etc.) and social and environmental responsibilities (environmental impact, compliance with Human Rights, etc.). 20 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group Organization of internal control 1.4. Organization of internal control The nature of Groupe SEB’s business and its large international presence opens up significant development opportunities, but also operational and functional management structures are responsible for implementing these procedures. 1 exposes it to various types of internal and external risks. These risks Groupe SEB is an international entity, organized primarily into may adversely affect the Group’s results, financial position or assets, geographical zones by continent, each with their own ranges of or have consequences for its various stakeholders consumers, products to sell. In addition, operations are managed by activity, employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, partners, etc. The covering a group of product lines and trademarks. Lastly, functional Group implements a range of measures to identify risks and measure management supports operations transversally across all of the their potential impacts and probability of occurrence. These risks Group’s businesses. The primary aim of this functional management are then managed according to risk control plans that are regularly is to ensure that activities are consistent and effective and to oversee reviewed and involve the players concerned in the Group’s various the control functions (e.g. by means of financial standards, IT tools, departments. As with any control system, however, it cannot provide quality rules, etc.). an absolute guarantee that all risks are fully controlled or eliminated. The Group’s conduct and operational processes are based on two The scope of application of internal control and risk management key documents: the Group’s Code of Ethics and the Internal Control procedures encompasses all of the Group’s companies and Manual, which sets out what is expected of employees. employees, from governance bodies to individual employees. The ORGANIZATION OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND KEY PLAYERS The key control activities are identified within the functional departments described below, which report directly to a member of the Group Executive Committee. Group Executive Committee (COMEX) Audit and Internal Finance and Treasury Accounting and Legal department Control department department Tax department Group Controlling Financial Communication Sustainable Development department and Investor Relations Purchasing department department department Personnel Administration Health and Safety Quality and Environment Supply Chain department department department department Information Systems department GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 21 1 Introduction to the Group Organization of internal control Audit and Internal Control department Legal department The Audit and Internal Control department is tasked with evaluating The role of the Group Legal department is to ensure compliance compliance with the Group’s internal rules and procedures, with legal and regulatory requirements in the various countries, to detecting non-compliance with local legislation and ensuring that protect the Group’s assets (and particularly its intellectual assets) Group assets are protected. This department is also required to and businesses, and to protect the interests of the Group. evaluate the efficient conduct of operations and to ensure that business risks are anticipated and mitigated. Its main tasks are based on the following activities: To achieve this, the Audit and Internal Control department is 1) Legal support for operations, regarding all types of regulations, focused on three parallel activities: drawing up and updating standard contracts (purchase of goods and services, terms of sale, promotional operations, etc.), 1) Deﬁning and rolling out internal control procedures (“Internal oversight of legal firms consulted, pre-litigation and litigation Control Manual”). This document covers all of the Group’s management, defense strategy for intellectual creations, control processes. It is circulated to all Group’s entities once a protection of industrial property titles (trademarks and trade year, and the Audit team carries out an annual update to reflect dress in particular), and legal watch; changes in operations, regulations and management systems; 2) Coordination of the Group’s insurance program, described 2) The implementation of a multi-year audit plan, based in detail on p. 36 “Insurance”, allowing for an appropriate on a prioritization of the entities to be covered according to insurance program for the Group’s activities; several parameters: assessment of the level of risk (size of the subsidiary, geography, information system, etc.); frequency of 3) Participation in the Group’s acquisition strategy: preparatory audit coverage; and lastly, the rating of the most recent audit. agreements, merger control, contract negotiation, and postThe plan is approved by the Audit Committee each year. In 2017, acquisition restructuring. The Legal department also helps to the audit team covered 37 Group entities (including 9 WMF implement integration processes within Groupe SEB. entities) and carried out 15 audit follow-up missions; 3) Coordination and oversight of risk mapping. The Group’s risk map is updated every year using the process described on p. 28 “Risk identification and control process”. The Group’s audit team comprised 13 auditors as at 31 December 2017. Financial Communication and Investor Relations Finance and Treasury department department This department works closely with the other departments The Group’s Finance and Treasury department is tasked within the Finance Function (Group Controlling, Consolidation with ensuring the liquidity of Group operations, the security, and Accounting, Treasury and Finance, Legal, Audit and Internal transparency and efficiency of treasury and finance operations, Control), with the operational, functional and continental and hedging against all financial risks. Its areas of work are as management structures, and with the Sustainable Development follows: and Corporate Communications departments, in order to carry out several key tasks related to the status of SEB S.A. as a listed • managing financial resources, to ensure the Group’s liquidity; company: • managing and securing cash flows (cash management); 1) Development and implementation of the Group’s ﬁnancial • quantifying and hedging against financial risks (particularly communication. This communication takes place according currency, interest rates and commodity risks); to a specific timetable and in compliance with the regulatory framework (AMF*, ESMA*, etc.), ensuring in particular the • monitoring relations with banks; dissemination of clear, accurate, precise and true financial information, as well as conformity to the principles of equal • financing projects, particularly acquisitions; treatment of investors and consistency of information. The documents and materials produced, published and circulated • overseeing strategies for hedging customer risk. (Registration Document, Convening Notice, press releases, Analyst and Investor presentations, etc.) undergo a structured production process and are prepared in close collaboration with the Group’s various functions. They are reviewed by concerned business Managers and finally approved by the Executive Committee. The Financial Communication department, in conjunction with the Legal department, coordinates the “MAR (Market Abuse Regulation)” Committee described on p. 26; 2) Identification of the shareholder base and investor relations throughout the year, through physical or telephone conferences, roadshows, analyst/investor days or individual meetings. These exchanges are intended to give the market information about the Group’s strategy, performance and outlook, and to maintain and fuel interest in the stock. In 2017, 32 events were organized, resulting in around 340 contacts. All the Group’s financial information is constantly updated and is available on the website at www.groupeseb.com. * French and European stock market authorities. 22 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group Organization of internal control Sustainable Development department The Sustainable Development department drives and coordinates Each of the Group’s plants is organized to prevent any pollution the sustainable development policy. It documents and rolls out (of air, water, or soil) or environmental accidents and to reduce its shortand medium-term action plans, in line with the Group’s carbon and environmental impact (particularly in terms of energy, priority criteria, in each division and on every continent, thus water, and waste). To achieve this, each plant complies with local 1 promoting appropriate conduct. It is supported by a dedicated environmental regulations as well as standards shared by all Group Steering Committee, described on p. 27. sites. The regulations, and changes in them, are monitored locally by Health, Safety and Environment coordinators. Measures to In addition, the Sustainable Development department is assess risks, prevent pollution and reduce environmental impact responsible for the content of the Group’s Code of Ethics and are implemented locally and coordinated at Group head office: a ensures that it is properly circulated and understood in all the dedicated staff member is responsible for setting environmental entities. As the principles of the Code of Ethics are included in the goals and defining shared standards. This department also Internal Control Manual, the ethical compliance of our subsidiaries ensures the implementation of performance indicators, which are is regularly checked on site by the internal audit teams. Conformity then monitored and consolidated. to the values mentioned in the Code of Ethics does not stop with the company: the Sustainable Development department also Environmental risk is overseen by a dedicated Group team which monitors the application of these principles by suppliers, by means regularly monitors changes in regulations and transcribes these of a Responsible Purchasing Charter, which is circulated to and regulations into the Group’s standards. The processes are then signed by all its partners, and regular outsourced audits. This last rolled out to the plants. measure is fully in keeping with our action plans for compliance with the “SAPIN II” and «Duty of Vigilance» laws. As part of its compliance policy, the Sustainable Development department appoints an external service provider to audit the Group’s industrial sites in countries presenting ethical, social and environmental risks. Group Controlling department Accounting and Tax department The Group Controlling department coordinates budget planning The Accounting and Tax department is responsible for ensuring and control, using a handbook of management procedures and that the Group’s accounting principles and standards are compliant rules applicable to all entities, including Group budgeting, rewith commonly accepted international accounting standards. projections and management reporting methods. It defines the Group’s accounting standards and oversees their distribution and application, particularly through training courses. Its key oversight responsibilities are as follows: It is responsible for preparing the Group’s Consolidated Financial 1) Budgeting process. Guidelines and recommendations are Statements and closes the Group’s financial statements, in circulated to the various entities for budgeting purposes. The collaboration with the entities, in a timely manner. Group Controlling department consolidates and oversees the The Group Accounting and Tax department oversees and various budgetary adjustments before a budget is approved by coordinates the Shared Service Centers for Accounting and the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors; Management Services. These entities, in France, Poland, 2) Re-projections: throughout the year, as the Group’s activities Germany, the United States, and China, help improve the Group’s evolve, the Group Controlling department alerts the Executive internal control system through the sharing of best practices and Committee in the event of a deviation from the budget, standardization of procedures, and through the positive effect of quantifies the impact of corrective measures and coordinates the work of the Shared Service Centers on the division of tasks. re-projections at key times during the year. These are then The Group Accounting and Tax department also ensures consolidated and approved at the Executive Committee level; compliance with tax regulations and obligations in all countries 3) Reporting and analysis: every month, to enable effective Group where the Group operates, by (i) monitoring tax inspections carried oversight, the Group Controlling department consolidates all out by tax authorities in all of the Group’s entities, (ii) ensuring information from a single, centralized management tool to consistency in the tax procedures used by the entities, and establish dashboards for the Executive Committee and Group (iii) liaising with tax consultants to verify that the Group’s main management. The dashboards include appropriate analyses of activities are compliant with current legislation. significant deviations and trends. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 23 1 Introduction to the Group Organization of internal control Personnel Administration department Purchasing department The Group had 33,600 employees in its workforce at 31 December The scope of the Purchasing department includes the purchasing 2017, divided between more than 100 operational entities worldof components and raw materials required to manufacture wide. The Personnel department is responsible for ensuring the products, purchases of finished products, and indirect purchases consistency of personnel management processes. It is organized related to the marketing of products world-wide. The scale of the around three main areas: financial flows involved means that the Purchasing department is central to the Group’s internal control process: • Definition of personnel management rules applicable to all of the Group’s businesses, in line with local regulations: • Centralized purchasing management in France and Asia management of working time and leave, business expenses, to be close to our suppliers. This oversight begins with the tools available to personnel (computers, telephones, cars, etc.), implementation of strict rules on how to manage purchases and the payroll process (checks, approval, and security); (calls for tenders, purchase requests, approvals, etc.); • Rollout and oversight of a single personnel management • O versight of suppliers, including through performance tool at Group level, in accordance with local data protection indicators and reviews and audits of suppliers, relating not regulations. This includes the administrative process related to only to operational aspects (quality, supply chain, etc.) but also employee entry, performance monitoring, and exit; responsibility and ethical, social and environmental compliance, in partnership with the Sustainable Development department; • Management of the Shared Service Center dedicated to payroll for all French entities, ensuring the division of tasks and • Monitoring purchasing performance: establishing purchasing a strict level of control. The Personnel department also reviews strategies, objectives and analyses to optimize efficiency and the standard processes for setting up outsourced payroll strengthen control. management; • Safety of people: the Personnel department is responsible for drawing up safety rules, particularly in countries identified as risky (Ministry of Foreign Affairs) and coordinates the monitoring of traveling employees with an external partner to ensure their safety. Quality & Environment department Supply Chain department Improving the quality of its products and processes has always The distribution of the Group’s businesses across all continents been a central concern for Groupe SEB. Groupe SEB uses a requires constant optimization of flows and procurement. The Quality Management System (QMS), which is a key pillar of any Supply Chain department’s task is to meet these needs while business, implemented through a shared tool that is available on securing processes: the Group intranet. • Deﬁnition and rolling out of stock management procedures This system includes all the procedures, tools and methods that apply to all the Group’s warehouses, outsourced or not, relating to the Group’s key processes: including: receipt and dispatch management process, inventory management process, security requirements at storage sites; • Management procedures with the definition of Group policy, strategic planning, continuous quality improvement, and • Oversight of product ﬂows: definition and optimization of safeguarding of the environment; product flows (with a view to improving the flexibility of industrial sites) in line with international regulations and in compliance • Operational processes including strategic marketing, R&D, with customs regulations. sales and marketing, customer order processing and production; • Operational support functions, covering human resources, information systems, purchasing, finance, after-sales service, and customer assistance. Monthly reporting allows the Quality department to accurately track key indicators and adjust its actions. 24 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group Organization of internal control Information Systems department Health and Safety department Groupe SEB’s information systems are designed to guarantee the Industrial activity has been a central part of the Group’s activities security, integrity, availability and traceability of information. since its creation. The health and safety of people working at the sites is a top priority and the responsibility of all Group employees. Several priority areas within the Information Systems department It is coordinated by the Group Health and Safety department. 1 help to improve the Group’s control environment, including: The oversight of the health and the safety of people is based on 1) Security of information systems and personal data six key points which are continually emphasized at all our sites: protection: a Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) oversees the Group’s key indicators, monitors the implementation of • positioning health and safety at the management level; security rules in projects, and takes the necessary information, awareness and risk prevention measures. This activity is • focusing on one objective, monitored with indicators at site and supported by an Information Systems Security Committee Group level; (described on p. 26). With regard to personal data protection • highlighting each accident or serious incident; requirements, the CISO works with the Legal and Personnel departments: this cross-functional organization is described • sharing the same level of skills and requirements, based on on p. 31 (“Security of information systems and personal data shared standards; protection”); • feedback on events and potential adaptation of good practices; 2) Network architecture: the Information Systems department ensures the consistency, availability, and integrity of the Group’s • acting promptly on any recorded non-compliance to address networks; it rapidly. 3) Operational tools (ERP, business software, office automation, A cross-functional Strategic Health/Safety Committee is described communication): the Information Systems department oversees on p. 26. operations for the Group’s tools and participates in an Information Systems Steering Committee, described on p. 26; 4) Digital applications: The Information Systems department ensures the implementation of software components and infrastructure to ensure the quality, security and availability of the service provided to customers: downloadable applications on mobile phones, and tablets to facilitate the use of connected products and give access to digital content, photos, recipes, etc. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 25 1 Introduction to the Group Organization of internal control Alongside these departments overseeing the Group’s control activities, Committees have been set up on spanning various control topics. These Committees meet two to four times a year and involve managers from the aforementioned departments. Each are responsible for identifying, in their respective areas, any situations requiring action at the central level (regulatory changes, evolution of the market context, etc.). In this case, each Committee will report to the Group Executive Committee. Group Executive Committee (COMEX) Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bertrand Neuschwander Chief Operating Officer Vincent Léonard Senior Executive Vice-president, Finance Harry Touret Senior Executive Vice-president, Human Ressources Stéphane Laflèche Executive Vice-president, Industrial Operations Philippe Crevoisier Executive Vice-president, Products and Innovation Cyril Buxtorf Executive Vice-president, EMEA Luc Gaudemard Executive Vice-president, Americas Frederic Verwaerde/Vincent Tai Executive Vice-president, Asia Compliance Committee: Information Systems Security Committee: • Audit and Internal Control department • Information Systems department • Legal department • Audit and Internal Control department • Human Resources department • Human Resources department • Sustainable Development department • Finance and Treasury department MAR (Market Abuse Regulation) Committee: Sustainable Development Steering Committee: • Chairman and Chief Executive Officer • Sustainable Development department • Chief Operating Officer • Audit and Internal Control department • Senior Executive Vice-president, Finance • Human Resources department • Legal department • Quality & Environment department • Financial Communication and Investor • Research department Relations department • Brands department • Marketing department • Sales department Information Systems Steering Committee: • Strategy department • Legal department • Information Systems department • Customer Satisfaction department • Continental departments • Industrial department • Products & Innovation department • Purchasing department • General Finance department • General Human Resources department Health and Safety Committee: • Senior Executive Vice-president, Human Resources • President, Group Industry • Group Safety department • Directors of Industrial Activities 26 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group Organization of internal control In particular, the Compliance Committee implements measures relating Lastly, to ensure efficient overall management, Groupe SEB relies to recent regulatory developments. A cross-functional action plan on the decentralization of operational responsibilities and clearly involving several Group departments has been drawn up to address defined rules of operation and delegation. It also benefits from a wellthe requirements of the SAPIN II law and the Duty of Vigilance law established corporate culture, rooted in shared fundamental human relating to parent companies and principals. This action plan focuses values that foster an ethical working environment: Entrepreneurial 1 on the following key points, most of which are already in place: drive, Passion for innovation, Professionalism, Group spirit, and Respect for people. ■ Code of Ethics; ■ internal whistle-blowing system; Groupe SEB has been a signatory of the Global Compact since 2003 and supports the values set out in this document, promoting them ■ risk mapping, corruption and suppliers; throughout the company. The Group Human Resources department ■ customer and supplier assessment procedures; states in its guiding principles: “The Group is a community of men and ■ internal and external accounting control procedures; women who share the same objectives and values”. ■ training system; The Code of Ethics, published in September 2012, serves as the ■ disciplinary system; frame of reference for Groupe SEB’s values and standards. It defines individual and collective rules of conduct to guide the actions and ■ system of control and internal assessment of measures. inspire the decisions of each employee. It is supplemented by a whistle-blowing system that allows any employee to report a serious violation of the Code of Ethics. More details on the whistle-blowing system are provided in Chapter 3.5, page 103. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 27 1 Introduction to the Group Risk factors 1.5. Risk factors RISK IDENTIFICATION AND CONTROL PROCESS The risk identification and control process is an ongoing process CONSOLIDATION AT GROUP LEVEL incorporated within the Group’s operations. In order to provide comprehensive information, the various stages of collecting An annual working meeting is held with the Executive Committee and processing information were defined as follows: operational members on the basis of the above elements. This meeting covers approach, Group approach at Executive Committee level and, finally, all the information from the operational collection as well as those consolidation by key theme. stemming from the previous year’s risk mapping. Each risk is reviewed in detail, to evaluate how it has evolved and its relevance in terms of both potential financial impact for the Group and probability of COLLECTION OF OPERATIONAL RISKS occurrence. Operational risks are identified and reviewed annually by means of The risk control action plan is reviewed for each risk: actions data collection grids sent to all entity managers (sales subsidiaries, implemented during the past year and actions to be put in place factories, Shared Service Centers) and to all function managers. for the year to come are assessed. This action plan is also reviewed Questionnaires are partially guided (based on the usual risk typologies) once, mid-year, by the Executive Committee to ensure that the various and partially open to ensure the broadest possible range of information. subjects are being monitored and executed properly. The questionnaires are then consolidated by the Audit and Internal Lastly, the review of the Group’s risk mapping activity is the subject Control department to identify the main issues by theme. of a specific agenda item at a yearly meeting of the Audit Committee (review of methodology, risks, their assessment by Group management On the basis of this consolidation, each function director meets and the associated action plans). individually with the Audit and Internal Control Director so as to assess thoroughly the main risks and associated risk management plans. 28 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group Risk factors CONSOLIDATION BY THEME When information relating to potential risks for the Group has been collected and analyzed, the Audit and Internal Control department consolidates it by key theme for circulation to the Group’s various stakeholders. OPERATIONAL Å*NBHFBOESFQVUBUJPO 1 Å&WPMVUJPOPGEJTUSJCVUJPODIBOOFMT Å*OUFHSBUJPOPGOFXPQFSBUJPOT JODMVEJOHWMF) Å$PVOUSZEFGBVMU Å*OGPSNBUJPOTZTUFNTBOEQFSTPOBMEBUBQSPUFDUJPO INDUSTRIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL Å4BGFUZBOEFOWJSPONFOU Å1SPEVDURVBMJUZBOESJTLTSFMBUFEUPQSPEVDUMJBCJMJUZ Å#VTJOFTTDPOUJOVJUZBOEEFQFOEFODFPOTVQQMJFST Å4VQQMZDIBJOBOETFBTPOBMJUZ Å$MJNBUFDIBOHF LEGAL Å-BXTBOESFHVMBUJPOT Å*OUFSOBMBOEFYUFSOBMGSBVET Å*OUFMMFDUVBMQSPQFSUZ FINANCIAL AND MARKET Å$PNNPEJUJFT Å$VSSFODZGMVDUVBUJPOT Å%FCU MJRVJEJUZBOEJOUFSFTUSBUFT Å&RVJUZNBSLFUT GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 29 1 Introduction to the Group Risk factors DESCRIPTION OF MAIN RISK FACTORS AND ASSOCIATED MANAGEMENT PLANS IMAGE AND REPUTATIONAL RISK Management of risk ■ The adaptation of commercial approaches to changes in the retail Description of risk sector is a central pillar of our business plan. Many of our customers are long-standing partners with whom we have a solid business In an environment where information circulates more and more rapidly relationship. (through news sites, instant messaging, social networks, etc.), any information with negative connotations may have an impact on the ■ At the same time, our sales teams in the various markets are Group’s image, sales and earnings at the level of a country, a region, watching out for all these changes and are constantly adapting or even globally, or on its share price. These situations may arise due the sales policy to ensure product availability by diversifying the to information that is or is not well-founded, on topics as diverse as distribution circuits. product quality or safety, the health effects of food materials, business ■ One of the objectives of the sales teams is to achieve consistent practices, ethical behavior or compliance with regulations (tax, social, growth in market share, regardless of whether the distribution etc.). channel is offline or online. ■ With regard to customer credit risk, the geographical distribution Management of risk and diversity of activities (cookware, small electrical appliances ■ The first aspect of image risk coverage is preventive and consists and now professional coffee machines) as well as the variety and in not generating situations that could give rise to negative multiplicity of the Group’s distribution networks limit the risk and communication about the Group. This is achieved by conforming probability of major impact at consolidated level. In addition to to the Group’s values and the Code of Ethics, and complying with customer diversification (no customer representing more than 5% of internal processes (particularly quality, financial reporting, internal consolidated sales), the Group has obtained insurance cover which control, safety, etc.). All Group employees are regularly reminded of considerably limits the risk of claims. At 31 December 2017, the these key principles: not only when they are hired, but also during majority of the Group’s subsidiaries had trade receivable insurance training and in communications. to cover the company in the event of non-recovery. Additional information is provided in Notes 16 et 26.4 to the consolidated ■ The second part of image risk coverage consists in setting up financial statements. a responsive system for monitoring information: in addition to conventional instruments for monitoring traditional media, the Group uses an e-reputation tracking tool on social networks, RISK ASSOCIATED WITH THE INTEGRATION alongside an internal (feedback to management, decision-making) OF NEW OPERATIONS and external (crisis management) communication process. Description of risk EVOLUTION OF DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS In addition to its organic growth targets, the Group is implementing an external growth strategy to accelerate its expansion and strengthen Description of risk its position. This strategy has resulted in the acquisition of companies that are complementary in terms of market (geographical or product The retail sector has undergone major changes in recent years, which category), in somewhat different ways: SUPOR in China, OBH Nordica naturally have repercussions on the Group’s business: the emergence in the Nordic countries, and more recently WMF in Germany in highand rapid growth of e-commerce specialists have profoundly changed end segments, professional products, etc. the business environment. Each of these acquisitions has specific features in terms of corporate In this context, some of the Group’s long-standing customers, mainly culture, structure, operational processes and distribution channels. traditional retailers from mature markets, have not completed their Failing to identify these specific features or not taking them into transformation to adapt to this trend. For such customers, this account could have an adverse effect on the integration process and transition phase may be accompanied by financial difficulties, plans the value creation expected from these operations, in particular: for store closures, arbitrage within the portfolio of products sold or even bankruptcies in the most extreme cases. On the other hand, the ■ development of the business; specialists channel has been able to develop more successfully its ■ generation of synergies; activity through click & mortar in consumer electronics. This might, ■ increased value of intangible assets. however, result in the non-recovery of certain receivables, and loss of sales or market share for the Group. 30 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group Risk factors Management of risk ■ Generally speaking, the Group’s international presence both commercial and industrial helps to diversify risks, as they can be ■ Over the years, the Group has built up real experience and strong offset between countries and geographical areas. skills in integration. An ad hoc structure is set up to oversee each integration process. INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND PERSONAL DATA 1 ■ The Group Strategy department is tasked with designing and overseeing the integration plan, whatever it may be, and with PROTECTION coordinating communication for all stakeholders (acquired company, Business Units concerned within Groupe SEB, and Risk description markets concerned by the acquisition). For WMF, the Integration Committee is specifically guided by the Chairman and CEO, i.e. Information systems are embedded within the Group’s businesses, exceptional governance in view of the size of the acquisition and in terms of both operational processes (production management, the diversity of WMF’s activities. accounting, reporting, etc.) and means of communication (telephone, mail, networks, tablets and objects connected to the mobile network). ■ The Group Controlling department, together with the Strategy Any failure of these tools would have a potentially significant impact department, integrates the new entities into the Group’s reporting on the Group (including in the case of intentional or unintentional and decision-making processes. This ensures reliable and regular contamination of systems by a computer virus). monitoring of the business plan and key indicators previously defined by the operational entities concerned. In addition, our infrastructure and applications are constantly renewed ■ The Information Systems department develops a plan to achieve and upgraded, which may affect operational functioning. consistency in communication systems. Lastly, the sharp increase in the volume of information processed and ■ The Human Resources department assists the relevant teams (the the development of connected objects are making data management acquired company and Groupe SEB employees concerned) in order processes and tools more complex and more technical. This – to integrate new employees into a homogenous environment as combined with the reinforcement of international regulations on data smoothly as possible. protection (particularly GDPR in Europe) – significantly increases the impact that a security breach could have on data. ■ The Audit and Internal Control department implements its standard processes and carries out an audit mission during the integration phase, to make an inventory of processes with shortcomings and Risk management identify the relative action plan. ■ A coordinated watch with several suppliers specializing in systems protection and security aims to monitor developments and actions to counter cybercrime (antiviruses, firewalls, and user identification COUNTRY DEFAULT processes). The Information Systems department draws up an annual IT risk map, in collaboration with the Audit and Internal Risk description Control department. ■ The Group has a highly centralized information systems management The Group’s presence in nearly 150 countries exposes it to currency policy, in order to guarantee consistency in the security and risk (described on p. 35) but also to risks of political, economic, management of tools. Specifically, most of our application servers monetary or social instability, especially in emerging countries, where and data servers are hosted by third parties located in France, it achieves a significant percentage of its turnover. Any major political, in highly secure and redundant environments, enabling business economic or social change in countries where the Group is established continuity without loss of data. Backup and filtering solutions could have a direct impact on its business, locally or globally (if (antivirus, antispam, web filtering, etc.) are continuously reinforced. its industrial activities are taken into consideration). In particular, periods of deep economic recession in some emerging countries, or ■ Resources are specifically dedicated to these issues, both internal protectionist policies, could have a significant impact on the Group’s (reporting to the CISO and the Information Systems Security operations, and therefore on its results, in the countries concerned. Committee) and external (e.g. an intrusion detection specialist). Generally speaking, however, the Group is responsible for making Risk management all employees accountable: specialists (developers, network administrators, etc.) or end-users (password protection, procedures ■ Constantly adapting to changes in the market is an integral part of for opening e-mails, compliance with the IS Usage Charter included the Group’s know-how. A three-year projection of the operations in an annex to the internal rules). of each subsidiary, including an analysis of local risks, is carried ■ When tools are developed and new activities integrated, the out every year and reviewed by the Group Executive Committee. Information Systems department, in collaboration with the Group ■ A risk map is also drawn up each year by the Audit and Internal Controlling department, sets up dedicated transition/project teams Control department, in collaboration with the management teams to ramp up new systems while maintaining existing systems to of the entities concerned, to assess the evolution of risks (political, ensure a smooth and seamless transition. social, economic, etc.) for each country. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 31 1 Introduction to the Group Risk factors ■ Groupe SEB regards data protection as imperative and fully in line ■ mandatory safety training: relating to workstations, the use of with the Group’s values and Code of Ethics. In particular, the Group personal protection equipment, musculoskeletal disorders, etc. has a structure in place to prepare for the new European General ■ Details of Group initiatives to reduce workplace accidents and Data Protection regulation (GDPR) in 2018. Hence, the monitoring of musculoskeletal disorders are provided in Chapter 3 on Corporate information protection has been strengthened by the creation of the social responsibility on pages 111 to 114. cross-functional position of Data Privacy Coordinator, whose role is ■ With regard to environmental risk management, measures to assess to coordinate the various functions, especially local, in interaction risks, prevent pollution and reduce environmental impacts are with the Data Protection Officers. In addition, a working group implemented locally and coordinated at Group level by the Quality ensures the implementation of a response plan in the event of a and Environment department: a dedicated staff member at the security breach in our personal information management systems. Group’s head office is responsible for defining shared standards. ■ In this context, connected products are subject to specific These standards are based on local regulations and the best monitoring: extra security requirements for these products and their practices of the sites. computer protocols, and technical analyses of certain products and their IT environment on the cloud to validate their robustness. ■ Lastly, it should be noted that insurance specifically covering BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND DEPENDENCE attacks on the IT systems has been taken out by the Group. This ON SUPPLIERS policy also covers attacks on personal data. Further details are provided on p.37. Description of risk Because of its size and product diversity, Groupe SEB manages SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT an increasingly complex procurement process that includes raw materials, components and finished products. Given the Group’s significant purchasing volumes, an excessive concentration of Description of risk suppliers could result in dependence and therefore a substantial risk to The health and safety of its employees are among Groupe SEB’s business continuity in the event of default (delay, interruption in activity, foremost concerns. Nonetheless, the risk of occupational illness or termination of commercial relationship, major incident e.g. fire, etc.). workplace accidents damaging physical integrity or posing a threat to human life cannot be ruled out. With nearly 40 industrial sites worldManagement of risk wide and just over 24,000 employees at these sites, there is a constant The Group is particularly careful to spread its risk base and limit its risk of accidents (particularly minor accidents). Despite the Group’s dependence in terms of procurement. Its priority is to ensure continuity efforts to limit such workplace accidents and occupational illness, of production under optimum economic conditions, while conforming their occurrence cannot be completely ruled out, and could have a to ethical principles, and to have alternatives at its disposal within a detrimental effect on the Group’s operations and results in the event single product family or for a specific technology. Since 2017, WMF of civil or criminal sanctions, and on its reputation. has been in the Group’s direct purchasing scope, with the gradual Although the Group’s industrial operations are subject to multiple integration of some of its key suppliers into the Group’s panel. In this environmental risk management and control measures, they are temporary configuration, in 2017, the panel of direct suppliers for nevertheless exposed to residual risks of pollution or environmental manufacturing supplies comprised 463 suppliers (475 in 2016), with accidents. global purchasing coverage of 72% (compared with 85% in 2016). Management of risk PRODUCT QUALITY AND RISKS RELATED The Group’s health and safety policy is extremely strict and is overseen TO PRODUCT LIABILITY by the Health and Safety department. It is based on the following key areas: ■ the systematic establishment of an organization dedicated to health, Description of risk safety and the environment at all sites; The Group is particularly vigilant in matters of consumer safety and ■ standard health and safety indicators with associated targets, pays the utmost attention to the safety of raw materials, components monitored on a monthly basis at all sites and resulting in and finished products. It may, however, have to accept liability or improvement actions for hazardous situations; witness its image, or that of its brands, being tarnished as a result of a product malfunction. Instances of users being hurt when a product ■ immediate reporting of any incident or accident to Group malfunctions or is used inappropriately cannot be ruled out. The management, accompanied by an analysis and remedial action Group is, therefore, exposed to risks of warranty or liability claims plan; from customers and consumers. Product recalls may prove necessary in some cases, harming the brand image and generating significant costs. 32 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group Risk factors Meanwhile, regulations regarding food products and materials liable quarter. Any disruptions affecting the economic environment during to create a health risk are constantly changing (generally moving these periods could have an adverse effect on Group results. towards a tightening of standards) and are sometimes preceded by Some products are also dependent on weather conditions such as, viral campaigns about the harmfulness of certain materials. Any of for example, fans in Latin America and Southeast Asia. these situations might generate a risk zone for the Group if one or 1 more of the materials concerned were used in the production of our products. Management of risk ■ The Group takes an active approach to industrial risk prevention by Management of risk conducting regular audits, investing in maintenance and optimizing certain processes in order to limit the probability of such risks The Group’s quality policy is fully incorporated into the design and occurring. manufacture of all products: each stage of product design is part of ■ The European, US and Chinese sites are generally not, or only a standard quality process and is subject to successive approvals, particularly with regard to the components used, the materials slightly, exposed to major natural risks (hurricanes, floods, implemented, and the suppliers selected. earthquakes, etc.), and the same is true of the warehouses. ■ With regard to logistics routes, there is no systematic redundancy To manage such risks, the Group carries out numerous quality controls possible for all flows, but the Group encourages as many alternative on the products that it markets. It also endeavors to include user routes as possible, such as river transport, as part of its sustainable information sheets with its products to warn of potentially hazardous development policy. uses. ■ Lastly, the Group also strives to boost its business outside highly In the markets, the Group uses a network (usually outsourced) of seasonal periods by launching new products or by implementing service centers, which manage product repair and follow-up. The marketing initiatives. The planning process makes it possible to service centers receive regular and comprehensive training from the anticipate and adapt the capacities of production sites, warehouses Group so that they can provide optimum support to customers with and means of transport to strong seasonal variations. concerns about any of our products. The service centers are also authorized to handle customer complaints, repairs under and outside warranty, and the sale of spare parts and consumables, in order to CLIMATE CHANGE provide the best level of service to our customers. With regard to potential health risks, the Group has set up a regulatory Description of risk and technical watch process (on all media, including the internet). This ensures that standards and restrictions in this area (including, Due to its industrial and commercial activity, Groupe SEB is exposed to amongst other things, the update following the European Directive on a certain number of risks that are directly related to weather conditions Dangerous Substances) are rolled out to the R&D teams. (storms, droughts, flooding, heat waves, etc.), and therefore, more widely, to climate change. The Group has also recorded a provision for product warranty costs based on historical statistics and has put in place insurance coverage Management of risk for civil liability (see paragraph on Insurance). ■ This is a global issue, but at its level the Group incorporates measures against climate change far upstream of internal SUPPLY CHAIN AND SEASONALITY processes, starting in the product design phase. The Group focuses as well on optimizing the use of raw materials as on ensuring energy efficiency, repairability, recyclability and transport optimization in Description of risk order to reduce its products’ carbon footprint. It thus measures As the Group operates on a global scale, the logistics flows in place the greenhouse gas emissions stemming from the production and are increasingly complex. The Group’s factories supply a large number transport of its products and has set itself four ambitious goals to of markets, leading to a strong dependence on certain logistics routes be met by 2020: (China to Europe, China to the United States, Europe to the Middle ■ 20% less energy consumption by electrical products (base year: East or the Americas, etc.). Particularly in the event of natural risks, a 2013); failure of the factories, modes of transport or warehouse operations ■ 20% less energy consumption by production plants (base year: could have a significant impact on the Group’s activity and profitability. 2010); In addition, a high percentage of products are sold during holiday ■ Incorporation of at least 20% recycled materials in new products; periods or for special events (back to school, Black Friday, Christmas, Chinese New Year, Singles’ Day, etc.). A substantial proportion of ■ 20% fewer greenhouse gas emissions from transporting products sales is therefore generated at the end of the year. Thus, both sales (base year: 2013). and earnings are traditionally heavily weighted towards the fourth ■ A report on these commitments at end-2017 is provided in section 3.9. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 33 1 Introduction to the Group Risk factors ■ In 2016, Groupe SEB signed up to the Science Based Targets INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL FRAUDS initiative launched in 2015 by WWF together with the Global Compact (UN), the WRI (World Resources Institute) and the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). This initiative encourages multinational Risk description groups to bring their greenhouse gas emission reduction targets The Group’s expansion into new geographical areas, the development into line with the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) of technological resources likely to facilitate fraud, and greater recommendations to limit average global warming to less than 2°C. competitive pressure, are all factors that increase the risks of fraud ■ With regard to the assessment of climate-change related risks situations, whether originating internally or externally, occurring within and the steps taken by the Group to reduce them as a part of Group entities. its environmental strategy, please refer to Chapter 3, section 3.9 In addition, the number of attempted “fake President” frauds (involving “Reduction of environmental impacts”. the theft of identities of members of the Group’s Executive Committee) is steadily growing. LAWS AND REGULATIONS Management of risk ■ With respect to the fight against external fraud, a process of Description of risk systematically reporting information on attempted fraud to the The international regulatory environment has tightened over the years, Audit and Internal Control department allows the Group to analyze with a proliferation of directives, laws and regulations on various these situations, inform all entities of the risks and respond quickly subjects: Personal data protection (GDPR), anti-corruption (SAPIN II, by implementing new checks (particularly updating our firewalls). UK Bribery Act, US Bribery Act), cash flows (countries under embargo), A major initiative to raise awareness among financial employees stock market regulations (MIFID II, MAR, etc.), taxation (tax evasion, and the systematic implementation of dual checks, for example, “black-listed” countries, tax changes, customs duties, etc.), the duty have enabled the Group to fight against attempts of identity theft at of vigilance of parent companies and principals, rules on competition, customer, supplier and Group manager levels through technological etc. means. Any deviation from these regulations constitutes a risk factor on two ■ Fraud risks in our market companies were mapped in 2016. This levels: first, there is a risk of conviction or fines, for potentially very forms the basis for tests performed on our IT systems by the Audit significant amounts; then there is also an image and reputational and Internal Control department to identify potential fraud. This risk, in the event that a proven breach is made public, with the approach is reinforced every year by measures including the use consequences described above, vis-à-vis our partners and customers. of a specialized tool for processing and analyzing data, based on the Group’s information systems. Management of risk ■ Finally, the Group’s standard processes are regularly reviewed to ■ Compliance with international and local regulations is a Group ensure that fraud risks are taken into account. This review results priority, and compliance with the law is part of our Code of Ethics. in the reinforcement of the processes if necessary (for example, All Group operations must comply with local regulations on additional controls on changes of bank account for suppliers). employment, accounting, tax, the environment, etc. ■ Page 31 provides more details on the management of computer ■ Each local management team is responsible for applying these security. rules, including the general manager and chief financial officer of the subsidiary, with the support of central or local legal teams, or INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY a local law firm. ■ The new regulations with an international dimension are the responsibility of the Compliance Committee described on p. 27, Description of risk and a specific Group action plan has been put in place (SAPIN II The Group has a large portfolio of international and regional, and Duty of Vigilance laws). premium and core registered brands. This portfolio gives the Group ■ The Group is developing training courses adapted to regulatory a competitive advantage and continues to grow as a result of the developments within an overall “Compliance” training program. The recent acquisitions. The Group also has a substantial portfolio of program includes a “Code of Ethics” training course as a starting domain names. Innovations give rise to industrial patent applications point, as well as more specific training such as an “Antitrust” course (542 filings in 2017 worldwide) and the filing of designs and pattern that defines the rules and conduct that comply with competition law along with other intellectual property assets protected by copyright in relations with third parties, a “Personal Data Protection” course (such as a large database of cooking recipe photographs, for example). following the GDPR regulation, and an “Anti-corruption” course in The recognition enjoyed by Groupe SEB’s brands and the success line with the requirements of SAPIN II. of its innovations lead to the infringement of various of its intellectual ■ The Group also works with an outside partner, “Intertek”, to carry property rights (patents, trademarks, designs ), cybersquatting out social audits of our suppliers, based on international working (registration of a domain name that matches a protected trademark), condition standards (Working Condition Assessments) and phishing. 34 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group Risk factors Conversely, the Group’s active innovation approach is likely to invite ■ Given the sometimes sudden fluctuations in exchange rates, the criticism if one of its new products is positioned in conflict with a Group constantly adapts its pricing policy: increasing sale prices patent or a design already filed by a competitor. This would result in to preserve the local profitability of commercial subsidiaries, where a litigation, reputational or financial risk in the event of a recall of the the relevant currency depreciates against the production currency, product concerned. and adjusting prices downwards to preserve market momentum 1 and competitiveness if exchange rates improve. Management of risk ■ Details of currency risks are given in the notes to the Consolidated ■ the Group allocates the budgets required to protect and develop Financial Statements (Note 26.2.1). its key intangible assets such as trademarks and innovation, and to combat counterfeiting. A strategy of targeted registration of COMMODITY RISK trademarks, designs and patents has been implemented, taking into account the sales outlook and high-risk countries; ■ anti-counterfeiting measures are being systematically applied in Description of risk the field, primarily in high-risk countries such as China and the Groupe SEB uses a certain number of commodities in its manufacturing Middle East (monitoring of trade fairs, investigations, customs processes: aluminum (for cookware), nickel (for certain steel alloys, seizures, legal actions, destruction of molds and inventories) as mainly stainless steel), copper (mainly wire for motors and electric well as in high-stake trading countries, cords), plastics (a key material in small electrical appliances) and ■ anti-counterfeiting measures are being taken against online paper/cardboard products for printed documents and packaging. piracy (marketplaces, websites) thanks to a global monitoring These materials and components vary as a percentage of direct system that generates regular reports and makes it possible to purchases for the Group: hence, aluminum accounted for 15% of take rapid action to remove online copies and combat trademark direct spend in 2017, steel/metallic parts for 16%, plastics/plastic infringement and cybersquatting; parts for 21% and electrical/electronic components for 23%. ■ competitive intelligence is integrated into the product innovation and The Group is therefore exposed to risks concerning the availability of development process. Many product launch projects are subject to a commodities and fluctuations in their prices. These include both a risk freedom to operate analysis of the trademarks, designs and patents of shortages and of being forced to pass all or part of price increases before validation and launch. Nevertheless, the probability remains on to consumers, which could affect performance (sales and earnings). that a prior industrial property right has not been identified, and in this case, the Group may have to modify its technical or aesthetic Management of risk construction to eliminate any risk of litigation or involve specialist ■ To deal with this exposure, Groupe SEB has implemented a hedging external partners to assist it in settling any dispute out of court. policy intended to protect it against the effects of abrupt changes in the prices of metals and thus enable it to avoid any brisk changes CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS AND SENSITIVITY in sale prices. This policy has no speculative purpose but, for any given year and in relation to actual market prices, may produce: ■ Positive impacts when commodity prices are rising; Description of risk ■ Negative impacts when commodity prices are falling. Groupe SEB has a commercial presence in nearly 150 countries. With ■ In addition, the Group constantly endeavors to improve its production rather concentrated in Europe and in China, its business is, therefore, highly exposed to transaction currency risk when its manufacturing productivity and to reduce its purchasing costs, products are billed to its customers in a currency that is different which both help to offset market volatility. from that used in production. This makes managing foreign exchange ■ Commodity risks are dealt with in Note 26.2.3 to the Financial fluctuations a competitive priority. There is also a translation effect Statements. when converting revenues and earnings from different countries into euros on consolidation. Currency fluctuations can have a significant impact on the Group’s results. DEBT, LIQUIDITY AND INTEREST RATES Management of risk Description of risk ■ The Group’s currency position is short in dollars and yuan and long The Group uses various forms of financing (bank loans, private in all other currencies. To limit its risk, the Group hedges a portion placements, bonds, commercial papers, etc.), and is therefore subject of its highly probable future cash flows, as well as almost all of to interest rate, liquidity and counterparty risk. its balance sheet transaction risk, by means of forward contracts and options. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 35 1 Introduction to the Group Risk factors Management of risk RISKS RELATING TO SHARES ■ The Group uses mostly fixed-rate loans, in particular with long maturities, in currencies that correspond to its needs (mainly the Description of risk euro, Brazilian real and US dollar). The longest maturity among As at 31 December 2017, Groupe SEB held 534,706 treasury shares these loans (2026) is fixed-rate, making it possible for the Group with an acquisition cost of €67,287,456. This treasury stock is to protect itself against the likelihood of interest rate rises. Details deducted from shareholders’ equity at acquisition cost. of interest rate risks are given in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 26.2.2). Management of risk ■ Liquidity risk management is handled centrally by the Treasury and Financing department. It is based on a solid financing architecture ■ Based on the closing SEB share price on 31 December 2017 and diversified over the short and medium-terms, with commercial (€154.45), the market value of shares held in treasury at that date paper, syndicated loans, Schuldschein private placements and stood at €82,585,341.70. This market value has no impact on the bonds. Groupe SEB also has unused confirmed medium-term credit Group’s Consolidated Financial Statements and the change has lines with leading banks. no impact on the consolidated income statement or shareholders’ equity. ■ The Group considers itself to have little exposure to financial counterparty risk, as it prioritizes relationships with leading banks ■ Further information on equity risks is given in Note 26.2.4 to the and diversifies its counterparty portfolio. Consolidated Financial Statements. This data also includes the risk regarding financial instruments and the Supor share, which is listed ■ Details of the maturity dates of the instruments used and the on the Shenzhen stock market. financing sources available are provided in Notes 24, 25 and 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. INSURANCE GROUP GENERAL INSURANCE COVER more specific or localized risk, such as the risk of earthquake in certain (EXCLUDING PERSONAL INSURANCE) regions where the Group operates abroad. This policy takes into consideration additional risk protection measures Groupe SEB’s policy concerning insurance coverage is, on the one at Group sites, which are regularly visited by specialist risk prevention hand, to protect its assets against risks that could affect the Group assessors from the insurance companies concerned. and, on the other, to cover its liability for any damages caused to third parties. This transfer of risk to insurance companies is nonetheless accompanied by risk protection and prevention measures. For CIVIL LIABILITY confidentiality reasons, the amount of the premiums is not disclosed. Acquired companies are incorporated into global insurance programs. All the Group’s subsidiaries are included in a worldwide civil liability insurance plan that covers liability relating to their operations and the products that they manufacture or distribute, as well as the cost of INTEGRATED WORLDWIDE COVERAGE product recalls. The Group has established worldwide insurance plans with major The amounts of coverage are based on the quantification of the risks international insurers to protect itself against major risks, which include to which the Group is exposed in view of its business. damage to property and loss of earnings, civil liability, environment, The Group also covers its management for civil liability under a specific transport and inventory and customer risks. insurance policy. DAMAGE TO ASSETS AND LOSS OF EARNINGS ENVIRONMENT Coverage for risk of property damage and consequent loss of A multi-risk environmental insurance policy covers environmental risks earnings resulting from common risks (fire, flooding, etc.) amounts to on all Group sites. €250 million per claim for factories and warehouses, with an additional Coverage applies to: €150 million for certain strategic sites. ■ accidental, historical and gradual pollution; This figure was calculated using the “Maximum Foreseeable Loss” hypothesis in consultation with the insurer and its assessors, who ■ damage to biodiversity; analyzed the impact of the total destruction of one of the Group’s main ■ pollution clean-up costs. production centers. Lower thresholds are in place for other types of 36 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Introduction to the Group Risk factors TRANSPORT AND INVENTORY This broad-scope insurance policy also covers attacks on personal data. The Group’s transport insurance covers damage to transported merchandise for all types of transport: sea, road/rail or air transport anywhere in the world. CUSTOMER RISK 1 This insurance covers transport risks up to an amount of €10 million With rare exceptions relating to local issues, the Group’s subsidiaries per occurrence. hold credit risk insurance under a Group plan to cover the majority of It also covers incidents occurring at warehouses up to a maximum their risk on customer receivables. of €15 million, with any amount over this limit being covered by the policy for damage to property and loss of earnings. LOCAL INSURANCE POLICIES CYBER More specific insurance policies are taken out locally by each of the Group’s companies, as appropriate. Financial protection held by Groupe SEB against attacks on its IT systems covers damage and liability for a total amount of €15 million. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 37 38 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 2.1. Implementation framework for 2 corporate governance principles 40 2.2. Management structure 40 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 40 Chief Operating Officer 40 2.3. Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors 41 Composition of the Board of Directors 41 Organization and operation of the Board of Directors 60 2.4. Group management bodies 67 2.5. Remuneration policy 68 Remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors 68 Remuneration of executive officers 69 Corporate Remuneration of members of the Group Executive Committee 81 governance GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 39 2 Corporate governance Implementation framework for corporate governance principles 2.1. Implementation framework for corporate governance principles Groupe SEB adheres to the November 2016 version of the AFEPIn accordance with Article L. 225-37, paragraph 6 of the French MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed companies (the “AFEPCommercial Code, amended pursuant to order no. 2017-1162 MEDEF Code”), which can be consulted on the MEDEF website (www. of 12 July 2017, which is applicable to reports relating to periods medef.fr). beginning on or after 1 January 2017, this chapter includes the corporate governance report appended to the management report Pursuant to the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, as well referred to in the same article. as Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, this chapter reports on the application of the provisions adopted and explains why It should be noted that the information referred to in Article L. 225some provisions were not applied. 37-5 of the French Commercial Code and, in particular, information concerning the capital structure of the company and factors which For the sake of transparency, and following the request made by could affect a hypothetical takeover bid, appears in Chapter 7, the High Committee for Corporate Governance, the company has “Information concerning the company and its share capital”. provided more information about the existence of a succession plan for executive officers. Pursuant to Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors approved this chapter at its meeting on 27 February 2018. 2.2. Management structure The company is managed by Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise, Chairman and CEO, with the assistance of Bertrand Neuschwander, Chief Operating Officer. CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER In a unitary management structure, the Board of Directors is responsible Each time Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise was re-elected, in 2004, 2008, for deciding whether or not the General Management of the company 2012 and 2016, the Board of Directors confirmed this structure for the can be entrusted to the Chairman of the Board or to a third party, in company’s management authority, deemed to be the most appropriate accordance with Article L. 225-51-1 of the French Commercial Code given the company’s organizational structure and operating methods, and the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. offering faster and more efficient decision-making. At the end of its meeting on 21 June 2002, the Board of Directors Moreover, the Board of Directors applied no limits to the powers of the unanimously decided that the General Management of the company Chairman and CEO, which are described on page 61. would be assumed, under its responsibility, by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise. CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER Following its meeting of 22 April 2014, the Board of Directors, on the As Chief Operating Officer, Bertrand Neuschwander is required to recommendation of the Chairman and CEO, and after examination by assist Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise in his Group management tasks, the Nominations and Remuneration Committee, decided to appoint in accordance with the law and the Company’s bylaws. Bertrand Neuschwander as Chief Operating Officer. He has the same powers as Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise with respect to third parties. 40 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors 2.3. Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is a collective body that represents all the and operation that enable it to carry out its mission in the best possible shareholders and acts solely in the company’s interests. manner”. According to the AFEP-MEDEF Code, “the organization of the Board’s The company was inspired by these recommendations to organize a work, and likewise its membership, must be suited to the shareholder Board of Directors, with a membership and organizational structure make-up, to the size and nature of each firm’s business, and to the particular circumstances facing it. Each Board is the best judge of this, and its foremost responsibility is to adopt the modes of organization which enable it to effectively perform its corporate missions, in line with the various interests at stake. 2 COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The company’s governance is based on the existence of a family base ■ 4 independent directors; that has evolved and adapted to the challenges, business activities ■ 1 director representing employee shareholders; and and requirements of all stakeholders. ■ 1 director representing employees. This family heritage is reflected in the composition of the Board of One-third of the Board members are independent, as recommended Directors, on which the presence of directors from the Founder Group by the AFEP-MEDEF Code. responds to the dual family group structure while complying with the principles of corporate governance, particularly thanks to the presence The presence of six women, i.e. 43% of the members of the Board of independent directors. of Directors, ensures that female representation is compliant with law no. 2011-103 of 27 January 2011 relating to the gender balance on In order to comply with the applicable laws on employee representation Boards of Directors and Supervisory Boards and gender equality in and increased female participation, the Board of Directors, on the the workplace. recommendation of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee, decided to change its composition while ensuring that its agility was The international experience acquired by some directors, during maintained. their professional careers and residence abroad, allows the Board of Directors to take greater account of international issues and practices. The directors together hold 20.58% of the company’s share capital GENERAL PRINCIPLES RELATING TO THE and 23.89% of the effective voting rights (i.e., 23.72% of the theoretical COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS voting rights), thereby adhering to the terms of the Directors’ Charter and internal rules of the Board of Directors (the “Charter and internal Since the Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2017, the Board of rules”) under which each director is required to hold a minimum Directors has 14 members, whose terms of office are set at four number of pure registered SEB S.A. shares equivalent to about two years in accordance with the bylaws. The composition of the Board years of attendance fees (except for directors representing employees of Directors is as follows: and employee shareholders). ■ 1 Chairman; ■ 7 directors representing the Founder Group, namely: ■ 4 directors from FÉDÉRACTIVE; ■ 3 directors from VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT; GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 41 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Composition of the Board of Directors in 2017 Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Brigitte Forestier Laurent Henry (Employee shareholder (Employee director) director) FÉDÉRACTIVE (Sarah Chauleur) VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT (Damarys Braida) Delphine Bertrand Board of Directors Jérôme Lescure Hubert Fèvre Cédric Lescure William Gairard FFP Invest FSP Yseulys Costes (Bertrand Finet) Jean-Noël Labroue (Catherine Pourre) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Director and member of the Nominations Director from FÉDÉRACTIVE and Remuneration Committee Director from VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT Director and member of the Audit Committee Independent director 42 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors ABOUT THE DIRECTORS Founding Chairmen Frédéric Lescure † Henri Lescure † Emmanuel Lescure † Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise 2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Age: 63 years Nationality: French Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 4 May 2000 Date of last reappointment: 19 May 2016 End date of term of ofﬁce: 2020 AGM Committee member: No Number of SEB shares held: 510,002 BIOGRAPHY: The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Groupe SEB, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise, was born in October 1954 in Lyon. He graduated from the ESCP in 1976 and is a chartered accountant. He is also an Officier de la Légion d’Honneur. He began his career at Allendale Insurance in the US in 1976 as a Financial Controller, before joining the audit firm Coopers & Lybrand in 1979 as an Auditor, and then a manager. He moved to Groupe Chargeurs in 1983, where he was appointed Chief Financial Officer of Croisières Paquet, before becoming Chief Executive Officer. In 1994, he came to Groupe SEB as Chief Executive Officer, then Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Calor S.A. (1996). In 1999, he was appointed Vice-Chairman and CEO of Groupe SEB, and has been its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 2000. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS WITHIN GROUPE SEB: Chairman of SEB Internationale (a wholly-owned subsidiary of SEB S.A.) Director of Zhejiang Supor Co, Ltd* (China – a subsidiary 81.17% owned by SEB Internationale) OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS OUTSIDE GROUPE SEB: Director of Legrand* and member of the Nominations and Governance Committee Permanent representative of Sofinaction, director of CIC – Lyonnaise de Banque OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: Director of Club Méditerranée S.A. Director of Plastic Omnium* * Listed company. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 43 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Delphine Bertrand Director − member of the Founder Group, member of FÉDÉRACTIVE Age: 53 years Nationality: French Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 11 May 2017 Date of last reappointment: None End date of term of ofﬁce: 2018 AGM (Reappointment) Committee member: No Number of SEB shares held: 120,141 (including 9,825 full-ownership and 110,316 bare-ownership shares) BIOGRAPHY: Delphine Bertrand has a degree in Japanese, holds a CPEI qualification from the Institut National des Langues et Civilisations Orientales (INALCO) and is a Master Practitioner of neurolinguistic programming. She has served as communication officer of FÉDÉRACTIVE since 2013. She is a co-founder of the Première Pierre foundation (FPP), which was set up in 2007 to support charitable organizations that help vulnerable people to rebuild their lives, in the areas of housing, employment, disability and education. Delphine Bertrand has an “objectif administratrice” corporate governance diploma from EM Lyon. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Member of the FÉDÉRACTIVE Advisory Board OTHER OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: None Yseulys Costes Independent director Age: 45 years Nationality: French Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 14 May 2013 Date of last reappointment: AGM of 11 May 2017 End date of term of ofﬁce: 2021 AGM Committee member: Audit Committee Number of SEB shares held: 750 BIOGRAPHY: Yseulys Costes holds a Masters degree in Management Sciences and a postgraduate degree in Marketing and Strategy from Université Paris-IX Dauphine and is Chairwoman and CEO and founder of the 1000mercis Group. She discovered the internet in 1995 during her MBA studies at the Robert O. Anderson School in the US. Given her interest in Data and Marketing, she founded 1000mercis to offer its clients innovative digital strategies with a high return on investment, through targeted, multi-channel solutions with a measurable impact. As an Interactive Marketing researcher, she spent time at Harvard Business School, in the US, and has taught at several institutions (HEC, ESSEC and Paris Dauphine). Before founding 1000mercis, she wrote many works and articles on marketing and databases, and was the coordinator of the IAB France on its creation. In 2014, she moved to Palo Alto in California, the heart of Ad Tech, to develop Numberly, the Group’s international subsidiary. She is a member of the Strategy Board of the City of Paris. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Chairwoman and CEO of 1000mercis* Chairwoman of the Supervisory Board of Ocito (1000mercis Group) Director of Kering S.A.* OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: Member of the Supervisory Board of Numergy Member of the Supervisory Board of Vivendi* * Listed company. 44 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors FÉDÉRACTIVE Director – member of the Founder Group Simplified joint-stock company with share capital of €5,084,597.85 Registered head ofﬁce: 66, avenue des Champs-Élysées – 75008 Paris – France 487 544 223 RCS Paris Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 11 May 2006 Date of last reappointment: 15 May 2014 End date of term of ofﬁce: 2018 AGM (Reappointment) Number of SEB shares held: 4,284,033 (including 3 full-ownership and 4,284,030 bare-ownership shares) INFORMATION: FÉDÉRACTIVE is a controlling holding company which mainly represents the equity interests of the founding family, registered on 14 April 2006. 2 The company has been represented on the Board of Directors of SEB S.A. by Sarah Chauleur, replacing Pascal Girardot, since the Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2017. It is represented on the Nominations and Remuneration Committee by Pascal Girardot. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: None OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: None Sarah Chauleur Permanent representative of FÉDÉRACTIVE on the Board of Directors Age: 46 years Nationality: French Committee member: No (Pascal Girardot is FÉDÉRACTIVE’s permanent representative on the Nominations and Remuneration Committee) BIOGRAPHY: Sarah Chauleur has a postgraduate degree in Information and Communication Sciences and an “objectif administratrice” corporate governance diploma from EM Lyon. She has served as Communications Manager for FÉDÉRACTIVE since 2009. She is also co-convener of the Première Pierre foundation (under the auspices of the Fondation de France). OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Member of the FÉDÉRACTIVE Advisory Board OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: Director of SEB S.A. between 2013 and 2017 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 45 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Hubert Fèvre Director − member of the Founder Group, member of FÉDÉRACTIVE Age: 53 years Nationality: French Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 13 May 2003 Date of last reappointment: 12 May 2015 End date of term of ofﬁce: 2019 AGM Committee member: Audit Committee Number of SEB shares held: 20,000 BIOGRAPHY: Hubert Fèvre, who is a chartered accountant, created the company FB Conseils & Investissements, a Swiss company specializing in wealth advisory and management services, in 2016. He has held financial management positions in Geneva with Banque Pasche (CM-CIC), and a number of financial positions with Sonatrach Petroleum Corporation, VSNL International, Addax & Oryx and Finacor in London. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Director and Head of Research and Investment at FB Conseils & Investissements Director of FCL Investissements S.A. Managing Director of GFA du Château à Soirans OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: Member of the FÉDÉRACTIVE Advisory Board CFO of Banque Pasche S.A. 46 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors FFP Invest Independent director Simplified joint-stock company with share capital of €541,010,740 Registered head ofﬁce: 66, avenue Charles de Gaulle – 92200 Neuilly sur Seine – France 535 360 564 RCS Paris Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 14 May 2013 Date of last reappointment: AGM of 11 May 2017 End date of term of ofﬁce: 2021 AGM Number of SEB shares held: 2,521,522 INFORMATION: FFP Invest has been a registered company since 17 November 2011. It is wholly owned by FFP, a holding company listed on the Paris Stock 2 Exchange, which is majority owned by the Peugeot family group. It is represented by Bertrand Finet. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Vice-Chairman and member of the Supervisory Board of IDI* Member of the Supervisory Board of Zodiac Aerospace* Chairman of Financière Guiraud Member of the Supervisory Board of IDI Emerging Markets (Luxembourg) Director of Orpea* Director of Lapillus II Managing Director of FFP Les Grésillons Member of the Executive Committee of LDAP Non-voting director on the Board of Directors of SPIE* Non-voting director on the Board of Directors of Total Eren OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: Director of LT Participations Director of IPSOS* Member of the Supervisory Board of ONET Director of SANEF* Director of Gran Via 2008 Managing Director of Valmy FFP * Listed company. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 47 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Bertrand Finet Permanent representative of FFP Invest Age: 52 years Nationality: French Committee member: Nominations and Remuneration Committee BIOGRAPHY: After graduating from ESSEC in 1988, Bertrand Finet started his career in 1991 at 3i Group, where he was appointed Chief Investment Officer. He held this post for two years in London before joining the Group’s French subsidiary. He was appointed Managing Director of CVC Capital Partners France in 1996, before heading the Paris office of Candover France starting in 2006. In 2009, Bertrand Finet was made a member director of the Fonds Stratégique d’Investissement’s (FSI) Executive Committee, then in 2013, Executive Director at Bpifrance in the Fonds Propres PME department, before being appointed Executive Director of Bpifrance’s Mid & Large Cap department in April 2015. He was appointed Chief Operating Officer of FFP in January 2017. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Chief Operating Officer of FFP* Chief Executive Officer of FFP Invest Director of FFP Investment UK Limited (United Kingdom) Permanent representative of FFP Invest on the Executive Committee of LDAP Permanent representative of FFP Invest, non-voting director on the Board of Directors of SPIE* OTHER OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: Executive Director within Bpifrance Investissement’s Mid & Large Cap Equity department Executive Director within Bpifrance Investissement’s SME Equity department Permanent representative of FSI on the Supervisory Board of Assystem* Director and member of the Executive Committee of Bpifrance Participations S.A. Permanent representative of FSI on the Board of Directors of Farinia Member of the Supervisory Board of Mersen* Permanent representative of Bpifrance Participations on the Board of Directors of Sequana* Permanent representative of Bpifrance Participations on the Board of Directors of Constellium* Permanent representative of Bpifrance Participations on the Board of Directors of Vallourec* Permanent representative of Bpifrance Participations on the Board of Directors of Technicolor* Chairman of the Consolidation and Management Development Supervisory Board Chairman and CEO of CDC Entreprise Capital Investissement * Listed company. 48 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Brigitte Forestier Director representing employee shareholders Age: 47 years Nationality: French Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 11 May 2017 Date of last reappointment: None End date of term of ofﬁce: 2021 AGM Committee member: No Number of SEB shares held: / BIOGRAPHY: Brigitte Forestier has a Masters in Human Resources from the Institut de Gestion Sociale in Lyon. She joined Groupe SEB in 1997. She held 2 various Human Resources positions at Calor then Groupe SEB France. Since 2009, Brigitte Forestier has been Human Resources Manager at Groupe SEB Retailing. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: None OTHER OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: None Fonds Stratégique de Participations (FSP) Independent director SICAV with a Board of Directors and share capital of €300,000 Registered head ofﬁce: 47 rue du Faubourg-Saint-Honoré – 75008 Paris – France 753 519 891 RCS Paris Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 15 May 2014 Date of last reappointment: None End date of term of ofﬁce: 2020 AGM Number of SEB shares held: 2,633,876 INFORMATION: FSP was registered on 14 September 2012. It is represented by Catherine Pourre. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Director of Arkema* Director of Eutelsat* Director of Tikehau Capital* OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: Director of Zodiac Aerospace* * Listed company. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 49 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Catherine Pourre Permanent representative of FSP on the Board of Directors Age: 61 years Nationality: French Committee member: Chairwoman of the Audit Committee BIOGRAPHY: A graduate of the ESSEC business school and with a degree in Accounting and Law from the Catholic University of Paris, Catherine Pourre began her career at PricewaterhouseCoopers, where she was Partner from 1989 to 1999. She then worked for Cap Gemini as President in charge of the High Growth Middle Market, and was a member of the French Group Executive Committee. She subsequently joined the Unibail-Rodamco Group in 2002, where she served as Senior Executive Vice-president, Finance, Information Technology, Human Resources, Organization and Property Engineering, before becoming General Manager of Core Businesses and a member of the Management Board from 2007 to 2013, and Director of U&R Management BV, a subsidiary of the Unibail-Rodamco Group, until 2015. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Director of Neopost S.A.* Member of the Supervisory Board of Beneteau S.A.* Director of Crédit Agricole S.A.* and its subsidiary Crédit Agricole CIB Director of CPO Services S.A.R.L. (Luxembourg) OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: Member of the Management Board and General Manager, Core Businesses, Unibail-Rodamco S.E.* Chairwoman then Chief Operating Officer of Unibail Management S.A.S. Chairwoman and CEO of Tayninh S.A.* Chairwoman of Doria S.A.S. Chairwoman of Espace Expansion Immobilière Director of Comexposium Holding Director of Unibail-Rodamco Participations Director of Viparis Holding Member of the Supervisory Board of Uni-Expos Director of Union Immobilière Internationale Director of Rodamco Europe Beheer B.V. (Netherlands) Director of the permanent establishment of Unibail-Rodamco S.E. in the Netherlands. Director of Mfi AG (Germany) Member of the Management Board of Rodamco Europe N.V. (Netherlands) Permanent representative of Rodamco Europe N.V. (Netherlands), itself director of eight Unibail-Rodamco subsidiaries Director of U&R Management B.V. (Netherlands) * Listed company. 50 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors William Gairard Director − member of the Founder Group, member of VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT Age: 37 years Nationality: French Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 12 May 2015 End date of term of ofﬁce: 2019 AGM Committee member: No Number of SEB shares held: 425,947 shares (including 135,553 full-ownership and 290,394 bareownership shares) BIOGRAPHY: A graduate of EM Lyon and holder of a IUP Masters in Management Sciences from the Université Jean Moulin Lyon III, William Gairard spent 2 seven years as Management and Auditing Controller at Pernod Ricard S.A. In 2012, he founded Ecopro Solutions S.A. de C.V., a Mexican company which promotes responsible plastic use and which he now heads. In 2017, he joined and became head of the Finance department of Minimalist Technology, a digital marketing agency in Mexico. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Managing Director of Ecopro Solutions S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) Chief Financial Officer of Minimalist Technology (Mexico) OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: None Laurent Henry Employee director Age: 51 years Nationality: French Date of ﬁrst appointment: 13 October 2017 (elected by the France Works Council) Date of last reappointment: None End date of term of ofﬁce: 2021 FWC meeting Committee member: No Number of SEB shares held: / BIOGRAPHY: Laurent Henry has a Masters in Logistics from the École Supérieure in Brest and a Masters in Economic Sciences from the University of Caen. He began his career at Moulinex and joined the Group in 2001. He has held various logistics positions and was appointed Head of Logistics at the Mayenne plant in 2012. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: None OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: None GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 51 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Jean-Noël Labroue Independent director Age: 70 years Nationality: French Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 12 May 2010 Date of last reappointment: 15 May 2014 End date of term of ofﬁce: 2018 AGM (Reappointment) Committee member: Chairman of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee Number of SEB shares held: 1,250 BIOGRAPHY: A graduate of an engineering school, he holds a Master of Science degree from Northwestern University Chicago. Jean-Noël Labroue has spent almost all of his career at the Darty Group. He served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Darty Group, CEO of Kingfisher Electricals UK and Managing Director of Kesa Plc until 2009. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Non-voting director of Generix S.A.* OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: Chairman of JNL Conseil Non-executive Chairman of Kiabi France Director of Electro Dépot Director of Generix S.A.* Managing Director and member of the Board of Kesa Electricals Plc (United Kingdom) Member of the Supervisory Board of Établissements Darty et Fils Chairman and CEO of Kesa France Chairman of the Board of Directors of Kesa International Plc (United Kingdom) Chairman of the Board of Directors of New Vanden Borre (Belgium) Director of Datart Investments S.A. (Luxembourg) Director of Datart Megastore S.R.O. (Slovakia) Director of Datart International As. (Czech Republic) Director of Kesa Holding Ltd. (United Kingdom) Director of Kesa Sourcing Ltd. (Italy) Director of Kesa Spain Ltd. (Spain) Director of Kesa Turkey Ltd. (Turkey) Director of Kesa Electricals Asia Ltd. (China) * Listed company. 52 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Cédric Lescure Director − member of the Founder Group, member of FÉDÉRACTIVE Age: 50 years Nationality: French Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 27 April 1998 Date of last reappointment: 12 May 2015 End date of term of ofﬁce: 2019 AGM Committee member: No Number of SEB shares held: 530,801 (including 116,648 full-ownership and 414,153 bare-ownership 2 shares) BIOGRAPHY: A graduate of the Nantes veterinary school, Cédric Lescure is a veterinary surgeon. He is currently Managing Director of the Clos Guillaume veterinary clinic, which he set up in 2000 in Fontaine-les-Dijon, in the Côte-d’Or region of France. In 2010, he created the company Vetshop 21, which sells veterinary food online. He is a member of its Executive Committee. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Managing Director of the Clos Guillaume veterinary clinic Managing Director of the limited company Cabinet Vétérinaire Medico-Chirurgical du Cap Vert Member of the Executive Committee of Vetshop 21 S.A.S. OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: Member of the FÉDÉRACTIVE Advisory Board Managing Director of Vetshop Création Chief Executive Officer of Vetshop 21 S.A.S. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 53 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Jérôme Lescure Director − member of the Founder Group, member of VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT Age: 57 years Nationality: French Date of ﬁrst appointment: AGM of 19 May 2016 (director of SEB S.A. from 1994 to 2005) End date of term of ofﬁce: 2020 AGM Committee member: Audit Committee Number of SEB shares held: 73,828 BIOGRAPHY: An architecture graduate of the Paris École Spéciale d’Architecture, with a Masters degree in industrialized construction from the École Nationale des Ponts et Chaussées and an MBA from HEC. Jérôme Lescure had various management and oversight roles in Anglo-Saxon groups prior to becoming a partner at A.T. Kearney, a strategy consultancy company. He then joined Accenture as director of Consulting for France. Since 2013, Jérôme Lescure has been an entrepreneur and investor. He is now Chairman of APICAP, a fund management company devoted to investing in SMEs, and Chairman of CAMSEL, the softwood lumber producer. Jérôme Lescure was also a director of SEB S.A. from 1994 to 2005. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Co-Managing Director of Lavilla S.A.R.L. Chairman of Additio S.A.S. Chairman of Camsel S.A.S. (until 30 September 2017) Chairman of Brassac Holding S.A.S. Chairman of Les Bois du Midi S.A.S. Chairman of APICAP (former OTC Asset Management S.A.S.) Permanent representative of APICAP, director of Groupe Archimen S.A.S. Director of MANUTAN INTERNATIONAL S.A.* OTHER OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: Co-Managing Director of Trois Rivières Holding Permanent representative of APICAP, director of: Ymagis S.A.*; Active 3D; Inspirational Stores S.A.; D3T. VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT Director – member of the Founder Group Simplified joint-stock company with share capital of €3,750,736.68 Registered head ofﬁce: 72 rue du Faubourg-Saint-Honoré – 75008 Paris – France 414 738 070 RCS Paris Date of ﬁrst appointment: 27 April 1998 Date of last reappointment: AGM of 19 May 2016 End date of term of ofﬁce: 2020 AGM Number of SEB shares held: 17,902 INFORMATION: VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT is a controlling family holding company which was registered on 9 December 1997. It is represented by Damarys Braida. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: None OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: None * Listed company. 54 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Damarys Braida Permanent representative of VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT on the Board of Directors Age: 50 years Nationality: French Committee member: Nominations and Remuneration Committee BIOGRAPHY: A graduate of the École des Mines engineering school in Paris, Damarys Braida joined L’Oréal in 1991 to set up the capillary asset laboratory. Between 1997 and 2004, she led the Efficiency Evaluation departments. From 2005 to 2009, she ran the color development laboratory, then 2 from 2010 to 2012, the global make-up development laboratory. In 2012, she became Head of Make-up Research Strategy, then Head of Cosmetics Strategy at L’Oréal, a position that she has held since 2016. OTHER CURRENT OFFICES AND POSITIONS: Chairwoman of VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT Chief Executive Officer of Venelle Plus OFFICES AND POSITIONS HELD IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS AND NOW EXPIRED: None GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 55 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors SUMMARY TABLE OF DIRECTORS END DATE INDEPENDENT COMMITTEE SURNAME – FIRST NAME NATIONALITY AGE START DATE (YEAR OF AGM) DIRECTOR MEMBER 03-05-1999 AGM THIERRY DE LA TOUR Ratification of coD’ARTAISE French 63 optation 2020 No No 11-05-2017 AGM Ratification of coDELPHINE BERTRAND French 53 optation 2018 No No French YSEULYS COSTES US resident 45 14-05-2013 AGM 2021 Yes Audit FÉDÉRACTIVE (Sarah Chauleur) French 46 14-05-2013 AGM 2018 No No (a) French HUBERT FÈVRE Swiss resident 53 13-05-2003 AGM 2019 No Audit Nominations FFP INVEST and (Bertrand Finet) French 52 11-05-2017 AGM (b) 2021 Yes Remuneration BRIGITTE FORESTIER French 47 11-05-2017 AGM 2021 No No French 15-05-2014 AGM FSP Luxembourg Ratification of co(Catherine Pourre) resident 61 optation (c) 2020 Yes Audit French Resident of WILLIAM GAIRARD Mexico 37 12-05-2015 AGM 2019 No No Appointment by the France Works Council on 13-10-2017; joined the LAURENT HENRY French 51 BoD on 14-12-2017 2021 No No Nominations and JEAN-NOEL LABROUE French 70 12-05-2010 AGM 2018 Yes Remuneration 12-05-2010 AGM Ratification of coCEDRIC LESCURE (d) French 50 optation 2019 No No JEROME LESCURE French 57 19-05-2016 AGM 2020 No Audit 27-04-1998 AGM Nominations VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT Ratification of coand (Damarys Braida) French 50 optation 2020 No Remuneration DIRECTORS WHOSE TERMS OF OFFICE ENDED DURING THE YEAR BRUNO BICH Early resignation on 11 May 2017. Not replaced. TRISTAN BOITEUX Early resignation on 11 May 2017. Co-optation of Delphine Bertrand to replace him. CHRISTIAN PEUGEOT Changing of FFP Invest’s permanent representative at the AGM of 11 May 2017. LAURE THOMAS Not reappointed. Not replaced. (a) FÉDÉRACTIVE is represented on the Nominations and Remuneration Committee by Pascal Girardot. (b) FFP Invest was co-opted by decision of the BoD on 23 July 2013 to replace FFP. (c) FSP was co-opted by decision of the BoD on 25 February 2014 to replace Philippe Lenain. (d) Cédric Lescure was previously a director of SEB S.A. from 1998 to 2005. RESIGNATIONS, REAPPOINTMENT During the last year, the Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2017 AND APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS renewed the directorships of Yseulys Costes and FFP Invest, represented by Bertrand Finet, for four years. In line with the Board of Directors’ decision of 16 December 2016, the Reappointments and appointments Board of Directors’ size was reduced in order to include two employee In accordance with Article 17 of the Company’s bylaws and with directors: the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the duration of ■ Brigitte Forestier, employee shareholder director appointed by the directors’ terms of office is staggered, enabling shareholders to vote Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2017; regularly and frequently on the composition of the Board of Directors and avoid any mass reappointments. ■ Laurent Henry, employee director appointed by the France Works Council, on 13 October 2017, in accordance with the bylaws. This system ensures the continuity of operation of the Board of Directors and encourages the smooth and regular renewal of its members. 56 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Resignations Ratification of the co-optation of a director Bruno Bich and Tristan Boiteux terminated their directorships early, at The Board of Directors, during its meeting on 7 March 2017, reviewed the end of the Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2017. the proposal that Delphine Bertrand be co-opted to replace Tristan Boiteux, who resigned at the end of the Board of Directors’ Meeting on 27 April 2017. The co-optation of Delphine Bertrand was approved by the Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2017. SUMMARY OF HOW DIRECTORS’ TERMS OF OFFICE ARE STAGGERED 2 DIRECTOR 2018 AGM 2019 AGM 2020 AGM 2021 AGM THIERRY DE LA TOUR D’ARTAISE • DELPHINE BERTRAND • YSEULYS COSTES • FÉDÉRACTIVE (Sarah Chauleur) • HUBERT FÈVRE • BRIGITTE FORESTIER • FFP INVEST (Bertrand Finet) • FSP (Catherine Pourre) • WILLIAM GAIRARD • LAURENT HENRY * JEAN-NOEL LABROUE • CEDRIC LESCURE • JEROME LESCURE • VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT (Damarys Braida) • * The France Works Council is responsible for appointing and reappointing the employee director, in accordance with Article 16 of the bylaws. Reappointment of three directors in 2018 Absence of criminal convictions or sanctions As the terms of office of Jean-Noël Labroue, FÉDÉRACTIVE, To the best of the company’s knowledge, in the last five years, none represented by Sarah Chauleur, and Delphine Bertrand, are due to of the directors or executive officers (Chief Executive Officer and Chief expire at the Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2018, the Board Operating Officer): of Directors, on the recommendation of the Nominations and ■ has been convicted of fraud, nor has been the subject of any official Remuneration Committee, will propose to the shareholders that their charge and/or sanction by the regulatory authorities; terms of office be renewed for another four years. ■ has been subject to any court order or restriction on serving as a member of a Management Board, Board of Directors or Supervisory DECLARATIONS OF THE DIRECTORS Board, or from being involved in the management or affairs of an issuer of securities; ■ has been subject, in the capacity of executive officer, or senior Founder family connection manager bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation. All directors belonging to the Founder Group are descendants, directly or by marriage, of the Founder-Chairmen Frédéric Lescure and Henri Absence of conflicts of interest Lescure. As far as the company is aware, and in line with its conflict of interest There is no family connection between Board members and members management policy outlined below, there is no potential conflict of of the Executive Committee, with the exception of Thierry de La Tour interest between the duties, vis-a-vis SEB S.A., of the members of d’Artaise. the administration bodies and the General Management and their private interests. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 57 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Service contracts meets the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, according to which, “in controlled companies, independent directors should No member of the Board of Directors or the General Management has account for at least a third”. any contractual service relationship with SEB S.A. or its subsidiaries that provides for benefits to be granted when the contract ends. The independent status of each individual director is examined by the Nominations and Remuneration Committee prior to their appointment or reappointment. To this end, a “Selection guide” is used, which Regulated agreements aims to ensure that the candidate meets all the independence The existing regulated agreements have been authorized in advance criteria defined by the AFEP-MEDEF Code before any proposal for in accordance with the law and are described in Chapter 2.5, appointment or reappointment is made, as described below: “Remuneration policy”, as well as in the Statutory auditors’ report on ■ is not an employee or executive officer of the company, or an regulated agreements. Pursuant to Article L. 225-40-1 of the French employee or director of its parent or a company that the latter Commercial Code, agreements signed and authorized in prior years consolidates, and has not been in such a position for the last which continued in 2017 were reviewed at the Board of Directors’ five years (criterion 1); Meeting on 27 February 2018. The directors had no comments to make, particularly with regard to their purpose or their financial ■ is not an executive officer of a company in which the company conditions. The agreements regarding Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise, holds a directorship, directly or indirectly, or in which an employee approved during previous years, were also re-approved by the Annual appointed as such or an executive officer of the company (who is General Meeting of 19 May 2016, when his term of office was renewed. currently in office or has held such office within the last five years) is a director (criterion 2); ■ is not a customer, supplier, investment banker or commercial banker MARKET ETHICS CHARTER that is material to the company or its group, or for a significant part of whose business the company or its group accounts (criterion 3); Under the Directors’ Charter and internal rules, the Board of Directors ■ does not have close family ties with an executive officer (criterion 4); are subject to trading regulations and, in particular, rules relating to the use and disclosure of inside information. ■ has not been a director of the company for more than twelve years (criterion 5); Groupe SEB has also adopted a Market Ethics Charter that details the obligations of directors and persons with whom they have close ■ has not been an Auditor of the company in the last five years personal ties, the company’s senior managers, and certain employees (criterion 6). that may hold sensitive information, in accordance with the applicable The conclusions of the review conducted by the Nominations and laws and regulations. This was updated to incorporate the changes Remuneration Committee are then sent to the Board of Directors so introduced by the entry into force of regulation no. 596/2014 of 16 April that it can review the status of each of its members. 2014 on market abuse, which came into effect on 3 July 2016. The procedure for managing conflicts of interest (set out below) At the end of the Board of Directors’ Meeting on 19 December enables the Committee to rule, on a yearly basis, on any conflicts of 2013, the Secretary of the Board of Directors, Philippe Sumeire, was interest and to ensure that independent directors have no connection appointed as Ethics Officer, to advise any directors or employees who with the company, its Group or its Management team that is likely to may have doubts as to the application of the provisions applicable compromise them in exercising freedom of judgment. to them. Therefore, after examining the findings of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee and the individual status of the members of the Board of Directors as regards the criteria set out by the AFEPINDEPENDENCE OF THE DIRECTORS MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors considered Bruno Bich, Yseulys With four independent directors, i.e. one-third of the directors (the Costes, Jean-Noël Labroue, Bertrand Finet (permanent representative employee directors and employee shareholder directors are not of FFP Invest), Catherine Pourre (permanent representative of FSP) included in this calculation), the composition of the Board of Directors and Christian Peugeot to be eligible for the status of independent director. 58 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors DIRECTORS’ STATUS IN TERMS OF INDEPENDENCE CRITERIA Criterion 1 Criterion 2 Criterion 3 Criterion 4 Criterion 5 Criterion 6 Eligibility Yseulys Costes yes yes yes yes yes yes Independent Bertrand Finet yes yes yes yes yes yes Independent Jean-Noël Labroue yes yes yes yes yes yes Independent Bruno Bich yes yes yes yes yes yes Independent Christian Peugeot yes yes yes yes yes yes Independent 2 Catherine Pourre yes yes yes yes yes yes Independent In addition to the criteria laid down by the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the obliged to inform the Board of Directors should a conflict of interest company takes an active interest in ensuring that the operation and occur when a meeting agenda is published, or during the course of organization of the Board of Directors’ work allows all its members to a meeting. The Board must then decide, if necessary without the make full use of their freedom of judgment. director concerned being present, whether they should take part in the debate and/or vote on the agenda items in question, pursuant to Pursuant to the Charter and the internal rules, the directors undertake the provisions of the Directors’ Charter and the internal rules. “to maintain their independence of analysis, judgment, decision and action and to reject any pressure, direct or indirect, which may come As in previous years, the Nominations and Remuneration Committee to bear on them”. reviewed the business flow between some Groupe SEB entities and 1000mercis, of which Yseulys Costes is Chairwoman and Chief Following the evaluation of the Board of Directors in 2017, the directors Executive Officer. This business flow corresponds to interactive declared themselves to be mostly satisfied with the number and role advertising and marketing services requested by Groupe SEB to of the independent directors and stressed the added value brought support it in its digital development. In 2016, the Nominations and to the Board’s discussions by their presence. Remuneration Committee examined the history of this business relationship and the way in which it was managed by the operational MANAGING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST teams. The selection process was also checked and the reasons behind the decision to collaborate with 1000mercis, as well as the prior Various procedures have been formalized to prevent and identify any existence of calls for tender. During the review conducted in 2017, the risk of conflicts of interest, at the time of appointment, during the term Nominations and Remuneration Committee found that: of office or on the reappointment of directors. ■ the relationship between SEB and 1000mercis preceded the term When a director is appointed, or when their term of office is renewed, of office of Yseulys Costes; the Nominations and Remuneration Committee checks compliance ■ the relationship is only managed by the operational teams; with the criteria defined by the AFEP-MEDEF Code as outlined above, ■ SEB is not a significant client of 1000mercis; identifies conflicts of interest and ensures that any risks identified are unlikely to create a conflict of interest. ■ 1000mercis is a leader on the interactive marketing market; ■ the value of these transactions represents for the year 2017 less The individual status of directors is also reviewed on a yearly basis than 3% of the consolidated turnover of 1000mercis and less than using an individual questionnaire analyzed by the Nominations and 0.03% of the consolidated turnover of Groupe SEB. Remuneration Committee. The latter reports its findings to the Board of Directors, which is consequently informed about the status of each Given the above, the Board of Directors, at its meeting of 14 December director. 2017, found that this business relationship was unlikely to compromise Yseulys Costes’ independence of judgment and ruled out the The annual declarations submitted for review at the Nominations and possibility of a conflict of interest, thus confirming her status as an Remuneration Committee Meeting of 7 December 2017 and the Board independent director. of Directors’ Meeting of 14 December 2017 did not reveal any conflicts of interest. During their term of office, directors are also obliged to perform their duties in the strict company’s interests. Directors are therefore GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 59 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ROLE AND MEETINGS OF THE BOARD Meetings of the Board of Directors OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors met seven times in 2017. The attendance rate was 93%. Role of the Board of Directors The meetings are generally arranged as follows: Pursuant to Article 225-35 of the French Commercial Code and the ■ February: Review of the annual financial statements and approval Company’s bylaws, the Board of Directors determines the company’s of the budget; business strategies and ensures that they are implemented; it deals ■ April: Review of the quarterly results and a specific topic; with all matters regarding the proper functioning of the company and acts on all matters in its pursiew, to the extent of the corporate ■ May: Meeting following the Annual General Meeting and purpose and subject to the powers explicitly assigned by the law to authorization to award performance shares; General Meetings of shareholders. The Board of Directors also carries ■ July: E xamination of the half-yearly financial statements and out the checks and verifications that it deems to be appropriate. strategy; The prior approval of the Board is required to decide on the Group’s ■ October: Review of the quarterly results and visit to an industrial strategy, budgets, management structures and acquisitions, on the site or a commercial or industrial subsidiary abroad; proposal of the Chairman and in accordance with the internal rules ■ December: Review of the financial statements at the end of of the Board of Directors. November, report from the Nominations and Remuneration With regard to decisions relating to the possible use of Annual General Committee on the evaluation and composition of the Board of Meeting authorizations to increase the capital, the Board of Directors Directors, Annual Review of Human Resources, sustainable nevertheless decided, as an internal rule and in view of the importance development and review of the CSR report. of such authorizations, that decisions should be made by a qualified The Board of Directors may meet as often as the interests of the majority vote of 12/14ths of the members present or represented. company require, in accordance with the law and the bylaws. An Extraordinary Meeting was organized on 7 March 2017, for example, A Board of Directors focused on strategy to approve the reduction of the Board of Directors’ size from 15 to 12 members. As regards strategic matters, the Charter and internal rules state that “the Board of Directors determines the Group’s strategy”. It is therefore A meeting is traditionally held each year at one of Groupe SEB’s sites consulted and invited to give an opinion before any strategic decisions in France or abroad, so that directors can visit industrial sites and are made about the Group. This role positions the Board of Directors commercial subsidiaries and meet Group employees. This initiative as the focus of strategy and ensures an appropriate balance of power. promotes understanding of the challenges and problems faced by the Group and the inclusion of historical, human and cultural dimensions The Board of Directors is given detailed information about the Group’s in their discussions. activity and results at every meeting to give it a better understanding of strategic issues. It also receives information about its financial To facilitate certain deliberations, meetings of the Board of Directors performance, its stock market and financial universe, its products and its committees may take place without the presence of the and its competitive universe throughout the year. CEO, as necessary. This is the case for the annual assessment of the Chairman and CEO’s performance by the Nominations and The systematic presence of the Group’s principal senior managers at Remuneration Committee, whose findings are submitted to the Board meetings allows directors to benefit from any additional information of Directors. The latter are free to deliberate in the absence of the required, and from accurate and useful answers to any questions that interested party. may arise during discussions. The Board of Directors also deliberated on the succession plan for The role of the Board of Directors is not restricted to acquisitions. the General Management in the absence of the Chairman and CEO, It remains at the heart of any plans outside the framework of the at the meeting of 17 December 2015. announced strategy if the investment is significant. To encourage directors to attend meetings, the company has In accordance with the suggestions for improvements following the introduced the following: evaluation of the Board of Directors in 2016, the Board has been more involved in strategic deliberations, thanks to an additional presentation ■ drafting and publication of the schedule of Board of Directors and of the Group’s long-term strategy, and invited to discuss them. Committee Meetings at least one year in advance; ■ meetings held in Paris, or at the company’s head office in Ecully; ■ option to take part in meetings over the telephone or by videoconference if directors are unable to attend in person. 60 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Following the evaluation of the Board of Directors, which took place SECRETARY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS between October and November 2017, the directors said that they were satisfied with the organization of meetings, particularly since To ensure the smooth operation of the Board of Directors, it appoints meetings were made longer in 2016. a Secretary, who does not have to be a director. Philippe Sumeire, the Group’s General Counsel, is therefore Secretary of the Board of Directors, having been appointed on 16 December 2011. He is CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER tasked with helping the Chairman and CEO to organize the work of the Board of Directors and the specialized committees. His role is to plan The Chairman and CEO represents the company in its relations with meetings, define agendas, disseminate information and draft minutes. third parties. He has the broadest powers to act under all circumstances on the company’s behalf in accordance with Article L. 225-56 of the 2 French Commercial Code. BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ COMMITTEES The Board of Directors has not set any limits on the powers of the Since 1995, the Board of Directors has had two specialized CEO. committees to help it in areas for which specific skills and meetings Pursuant to the Directors’ Charter and internal rules, the Board of are required. These are the Audit Committee and the Nominations and Directors is responsible for deciding on any proposals relating to Remuneration Committee. Groupe SEB strategy, on the recommendation of the Chairman and The Board of Directors laid out the principles for the composition of CEO. its specialized committees at its meeting on 11 December 2009. They As Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman and CEO’s are now composed of four members, i.e. two directors representing role is to represent the Board of Directors. To this end, he is notably the Founder Group and two independent directors. This composition responsible for: is justified by the need to ensure the strong presence of independent ■ organizing and directing the work of the Board of Directors; directors and to take account of the company’s shareholder base. ■ reporting on the work of the Board of Directors to the Annual The operation of the specialized committees is specifically assessed General Meeting; as part of the procedure for the annual evaluation of the Board of ■ ensuring that the company’s corporate bodies all run smoothly in Directors. After the evaluation was conducted in 2016, the directors accordance with the principles of good governance; again said that they were satisfied with the number of Board of Directors’ committees and with the way that they operate. ■ ensuring that the directors are able to fulfill their mandate. In addition, to ensure that members of the Board of Directors are fully informed, the Chairman of the Board of Directors may be asked by the members to obtain additional information when relevant and necessary to perform their duties, in accordance with the Directors’ Charter and the internal rules. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 61 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors The Audit Committee COMPOSITION AND INDICATORS COMPOSITION Catherine Pourre, independent director, permanent representative of Fonds Stratégique de Participation Yseulys Costes, independent director Hubert Fèvre, member of FÉDÉRACTIVE Jérôme Lescure, member of VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT CHAIRWOMAN The Audit Committee is chaired by Catherine Pourre, an independent director, who is responsible for coordinating its activities and whose powers are strengthened by having the deciding vote in the event of a tied vote on a recommendation. NUMBER OF MEETINGS 3 ATTENDANCE RATE 100% PERCENTAGE OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS 50% – The Chairwoman, who is an independent director, has the deciding vote WORK AND POWERS selected and a report describing the exposure to risks and significant To better perform their specific roles, and in accordance with the off-balance sheet commitments. recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, each member has At the end of its meetings, the Audit Committee prepares a financial or accounting skills. detailed report which is sent to all the directors, informing them The work of the Audit Committee is based on the following fully of the content of its discussions as well as its conclusions and responsibilities: recommendations. ■ informing the Board of Directors about the identification, evaluation Starting from 2018, given the increase in the powers granted to the and handling of the main financial risks to which the Group may Audit Committee, it has been decided that an additional meeting will be exposed; be arranged each year to dedicate more time to issues relating to risk mapping and across-the-board compliance issues. ■ ensuring the relevance of the accounting methods used to prepare the annual and half-yearly financial statements; MAIN WORK ■ notifying the Board of Directors of any useful observations or As is its prerogative, in 2017, the Audit Committee audited the recommendations; following, as it does every year: ■ participating in the procedure for appointing Statutory auditors and ■ the draft annual financial statements as of 31 December 2016 and ensuring that they are independent. the draft half-yearly financial statements as of 30 June 2017, prior The Audit Committee may request opinions or consultations from to their submission to the Board of Directors; external experts on specific points. Last year, the Committee did not ■ the Chairman’s report on internal control made at the Committee believe that it required such outside expertise. Meeting of 16 February 2017, whose contents are partially Audit Committee Meetings are usually held in the presence of the reproduced, in line with order no. 2017-1162 of 12 July 2017, in Statutory auditors, the Senior Executive Vice-president, Finance and this chapter of the Registration Document (Chapter 2); Internal Control Audit Director and the Accounting and Taxations ■ the nature and results of the work done by the Statutory auditors Director. However, when the tasks accomplished by the Statutory along with their comments and recommendations on internal auditors are examined, the Management withdraws. control; For logistical and organizational reasons, Audit Committee Meetings ■ the review of the main findings of the internal audits carried out are generally held one day prior to the examination of the half-yearly in 2017; and annual financial statements by the Board of Directors. However, ■ the proposed schedule of internal audits for 2018; any documents that are useful for Audit Committee Meetings are sent ■ the mapping and analysis of major risks. in advance of the meetings, so that members of the Audit Committee can familiarize themselves with the documents in advance of the The above shows that the Audit Committee: meeting and prepare for the Board of Directors’ deliberations on ■ was informed by the Statutory auditors of the content and the financial statements. Following the 2017 evaluation of the Board conclusions of their audit and was given the opportunity to hold of Directors, the directors confirmed that this way of operating was discussions with them without the presence of the Management; satisfactory and was not detrimental to the standard of discussions ■ was able, with the help of the presentations made by the Senior during meetings. Executive Vice-president, Finance and his team, to understand The review of the financial statements is accompanied by a and assess the company’s significant risks and off-balance sheet presentation from the Statutory auditors stressing the key points commitments. identified during their audits, their procedures, the accounting options 62 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors The Nominations and Remuneration Committee COMPOSITION AND INDICATORS COMPOSITION Jean Noël Labroue, independent director Bertrand Finet, independent director, permanent representative of FFP Invest Pascal Girardot, member of FÉDÉRACTIVE Damarys Braida, member of VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT CHAIRMAN 2 The Nominations and Remuneration Committee is chaired by Jean Noël Labroue, an independent director, who is responsible for coordinating its activities and whose powers are strengthened by having the deciding vote in the event of a tied vote on a recommendation. NUMBER OF MEETINGS 4 ATTENDANCE RATE 100% PERCENTAGE OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS 50% – The Chairman, who is an independent director, has the deciding vote WORK AND POWERS Following the evaluation of the Board of Directors in 2017, the The work of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee is based members of the Board declared that they were satisfied, but asked around the following: for more detailed reporting on the Committee’s work. ■ issuing recommendations on the composition of the Board of At the end of its meetings, the Nominations and Remuneration Directors, the appointment or reappointment of Board members, Committee produces a detailed report to which members of the and the Group’s organization and structures; Board of Directors can have access at any time, so that they are fully aware of the content of its discussions and its conclusions and ■ establishing and monitoring succession plans, particularly for senior recommendations. managers and executive officers; ■ proposing the compensation policy for executive officers and MAIN WORK examining the compensation policy for the main senior officers; In 2017, the Nominations and Remuneration Committee: ■ proposing the introduction of and procedures for stock option plans ■ carried out the monitoring of the succession plan for executive and free shares; officers and made recommendations in this regard; ■ issuing recommendations on governance or ethics matters; ■ reviewed the candidacies of directors whose appointment or ■ examining the Group’s sustainable development policy, analyzing reappointment was proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Group’s CSR challenges, and conducting an annual review of 11 May 2017; the CSR measures taken and the main non-financial performance ■ made recommendations on the 2016 variable and 2017 fixed indicators. and variable remuneration for the Chairman and CEO, the Chief In addition, if necessary, the Nominations and Remuneration Operating Officer and other members of the Group Executive Committee may request opinions or consultations from external Committee; experts on specific points. This was the case particularly in 2017 ■ assessed the performance of the Chairman and CEO in his absence, for the issue of the remuneration and pensions of the Group’s senior as well as the performance of the Chief Operating Officer and the managers due to the changes in the regulations. other members of the Group Executive Committee; Meetings of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee are usually ■ reviewed the terms of office expiring at the next Annual General attended by the Chairman and CEO. He withdraws, however, if certain Meeting on 16 May 2018; issues are examined, and especially when his annual performance ■ reviewed a benchmark relating to attendance fees paid to directors evaluation is carried out. of SBF 120 companies to check the company’s positioning after In its work on the composition of the Board of Directors, the the increase following the Annual General Meeting of 19 May 2016; Nominations and Remuneration Committee examines each candidacy ■ compiled the responses to the evaluation of the Board of Directors based on the following criteria: as well as directors’ self-assessments and made recommendations ■ the composition of the shareholder base; in this regard; ■ the skills, experience and representative nature of the candidate; ■ reviewed the answers given by directors to the annual questionnaire designed to prevent and identify conflicts of interest, and made ■ the complementarity of experiences within the Board of Directors; recommendations on the business relationship between the Group ■ the gender balance. and 1000mercis, of which Yseulys Costes is Chairwoman and CEO; GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 63 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors ■ reviewed the report of the High Committee for Corporate Governance Following the 2017 evaluation of the Board of Directors, the members of October 2017 and various reports on the governance theme and of the Board again said that they were satisfied with the information assessed their consequences for the governance of SEB; that they had been provided with in order to perform their duties ■ conducted the annual review of Human Resources; and expressed their complete satisfaction with the new tool made available to them. ■ examined the sustainable development policy and approved the report on the action taken and the company’s initiatives in this area. ■ explored the issue of supplementary pensions for the company’s EVALUATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS senior managers in connection with the transposition of a European AND DIRECTORS Directive into French law before 21 May 2018. The Nominations and Remuneration Committee Meeting on 8 February Evaluation of the Board of Directors 2018 recommended introducing non-financial (CSR) performance criteria in the calculation of Groupe SEB’s bonus. This recommendation In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Charter and the was adopted by the Board of Directors on 27 February to be applied internal rules, since 2003, the Board of Directors has conducted a for 2018. formal annual evaluation of its operation. This ensures especially that the Board of Directors is operating as well as it can and that the duties At its meeting on 27 February 2018, the Nominations and Remuneration with which the Board is entrusted are in line with the expectations of Committee, in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, deliberated in directors and are in the company’s interests. order to assess the performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer during the year. The Chairman and CEO did not attend this The evaluation conducted between October and November 2017 was meeting. The Committee reports on its work at the next Board of completed using a questionnaire duly adapted to the context and Directors’ Meeting, where the directors are free to deliberate in the new governance issues. This questionnaire focuses, in particular, on absence of the interested party. the meetings, reporting, composition and operation of the Board of Directors, as well as its committees. It also makes it possible for questions on governance and CSR to be raised as well as issues INFORMATION PROVIDED TO DIRECTORS relating to interactions with the Management. The answers given by directors were analyzed by the Nominations Pursuant to the Charter and internal rules, “directors shall receive all and Remuneration Committee, whose findings were presented to the the relevant information needed to perform their role”. The Chairman Board of Directors on 14 December 2017. As in previous years, the ensures that the directors have the information and documents comments and discussions showed that directors were, on the whole, required to fully perform their role at all times during their term of office. very satisfied with the way in which the Board of Directors and its To optimize the transmission of information, ensure its confidentiality committees operate and, particularly: and make the Board more efficient, in 2017 the company introduced ■ with its composition in its new configuration; a new application enabling simple and secure access to documents using digital tablets. Directors thus have permanent access to ■ with the organization and frequency of meetings; preparatory documents for meetings and recurring information left ■ with the extended length of certain meetings, rather than adding at their disposal, and can follow meetings on their digital tablets. new meetings, in order to have more time to review and assess This system is in keeping with plans for the Group’s sustainable strategies prepared by the Management; development and digitization. ■ with the quality of the information and documents disseminated on The Chairman thus ensures that information on General Meetings, the directors’ website and the input from senior managers during financial publications, sales and results, consensuses and summaries meetings; of financial analysts’ recommendations, as well as press releases by ■ with the level of understanding of the company’s performance the Group, are brought to their attention through this application. A drivers; press review is also published once a month, in which the directors ■ with interactions with the Management. can find comprehensive information about the Group and its economic and competitive universe. In addition, the press review contains a Some optimization options were also discussed and adopted and are section on sustainable development to raise the directors’ awareness designed particularly: of Group economic and social responsibility issues. ■ to increase interactions and exchanges of views during meetings, The application is updated regularly so as to match directors’ resulting in fewer presentations by the Management to leave more expectations as closely as possible. time for discussions; ■ with the expansion of the collective work to review upcoming A section on corporate governance also allows them to refer to the candidacies for the Board of Directors; AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Charter and internal rules, the Group’s Code of Ethics, the Stock Market Ethics Charter and the company’s bylaws ■ with the facilitation of access to documents ahead of Board of at any time. Directors’ Meetings. Before each meeting, the directors can also read the documents relating to items on the agenda. 64 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors Director self-assessment Directors’ Charter The evaluation of the Board of Directors has been supplemented by The Directors’ Charter specifies the role and duties of each member a directors’ self-assessment questionnaire, adopted by the Board of of the Board of Directors that they accept from the beginning of their Directors at its meeting on 18 December 2014. This was intended to term of office. improve the understanding of the involvement and actual contribution The main points of this Charter are: respect for and protection of of each director in the work of the Board of Directors. the company’s interests, attendance, dealing with any conflicts of The answers given by directors were analyzed by the Nominations interest, access to information, confidentiality, independent analysis and Remuneration Committee, whose findings were presented to and a reminder of the laws regarding insider information. the Board of Directors on 14 December 2017. The comments and Internal rules 2 discussions showed, in particular, that directors have a very good overall opinion of the role of the Board of Directors and its program As the internal rules are designed to ensure the smooth operation of work and that they have complementary skills and experience. of the Board of Directors, each member of the Board of Directors is informed of them at the start of their term of office. DIRECTORS’ CHARTER AND INTERNAL RULES The internal rules cover the composition, operation, role and mission OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the Board and its committees and the director remuneration policy. The first version of the Directors’ Charter and internal rules of the Board of Directors was prepared in 2003. This is a single document PROCEDURES RELATING TO SHAREHOLDER in two parts, one on the rules of conduct applicable to members of PARTICIPATION IN GENERAL MEETINGS the Board of Directors, the other on the operational rules of the Board of Directors and its Committees. Note that Articles 32 and 33 of the bylaws define the procedures for shareholder participation in Annual General Meetings in accordance This document is regularly updated, and was updated in 2017 due to with the current regulations. All shareholders are entitled to participate the change in the Board of Directors’ composition and the inclusion in Annual General Meetings, or to be represented at such meetings, of employee directors. under the terms and conditions laid down by the bylaws, a summary The main provisions of the Charter and internal rules are covered of which is given in Chapter 7, “Information concerning the company or set out in this chapter of the Registration Document (Chapter 2). and its share capital”. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 65 2 Corporate governance Composition, organization and operation of the Board of Directors IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS MADE IN THE AFEP-MEDEF CODE With regard to the “Apply or Explain” rule provided for in Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code and Article 27.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the company believes that its practices comply with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. However, some recommendations were not applied, for the reasons explained below: AFEP-MEDEF recommendations not applied Reason Article 10.3: Board and Committee Meetings Issues relating to the Chairman and CEO’s performance are It is recommended that a meeting not attended by the executive discussed by the Nominations and Remuneration Committee in officers be held each year. his absence. For this reason, and given the collective nature of the Board of Directors, there are no plans to hold formal meetings of the non-executive directors not attended by the Chairman and CEO. The Board remains free to hold discussions at any time in the absence of the Chairman and CEO if this is necessary, however. Articles 15.1 and 17.1: Proportion of independent directors on Given the shareholder base of the company, controlled by Committees two major shareholders acting jointly, the Audit Committee and At least two-thirds of the members of the Accounts Committee must the Nominations and Remuneration Committee are made up of be independent directors. four members, including two independents, and a Board member The Nominations and Remuneration Committee must include a representing each major shareholder. Both Committees are chaired majority of independent directors. by an independent director who leads and steers the Committee’s work. They have the deciding vote in the event of a tie. Article 20: Remuneration of the directors Variable attendance fees were introduced by the company in 2013. The largest portion of the total attendance fees is variable. A consensus was reached at this time in view of the directors’ high attendance rate. Namely, raising the attendance share to 50% was considered to meet the largest portion requirement. Article 21: Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s employment contract Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise began his career with the Group When an employee is appointed as Chief Executive Officer of the in 1994 and was appointed Vice-Chairman of SEB S.A. in 1999, company, it is recommended that its employment contract with the before becoming Chairman and CEO in 2000. In accordance with company or with a company affiliated to the Group be terminated, changing governance practice, his employment contract has been whether through contractual termination or resignation. suspended since 2005. The Board of Directors’ Meeting of 17 February 2012, having re-examined the circumstances of the Chief Executive Officer, considered that Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract, which had been suspended since 2005, should remain suspended, in light of his age, personal situation, and seniority within the Group. The same decision was made following the Board of Directors’ Meeting on 23 February 2016, with a view to reappointing Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise. 66 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Group management bodies 2.4. Group management bodies The Executive Committee incorporates three Continental General Management structures. Each of these three Continents is then organized into Regions. The Executive Committee was organized as follows at 1 March 2018: 2 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bertrand Neuschwander Chief Operating Officer Vincent Léonard President, Finance, Group Senior Executive Vice-president Harry Touret President, Human Resources, Group Senior Executive Vice-president Stéphane Laflèche President, Industry Philippe Crevoisier President, Innovation and Products Luc Gaudemard President, Americas Vincent Tai President, Asia Cyril Buxtorf President, EMEA The Group Executive Committee defines and implements overall Group strategy. It meets roughly once a month to define the consolidated targets, monitor strategic projects, decide on priorities and allocate the necessary resources to the Strategic Business Areas and the Continental General Management and other Group management structures. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 67 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy 2.5. Remuneration policy a variable portion, calculated according to directors’ attendance at REMUNERATION OF THE MEMBERS Board and Committee Meetings. OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The directors receive no remuneration other than attendance fees. The travel expenses incurred as a result of their participation in meetings RULES OF ALLOCATION AND AMOUNTS PAID are paid for. FOR 2017 For the period from 19 May 2016, in accordance with the increase The terms of directors’ remuneration are set by the Board of Directors in the overall amount of the attendance fees adopted at the Annual on a proposal from the Nominations and Remuneration Committee. General Meeting of shareholders on 19 May 2016, intended to In 2017, the attendance fees received by directors obeyed the same partly compensate for the difference in the attendance fees paid allocation rules as for the previous year, namely a fixed portion and by comparable companies, the authorized overall amount totals €540,000. Function Fixed portion Variable portion Director €15,000 €15,000 Committee Chairman €7,500 €7,500 Committee member €5,000 €5,000 In 2017, the overall attendance fees paid to Board members totaled €507,916.7 (gross amount before deductions and/or withholdings), compared with €428,333 in 2016. 68 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Remuneration policy REMINDER OF THE ALLOCATION VOTED FOR BY THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING ON 19 MAY 2016 Following the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2016, the For the period running from 10 May 2017 to 15 May 2018, the overall shareholders supported the increase in the overall amount of the amount of €540,000 will therefore be allocated as follows: attendance fees, which was partly intended to compensate for the difference in the attendance fees paid by comparable companies. Attendance fees and other remuneration received by executive officers (in €) Attendance fees Attendance fees 2 Board members paid in 2015/2016 paid in 2016/2017 Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise 24,000 30,000 Bruno Bich 32,666.6 38,125 Tristan Boiteux 24,000 30,000 Sarah Chauleur 24,000 28,125 Yseulys Costes 18,666.6 24,375 FÉDÉRACTIVE (Pascal Girardot) 34,000 38,125 Hubert Fèvre 34,000 40,000 FFP (Christian Peugeot) 27,000 31,042 William Gairard 24,000 26,250 Jean-Noël Labroue 37,666.6 45,000 Cédric Lescure 21,333 30,000 Jérôme Lescure 40,000 FSP (Catherine Pourre) 37,666.6 36,875 Laure Thomas 22,666.6 30,000 VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT (Damarys Braida) 32,666.6 40,000 Jérôme Wittlin 34,000 TOTAL 428,333 507,917 REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS This section constitutes the ex-post say-on-pay report on the d’Artaise and Bertrand Neuschwander, the sole executive officers principles and criteria for determining, distributing and awarding the receiving remuneration. Board members only receive the attendance fixed, variable and extraordinary components of the total remuneration fees referred to above. and benefits in kind awarded to the company’s executive officers in consideration for their duties as provided for by Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code. PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES In line with the ex-post voting principle, the Ordinary General Meeting The remuneration policy for Groupe SEB executive officers is set on 16 May 2018 will be asked to approve, based on this report, the by the Board of Directors on a proposal from the Nominations and remuneration paid for the past year, in accordance with the policy Remuneration Committee. It is reviewed on a regular basis and approved by the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2016 when aims to provide balanced and consistent remuneration in line with the ex-ante vote was held. These principles and criteria apply from the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code as updated in 1 January 2017 for the year 2017 and should stay the same for the next November 2016, to which the Group refers. few years, unless otherwise decided by the Annual General Meeting. According to these principles, the Nominations and Remuneration The Ordinary General Meeting on 16 May 2018 must also approve, in Committee proposes to the Board of Directors the components of respect of the ex-ante vote and based on the corporate governance the remuneration of each senior manager, while remaining attentive to report, the principles and criteria for determining, distributing and maintain a balance and taking quantifiable and qualitative performance awarding the fixed, variable and extraordinary components of the criteria into account. total remuneration and benefits in kind awarded to the company’s executive officers that will apply for 2018. Completeness and simplicity The information presented below covers remuneration and benefits of The remuneration of executive officers is intended to ensure simplicity, every kind (performance shares, severance payments, benefits in kind transparency and consistency over time. It comprises a fixed portion, and supplementary pension benefits) concerning Thierry de La Tour an annual variable portion and performance shares, subject to the GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 69 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy fulfillment of performance criteria set in advance by the Board of The findings of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee are Directors. The total remuneration granted to executive officers is discussed by the Board of Directors. The latter ensures that the fixed determined by taking all the remuneration and benefits into account, remuneration of executive officers remains stable over several years including the supplementary pension plan. and takes account of any supplementary remuneration. The fixed remuneration serves as a reference basis for determining Balance and consistency the annual variable remuneration. The remuneration of executive officers is consistent with the overall remuneration policy for Group senior managers and employees and Annual variable remuneration the interests of both the company and its shareholders. It also takes The variable portion of the executive officers’ remuneration obeys account of market practices as well as the performance of officers. the general principles applicable to all Group senior managers. These criteria, which have been constant for many years, are analyzed Motivation and performance and discussed each year by the Nominations and Remuneration To motivate executive officers and encourage them to meet shortCommittee, which regularly consults studies of practices identified in and long-term targets, the Board of Directors ensures that a variable comparable companies conducted by external consultants. The Board portion is evenly allocated between annual and longer-term targets. of Directors sets the criteria at the start of each year and makes sure Performance criteria are set with the aim of contributing, year on year, that they constitute an incentive mechanism intrinsically linked to the to the implementation of a long-term growth strategy. Group’s performance and strategy. At its meeting scheduled at the beginning of the year, the Nominations and Remuneration Committee assesses the quantifiable and PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIA FOR qualitative performance criteria and checks that they are in line with THE DETERMINATION, ALLOCATION AND Groupe SEB’s strategic priorities as well as with the principles referred AWARDING OF THE FIXED, VARIABLE AND to above. The findings are then submitted to the Board of Directors, EXTRAORDINARY COMPONENTS OF TOTAL which discusses and approves these criteria at the meeting called to REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS OF ANY KIND review the annual financial statements and the budget. According to the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the various components of THE QUANTIFIABLE CRITERIA executive officers’ remuneration are contained in a statement which is The quantifiable criteria are linked to the Group’s economic issued on the company’s website after the Board Meeting that adopted performance. They represent 60% of variable remuneration and are the relevant decisions. assessed according to the following targets: Pursuant to the measure introduced by the law of 9 December 2016 ■ sales growth; on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernization of the economy (Sapin 2 law), the principles and criteria applicable to the ■ growth in the Operating Result from Activity. components of remuneration for 2018 as they are set out below will The targets set are not made public in order to maintain the be submitted to a vote at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders confidentiality inherent in the Group’s strategy. Historically, the on 16 May 2018. percentage fulfillment of these criteria has varied between 72% and The components of remuneration due or awarded to each executive 161% over the last six years. officer for 2017 are, for their part, subject to approval at the THE QUALITATIVE CRITERIA Annual General Meeting of shareholders on 16 May 2018, under a specific resolution for each executive officer (see “Say on Pay” The qualitative criteria are linked to collective and individual tables on pages 84 and following, below) in accordance with the performance. They represent 40% of variable remuneration and are recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. assessed with regard to strategic targets relating to changes to the Group’s organizational structure and management. The payment of variable remuneration for 2018 will be submitted to a vote at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders called to approve TARGET AND CAP the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018. Annual variable remuneration is expressed as a percentage of annual fixed remuneration: Fixed remuneration ■ for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: annual variable The fixed portion of remuneration should reflect the executive officer’s remuneration may vary from 0% to 100%, if all of the quantifiable responsibilities, level of experience and skills and be in line with market and qualitative targets are met (target level), and rise to 150% practices. (maximum level) if financial performances are exceptional compared The fixed remuneration is analyzed and discussed by the Nominations with the targets set; and Remuneration Committee, which takes into account the personal ■ for the Chief Operating Officer: annual variable remuneration may qualities of the executive officer in question, all the components of vary from 0% to 80%, if all of the quantifiable and qualitative targets the remuneration, as well as the positioning of the executive officer’s are met (target level), and rise to 125% (maximum level) if financial remuneration compared with the practices identified in comparable performances are exceptional compared with the targets set. companies. 70 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Remuneration policy Performance shares ■ obligation to declare any securities transactions to the AMF in accordance with the regulations in force; To the exclusion of all other plans, Groupe SEB has been awarding ■ formal undertaking not to engage in any hedging transactions for performance shares to Group employees and executive officers their own risks, either on options or on shares resulting from the since 2013, in accordance with Article L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the exercise of options or on performance shares. This undertaking French Commercial Code. This system replaced stock option grants, also appears in the stock award plan rules which are delivered to the last of these plans having been submitted to the Annual General each beneficiary. Meeting on 10 May 2012. Awards of performance shares have no dilutive effect on earnings Performance share awards aim to promote the meeting of Groupe insofar as all shares awarded are existing shares bought back by the SEB’s long-term targets and the value creation expected by company. As recommended by the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board 2 stakeholders. of Directors makes the annual awards in the same calendar period Based on this logic, the Board of Directors decided, on a proposal each year. of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee, that performance Following the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2017, the Board of shares should be awarded entirely based on performance criteria. This Directors decided to use the authorization granted by the shareholders favors simple rules that remain stable over time and long-term and to implement the performance share plan approved at the Board of demanding performance criteria. Directors’ Meeting on 17 February 2017. These cover sales and Operating Result from Activity targets and are In addition, the Board of Directors’ Meeting of 27 February 2018, assessed on an annual basis over a three-year period. The attainment after examining the findings of the Nominations and Remuneration rates are set each year by the Board of Directors on a proposal of Committee, reviewed and approved the proposed performance share the Nominations and Remuneration Committee but cannot be made award plan for 2018, in line with the arrangements established by the public for confidentiality reasons. Board of Directors on 16 December 2011. They meet the dual necessity of being sufficiently stringent while The performance shares awarded will not be subject to any additional remaining a source of motivation. lock-up period for either French or foreign residents. This practice With regard to the 2017 plan, the performance calculation depends on complies with statutory provisions and current practice and takes the rate of attainment of the sales and Operating Result from Activity account of the tax constraints on foreign residents (particularly in the target assessed over the three-year vesting period (i.e. 2017, 2018 US and in Germany). and 2019): Authorization for the award will be submitted to the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting (draft seventeenth resolution). Average attainment rate over three years Performance shares awarded Attendance fees 100% or more 100% The Board of Directors may decide to pay attendance fees to the Between 50% and 100% executive officers, according to the same rules applicable to all the inclusive Pro rata of the attainment rate directors as set out below. Less than 50% None Awards have been made as follows: Benefits in kind ■ the total number of performance shares awarded to executive The executive officers have company cars. The Chairman and Chief officers in one financial year amounts to 13.7% of the total number Executive Officer also benefits from compensation for the use of an of performance shares awarded in this same year; apartment in Paris. ■ the total volume of performance shares awarded to executive officers must be capped at 0.0538% of the share capital on the Deferred commitments date that the decision to award them is made, as provided for in Groupe SEB’s remuneration policy aims to attract and retain talented the eighteenth resolution of the Annual General Meeting on 11 May senior and other managers. The Group’s policy has always been to 2017. encourage internal promotion and sustainable management. The Executive officers are also bound by the following obligations: Board of Directors does not wish to see executive officers, after several years of service with Groupe SEB, deprived of benefits they ■ shares resulting from the exercise of stock options and performance would have continued to receive had they remained employees. shares must be held in registered form for a certain period, as explained below, during their term of office; CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT ■ adherence to the principles of the Stock Market Ethics Charter, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise began his career at Groupe SEB in which defines, among other things, blackout periods based on the 1994 and was appointed Vice-Chairman in 1999. He was appointed company’s accounting calendar and earnings reporting periods, Chairman and CEO in 2000. In accordance with the recommendations in accordance with the recommendations of the French Financial of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, his employment contract was suspended Markets Authority (AMF); GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 71 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy on 1 March 2005, following the Board of Directors’ decision on Beneficiaries are, however, still entitled to benefits should the 17 December 2004. beneficiary be classified as category 2 or 3 disabled or in the event of departure at the Group’s request after the age of 55, provided that The Board of Directors’ Meeting of 23 February 2016, in the context the interested party does not perform any other professional activity of renewal of Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s functions, reviewed the between the date of departure and receipt of benefits. situation and agreed that his employment contract should remain suspended due to his age, his personal situation and his seniority In addition, should the potential beneficiary die before receiving the within Groupe SEB. benefit entitlement, the benefits derived from said entitlement pass to any surviving spouse or children. For Bertrand Neuschwander, Chief Operating Officer, the Board of Directors decided on 22 April 2014 that the suspension of his Potential entitlements enable beneficiaries to receive a pension employment contract was in line with the AFEP-MEDEF Code and that equates to 0.80% of the reference salary (1), multiplied by the consistent with Group policy. number of years of service on the actual retirement date, capped at 20 years. PENSION COMMITMENTS They are funded by contributions paid by Groupe SEB to an In addition to the statutory basic and supplementary pension plans insurance company which are deductible from the taxable base (AGIRC/ARRCO) of which they are members, Thierry de La Tour for corporation tax and liable for the 24% contribution provided d’Artaise and Bertrand Neuschwander were authorized by the Board for by Article L. 137-11, I, 2, a) of the French Social Security Code; of Directors to join the collective supplementary pension plan set up ■ a defined-contribution pension plan set up in accordance with within Groupe SEB. Article L. 242-1, paragraphs 6 and 7 of the French Social Security This plan for senior managers whose duties justify the application of Code. Article L. 3111-2 of French Employment Code, and who fall within the Pension entitlements under this plan may be paid no earlier than the scope of Article 4 of the national collective agreement of 14 March date on which the general social security pension is drawn. 1947 on senior managers pensions and incapacity, disability and death The entitlements resulting from this plan have been frozen since 2012, insurance, comprises the following: in accordance with Decree 2012-25 of 9 January 2012. ■ a deferred defined-benefit pension plan set up in accordance with Article L. 137-11 of the French Social Security Code. OTHER LIFETIME BENEFITS: INCAPACITY, DISABILITY AND DEATH AND HEALTH INSURANCE, AND INDIVIDUAL Potential benefits under this plan may be paid out if beneficiaries LIFE INSURANCE have served on the Executive Committee for at least eight years Executive officers continue to benefit from supplementary social and leave the company to exercise their right to claim retirement protection, notably as regards the incapacity, disability and death and benefits. health insurance that covers the company’s employees. Beneficiaries are, however, still entitled to benefits should a beneficiary aged 55 leave the Group under an early retirement plan They also benefit from individual life insurance. This policy is intended or at the Group’s behest, provided that the interested party does not to cover part of the remuneration not covered by the collective plans perform any professional activity between the date of departure and as described for each of the executive officers below. the receipt of benefits and, in the event the beneficiary is classified Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise and Bertrand Neuschwander were as category 2 or 3 disabled. authorized by the Board of Directors to benefit: In addition, should the potential beneficiary die before receiving the ■ from the “incapacity/disability/death” insurance plan applicable benefit entitlement, the benefits derived from said entitlement pass to senior managers and similar persons as defined in Articles 4 to any surviving spouse or children. and 4 bis of the national agreement of 14 March 1947, which is Potential entitlements under this plan may amount, including funded by contributions in tranches which are deductible from the pensions due under the statutory basic and supplementary pension taxable base for corporation tax: plans (AGIRC/ARRCO), to a maximum of 25% of the reference ■ A 1.37%, paid in full by the employer, salary (1). ■ B 1.78%, paid 60% by the employer and 40% by employees, They are funded by contributions paid to an insurance company ■ C 1.78%, shared equally between the employer and employees. which are deductible from the taxable base for corporation tax and liable for the 24% contribution provided for by Article L. 137These contributions are not included in the social security 11, I, 2, a) of the French Social Security Code; contribution base, capped at 6% of the annual social security ceiling (€2,354 in 2017) and 1.5% of the remuneration figure used, capped ■ a supplementary defined-benefit pension plan set up in accordance at 12% of the annual social security ceiling (€4,707 in 2017). with Article L. 137-11 of the French Social Security Code. This insurance plan includes, in particular, the payment of Potential entitlements under this plan may be paid out if beneficiaries supplementary daily allowances in the event of incapacity, a have served on the Executive Committee for at least eight years, disability pension and a death benefit whose amounts are stated stay with the company until the end of their career, and take their for each of the executive officers below; entitlements under the statutory basic and supplementary pension plans. (1) Reference salary: average of the annual gross, fixed and variable remuneration received over the last three years of activity, capped at 36 annual social security ceilings. 72 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Remuneration policy ■ from specific life insurance cover under “tranche D incapacity, profitability, and the consideration of extra-financial performance disability and death insurance”, which is funded by a contribution criteria (Corporate Social Responsability), the active pursuing of paid by Groupe SEB of 6.25% of the portion of the remuneration the acquisition strategy. that is between 8 and 12 times the annual social security ceiling and Consequently, the variable remuneration paid in 2018 for 2017 was deductible from the taxable base for corporation tax. €1,214,000, or 134.9% of his fixed remuneration. Thierry de La Tour These contributions are partially excluded from the social d’Artaise’s variable remuneration for 2016 was 139.5% of his fixed security contribution base, including contributions paid under the remuneration, or €1,255,500. aforementioned “incapacity/disability/death” insurance plan, capped He does not benefit from any deferred or multi-year variable at 6% of the annual social security ceiling (€2,354 in 2017) and 1.5% remuneration or any other remuneration from the company or other of the remuneration figure used, capped at 12% of the annual social Groupe SEB companies. 2 security ceiling (€4,707 in 2017). This insurance plan includes, in particular, the payment of a death ATTENDANCE FEES benefit, the amounts of which are stated below for each of the Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise receive attendance fees as a member executive officers. of the Board of Directors according to the rules applicable to all its members. In 2017, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise received €30,000 as SEVERANCE ALLOWANCE AND NON-COMPETE PAYMENTS a director of the company, versus €24,000 in 2016. Severance payments are subject to performance conditions and may not exceed 24 months’ remuneration, in accordance with the PERFORMANCE SHARES recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code (including, in the case In accordance with the authorization granted by the of Bertrand Neuschwander, compensation for his non-compete eighteenth resolution of the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2017, agreement and any other compensation paid). the Board of Directors, at its meeting held on the same day, decided to award 18,000 performance shares to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Details related to these payments are described in the section below for 2017. and all benefits subject to the procedures set out for regulated agreements are described in the Statutory auditors’ special report. The shares granted to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise under the 2017 performance share plan equate to 0.0359% of the share capital. Shares resulting from the exercise of stock options and performance REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRMAN shares awarded to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise must be held in AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER registered form for a certain period, under the following terms and conditions: Remuneration due or awarded for 2017 ■ shares resulting from the exercise of stock options: the quantity of shares to be held must correspond to 50% of the net capital gain FIXED REMUNERATION after the sale of the quantity of shares necessary to fund the option In 2017, the fixed remuneration for Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise exercise, net of tax and social contributions and transaction fees; amounted to €900,000. Previously set at €850,000, the increase in ■ performance shares: the quantity of shares to be held must the fixed remuneration of Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise was approved correspond to 50% of the net capital gain, net of tax and social by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2016 to take account of contributions and transaction fees. the inflation rate since this remuneration was last reviewed in 2011. At its meeting on 17 February 2016, the Board of Directors, on a ANNUAL VARIABLE REMUNERATION proposal of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee, reviewed Based on the quantifiable and qualitative criteria used by the Board the terms of the holding requirement with regard to the situation of Directors and set at the start of the year, the amount of variable of Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise and decided that they were still remuneration was measured as follows: appropriate. ■ based on quantifiable criteria (Groupe SEB sales and Operating Once the number of shares held by Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Result from Activity targets), the variable portion is 123.0% of the reaches the equivalent of two years’ remuneration (fixed and target fixed annual remuneration of Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise with a bonus), the quantity of shares to be held is reduced to 20%. This target of 100%; condition has, to date, been met in full. ■ based on qualitative criteria, the variable portion amounted to BENEFITS IN KIND 152.75% of the fixed annual remuneration of Thierry de La Tour Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise has a company car, representing a benefit d’Artaise with a target of 100%. The Board of Directors judged of €8,892 for the year, and receives €15,200 per year for the use of Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s performance based on collective and an apartment in Paris. individual targets such as the structural improvement of the Group’s GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 73 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy LONG-TERM COMMITMENTS by way of settlement, a total termination benefit to be paid only under the following circumstances: Pension commitment ■ termination of the employment contract at the employer’s initiative, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise is a member of the collective supplementary pension plan set up for Groupe SEB’s French senior except on the grounds of serious misconduct or gross negligence; managers (members of the Executive Committee) in accordance with ■ forced departure as a result of a change in the control of the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, as described above. Groupe SEB. The various conditions of the pension plan imply that, at the legal Pursuant to Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, an retirement age, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise will be able to receive a addendum to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract gross replacement ratio (including statutory plans) of 32.6% of his was signed making the termination benefit subject to performance reference remuneration. conditions. The termination benefit is set at two years’ remuneration (calculated based on the average remuneration earned during the last Entitlements estimation at 31 December 2017: two financial years), and is adjusted for the rate of attainment of his targets for the last four years of service: Plan Amount Average rate of attainment over the previous Amount of beneﬁt €224,165 gross four ﬁnancial years paid Deferred defined-benefit pension plan per year Supplementary defined-benefit pension €218,795 gross 100% or more 100% plan per year Between 75 and Defined-contribution pension plan 100%, according (the entitlements resulting from this plan €10,062 gross to a straight-line have been frozen since January 2012) per year Between 50% and 100% inclusive calculation Less than 50% None Other lifetime benefits: incapacity, disability and death and health insurance and individual life insurance If the previous year-end presents a net loss, the Board of Directors Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise continues to benefit from supplementary reserves the right to reduce such termination benefits by a maximum social protection, notably as regards the incapacity, disability and of one half, without such benefits falling below the fixed salary death and health insurance that covers the company’s employees. plus bonuses of the previous financial year, should application of This plan notably includes for Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise: the performance criteria based on the attainment of targets confer entitlement to the payment of such benefits. ■ supplementary benefits, set at a maximum annual amount as follows: Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract does not contain a non-compete clause. In the event of incapacity €235,368 Entitlement to stock options in the event of termination: In the event of first degree disability €141,221 In the event that Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract is In the event of second and third degree disability €235,368 terminated, except for serious misconduct or gross negligence, he will be entitled to all the share purchase or subscription options granted Less social security beneﬁts for the 3 items. to him under the same terms and conditions of exercise that would ■ a death benefit set at a maximum of €1,318,061. have applied had he remained in office. This provision shall also apply in the event that Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract In addition to the collective incapacity, disability and death insurance is terminated following his resignation from the Group, were such a plan, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise also benefits from an individual life decision to arise from a change in the control of the Group. However, insurance policy with a capital amounting to €3,652,134. The expense he will forfeit the options that would have been granted to him over the recorded for the year ended 31 December 2017 totals €65,635. The 18 months prior to the termination of his term of office as corporate purpose of this specific life insurance policy is to cover the portion of officer should he resign on his own initiative. remuneration that is not covered by the collective plans. In accordance with the procedure for regulated agreements and Retirement lump-sum payment commitments, this commitment was approved by the shareholders The total retirement lump-sum payment entitlement of Thierry de La at the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2016, when Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise amounts to 567,749 due to his seniority. Tour d’Artaise was re-elected (eighth resolution). Remuneration due or awarded for 2018 Severance payments Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise is only entitled to the severance pay owing FIXED REMUNERATION under his employment contract, to the exclusion of any other benefit, In 2018, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s remuneration was set at in the event of termination of his corporate office. €900,000, in accordance with the increase decided on at the Board Under the provisions of his employment contract, which was of Directors’ Meeting of 23 February 2016. suspended on 1 March 2005, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise will receive, 74 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Remuneration policy ATTENDANCE FEES Groupe SEB’s profitability, the integration of the latest acquisitions and Following the increase voted for at the Annual General Meeting of the consideration of extra-financial performance criteria (Corporate shareholders on 19 May 2016, attendance fees will rise to €15,000 for Social Responsability). the fixed portion and €15,000 for the variable portion. In accordance with the ex-post voting principle, the Ordinary General Meeting on 16 May 2018 will be asked to approve the annual variable ANNUAL VARIABLE REMUNERATION remuneration to be paid for the previous year. Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s annual variable remuneration will be set according to the same principles, i.e. it may represent a maximum of PERFORMANCE SHARES 150% of his fixed remuneration, or €1,350,000, according to the rate of The Board of Directors reserves the right to decide to implement a attainment of his quantifiable and qualitative targets. These targets are new performance share award plan, under the authorization that will 2 divided, as previously stated, as follows: 60% relates to quantifiable be submitted to the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2018. criteria and 40% to qualitative criteria. Should the Board of Directors be granted the necessary powers to The performance evaluation criteria were renewed for 2018 based award performance shares, it would decide to award performance on the quantifiable targets set by the Board of Directors’ Meeting of shares to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise in the same proportions as 27 February 2018, based on Groupe SEB sales and Operating Result previously granted, in line with the plan described in the draft from Activity targets. Qualitative targets relate to the improvement of seventeenth resolution. Summary table of the remuneration and options and shares awarded to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise – Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 2016 2017 Remuneration due for the period €2,203,592 €2,168,192 Value of the options awarded over the period* €0 Value of the performance shares awarded over the period* €1,473,120 €2,624,924 Value of the other long-term remuneration plans N/A N/A TOTAL €3,676,712 €4,793,116 * On each award date, the fair value carrying amount of the options and shares is determined in accordance with IFRS. This is the historical value on the award date, calculated for accounting purposes using the method described in the Consolidated Financial Statements section. This value represents neither the current market value, nor the discounted value of these options and shares, nor the actual amount that may be generated if they are exercised or on the vesting of these performance shares, if they are vested. Summary table of the remuneration awarded to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Amounts relating to 2016 Amounts relating to 2017 Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Due Paid Due Paid Fixed remuneration €900,000 €900,000 €900,000 €900,000 Annual variable remuneration €1,255,500 €1,247,120 €1,214,100 €1,255,500 Extraordinary remuneration None None None None Directors’ fees €24,000 €24,000 €30,000 €24,000 Benefits in kind: • car €8,892 €8,892 €8,892 €8,892 • housing €15,200 €15,200 €15,200 €15,200 TOTAL €2,203,592 €2,195,212 €2,168,192 €2,203,592 Stock options awarded to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise in 2017 Valuation of the options based on the method used in the consolidated ﬁnancial Number of Date of the plan Type of option statements options awarded Exercise price Exercise period Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise No options were awarded in 2017 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 75 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy Stock options exercised in 2017 by Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Number of options exercised during the Date of the plan ﬁnancial year Exercise price Year awarded Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise No options were exercised in 2017 Performance shares awarded in 2017 to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Number of Performance Date of the plan shares awarded Value of shares Vesting date Availability date conditions Attainment of Sales and Operating Result from Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise 11/05/2017 18,000 2,624,924 11/05/2020 11/05/2020 Activity targets Performance shares vested in 2017 for Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Number of available Acquisition Date of the plan shares Vesting date Availability date conditions Attainment of Sales and Operating Result from Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise 22/07/2014 18,000 22/07/2017 22/07/2019 Activity targets Multi-year variable remuneration paid to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Financial year No multi-year variable remuneration paid REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF OPERATING performance with respect to Groupe SEB’s sales and Operating OFFICER Result from Activity growth targets; ■ based on qualitative criteria, the variable portion is 119.7% of Bertrand Neuschwander’s fixed annual remuneration with a target Remuneration due or awarded for 2017 of 80%. The Board of Directors judged Bertrand Neuschwander’s In accordance with Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial performance, in particular, based on collective and individual Code, the Board of Directors determined the payments and benefits targets such as changes to the Group’s organizational structure, to which Bertrand Neuschwander would be entitled in his capacity as the structural improvement of its profitability and the completion Chief Operating Officer, while respecting the specific procedure for of specific operational projects. regulated agreements. The agreement providing terms of Bertrand Consequently, the variable remuneration paid in 2018 for 2017 Neuschwander’s remuneration was thus approved by the Annual was €534,600, or 106.9% of his fixed remuneration. Bertrand General Meeting on 12 May 2015. Neuschwander’s variable remuneration for 2016 was 111.24% of his It should be noted that Bertrand Neuschwander received no fixed remuneration, or €556,200. compensation or payment of any kind at the time he assumed his He does not benefit from any deferred or multi-year variable duties, in accordance with the policy on remuneration for senior compensation or any other compensation from the company or other managers laid down by the Board of Directors. Groupe SEB companies. FIXED REMUNERATION BENEFITS IN KIND In 2017, the fixed remuneration paid to Bertrand Neuschwander was Bertrand Neuschwander has a company car, representing a benefit €500,000, in accordance with the amount set by the Board of Directors of €7,740 for the year. on 22 April 2014. PERFORMANCE SHARES ANNUAL VARIABLE REMUNERATION In accordance with the authorization granted by the Based on the quantifiable and qualitative criteria used by the Board eighteenth resolution of the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2017, of Directors and set at the start of the year, the amount of variable the Board of Directors, at its meeting on the same day, decided to remuneration was measured as follows: award 9,000 performance shares to Bertrand Neuschwander for 2017. ■ based on quantifiable criteria, the variable portion is 98.4% of Bertrand Neuschwander’s fixed annual remuneration with a target of 80%. The Board of Directors measured Bertrand Neuschwander’s 76 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Remuneration policy The 9,000 shares granted to Bertrand Neuschwander under the Once the number of shares held by Bertrand Neuschwander reaches 2017 performance share plan equate to 0.0179% of the share capital. the equivalent of one years’ remuneration (fixed and target bonus), the holding requirement no longer applies. Shares resulting from the exercise of stock options and performance shares awarded to Bertrand Neuschwander must be held in registered LONG-TERM COMMITMENTS form for a certain period, under the following terms and conditions: Pension commitment ■ shares resulting from the exercise of stock options: the quantity of Bertrand Neuschwander is a member of the collective supplementary shares to be held must correspond to 20% of the net capital gain pension plan set up for Groupe SEB’s French senior managers after the sale of the quantity of shares necessary to fund the option (members of the Executive Committee) in accordance with the exercise, net of tax and social contributions and transaction fees; recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, as described above. ■ performance shares: the quantity of shares to be held must 2 correspond to 20% of the net capital gain, net of tax and social The various conditions of the pension plan imply that, at the legal contributions and transaction fees. retirement age, Bertrand Neuschwander would be able to receive a gross replacement ratio (including statutory plans) of 36.2% of his reference remuneration. Entitlements estimation at 31 December 2017: Plan Amount Deferred defined-benefit pension plan €128,871 Supplementary defined-benefit pension plan €107,205 Defined-contribution pension plan (the entitlements resulting from this plan have been frozen since April 2014) €4,795 Other lifetime benefits: incapacity, disability and death Severance payments and health insurance and individual life insurance In the event of dismissal, Bertrand Neuschwander will be entitled to Bertrand Neuschwander continues to benefit from supplementary severance pay capped at two years’ compensation (fixed and variable social protection, notably as regards the incapacity, disability and received), including, where appropriate, the amounts paid under the death and health insurance that covers the company’s employees. non-compete clause and any termination benefits connected to the He also benefits from individual life insurance. The purpose of this termination of his employment contract. specific life insurance policy is to cover the portion of remuneration The reference compensation used to calculate the severance that is not covered by the collective plans. allowance consists of the last two years of fixed and variable This plan notably includes for Bertrand Neuschwander: remuneration that Bertrand Neuschwander received in his capacity as Chief Operating Officer. ■ supplementary benefits, set at a maximum annual amount as follows: In accordance with Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, payment of the allowance will be subject to performance In the event of incapacity €235,368 conditions, measured in the following manner: In the event of first degree disability €141,221 ■ if he is dismissed within four years of his appointment as corporate In the event of second and third degree officer, the severance allowance will be adjusted for the rate of disability €235,368 attainment of his targets over the last four full years of service, as Less social security beneﬁts for the 3 items. follows: ■ as corporate officer, for the period following his appointment, and ■ a death benefit set at a maximum of €1,694,650. ■ as a salaried employee, for the preceding period; In addition to the collective incapacity, disability and death insurance plan, Bertrand Neuschwander is the beneficiary of an individual life ■ if he is dismissed after four years from his appointment as corporate insurance policy with a capital amounting to €942,581. The expense officer, the severance allowance will be adjusted for the rate of recorded for the year ended 31 December 2017 totals €3,318. The attainment of his targets, in said capacity, over the last four full purpose of this specific life insurance policy is to cover the portion of years of service; remuneration that is not covered by the collective plans. In both situations, performance is assessed as follows: This agreement, approved by the Board of Directors on 22 April 2014, was submitted for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Average rate of attainment over the previous Amount of beneﬁt four ﬁnancial years paid Meeting of shareholders on 12 May 2015, in accordance with the procedure for regulated agreements. 100% or more 100% Between 75 and 100%, according to a straight-line Between 50% and 100% inclusive calculation Less than 50% None GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 77 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy Non-compete clause ANNUAL VARIABLE REMUNERATION Pursuant to the non-compete agreement, in case of termination Bertrand Neuschwander’s annual variable remuneration will be set of his term of office as Chief Operating Officer, through removal or according to the same principles, i.e. that it can represent a maximum resignation, he shall be prohibited for a one-year period, renewable of 125% of his fixed remuneration, or €625,000 according to the rate of once, from working in any manner with a competitor of Groupe SEB. attainment of his quantifiable and qualitative targets. These targets are divided, as previously stated, as follows: 60% relates to quantifiable In consideration of this non-compete clause and for its entire criteria and 40% to qualitative criteria. duration, Bertrand Neuschwander will receive a monthly non-compete payment amounting to 50% of his monthly average fixed and variable The performance evaluation criteria were renewed for 2018 based remuneration paid over his last 12 months of service within the Group. on the quantifiable targets set by the Board of Directors’ Meeting of 27 February 2018. Qualitative targets relate to the improvement The Board of Directors may release Mr Neuschwander from this of Groupe SEB’s profitability and the consideration of extra-financial obligation by waiving the non-compete clause. performance criteria (Corporate Social Responsability). They will also This non-compete agreement and the terms of severance detailed include elements linked, in particular, to Bertrand Neuschwander’s above were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 April 2014. performance in implementing specific Group projects, particularly They were also disclosed as part of the ongoing information related relating to digitization. to compensation and benefits. Furthermore, they were submitted In accordance with the ex-post voting principle, the Ordinary General for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of Meeting on 16 May 2018 will be asked to approve the annual variable shareholders on 12 May 2015, in accordance with the procedure for remuneration to be paid for the previous year. regulated agreements. PERFORMANCE SHARES RETIREMENT LUMP-SUM PAYMENT The Board of Directors reserves the right to decide to implement a The total retirement lump-sum payment entitlement of Bertrand new performance share award plan, under the authorization that will Neuschwander amounts to €179,892 due to his seniority. be submitted to the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2018. Remuneration due or awarded for 2018 Should the Board of Directors be granted with the necessary powers to award performance shares, it would decide to award performance FIXED REMUNERATION shares to Bertrand Neuschwander in the same proportions as Bertrand Neuschwander’s annual fixed remuneration, approved by previously granted, in line with the plan described in the draft version the Board of Directors on 22 April 2014 when he was appointed, i.e. of the seventeenth resolution. €500,000, will remain the same in 2018. 78 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Remuneration policy Summary table of the remuneration and options and shares awarded to Bertrand Neuschwander Bertrand Neuschwander – Chief Operating Ofﬁcer 2016 2017 Remuneration due in respect of the period (a) €1,063,940 €1,042,340 Value of the options awarded over the period* 0 0 Value of the performance shares awarded over the period* €736,560 €1,312,462 Value of the other long-term remuneration plans N/A N/A TOTAL €1,800,500 €2,354,802 2 (a) Appointment as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer as from 22 April 2014. * On each award date, the fair value carrying amount of the options and shares is determined in accordance with IFRS. This is the historical value on the award date, calculated for accounting purposes using the method described in the Consolidated Financial Statements section. This value represents neither the current market value, nor the discounted value of these options and shares, nor the actual amount that may be generated if they are exercised or on the vesting of these performance shares, if they are vested. Summary table of the remuneration awarded to Bertrand Neuschwander Amounts relating to 2016 Amounts relating to 2017 Bertrand Neuschwander Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Due Paid Due Paid Fixed remuneration €500,000 €500,000 €500,000 €500,000 Annual variable remuneration €556,200 €583,280 €534,600 €556,200 Extraordinary remuneration None None None None Directors’ fees None None None None Benefits in kind: • car €7,740 €7,740 €7,740 €7,740 TOTAL €1,063,940 €1,091,020 1,042,340 1,063,940 Stock options awarded in 2017 to Bertrand Neuschwander Valuation of the options based on the method used in the consolidated ﬁnancial Number of Date of the plan Type of option statements options awarded Exercise price Exercise period Bertrand Neuschwander No options were awarded in 2017 Stock options exercised in 2017 by Bertrand Neuschwander Number of options exercised during the Date of the plan ﬁnancial year Exercise price Year awarded 18/06/2010 5,083 €53.86 2010 Bertrand Neuschwander 15/06/2012 19,000 €54.12 2012 Performance shares awarded in 2017 to Bertrand Neuschwander Number of Performance Date of the plan shares awarded Value of shares Vesting date Availability date conditions Attainment of Sales and Operating Result from Bertrand Neuschwander 11/05/2017 9,000 1,312,462 11/05/2020 11/05/2020 Activity targets GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 79 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy Performance shares vested in 2017 for Bertrand Neuschwander Number of available Acquisition Date of the plan shares Vesting date Availability date conditions Attainment of Sales and Operating Result from Bertrand Neuschwander 22/07/2014 9,000 22/07/2017 22/07/2019 Activity targets Multi-year variable remuneration paid to Bertrand Neuschwander Bertrand Neuschwander Chief Operating Ofﬁcer Financial year No multi-year variable remuneration paid 80 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Remuneration policy REMUNERATION OF MEMBERS OF THE GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE In 2017, the remuneration of the current members of the Groupe SEB Performance share awards Executive Committee amounted to €8,069,800, of which €4,123,000 was for the fixed portion and €3,946,800 for the variable The members of the Group Executive Committee are awarded portion. performance shares, according to the same principles and conditions as those presented for executive officers above. Annual variable remuneration With regard to the 2017 plan, the performance calculation depends on the rate of attainment of the sales and Operating Result from Activity 2 As with all executive officers, the executives’ variable remuneration target assessed over the three-year vesting period (i.e. 2017, 2018 is determined so as to align remuneration with Groupe SEB’s annual and 2019): performance and to support the execution of a long-term growth strategy, year after year. It is set at the start of the financial year, by Performance shares the Board of Directors. Average attainment rate over three years awarded It is expressed as a percentage of the fixed remuneration for the reference year and corresponds, for the attainment of all the targets, 100% or more 100% to a target of 60% for all the members of the Executive Committee. Between 50% and 100% inclusive Pro rata Less than 50% None It is capped and may represent up to 100% of the base remuneration if the quantifiable and qualitative targets are met. The criteria are In accordance with the authorization granted by the eighteenth reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that they adhere to the principles resolution of the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2017, the referred to above and are only amended should this prove necessary. Board of Directors, at its meeting on the same day, decided to In 2017, the quantifiable and qualitative performance criteria were award 47,250 performance shares to the members of the Executive assessed and discussed by the Nominations and Remuneration Committee for 2017 (excluding executive officers). Committee and approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting Shares resulting from the exercise of stock options and performance on 17 February 2017. shares awarded to members of the Executive Committee must be Quantifiable criteria linked to Groupe SEB’s economic performance held in registered form for a certain period, under the following terms account for 60% of variable remuneration and are assessed according and conditions: to the following objectives: ■ shares resulting from the exercise of stock options: the quantity of ■ sales growth; shares to be held must correspond to 20% of the net capital gain after the sale of the quantity of shares necessary to fund the option ■ growth in the Operating Result from Activity. exercise, net of tax and social contributions and transaction fees; The qualitative criteria, linked to individual performance, account for ■ performance shares: the quantity of shares to be held must 40% of variable remuneration and are assessed according to specific correspond to 20% of the net capital gain, net of tax and social strategic objectives. In particular, they enable performance to be contributions and transaction fees. measured against fixed targets, not only in terms of changes to the Group’s organizational structure and management, but also in terms Once the number of shares held by members of the Executive of the integration of the latest acquisitions. Committee reaches the equivalent of one year’s remuneration (fixed and target bonus), the holding requirement no longer applies. Benefits in kind Top executives have company cars. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 81 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy History of stock option awards to executive officers Subscription Purchase Purchase Purchase Purchase Purchase At 31 December 2017 plan plan plan plan plan plan Meeting date 04/05/2000 03/05/1999 14/05/2002 14/05/2002 06/05/2004 06/05/2004 Date of Board of Directors’ Meeting 14/06/2001 19/04/2002 17/10/2002 18/06/2003 18/06/2004 04/08/2005 Total number of shares granted 493,500 417,450 598,125 612,150 539,100 554,700 Of which awarded to executive officer Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise (a) 66,000 49,500 6,600 115,516 104,989 105,000 Stock option exercise start date 14/06/2005 19/04/2006 17/10/2006 18/06/2007 18/06/2008 04/08/2009 Expiration date 14/06/2009 19/04/2010 17/10/2010 18/06/2011 18/06/2012 04/08/2013 Subscription or purchase price (in €) (a) 18.18 27.88 25.15 24.24 31.67 28.00 Average of last 20 prices prior to Board Meeting (a) (in €) 17.95 27.78 26.65 24.03 31.52 28.2 Number of options exercised (a) by Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise 66,000 49,500 6,600 115,516 104,989 105,000 Number of options canceled (a) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Balance of stock options not yet exercised at 31/12/2016 (a) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Purchase Purchase Purchase Purchase Purchase Purchase At 31 December 2017 plan plan plan plan plan plan Meeting date 11/05/2006 11/05/2006 13/05/2008 13/05/2009 12/05/2010 10/05/2012 Date of Board of Directors’ Meeting 16/06/2006 20/04/2007 13/05/2008 12/06/2009 18/06/2010 15/06/2012 Total number of shares granted 589,798 579,150 1,005,900 371,300 412,592 408,925 Of which awarded to executive officer Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise (a) 105,012 105,000 105,000 71,250 59,942 54,000 Stock option exercise start date 16/06/2010 20/04/2011 13/05/2012 12/06/2013 18/06/2014 15/06/2016 Expiration date 16/06/2014 20/04/2015 13/05/2016 12/06/2017 18/06/2018 15/06/2020 (a) Subscription or purchase price (in €) 29.33 44 38.35 28.05 53.86 54.12 Average of last 20 prices prior to Board Meeting (in €) (a) 29.01 43.73 38.35 28.05 53.85 54.12 Number of options exercised (a) by Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise 105,012 105,000 105,000 66,922 55,978 51,449 Number of options canceled (a) 0 0 0 4,328 3,964 2,551 Balance of stock options not yet exercised at 31/12/2017 0 0 0 0 0 0 (a) Takes into account the bonus award of shares in March 2004 (one for ten) and the split by 3 of the nominal value on 16 June 2008. 82 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Remuneration policy History of performance share awards to executive officers At 31 December 2017 Meeting date 13/05/2009 12/05/2010 12/05/2010 14/05/2013 15/05/2014 12/05/2015 19/05/2016 11/05/2017 Date of Board of Directors’ Meeting 12/06/2009 18/06/2010 15/06/2012 23/07/2013 22/07/2014 12/05/2015 19/05/2016 11/05/2017 Number of shares granted: 50,472 58,363 63,938 233,475 169,175 169,450 171,075 193,450 Of which to executive officers 5,938 4,995 4,500 18,000 27,000 27,000 27,000 27,000 • Chairman and Chief 2 Executive Officer 5,938 4,995 4,500 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000 18,000 • Chief Operating Officer N/A N/A N/A 6,750* 9,000 9,000 9,000 9,000 Sales and Sales and Sales and Sales and Sales and Sales and Sales and Sales and Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Result from Result from Result from Result from Result from Result from Result from Result from Performance condition Activity Activity Activity Activity Activity Activity Activity Activity Award date 12/06/2009 18/06/2010 15/06/2012 23/07/2013 22/07/2014 12/05/2015 19/05/2016 11/05/2017 Vesting date 12/06/2011 18/06/2012 15/06/2014 23/07/2016 22/07/2017 12/05/2018 19/05/2019 11/05/2020 Number of shares earned byexecutive officers • Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 5,938 4,395 3,850 18,000 18,000 • Chief Operating Officer N/A N/A N/A 6,750* 9,000 Expiry of lock-up period 12/06/2013 18/06/2014 15/06/2016 23/07/2017 22/07/2019 12/05/2020 19/05/2021 11/05/2020 Number of shares canceled or lapsed 0 600 650 0 0 Balance of shares yet to be awarded 0 0 0 0 0 27,000 27,000 27,000 * 2013 award as a member of the Executive Committee (non-executive ofﬁcer). General information about executive officers Compensation or beneﬁts due, or likely to be due on, or after, Supplementary termination or a change Compensation relating to Employment contract pension plan of roles a non-compete clause Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise suspended* X X X Bertrand Neuschwander suspended** X X X * The Board of Directors’ Meeting of 23 February 2016, in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, reviewed the situation and considered that Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract should remain suspended, in light of his age, personal situation, and seniority within the Group.**The Board of Directors decided on 22 April 2014 that the suspension of Bertrand Neuschwander’s employment contract was in line with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 83 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy Say on Pay: Remuneration due or awarded to executive officers in respect of the year ended 31/12/2017 Components of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s remuneration submitted for the approval of the shareholders Remuneration due or Amounts submitted awarded for the year ended to a vote Presentation Fixed remuneration €900,000 At its meeting on 23 February 2016, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation (amount paid) of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee, revised the fixed remuneration of Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise to €900,000. This proposal was made to adjust the amount, which has not changed since 2011, for inflation. It remained unchanged following the Board of Directors’ Meeting on 27 February 2018. Annual variable €1,214,100 At its meeting on 27 February 2018, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation remuneration (amount to be paid of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee, measured Thierry de La Tour after being approved d’Artaise’s variable remuneration. by the Ordinary Given the quantitative and qualitative criteria set by the Board of Directors on General Meeting 17 February 2017 and the rate of attainment noted at 31 December 2017, the on 16 May 2018 in variable remuneration was measured as follows: accordance with • based on quantitative criteria: the variable portion is 123.0% of his fixed the ex-post voting annual remuneration with a target of 100%. The Board of Directors judged principle) Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s performance based on Group sales and Operating (No deferred portion Result from Activity growth targets; of this remuneration) • based on qualitative criteria: the variable portion is 152.75% of his fixed annual remuneration with a target of 100%. The Board of Directors judged Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s performance based on collective and individual targets such as the structural improvement of the Group’s profitability, changes to its organizational structure and the active pursuing of the acquisition strategy. The variable component can amount to no more than 150% of his annual fixed remuneration. Consequently, the variable remuneration paid in 2018 for 2017 was €1,214,100, or 134.9% of his fixed remuneration. Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s variable remuneration for 2016 was 139.5% of his fixed remuneration, or €1,255,500. Multi-year variable N/A Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise receives no multi-year variable remuneration. remuneration in cash Performance share awards Performance shares: In accordance with the authorization granted by the eighteenth resolution of the €2,624,924 Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2017, the Board of Directors, at its meeting (carrying amount) held on the same day, decided to award 18,000 performance shares to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise for 2017. The shares granted to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise under the 2017 performance share plan equate to 0.0359% of the share capital. The performance criteria for the 2017 plan were assessed with regard to the rate of attainment of the: • sales growth target; • Operating Result from Activity growth target, over the three-year vesting period (namely 2017, 2018 and 2019): Average attainment rate over three years Performance shares awarded 100% or more 100% Between 50% and 100% inclusive Pro rata Less than 50% None Note that Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise must hold shares resulting from option exercises and free share awards for a certain period in registered form (see page 73). Shares: N/A Other securities: N/A Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise receives no other awards of shares or other securities. Extraordinary remuneration N/A Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise receives no multi-year variable remuneration. Attendance fees €30,000 Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise receives attendance fees as a member of the Board (amount paid) of Directors under the rules applicable to all its members. In 2017, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise received €30,000 as a director of the company. Value of beneﬁts in kind €24,092 Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise has a company car, representing a benefit of €8,892 for (carrying amount) the year, and receives €15,200 per year for the use of an apartment in Paris. 84 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Remuneration policy Remuneration due or Amounts submitted awarded for the year ended to a vote Presentation Severance payments None Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise is only entitled to the severance pay owing under his employment contract, to the exclusion of any other benefit, in the event of termination of his corporate office. Under the provisions of his employment contract, which was suspended on 1 March 2005, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise will receive, by way of settlement, a total termination benefit to be paid only under the following circumstances: • termination of the employment contract at the employer’s initiative, except on the grounds of serious misconduct or gross negligence; • forced departure as a result of a change in the control of Groupe SEB. Pursuant to Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, an addendum to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract was signed making the 2 termination benefit subject to performance conditions. The termination benefit is set at two years’ remuneration (calculated based on the average remuneration earned during the last two financial years), and is adjusted for the rate of attainment of his targets for the last four years of service: Average rate of attainment over the previous four financial years Amount of benefit paid 100% or more 100% Between 75 and 100%, according to a Between 50% and 100% inclusive straight-line calculation Less than 50% None If the previous year-end presents a net loss, the Board of Directors reserves the right to reduce such termination benefits by a maximum of one half, without such benefits falling below the fixed salary plus bonuses of the previous financial year, should application of the performance criteria based on the attainment of targets confer entitlement to the payment of such benefits. Entitlement to stock options in the event of termination: In the event that Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract is terminated, except for serious misconduct or gross negligence, he will be entitled to all the share purchase or subscription options granted to him under the same terms and conditions of exercise that would have applied had he remained in office. This provision will also apply in the event that Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract is terminated pursuant to resignation from the Group, were such resignation to arise from a change in the control of the Group. However, he will forfeit the options that would have been granted to him over the 18 months prior to the termination of his term of office as corporate officer should he resign on his own initiative. When Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise was re-elected, the continuation of this commitment was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2016 and by the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2016 (8th resolution). Non-compete payments N/A Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise has no non-compete clause. Retirement lump-sum None Due to his seniority and in accordance with the Metallurgical industry collective payment agreement, the total retirement lump-sum payment entitlement would amount to €567,749. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 85 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy Remuneration due or Amounts submitted awarded for the year ended to a vote Presentation Supplementary None Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise is a member of the collective supplementary pension pension plan plan set up for Groupe SEB’s French senior executives (members of the Executive Committee). The scheme complements the statutory schemes and is composed as follows: • a defined-benefit deferred compensation plan, under which beneficiaries are subject to seniority and presence conditions. The amount of benefits payable under this plan in addition to the applicable statutory schemes represents up to 25% of a reference remuneration calculated on the average of the target remuneration for the past three years; • a defined-benefit supplementary pension plan, under which beneficiaries are also subject to seniority and presence conditions. Entitlements under this plan vest at an annual rate of 0.8% of a reference remuneration calculated on the average of the target remuneration for the past three years and capped at 20 years’ seniority, i.e. a maximum of 16% of the reference remuneration; • a collective defined-benefit plan available to senior executives, with a contribution equal to 8% of their salaries. Pensions earned under this plan are deducted from the supplementary pension originating from the defined-benefit supplementary pension plan. Entitlements estimation at 31 December 2017: Plan Amount Deferred defined-benefit pension plan €224,165 gross per year Supplementary defined-benefit pension plan €218,795 gross per year Defined-contribution pension plan (the entitlements resulting from this plan have been frozen since January 2012) €10,062 gross per year Executive officers are potentially eligible for defined-benefit plans after 8 years of service and attendance at Executive Committee Meetings. The plan is capped at 41% of the reference remuneration, i.e. both fixed and variable remuneration (including the income from compulsory plans), in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. This reference remuneration is itself capped at 36 times the annual social security ceiling in force at the time of retirement. As a result, the supplementary pension plan for executive officers complies with AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations as updated in November 2016: • seniority required: minimum 8 years of service; • rate of progression: entitlements based on seniority up to a maximum of 3.925% annually, reduced to 3.0% in 2016, and capped after 20 years’ seniority in accordance with the plan introduced by law 2015-990 of 6 August 2015 on growth, activity and equal economic opportunities; • reference period used: average of the target remuneration for the past three years; • maximum of 41% including benefits from statutory schemes. Groupe SEB intends to outsource the entire commitment through matching payments to a fund into which the pension contributions are made on a regular basis. When Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise was re-elected, the continuation of this commitment was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2016 and by the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2016 (8th resolution). Other lifetime beneﬁts: None Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise continues to benefit from supplementary social incapacity, disability and protection, notably as regards the incapacity, disability and death and health death and health insurance insurance that covers the company’s employees. and individual life insurance This plan notably includes for Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise: • supplementary benefits, set at a maximum annual amount as follows: In the event of incapacity €235,368 In the event of first degree disability €141,221 In the event of second and third degree disability €235,368 Less social security beneﬁts for the 3 items. • a death benefit set at a maximum of €1,318,061. In addition to the collective incapacity, disability and death insurance plan, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise also benefits from an individual life insurance policy with a capital amounting to €3,652,134. The expense recorded for the year ended 31 December 2017 totals €65,635. The purpose of this specific life insurance policy is to cover the portion of remuneration that is not covered by the collective plans. When Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise was re-elected, the continuation of this commitment was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2016 and by the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2016 (8th resolution). 86 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Remuneration policy Components of remuneration for the Chief Operating Officer submitted for approval by the shareholders Remuneration due or Amounts submitted awarded for the year ended to a vote Presentation Fixed remuneration €500,000 When Bertrand Neuschwander was appointed, the Board of Directors’ Meeting (amount paid) of 22 April 2014 set the amount of his yearly fixed remuneration at €500,000. This amount remains unchanged with respect to the 2018 financial year. Annual variable €534,600 At its meeting on 27 February 2018, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation remuneration (amount to be paid of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee, measured Bertrand after being approved Neuschwander’s variable remuneration. 2 by the Ordinary Given the quantitative and qualitative criteria set by the Board of Directors on General Meeting 17 February 2017 and the rate of attainment noted at 31 December 2017, the on 16 May 2018 in variable remuneration was measured as follows: accordance with • based on quantitative criteria: the variable portion is 98.4% of his fixed the ex-post voting annual remuneration with a target of 80%. The Board of Directors measured principle) Bertrand Neuschwander’s performance with respect to Groupe SEB’s sales (No deferred portion and Operating Result from Activity growth targets; of this remuneration) • based on qualitative criteria: the variable portion is 119.7% of his fixed annual remuneration with a target of 80%. The Board of Directors judged Bertrand Neuschwander’s performance, in particular, based on collective and individual targets such as changes to the Group’s organizational structure, the structural improvement of its profitability and the completion of specific operational projects. The variable component can amount to no more than 125% of his annual fixed remuneration. Consequently, the variable remuneration paid in 2018 for 2017 was €534,600, or 106.9% of his fixed remuneration. Bertrand Neuschwander’s variable remuneration for 2016 was 111.24% of his fixed remuneration, or €556,200. Multi-year variable N/A remuneration in cash Bertrand Neuschwander receives no multi-year variable remuneration. Performance share awards Performance shares: In accordance with the authorization granted by the eighteenth resolution of the €1,312,462 Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2017, the Board of Directors, at its meeting (carrying amount) on the same day, decided to award 9,000 performance shares to Bertrand Neuschwander for 2017. The portion granted to Bertrand Neuschwander under the 2017 performance share plan equates to 0.0179% of the share capital. The performance criteria for the 2017 plan were assessed with regard to the rate of attainment of the: • sales growth target; • Operating Result from Activity growth target, over the three-year vesting period (namely 2017, 2018 and 2019): Average attainment rate over three years Performance shares awarded 100% or more 100% Between 50% and 100% inclusive Pro rata Less than 50% None Note that Bertrand Neuschwander must hold shares resulting from option exercises and free share awards for a certain period in registered form (see page 76). Shares: N/A Other securities: N/A Bertrand Neuschwander receives no other awards of shares or other securities. Extraordinary remuneration N/A Bertrand Neuschwander receives no multi-year variable remuneration. Attendance fees N/A Bertrand Neuschwander is not a director of SEB S.A. Value of beneﬁts in kind €7,740 Bertrand Neuschwander has a company car, representing a benefit in kind of (carrying amount) €7,740 for the year. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 87 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy Remuneration due or Amounts submitted awarded for the year ended to a vote Presentation Severance payments None In the event of dismissal, he will be entitled to severance pay capped at two years’ fixed and variable remuneration, including, where appropriate, the amounts paid under the non-compete clause and any termination benefits connected to the termination of the employment contract. The reference compensation used to calculate the severance allowance consists of the last two years of fixed and variable remuneration that Bertrand Neuschwander received in his capacity as Chief Operating Officer. In accordance with Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, payment of the allowance will be subject to performance conditions, measured in the following manner: • if he is dismissed within four years of his appointment as corporate officer, the severance allowance will be adjusted for the rate of attainment of his targets over the last four full years of service, as follows: • as corporate officer, for the period following his appointment, and • as a salaried employee, for the preceding period; • if he is dismissed after four years from his appointment as corporate officer, the severance allowance will be adjusted for the rate of attainment of his targets, in said capacity, over the last four full years of service; In both situations, performance is assessed as follows: Average rate of attainment over the previous four financial years Amount of benefit paid 100% or more 100% Between 75 and 100%, according to a Between 50% and 100% inclusive straight-line calculation Less than 50% None This agreement, approved by the Board of Directors on 22 April 2014, was submitted for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders on 12 May 2015, in accordance with the procedure for regulated agreements. Non-compete payments None Pursuant to the non-compete agreement, in case of termination of his term of office as Chief Operating Officer, through removal or resignation, he shall be prohibited for a one-year period, renewable once, from working in any manner with a competitor of Groupe SEB. In consideration of this non-compete clause and for its entire duration, Bertrand Neuschwander will receive a monthly non-compete payment amounting to 50% of his monthly average fixed and variable remuneration paid over his last 12 months of service within the Group. The Board of Directors may release Mr Neuschwander from this obligation by waiving the non-compete clause. This non-compete agreement and the terms of severance detailed above were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 April 2014. They were also disclosed as part of the ongoing information related to compensation and benefits. Furthermore, they were submitted for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders on 12 May 2015, in accordance with the procedure for regulated agreements. Retirement lump-sum None Due to his seniority and in accordance with the Metallurgical industry collective payment agreement, Bertrand Neuschwander’s total retirement lump-sum payment entitlement amounts to €179,892. 88 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance Remuneration policy Remuneration due or Amounts submitted awarded for the year ended to a vote Presentation Supplementary None Bertrand Neuschwander is a member of the collective supplementary pension pension plan plan set up for Groupe SEB’s French senior executives (members of the Executive Committee). The scheme complements the statutory schemes and is composed as follows: • a defined-benefit deferred compensation plan, under which beneficiaries are subject to seniority and presence conditions. The amount of benefits payable under this plan in addition to the applicable statutory schemes represents up to 25% of a reference remuneration calculated on the average of the target remuneration for the past three years; • a defined-benefit supplementary pension plan, under which beneficiaries are also subject to seniority and presence conditions. Entitlements under this plan 2 vest at an annual rate of 0.8% of a reference remuneration calculated on the average of the target remuneration for the past three years and capped at 20 years’ seniority, i.e. a maximum of 16% of the reference remuneration. • a collective defined-benefit plan available to senior executives, with a contribution equal to 8% of their salaries. Pensions earned under this plan are deducted from the supplementary pension originating from the defined-benefit supplementary pension plan. Entitlements estimation at 31 December 2017: Plan Amount Deferred defined-benefit pension plan €128,871 gross per year Supplementary defined-benefit pension plan €107,205 gross per year Defined-contribution pension plan (the entitlements resulting from this plan have been frozen since April 2014) €4,795 gross per year Executive officers are potentially eligible for defined-benefit plans after 8 years of service and attendance at Executive Committee Meetings. The plan is capped at 41% of the reference remuneration, i.e. both fixed and variable remuneration (including the income from compulsory plans), in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. This reference remuneration is itself capped at 36 times the annual social security ceiling in force at the time of retirement. As a result, the supplementary pension plan for executive officers complies with AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations as updated in November 2016: • seniority required: minimum 8 years of service; • rate of progression: entitlements based on seniority up to a maximum of 3.925% annually, reduced to 3.0% in 2016, and capped after 20 years’ seniority in accordance with the plan introduced by law 2015-990 of 6 August 2015 on growth, activity and equal economic opportunities; • reference period used: average of the target remuneration for the past three years; • maximum of 41% including benefits from statutory schemes. Groupe SEB intends to outsource the entire commitment through matching payments to a fund into which the pension contributions are made on a regular basis. This agreement, approved by the Board of Directors on 22 April 2014, was submitted for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders on 12 May 2015, in accordance with the procedure for regulated agreements. Other lifetime beneﬁts: None Bertrand Neuschwander continues to benefit from supplementary social incapacity, disability and protection, notably as regards the incapacity, disability and death and health death and health insurance insurance that covers the company’s employees. and individual life insurance He also benefits from individual life insurance. The purpose of this specific life insurance policy is to cover the portion of remuneration that is not covered by the collective plans. This plan notably includes for Bertrand Neuschwander: • supplementary benefits, set at a maximum annual amount as follows: In the event of incapacity €235,368 In the event of first degree disability €141,221 In the event of second and third degree disability €235,368 Less social security beneﬁts for the 3 items. • a death benefit set at a maximum of €1,694,650. In addition to the collective incapacity, disability and death insurance plan, Bertrand Neuschwander is the beneficiary of an individual life insurance policy with a capital amounting to €942,581. The expense recorded for the year ended 31 December 2017 totals €3,318. The purpose of this specific life insurance policy is to cover the portion of remuneration that is not covered by the collective plans. This agreement, approved by the Board of Directors on 22 April 2014, was submitted for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders on 12 May 2015, in accordance with the procedure for regulated agreements. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 89 2 Corporate governance Remuneration policy TRANSACTIONS IN SEB SHARES CONDUCTED BY BOARD MEMBERS AND EXECUTIVES (ARTICLE L. 621-18-2 OF THE FRENCH MONETARY AND FINANCIAL CODE) DURING 2017 Transactions in SEB shares conducted by Board members and executives (Article L. 621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code) during 2017 Number of shares purchased or Average Number of Average Identity Function subscribed purchase price shares sold sale price Member of the Executive BERTRAND NEUSCHWANDER Committee 24,083 54.0651 € 1,500 158.7500 € Member of the Executive LUC GAUDEMARD Committee 2,000 54.1200 € 2,000 144.7346 € Persons associated with HUBERT FÈVRE Director 10,000 150.0000 € WILLIAM GAIRARD Director 1,053 153.9536 € VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT Director 1,000 148.2051 € 90 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 3 3.1. Commitment and management 92 Commitment at the highest level 92 Management groups and methods 92 Dialog with stakeholders 92 Raising employee awareness 93 Internal audit and sustainable development 93 External verification of data 93 An established CSR policy 94 3.2. Stakeholders 95 Lobbying activities 96 Materiality matrix 96 3.3. Challenges and road map 99 3.4. Reporting process 101 Measuring of social, employment-related and environmental performance 101 3.5. Ethical compliance 103 Code of Ethics 103 Human Rights 103 Responsible purchasing 104 Fight against corruption 106 3.6. A responsible employment policy 107 Global human resources management 107 Attractiveness of the Group and career development 107 Breakdown of total workforce by geographic region 108 Breakdown of changes in the workforce 109 Breakdown of workforce by type of contract 111 Diversity 112 Employee-management dialog 114 Quality of life at work 115 Health and Safety 115 Global social protection floor 118 Training and skills development 119 Internal communications and the digital universe 122 Corporate Social Absenteeism rate 122 Overtime 123 External labor 123 3.7. A corporate citizen A responsible participant in the economy 124 124 Responsibility Corporate philanthropy 124 3.8. Sustainable innovations meeting consumer expectations 127 Respect for consumers 127 The central role of the circular economy in sustainable innovations 129 Socially-engaged brands 130 3.9. Reduction of environmental impacts 134 Analysis of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions 134 2020 targets 135 Eco-design of products 136 Eco-manufacturing 137 Eco-logistics 141 Information systems 143 3.10. Report by the independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report 144 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 91 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment and management 3.1. Commitment and management COMMITMENT AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL For a great many years, Groupe SEB has been committed to an approach, that strives to be ethical, economically profitable, socially fair and ecologically responsible. Since 2013, the corporate social responsibility policy has been presented to the Board of Directors and has been the responsibility of the Nominations and Remuneration Committee. MANAGEMENT GROUPS AND METHODS The Sustainable Development department, created in 2004, reports in 2017, are managed locally by a network of CSR contacts from the to the Senior Executive Vice-president, Human Resources, who is HR department. This network was enhanced at the end of 2015 with a member of the Executive Committee. Made up of a team of six the appointment of continental sustainable development coordinators. people, two of whom are seconded to the Fonds Groupe SEB, the In 2017, the Sustainable Development department undertook a major Sustainable Development department coordinates and drives Groupinternal consultation to define the Group’s sustainable development wide participatory efforts. In addition to holding twice-yearly meetings strategy for the next few years. A first step taken at corporate level with with each division to monitor projects and action plans, it is supported the representatives of the various divisions resulted in the identification by a dedicated Steering Committee. In order to instill sustainability of key focal points, in line with the UN’s Sustainable Development criteria at all levels of the company and on all continents, this Steering Goals (SDGs), namely respect for people and social utility; the Committee is composed of around 20 members hailing from a variety combating of global warming; healthy, tasty food for all; a better quality of core business areas and divisions (communications, quality/ of life at home regardless of age and state of health; and innovation environment, innovation, purchasing, logistics, marketing, etc.) and in the area of the circular economy. On this basis, teams from around meets two to three times a year. Its mission is to define and monitor ten countries were asked to define local priorities for action, with short and medium term action plans in response to the Group’s five the support of the continental sustainable development coordinators. key sustainable development challenges: During the sustainable development week in June, all of the Group’s ■ ensuring the Group’s ethical principles are respected; connected employees were also invited to offer their opinions on the ■ pursuing a responsible employment policy; issue through a questionnaire translated into six languages, published on the intranet. These efforts and contributions made it possible to ■ developping territories and community commitment; flesh out the strategies and prepare a Group sustainable development ■ creating sustainable innovations to meet consumer expectations; road map to be adapted locally and in all the businesses. The results ■ reducing the environmental impact. were presented at the end of January 2018 to the panel of Group A three-year road map designed around these five challenges is stakeholders for a constructive consultation. After it has been validated shown on page 99 of this document. The large number of international by the Group’s top management, the new sustainable development projects, such as the 2012/2013 Code of Ethics or the Charity Week strategy will be finalized and rolled out in 2018. DIALOG WITH STAKEHOLDERS Paying close attention to the Group’s “ecosystem”, the Sustainable the Group’s new strategies in the fields of sustainable development Development department has been holding a series of discussions and the duty of vigilance, enabling the identification and prevention of with a panel of the Group’s stakeholders since 2013, to gather risks relating to Human Rights, fundamental freedoms, health, safety their opinions and suggestions about its sustainable development and the environment resulting from the activities of the Group or its policy. This panel is made up of external international experts, suppliers. At the last meeting, in 2016, the panel’s members worked such as environmental NGOs, a sociologist working on alternative on the circular economy projects launched by the Group and on the consumption, an expert in responsible food, and an eco-design response to the needs of low-income, or bottom-of-the-pyramid, expert, plus an employee representative from the European Group consumers. Committee. The meeting organized in February 2018 mainly covered 92 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment and management RAISING EMPLOYEE AWARENESS The Group uses a number of communication methods to increase Every year, a sustainable development week is organized worldwide employees’ awareness of sustainable development issues, including and is a special opportunity to enlist the cooperation of employees. a dedicated section on the Group’s intranet, which is regularly updated In 2017, it was the starting point for a wide-reaching “Ideas for a better with news, articles in site newspapers, telexes and events. There is future” consultation on the priorities for the Group’s future sustainable also the internal social network’s innovation community, which is a development strategy. Many actions were also carried out on sites forum for discussions on sustainable innovation. Many sustainable across the world, such as participation in a reforestation program in development-related themes are also dealt with in the Group’s Code Mexico, the creation of a shared garden in Millville (USA), the holding of Ethics, which regularly inspires training and awareness-raising of a recycling workshop in Selongey (France) and the promotion of initiatives (see page 103). energy-related eco-friendly practices in South America and Malaysia. INTERNAL AUDIT AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In 2013, the Audit and Internal Control department included the Code questionnaire through reporting software. This covers the same 3 of Ethics and the Responsible Purchasing Charter in the internal checkpoints audited during on-site audits and includes the internal control manual used when auditing subsidiaries. Since 2016, the control manual and also the rules contained in the Code of Ethics Sustainable Development department has also sent it the action and the Responsible Purchasing Charter. Both sets of guidelines are plans implemented by the subsidiaries as part of the new ethical, therefore fully harmonized and ensure that the audit process is fully social and environmental audit procedure (see page 103 ). This consistent. Furthermore, when studies take place prior to company strengthens the ethical, social and environmental monitoring within acquisitions, the Strategy department conducts a review of social and all the Group’s processes. Sites that are not audited by the Audit and environmental issues using a questionnaire that covers the key points Internal Control department during the year are sent a self-assessment in the Code of Ethics. EXTERNAL VERIFICATION OF DATA Groupe SEB has been a pioneer in this regard since 2011, and the completeness and fairness of the social, employment-related had a selection of corporate social responsibility indicators for and environmental information in the Registration Document audited. the 2010 financial year audited by one of its statutory auditors, In 2017, Groupe SEB changed its audit company to Mazars (see a PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit. It continued this voluntary detailed description of the reporting process on page 101 and Mazars’ commitment and PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit issued a limited report for 2017 on page 144). 67 audits have been carried out on assurance report for the 2011 and 2012 financial years on a selection 25 different sites in seven countries (Germany, France, Italy, Brazil, of social and environmental indicators. Finally, to comply with what Colombia, China and the US) since 2010. are now legal obligations, every year since 2013 the Group has had GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 93 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment and management AN ESTABLISHED CSR POLICY Driven by a strong new asset momentum, a growing number of of a panel of 200 large companies active on the French market. This management companies are basing their investment decisions on the survey, conducted in 2017 with 30,000 participants, is based on three corporate social responsibility (CSR) of listed companies, or including aspects: working environment, governance and social commitment. this factor in their stock-picking process. Several dedicated funds The Group is also on the research panels of Gaia Rating, Sustainalytics are Groupe SEB shareholders as a result. The CSR policy is regularly and Oekom, which has awarded it “Prime” status. included in the Group’s financial communication, and the Sustainable The SEB share is also included in several SRI (Socially Responsible Development department meets with specialized CSR investors at Investment) indices. The Group has kept its place in Vigeo-Eiris’s least once a year, at conferences or dedicated roadshows. Europe 120 and Eurozone 120 indices, composed of the companies At the same time, several non-financial rating agencies assess with the highest scores based on more than 330 indicators. Groupe the ESG (Environmental, Social, Governance) performance of SEB has also confirmed its place in the FTSE4Good international Groupe SEB. This performance is increasingly gaining recognition, as index, a global benchmark in the field, with a score of 83/100. It is shown by the improvement in its rating by the CDP (Carbon Disclosure listed in the Personal & Household Goods category. The SEB share Project) agency, which manages the largest database of company also features in Forum Ethibel’s Excellence Europe index. environmental data in the world. In 2017, the Group’s rating improved At the start of 2017, the Group’s CSR approach earned it the CSR from C to Ain the CDP’s “climate change” category, and from Cto Grand Prix for Responsible Consumer Industries awarded Bin the “supply chain” category. The Group’s commitments and by the ESSEC Business School in Paris, in partnership with the initiatives are also assessed every two years by Vigeo-Eiris (1), the French Ministry for the Economy, Industry and the Digital Sector. leading agency in Europe. Its 2018 rating, representing an increase Groupe SEB competed in six out of the Prize’s seven categories, over 2016, makes Groupe SEB the leader in its sector in Europe. Its and was nominated in every one, including sustainable consumption, performance is applauded particularly in the following areas: human reduction of the carbon footprint and solidarity. Thanks to the Group’s resources, market conduct (and especially the responsible purchasing commitment to ensuring the repairability of its products for 10 years, policy) and respect for Human Rights. When it comes to its CSR the Group won this prize in the “product end of life” category. reputation, Groupe SEB was ranked 2nd in the Rep Track survey, out (1) Vigeo and EIRIS merged in October 2015. 94 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholders 3.2. Stakeholders Generally speaking, Groupe SEB conducts a transparent dialog with all dedicated section of the Group’s website and the publication of news of its stakeholders through various communication media, annually via items. Stakeholders are identified using the methodology described the publication of the Business and Sustainable Development report in paragraph 5.3.2 of the ISO 26000 standard. and the Registration Document, and on an ongoing basis thanks to a Stakeholders Modes of dialog Employees Intranet site, welcome booklet, internal communications Employees (managers and non-managers) initiatives, Annual Appraisal Interviews (AAIs), employee survey 3 (Great Place to Work), site newspapers and documents on a range of topics (Code of Ethics, Management Values and Practices, etc.). Future employees Website, careers site, social networks, school forums, outreach meetings, etc. Employee representatives Labor relations agenda, employee-management dialog bodies, Employee representative bodies dedicated intranet, signing of collective agreements, etc. Consumers Group and brand websites, social networks, Groupe SEB TV, media and non-media communications, marketing research, Home & Cook stores, consumer service, etc. Suppliers and subcontractors Discussions with Group and local purchasers, Responsible Purchasing Charter, Code of Ethics, annual evaluation, regulatory compliance via the EcoMundo platform, social and environmental audits, etc. Public authorities Participation in working groups, conferences, partnerships/local projects, public/private research partnerships, competitiveness clusters, etc. Shareholders Business and Sustainable Development report, Registration Document, letter to shareholders, website, webzine, Annual General Meeting, information meetings, etc. Customers Code of Ethics, sales meetings, partnerships and multi-year Distributors action plans, etc. Professional associations Participation in working groups, involvement in governance, etc. Ceced, Gifam, Unitam, Medef, Afep, Demeter, Éco-Systèmes, FIEEC and other eco-organizations, etc. Civil society Business and Sustainable Development report, selection and NGOs, associations, communities support of projects via the Fonds Groupe SEB or subsidiaries, partnerships, cause-related marketing products, etc. Financial and non-ﬁnancial bodies Business and Sustainable Development report, Registration Rating agencies, analysts, investors, banks, funds, etc. Document, website, SRI meetings, road shows, responses to questionnaires, press releases, communication on progress of the UN Global Compact, etc. The breakdown of revenue by stakeholder is shown on pages 66-67 of the Business and Sustainable Development report. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 95 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholders LOBBYING ACTIVITIES Groupe SEB sees lobbying as a positive approach that consists of ■ the regulations on connected products; communicating its opinion about the potential consequences of an ■ the revision of the waste framework directive and the directive on action to the relevant authority. The aim is for said authority to make waste from electrical and electronic equipment; the best decision to ensure that the impact is proportionate to the ■ the development of standards on the efficient use of materials. desired aim and is fair to all stakeholders. The Group bases its analysis on its industry expertise and its market knowledge. Since 2015, the To participate in discussions about its industry, Groupe SEB plays an Group has structured its lobbying activities in the new European Affairs active role in various French and European professional associations department, reporting to the Group’s Head of Quality, Standards and such as: Environment. The department is tasked with transmitting, to the ■ AFEP – French Association of Private Sector Companies; entities responsible, the information needed to define regulations and ■ FIEEC – French Federation of Electrical, Electronic and standards that may impact the Group’s product designs. Communication Industries; In 2017, Groupe SEB continued to act to promote the circular economy ■ GIFAM – French Association of Household Appliance Manufacturers; by highlighting the importance of producing products that can be ■ UNITAM – Union of Homeware Manufacturers; repaired, particularly by asking for the creation of a tax incentive for repair sector operators, and the use of recycled materials. It has also ■ CECED – European Committee of Domestic Equipment been involved in challenges such as: Manufacturers; ■ FEC – Federation of the European Cutlery, Flatware, Holloware and ■ the regulations on materials in contact with food; Cookware Industries. MATERIALITY MATRIX In accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) recommendations, The materiality matrix highlights 4 main sustainable development Groupe SEB decided in 2012 to rank its corporate social responsibility issues for Groupe SEB: issues using a materiality matrix. This determines which sustainable ■ Human Rights, which are considered to be particularly important development issues are most important to the company. In 2015, the by the Group’s suppliers, financial bodies, employee representatives Group wished to fine-tune the ranking of these issues by using a more (via the European Group Committee) and customers; in-depth methodology. ■ employee health and safety, prioritized by professional A list of 20 issues was identified and evaluated by the Group, taking associations, customers, employee representatives (via the account of the importance placed on each by stakeholders and by European Group Committee) as well as financial bodies; the Group itself: ■ respect for consumers, primarily highlighted by customers, ■ externally: by consulting various stakeholder representatives future employees (via the French Student Network for Sustainable already identified via an online survey with over 200 responses; Development), professional associations and financial bodies, as ■ internally: by questioning the Sustainable Development Steering well as by the Groupe SEB Sustainable Development Steering Committee and taking into account the Group’s strategy. In 2016, Committee; the Group incorporated the opinion of the continental sustainable ■ responsible purchasing mainly chosen by shareholders, financial development coordinators, appointed at the end of 2015, using the bodies, employee representatives (via the European Group same methodology. Committee) and suppliers. 96 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholders MATERIALITY MATRIX 18 Human Rights 16 14 Responsible purchasing Fight against corruption Health and Safety Importance for stakeholders 12 Respect for 3 consumers Global social protection floor Equality and diversity 10 Employee-management dialogue Social commitment Governance Dialogue with Eco-design 8 Circular stakeholders economy Greenhouse gas Waste emissions reduction management Repairability Biodiversity Water 6 Sustainable eating Product accessibility 4 2 0 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 Importance for Groupe SEB Environmental issues Ethical issues Social issues Societal issues Consumer-related issues GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 97 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholders To make it easier to read the information contained in this chapter, the table below summarizes the 20 issues identified by Groupe SEB, defines them and lists the number(s) of the pages on which the issue is addressed. Challenges Deﬁnitions Page no. ETHICAL COMPLIANCE Fight against any form of forced or compulsory labor, concealed work, child labor, inhuman Human Rights working conditions and excessive overtime. 103 Responsible Require our suppliers to respect Human Rights and essential ethical, social and environmental purchasing principles. 104-106 Anti-corruption Prohibit strongly any kind of corruption in our relationships, not only with our commercial and measures institutional partners, but also with the Government. 106 Work in favor of a more responsible governance: diversity and independence of the Board of Directors, increased female participation in key positions, transparency about the pay of Governance executive officers, etc. Chapter 1 RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYMENT POLICY Equality and Ensure equal treatment between employees. Only take into account their professional skills Diversity when it comes to their recruitment, pay and development within the Group. 112-113 Employeemanagement Respect for freedom of association and union representation while encouraging employeedialog management dialog on both an individual and collective basis. 114 Health and Safety Provide each employee with a safe and healthy working environment. 115-118 Global social protection floor Ensure fair pay, minimum social cover and decent working conditions for all employees. 118-119 A CORPORATE CITIZEN Take into account the expectations of all our stakeholders in the conduct of our activities: Dialog with consumers, associations/NGOs, municipalities/public authorities, suppliers, customers, stakeholders shareholders, employees, etc. 92 and 95 Fulfill our economic and social responsibilities in the territories in which we operate: creating Social jobs, taking part in the development of local companies and supporting local associations commitment acting against exclusion. 124-126 SUSTAINABLE INNOVATIONS MEETING CONSUMER EXPECTATIONS Propose high-standard products with all the guarantees in terms of safety and harmlessness. Respect for Be very demanding about the quality of the information given to consumers through our call consumers centers, and via our brands’ websites and our after-sales service. 127-128 Facilitate the repair of our products: design, availability and price of spare parts, training of Repairability approved service centers, etc. 129-130 Product Promote the accessibility of products by as many people as possible by working on the price, accessibility ergonomics and distribution networks. 132-133 Sustainable Promote consumption modes favoring healthy and sustainable eating by innovating and eating supporting consumers. 131-132 REDUCTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Eco-design Reduce the environmental footprint of products through eco-design. 136-137 Make the circular economy central to our sustainable innovations. The circular economy requires a chain structuring approach (e.g. recycling chain and reuse chain). This economic system is based on exchanges and production. At every stage of the life cycle of the products, goods and services, it aims to increase the efficiency of the Circular resources and reduce the impact on the environment while enabling the well-being of economy individuals. 129-130 Water Limit the water consumption of our sites together with their emissions to water. 139-140 Waste Limit and recover waste from production by favoring solutions with a smaller impact on the management environment. 140 Greenhouse Reduce greenhouse gas emissions linked to the production process (optimization of energy gas emissions consumption, use of renewable energies, etc.) and the transport of products, raw materials reduction and components. 134-143 Promote ordinary biodiversity and limit the impacts of our processes and our products on Biodiversity biodiversity. 141 98 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Challenges and road map 3.3. Challenges and road map To track Groupe SEB’s progress with the 16 key sustainable development challenges according to the materiality matrix (see page 97), the Sustainable Development department works with each division to establish a specific road map. The road map spells out the year’s major accomplishments and sets the objectives for the next few years. Challenges Addressed in 2017 Next steps Ethical Human Rights 8 ethical, social and environmental audits of 2018: complete ethical, social and environmental compliance Groupe SEB industrial sites in risky areas by the audits of Groupe SEB industrial sites in risky consulting firm Intertek. areas (new acquisitions included). 3 Responsible 177 initial ethical, social and environmental 2018: 150 ethical, social and environmental purchasing audits of Group suppliers were conducted by the audits to be conducted during the year in order consulting firm Intertek and 58 follow-up audits. to audit all the listed raw materials, components and finished products suppliers at least once every four years. Fight against 38 entities (out of the 79 Groupe SEB entities 2018: strengthen anti-corruption measures in corruption which can be audited) underwent internal audits line with the roll out of worldwide e-learning (incorporating, in particular, different dimensions training on the Code of Ethics. of the Code of Ethics). Governance Inclusion of two employees directors representing Step up the Board of Directors’ discussions on shareholders and employees. the Group’s strategic projects. Reaching of the target of 40% female Board Increase the number of Audit Committee members: 43%. Meetings. Updating of the Stock Market Ethics Charter for Optimize reporting on the work of the Audit directors and the “directors’ guide” describing their Committee and the Board of Directors. role, responsibilities and obligations. Introduction of CSR criteria in the variable Changing of the composition of the Board remuneration of senior and other managers. of Directors. Responsible Health and Reduction of LTIR (Lost Time Injury Rate): 2018: reduction in the LTIR (Lost Time Injury employment Safety • Global LTIR (excluding GS India and Coranco): Rate) including temporary employees (excluding policy 1.5 GS India and Coranco). • LTIR France: 4.8 • Global LTIR including temporary employees Roll out of five new safety standards. ≤ 2.5 • LTIR France including temporary employees ≤ 5.5 Global social Formalization of the 3 pillars of its social protection Gradual extension of implementation between protection ﬂoor policy: death insurance; major medical risk now and 2020. (hospitalization) cover and the introduction of systematic medical examinations; and maternity or paternity leave. The pilot phase of this program was launched in 2017 in the Eurasia region. Training 3.19% of wage bill allocated to training, excluding Develop worldwide e-lear ning training Supor; 2.59% with Supor. programs. Excluding Supor, WMF and EMSA, almost 84% of Group employees received at least one training session during the year. Employee122 collective bargaining agreements signed in Inter national expansion of employeemanagement 2017. management dialog: dialog • continue with national collective agreements with employee representatives; • integrate recently acquired companies (WMF and EMSA) within the European Group Committee. Equality and 36.7% of Groupe SEB managers are women. 2 0 1 8 : m o re s p e c i f i c t r a i n i n g o n t h e Diversity In France, the Human Resources teams received theme “Recruiting and managing without awareness-raising training in stereotypes, diversity discriminating, harassing or slandering” will be and gender equality in 2017. introduced for Human Resources Managers and people responsible for recruitment. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 99 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Challenges and road map Challenges Addressed in 2017 Next steps A corporate Social International employee engagement (48 sites in 2018: continued international expansion of citizen commitment 28 countries involved in the Charity Week, which corporate philanthropy actions. is a fortnight of employee engagement). Nearly €2,675,000 dedicated to corporate philanthropy (endowment fund and subsidiaries). Formalization of a worldwide corporate philanthropy policy. Dialog with Presentation to stakeholder panel of the new Stakeholder panel at the end of 2018/start of stakeholders sustainable development strategy and the 2019. vigilance plan. Sustainable Repairability International expansion of the “10-year repairable Continue with the international expansion of innovations product” campaign. the “10-year repairable product” program. meeting 92.8% of the total volume of electrical appliances Roll out 3D printing of spare parts. consumer sold are repairable. expectations Reduction of Eco-design Identifying the product families with the greatest 2020: reduce the energy consumption of the environmental impact in terms of energy consumption and Group’s new products by 20%. impact defining the methods for measuring this 2020: 20% minimum recycled materials in the consumption. Group’s new products. 35% recycled materials in the Group’s new products. Target exceeded. Greenhouse 19% lower energy consumption at production 2020: reduce energy consumption at gas emissions sites, on a like-for-like basis. production sites by 20%. reduction 25% fewer greenhouse gas emissions from the 2020: reduce GHG emissions from the transport of Group products (per sold product). transport of the Group’s products (per sold Target exceeded. product) by 20%. Waste Recycling of 72.5% of non-hazardous waste. Identify ways of reducing and recovering management waste by sharing good practices between the Group’s sites worldwide. Water All-Clad has reduced its consumption through Define enhanced action plans relating to the a program to eradicate excessive water management of water earmarked for priority consumption. The GS Colombia site in Rionegro sites. has introduced a rainwater collection system, reducing the site’s impact through recovery of this water. 100 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting process 3.4. Reporting process MEASURING OF SOCIAL, EMPLOYMENT-RELATED AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Since 2002, Groupe SEB has been committed to reporting on its data, and in many areas has extended the reporting scope, including social, employment-related and environmental performance. To this new acquisitions where possible. end, it has established a set of monitoring indicators and reporting All of the indicators reported aim to track the Group’s progress in procedures that are regularly reviewed as part of a continuous relation to its corporate responsibility commitments. The procedure improvement process. The indicators and procedures are set out in for defining and/or calculating these indicators is explained whenever an internal document entitled “Reporting process for CSR steering 3 useful or necessary. indicators”. METHODOLOGY AND TOOLS SELECTION OF INDICATORS AND GUIDELINES The Sustainable Development department coordinates the GroupThe indicators used by Groupe SEB to measure its performance in wide reporting of social, employment-related and environmental 2017 cover all of the items listed in Article 225 of French law no. 2010information. It develops formal processes for every relevant division 788 of 12 July 2010, known as the Grenelle 2 law. The Group goes and consolidates all the data collected in a specific non-financial beyond this legal requirement by reporting other indicators that fall reporting system. particularly under Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) recommendations. Based on these guidelines, which are an international standard for the Since 2012, Groupe SEB has used Tennaxia’s reporting system for reporting of non-financial information, Groupe SEB has incorporated sustainable development reporting. Its flexibility will make it easy the materiality approach within its reporting process in order to identify to incorporate future developments: adding indicators, modifying the main sustainable development priorities and the related indicators. reporting scopes, etc. It also makes it possible to create analysis reports and dashboard charts that are useful for management and In keeping with the development of national and international decision-making. Its international roll out was completed during 2013. requirements and the Group’s philosophy of continuous improvement, it has therefore added new indicators. It has also specified the The processes and tools used to collect data for the various indicators components of certain indicators to improve the reliability of published vary from one theme to the next and between regions (France and World): Theme/Region France World (excluding France) Breakdown of workforce by gender, age, Data extracted from SAP BW imported into SAP BW data imported into Tennaxia region and classification; external labor Tennaxia (annual) (annual) Data compiled in a spreadsheet People with disabilities and imported into Tennaxia (annual) Data input directly into Tennaxia (annual) Data extracted from SAP BW imported into Data extracted from SAP BW imported into Absenteeism rate Tennaxia (annual) Tennaxia (annual) Data compiled in a spreadsheet Collective agreements and imported into Tennaxia (annual) Data input directly into Tennaxia (annual) Data extracted from SAP BW imported into Overtime Tennaxia (annual) Data input directly into Tennaxia (annual) Data compiled in a spreadsheet using Winlassie software then imported into Health Tennaxia (annual) Data input directly into Tennaxia (quarterly) Data compiled in a spreadsheet using Winlassie software then imported into Safety Tennaxia (annual) Data input directly into Tennaxia (quarterly) Training Data input directly into Tennaxia (annual) Data input directly into Tennaxia (annual) Corporate sponsorship expenses Data input directly into Tennaxia (annual) Data input directly into Tennaxia (annual) Environmental data excluding direct raw materials Data input directly into Tennaxia (annual) Data input directly into Tennaxia (annual) Direct raw materials Data compiled in a spreadsheet (annual) Data compiled in a spreadsheet (annual) The reporting of these data involves more than 200 correspondents from different divisions on all Group SEB’s sites GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 101 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting process ACCURACY AND COMPARABILITY Data on absenteeism came with a methodological limit in 2015. Due to the lack of any official international definition of absenteeism, Groupe SEB is committed to ensuring that the data it publishes are information from international subsidiaries is not subject to formal accurate by carrying out a number of consistency tests. The Tennaxia monitoring and controls at Group level. Groupe SEB has worked on reporting system provides an automatic consistency checking its own international definition in order to be able to monitor and report functionality to limit data entry errors. It also allows users to attach files on absenteeism worldwide since 2016. and add comments. Any potential inconsistencies or errors flagged Regarding Health and Safety reporting, a limitation has been identified are reviewed with the sites and corrected. The Group also strives to in the recording of work-related illnesses on a global scale. Some legal maintain uniformity across its reports, presenting its indicators over systems (such as Germany) recommend medical secrecy and figures a period of three years when data are available. are therefore unavailable and treated as null for these specific cases. METHODOLOGICAL LIMITATION AND SCOPE REPORTING PERIOD The social, employment-related and environmental indicators may The period used for annual sustainable development reporting is the present methodological limitations due to the lack of standard financial year, which corresponds to the calendar year in Groupe SEB’s definitions and national/international laws (e.g. for workplace case (1 January to 31 December). accidents) and/or the qualitative nature of certain data. Given these limitations, as well as potential difficulties with data collection, the reporting scope may vary depending on the indicator. Whenever the AUDIT scope of an indicator is limited, this is explicitly stated. Any other variations in scope may be related to the creation, acquisition, sale To comply with what are now legal obligations, Mazars verified the or closure of sites. completeness and fairness of the social, employment-related, and environmental information in the Registration Document for 2017. 102 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical compliance 3.5. Ethical compliance The top priority when it comes to ethics is to apply the laws in force in fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organization each country where Groupe SEB operates. Groupe SEB also adheres (ILO) and the OECD’s guidelines for multinational enterprises. It is to the international standards set out by the UN, and particularly to also a signatory of the UN’s Global Compact and the CECED’s(1) Code the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the of Conduct. CODE OF ETHICS Over the last ten years, Groupe SEB has doubled in size, acquiring several companies (including EMSA and WMF in 2016), and has become an increasingly international group. It now has over dilemmas. This program will form part of the compulsory training for every new connected Group employee. Classroom training sessions on the Code of Ethics will be provided to non-connected members 3 33,600 employees around the world, with more than two-thirds of its of staff. workforce located outside of Europe. Since a common culture and a The various points in the Code of Ethics are included in the internal shared set of values are essential to a successful ethical approach, audit manual and are verified during site audits (38 entities were Groupe SEB has structured and formalized its policy in the form of audited in 2017 out of the 79 that could be audited). a Code of Ethics, which was drafted in 2012. Translated into the Group’s 11 main languages, it has been distributed to all employees As part of the measures introduced to ensure that the Code of worldwide and is now available online on the Group’s intranet. This Ethics’ commitments are properly applied, in 2012 the Group set document addresses 18 key areas, including child labor, antiup a whistleblowing system so that any employee or person from corruption measures, non-discrimination, environmental protection outside the Group can report situations that violate the code. The and the prevention of conflicts of interest. whistleblowing procedure was reviewed in 2017, particularly to bring it into line with two new French laws: the law on companies’ duty of Since it was rolled out in 2012, with the help of nearly 10,000 hours vigilance, published in 2017, and the Sapin II law (on transparency, of training, the Sustainable Development department has regularly anti-corruption measures and the modernization of the economy), reminded all the subsidiaries of the need to train new arrivals and to published at the end of 2016. The new whistleblowing procedure gives reprint the Code of Ethics when necessary. In 2017, several countries a much more detailed description of the steps to be followed, the organized awareness-raising/training sessions, such as Colombia, people to be contacted, the information to be provided, the way in where all the staff were involved, and Egypt. To breathe new life into which reports are handled, the confidentiality rules and protection for communication about the Code of Ethics, the Group has designed a whistleblowers, given that they come forward disinterestedly and in dedicated e-learning program. This will be available in the course of good faith. This new procedure has been applicable since the start 2018 on the digital HR platform iGrow@SEB, which all the connected of 2018 and made available to employees on the Group’s intranet. In employees in the SAP HR databases will gradually be able to access. It 2017, no reports were submitted to the email address dedicated to has six modules covering the Code of Ethics’ 18 themes. Assimilation the whistleblowing procedure, ethics@groupeseb.com. of the code’s principles will be facilitated in an interactive and fun way, through quizzes, case studies and immersion through ethical More information about risk factors can be found from page 28 and onwards. HUMAN RIGHTS Respect for Human Rights forms an integral part of the Groupe SEB of the HRCA specially adapted for China. These self-assessments, Code of Ethics as well as the training offered in this regard to which were carried out every couple of years or so, covered almost international HR Managers. As a signatory of the Global Compact 99% of the workforce and resulted in corrective action plans where since 2003, the Group decided to evaluate its teams’ practices necessary. In seven years, they enabled all sites to gain a high level in relation to Human Rights in subsidiaries employing more than of awareness of this issue. 10 people, starting in 2007. To achieve this, up until 2014 it used In 2015, Groupe SEB took things to another level by applying the same the HRCA (Human Rights Compliance Assessment) Quick Check ethical, social and environmental audit procedure that it operates self-assessment tool, developed by the Danish Institute for Human with its suppliers (WCA – Workplace Condition Assessment) to its Rights and, for sites operated by its Chinese subsidiary Supor, the industrial sites in risky areas (2), using the same specialist consulting CBSSC (China Business and Social Sustainability Check), a version firm (Intertek – see below). (1) European Committee of Domestic Equipment Manufacturers. (2) Risky areas as defined by the firm Maplecroft in the Human Rights Risk Index. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 103 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical compliance The audits (conducted once every three years) are accompanied Group’s suppliers, allows external comparisons to be made and the by action plans to rectify any non-compliances, and sites with a generating of audits that can be used in dealings with customers. compliance score of less than 70% must undergo a follow-up audit. In 2017, eight sites were audited in Russia, China, Colombia and The action plans are submitted to the Sustainable Development Vietnam. Five sites were given a total compliance score of more department. This department shares them with the Industry than 80%, and no zero tolerance non-compliances were identified. department (including the Health, Safety and Environment managers), The 3 sites that received a score of less than 80% implemented a the Human Resources department and the Audit and Internal Control corrective action plan. Four sites were given the Achievement Award department, which are therefore able to verify their implementation. (AA) label granted by Intertek, with a compliance score of more than An annual summary of the audit results is also sent to the Executive 90% and no major non-compliances: Vostok in Russia, Yuhuan and Committee. This monitoring system, similar to the one used for the Wuhan in China and Rionegro in Colombia. RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Groupe SEB bears great responsibility in terms of the manufacturing minor non-compliances, with moderate and major non-compliances of its products under ethical conditions. It follows a responsible (no pay slip, faulty electrical installation, etc.) in between. The purchasing policy that includes reporting and control systems to ensure final score, calculated out of 100, is ranked according to four that its suppliers comply with its ethical, social and environmental performance levels: high performance (85 to 100), average (71 to requirements. This policy has only been reinforced since 2012: 84), poor (51 to 70) and very poor (0 to 50). The audit report is sent to the Group’s Purchasing department. A single “zero tolerance” ■ Responsible Purchasing Charter, in conjunction with the Group’s non-compliance (e.g. failure to comply with the legal working age) Code of Ethics, available in French, English, Spanish and Chinese. triggers the following actions: a letter from the Group’s Purchasing Sent to listed suppliers (1), it explains what the Group requires from Director requiring the implementation of a corrective action plan its suppliers in relation to Human Rights and its ethical, social and within two weeks, immediate suspension of any new consultations environmental principles. This Charter is sent to all of the Group’s and a follow-up audit (by Intertek) one month later to check that the listed suppliers (including Supor) and around 90% have signed on issue has been resolved. If not, the Group ends the collaboration. to its requirements or have been deemed to be compliant thanks With scores of less than 50, the Regional Head of Purchasing sends to their own existing policies; a formal letter warning the company to correct the breach and ■ Social and environmental criteria in the preliminary evaluation checks that the situation has been rectified through a follow-up of new suppliers. CSR criteria account for 25% of the score audit 3 to 12 months later, depending on the non-compliances given to new suppliers of raw materials/components and finished involved. products. Moreover, since 2013, if just one of the major social or Some companies newly acquired by Groupe SEB (such as OBH environmental criteria is rated unsatisfactory, the supplier will be in 2015 and EMSA in 2016) already had a social audit procedure, discarded. For the environmental aspect, these criteria primarily based on the BSCI (2) (Business Social Compliance Initiative). These include the following factors: ISO 14001 certification, visible audits are added to the Intertek database, and so the Group has pollution (water, ground and air), and use of hazardous products. signed up to the BSCI in order to better monitor them. The BCSI’s For the social aspects, the main criteria are: existence of a formal compliance scale has 5 levels ranging from A (Very good) to E ethical/social policy or the signature of Groupe SEB’s Responsible (Unacceptable) and a 6th reserved for zero tolerance cases. The Purchasing Charter, working conditions, observance of employment Group considers A, B and C results to be acceptable. Zero tolerance law (age, working hours, etc.) and of safety rules. To evaluate new cases are managed according to the Group procedure defined for indirect (non-production) suppliers, the CSR criteria account for WCA, as are D and E ratings, which are managed in the same way between 5% and 15% of the score, depending on the purchasing as WCA scores of between 0 and 50 (very low performance). The category; Group’s approach is still focused on WCA, however. ■ Ethical, social and environmental audits. These audits Every year the Group audits about a quarter of its listed suppliers of are conducted by the consulting firm Intertek. A global audit raw materials/components and finished products in terms of their management tool ensures immediate and specific listed supplier compliance with its ethical, social and environmental requirements. monitoring and also makes it possible to compare the results Initial audits are paid for by the Group. Suppliers with a score of obtained by the Group’s suppliers with those of companies listed more than 70/100 are audited every four years, and the others once in the Intertek database (more than 30,000 audits). The procedure a year or every two years, depending on the volume of activity is very formal. During an initial in-depth audit (involving one to carried out with the Group. In 2017, it completed 177 initial audits three days on site, depending on the size of the company), the (153 in 2016) of suppliers in Asia (136), South America (35) and auditor reviews nearly 300 checkpoints taken from the WCA Europe (6). 32 audits related to new arrivals within the scope, (Workplace Condition Assessment) audit criteria. Each checkpoint including suppliers of OBH, WMF and EMSA. One of the suppliers is assessed according to a four-level scale of compliance ranging for which we identified a zero tolerance non-compliance refused to from “zero tolerance” (forced labor, blocked emergency exits) to (1) Groupe SEB’s listed suppliers comprise a selection of 463 direct suppliers (of materials and components), 72 finished product suppliers and 844 indirect suppliers (non-production). Listed suppliers account for over 75% of the Group’s purchases in the raw materials/components and finished products categories. These preferred suppliers are considered to be particularly effective, based on criteria of quality, cost and corporate social responsibility. (2) Business Social Compliance Initiative (2003). 104 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical compliance implement an action plan to remedy it and was therefore removed substances, Groupe SEB works with EcoMundo, a consulting from the Group’s list. The Group has now stopped working on any firm specializing in regulatory compliance in relation to chemical new developments with this supplier. All the suppliers that received substances. Almost 1,000 Groupe SEB suppliers can access a a score of less than 50 took corrective action in line with the dedicated internet portal, which makes it easier for them to write procedure set out by the Group. 58 follow-up audits were carried their eco-declarations. The Group is also making continuing efforts out in 2017. to monitor certain substances, in anticipation of future regulatory Intertek also hands out an Achievement Award (AA) label to changes (particularly in Europe, i.e. RoHS (1) and REACH (2)); suppliers who have an overall score of at least 85 and do not ■ Mapping of CSR issues by purchasing family and pilot project. present any major or zero tolerance non-compliances. In 2017, In addition to the compliance requirement, the Group is striving 20 Group suppliers received the AA label. to strengthen the sustainable development component of its ■ Ethical, Social and Environmental Audit Charter. For the sake purchasing. In order to identify opportunities for improvement, it of transparency, this document is sent to suppliers, along with the has mapped out the social and environmental issues for its main points on which they will be rated during audits. To help suppliers purchasing families. This study notably led to the insertion of make progress in social and environmental matters, the Group environmental and social clauses into calls for tender. These are organizes training sessions for their benefit on this topic. It thus designed, for example, to favor suppliers offering environmentally friendly solutions or who are committed to employing disadvantaged 3 makes sure that they have properly understood the Group’s responsible purchasing policy and the checkpoints audited as part people. of the WCA, especially in the areas of health, safety and working This impetus is a game-changer: for example, FM Logistic France, conditions. In 2017, the representatives of 101 Asian suppliers which manages the Group’s product logistics at its Saint-Cyr-en-Val attended four sessions, along with the Group buyers responsible platform, near Orléans, created FMEA, a company providing work for monitoring them. to people with disabilities, on this site in 2015. This organization ■ Internal global network of Social Audit Leaders. 17 Purchasing employs people with disabilities to perform repackaging operations Directors from Asia (8), South America (4) and Europe (5) make (such as adding starter kits or samples to packaging). At the up the network of Social Audit Leaders, which gained five new end of 2017, work subcontracted to the disability and inclusive members in 2017 (OBH, WMF, EMSA, Groupe SEB India and Supor employment sector totaled more than €3.7 million, equal to 171 FullVietnam). They are responsible for the completion of audits in their Time Equivalent (FTE) jobs, across all of the Group’s French sites. areas and for progress plans undertaken by suppliers. This network ■ Raising the Purchasing community’s awareness of sustainable is coordinated by the social compliance manager (based in Hong development. To galvanize the purchasing community, the Kong) and through regular meetings (web conferences) attended Purchasing department uses hour-long Web Forums, regularly by the Group’s Purchasing Director, covering audit reviews, the organized on specific topics, including those relating to sustainable analysis of results, exchanges of good practices, and so on. development. ■ Monitoring of chemical substances. To help suppliers guarantee For further information on how purchasing is organized within compliance with regulations relating to the non-use of hazardous Groupe SEB, see page 20. (1) Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances. (2) Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of CHemicals. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 105 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Ethical compliance MAPPING OF LISTED SUPPLIERS OF RAW MATERIALS/COMPONENTS AND FINISHED PRODUCTS AS OF 31/12/2017 FRANCE CHINA 92 237 62 EUROPE (excluding France) 5 86 12 7 20 ASIA-PACIFIC NORTH AMERICA (excluding China) 43 SOUTH AMERICA Number of suppliers of raw materials and components Number of suppliers of finished goods Groupe SEB industrial sites Note that the list consists of 535 suppliers of raw materials/components and finished products. The difference compared with the sum of the figures shown on this chart (564) is due to suppliers being located in several geographic regions. Also note that sourced products account for 32% of the products sold by the Group. ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES This topic was incorporated in the Code of Ethics that applies to and sales (active bribery of customers’ employees). These risks all employees worldwide. It provides, in particular, that Groupe SEB are mitigated for each of these two processes by specific rules; strictly prohibits any form of corruption in its dealings with commercial compliance with these rules is checked when the subsidiaries are and institutional partners as well as with the government. No financial audited. The great majority of subsidiaries have retailers as their rewards or other types of benefits may be offered in an effort to seek customers (often several hundreds), with whom they deal directly an advantage or be received in exchange for preferential treatment. In without an intermediary. addition, in 2003, the Group signed up to the UN’s Global Compact, More information about fraud and corruption risk management can whose tenth principle requires businesses to work against corruption. be found on pages 28 and 34, and particularly information about the The Audit and Internal Control department includes the risk of fraud taking into account of the Sapin II law (on transparency, anti-corruption and corruption in its assessments. Given the economic environment measures and the modernization of the economy), published in France in which the Groupe SEB subsidiaries operate, the principal risks are in December 2016. related to the purchasing process (passive bribery of the purchaser) 106 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy 3.6. A responsible employment policy Groupe SEB’s Human Resources policy aims to consolidate All the data presented below are worldwide, excluding EMSA (more a worldwide human resources platform based on the Group’s than 400 employees) and WMF (more than 6,000 employees), which values (entrepreneurial drive, passion for innovation, group spirit, became part of Groupe SEB in the course of 2016. Data concerning professionalism and respect for people). It is based on major focal new acquisitions will be included progressively, as and when they are points such as respect for Human Rights, the development of skills, integrated into the various Group processes. health and safety in the workplace, employee-management dialog and diversity and equality. GLOBAL HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT 3 To support its international growth and ensure equal treatment for the Group launched a program for the various entities’ Management all, Groupe SEB draws on human resources processes that are Committees, starting with France, in addition to the extensive 2016 harmonized worldwide. These are integrated within a dedicated training program. This operation will continue internationally in 2018. information system that incorporates the latest generation of digital After managerial skills, in 2017 Groupe SEB mapped the technical skills tools. This increased digitization enables more automated tasks and relating to the company’s various divisions (marketing, sales, finance, connects up the various processes more easily, improving the global purchasing, industry, and so on). This framework of professional management of human resources. skills and the associated jobs was produced thanks to contributions The Managerial Competency Model, rolled out in 2016 in every from expert employees from each function who will later take part in country, was integrated, at the start of 2017, within the framework its updating. It is also being incorporated within the AAI for all the of both the Annual Appraisal Interview (AAI) and the assessment of divisions as a basis for assessing job competency. external and internal applicants as part of the recruitment process. The integration of newly acquired companies, and particularly WMF, This framework, based on the Group’s values and written in a language was one of the major projects in 2017 for Groupe SEB, especially the that is understandable by all, explains the managerial conduct that human resources aspect. In the case of WMF, 22 induction workshops should be adopted to achieve the desired performance. At least were set up, with the participation of 300 Groupe SEB and WMF 25% of the objectives defined during an AAI must be linked to one managers, at corporate level and on all the continents. WMF was or more of the Model’s key competencies. In 2016-2017, 100% integrated within the Group’s HR IT systems back in September, and of the 2,500 or so managers eligible for an AAI received such an the roll-out of the HR processes was started, including the annual interview worldwide (excluding SUPOR Vietnam). To firmly embed review, AAI, wage policy, management of internal transfers, etc. the Managerial Competency Model in the teams’ practices, in 2017 ATTRACTIVENESS OF THE GROUP AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT The professional and personal development prospects offered by them to succeed in their career within the Group. The gender parity Groupe SEB are the basis of its appeal, both internally and externally. of the pairings is ensured with regard to both mentors and mentees. 20 pairings have been started up in France, and the program will be Internal promotion remains a priority for the Group: in 2017, 60% of extended worldwide in 2018. managers’ positions in France were filled by Group employees and 46% worldwide. Internal job offers are published on the imove@SEB When it comes to external recruitment, the Group relies heavily on website accessible on the intranet, which employees can use to apply digital tools. It is increasing its presence and activity on targeted social for jobs. Geographic and job transfers are a component of internal media/networks, led by LinkedIn, but also including JobTeaser, promotion. Increasing numbers of managers are requesting transfers. Twitter, Instagram, Google+, YouTube, SlideShare and Wikipedia. In 2017, the Group reviewed its international transfer policy to clarify At the end of 2017, it had more than 71,000 followers on LinkedIn and formalize the rules. (+78% compared with 2015) and doubled the number of its Twitter (#InsideGroupeSEB) followers in the space of a year. Awareness of the The Group initiated a mentoring program in 2017, to develop Group on social networks is growing thanks to a diversified editorial and retain talented individuals while promoting women’s access to line, with contributors from all backgrounds from within the company positions of responsibility. The principle is for an experienced manager (at least one publication a day). It is also boosted by the activity of a to support and advise a “high potential” employee for a year to help GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 107 3 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy community of around 50 Groupe SEB employee ambassadors, from usages” (Kitchen 3.0 and its uses) in 2016/2017. 19 teams were preevery entity and every division, who relay the Group’s messages on selected to set out their proposals at the SEB Campus in Écully, and the networks to which they belong. The Group’s attractiveness has the five finalists were able to turn their concepts into reality at the also been enhanced by a Careers website tailored to 17 geographic Group’s fablab (SEBLab). regions and a “Careers” section on the Groupe SEB TV channel On average, the Group takes in about 300 interns and work-study (YouTube). trainees every year. In 2017, for the fourth year running, it was awarded All external applications, wherever they come from, are gathered on the Happy Trainees (France) label, which recognizes excellence in a single, scalable e-recruitment platform appropriate to the Group’s its commitment to these students. Groupe SEB holds 11th place in global structure (Taleo). This platform has been introduced in 46 the rankings of companies that hire from 100 to 499 interns/workcountries, where it collected more than 26,000 applications in 2017, study trainees, moving up five places compared with 2016. The a figure that is constantly growing (15,000 applications in 2015). In Happy Trainees survey, based on the responses of 200 students, France, the US and the UK, between 15% and 20% of new hires came revealed that more than 9 out of 10 would recommend Groupe SEB from LinkedIn. Taleo also manages internal transfer requests (imove@ as a place to carry out an internship or work-study training. This is SEB). It is a key tool for HR teams responsible for recruitment. based on six criteria: professional advancement, work environment, management, motivation, pride and friendliness. This “Young talents” To widen its pool of young talent, the Group is internationalizing its policy, which includes interns, work-study trainees and participants relationships with higher education establishments. Since 2014, it in the International Masterclass and VIEs (1), is producing results: has maintained a partnership with the CEMS Global Alliance, which the Group recruits nearly 70% of its young graduate employees by includes some 30 top ranked management schools (30 countries, drawing on this pool. In 2017, as part of measures to hire interns, 1,000 students, 65 nationalities). Five years ago, the Group also set the Group began a collaboration in France with the social start-up up the International Masterclass program, which offers students “Vendredi” to offer internships shared with charitable organizations. graduating from top schools and universities a twelve-month Interns spend four days a week at the company and one day working internship with the Group (six months in France and six months at a for a charitable organization, on an assignment with a high social subsidiary): 38 young people have participated in the program since impact. This program, which is in keeping with the Group’s societal the start. Another initiative is Groupe SEB’s partnering, since 2015, commitment focused on combating exclusion, will be implemented of the “Fast-Moving Consumer Goods” Chair of ESSEC (Paris) and in 2018. the “Social Networks and Connected Objects” Chair of Telecom École de Management (Institut Mines-Télécom, Paris). In addition to The prizes and awards received by the Group are also measures strengthening its “employer brand”, these partnerships give it access of its appeal. In 2017, the Reputation Institute included it in its to the work of researchers in these fields that are vital for its growth “Reptrak France” ranking for the first time. This index assesses the strategy. The Groupe SEB Academy also contributes to the Group’s reputation of companies operating on the French market. In the list of appeal: in this challenge open to students and young graduates all the 100 highest-rated companies, Groupe SEB immediately ascended over the world, 167 teams presented innovative projects on the themes to 3rd place, after Michelin and Lego. “Cuisine et bien-être” (Cookery and well-being) and “Cuisine 3.0 et BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL WORKFORCE BY GEOGRAPHIC REGION (Worldwide, including WMF Germany and EMSA Germany) (number of individuals) 2017 2016 2015 France 5,771 5,716 5,754 Other EMEA countries 8,170 2,768 2,332 Americas 2,736 2,773 2,866 Asia 14,266 14,728 14,599 WORLD 30,943 25,985 25,551 The total workforce includes those working under permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other similar contracts, as well as work-study trainees. Temporary employees are not included in this figure. At 31 December 2017, Groupe SEB had 30,943 employees based on the scope defined in the introduction. Including the companies EMSA and WMF in their entirety, the Group has around 33,600 employees. (1) Volunteers for International Experience – Young French graduates on assignment for 12 to 24 months outside France. 108 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy BREAKDOWN OF CHANGES IN THE WORKFORCE (Worldwide) (number of individuals) 2017 2016 2015 FRANCE Recruitment (a) 645 536 504 Fixed-term contracts 340 271 297 Permanent contracts 305 265 207 Departures (a) 562 558 595 Economic redundancies 1 5 10 Terminations for other reasons 70 29 36 3 (b) AVERAGE STAFF TURNOVER RATE (%) 1.33 1.17 0.77 OTHER EMEA COUNTRIES Recruitment (a) 816 546 375 Fixed-term contracts 397 298 233 Permanent contracts 419 248 142 Departures (a) 553 476 353 Economic redundancies 50 54 39 Terminations for other reasons 54 117 60 (b) AVERAGE STAFF TURNOVER RATE (%) 9.42 6.86 5.6 AMERICAS Recruitment (a) 1,342 703 581 Fixed-term contracts 256 268 229 Permanent contracts 1086 435 352 Departures (a) 1,367 714 724 Economic redundancies 646 302 318 Terminations for other reasons 182 62 40 (b) AVERAGE STAFF TURNOVER RATE (%) 8.18 6.09 5.29 ASIA Recruitment (a) 10,163 10,582 9,920 Fixed-term contracts 9591 9,918 9,738 Permanent contracts 572 664 182 Departures (a) 10,540 10,409 9,718 Economic redundancies 37 2 6 Terminations for other reasons 9 17 11 (b) AVERAGE STAFF TURNOVER RATE (%) 12.2* 15.76* 14.15* WORLD Recruitment (a) 12,966 12,367 11,380 Fixed-term contracts 10584 10,755 10,497 Permanent contracts 2382 1,612 883 Departures (a) 13,022 12,157 11,390 Economic redundancies 734 363 373 Terminations for other reasons 315 225 147 (b) AVERAGE STAFF TURNOVER RATE (%) 5.48* 4.62* 3.80* (a) Excluding internal transfers and the return of expatriates. (b) Number of resignations of permanent contract employees/Average number of permanent employees. * Excluding Supor and Asia Fan, as data is unavailable. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 109 3 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy As in previous years, the consolidation of Supor in the Asia data leads also provide for the maintaining of the meal allowance for eight months to a high number of fixed-term or similar contracts, which are very and health insurance for six months after departure, although this is common in China and are often for long terms, especially for manual not required by law. workers. The high number of departures in the Asia region therefore This move is part of Groupe SEB’s industrial investment program in reflects the expiry of these fixed-term contracts. Brazil, whose aim is to revive its activity and restore its competitiveness In 2017, the Group turnover rate (excluding Supor and Asia Fan) was in this country. The location of the Itatiaia plant, which is a modern and 5.48% (4.62% in 2016). competitive production facility, means it is able to serve its customers in the best possible conditions. The new teams have received many In Brazil, in 2016, Groupe SEB began transferring its industrial hours of training, including quality, safety, continuous improvement electrical product (Mooca) and cookware (São Bernardo do Campo) and professional technical training. activities to Itatiaia, a new plant in the State of Rio de Janeiro, 350km north of São Paulo. The Mooca and São Bernardo site closures took In France, the consolidation of all the small electrical appliance place at the end of 2017, and were prepared for and carried out in innovation teams at the SEB Campus in Écully began in 2017, with line with the Group’s values. The redundancy plans, which affected a view to improving efficiency. This implies transferring the electrical 498 and 188 people (50 key jobs were transferred), were approved by cooking business’s strategic marketing teams from their current base the union organizations and 90% of employees. These plans go far in Selongey. This transfer, affecting 71 jobs, began in September 2017 beyond the regulations and local practices, as they were announced and will be completed in the summer of 2018. It was covered by a eight months before the first production line was transferred and are company redundancy plan unanimously approved by the employee accompanied by a large bonus in addition to the statutory redundancy representatives. The Group has done everything possible to ensure compensation (nearly nine months’ additional pay for a worker). They that non-mobile employees are not left without a solution. 110 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY TYPE OF CONTRACT (Worldwide, including WMF Germany and EMSA Germany) 2017 2016 2015 FRANCE Permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other short-term contracts 5,512 5,489 5,516 Full-time 89.7% 89.6% 90.0% Part-time 10.3% 10.4% 10.0% (a) Work-study trainees 259 227 238 OTHER EMEA COUNTRIES Permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other short-term 3 contracts 7,956 2,759 2,324 Full-time 75.3% 85.3% 82.6% Part-time 24.7% 14.7% 17.4% Work-study trainees (a) 214 9 13 AMERICAS Permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other short-term contracts 2,680 2,732 2,820 Full-time 99.4% 99.5% 99.2% Part-time 0.6% 0.5% 0.8% Work-study trainees (a) 56 41 47 ASIA Permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other short-term contracts 14,266 14,728 14,599 Full-time 99.9% 99.9% 99.7% Part-time 0.1% 0.1% 0.3% (a) Work-study trainees 0 0 0 WORLD Permanent contracts, fixed-term contracts or other short-term contracts 30,414 25,708 25,259 Full-time 91.6% 96.1% 96.0% Part-time 8.5% 3.9% 4.0% Work-study trainees (a) 529 277 298 (a) Working under apprenticeship/professional training contracts. Data from GS India and Coranco were included in 2016. Excluding Supor, where fixed-term contracts are normal and often for long periods, particularly for manual workers, 87.9% of the workforce Worldwide, 61.3% of the workforce are on permanent contracts, are on permanent contracts. 37.0% on fixed-term contracts and 1.7% are work-study trainees. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 111 3 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy DIVERSITY Because diversity is a source of vitality, creativity and innovation, the BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY AGE Group promotes it in all its aspects: gender equality, ethno-social diversity, age-group balance, inclusion of people with disabilities, (Worldwide excluding Supor and Asia Fan, by number of employees) etc. Groupe SEB has a non-discrimination policy to ensure that all employees are treated equally as regards their recruitment, pay and career development within the Group, in accordance with our Code of Ethics. In France, the Human Resources teams received awareness> 55 years 1,262 raising training in stereotypes, diversity and gender equality in 2017. At 1,219 the start of 2018, more specific training on the theme “Recruiting and managing without discriminating or harassing” will be introduced for 3,073 45-55 years Human Resources Managers and people responsible for recruitment. 2,401 Groupe SEB has been a signatory of the Diversity Charter since 2005 2,433 in France. Numerous actions have been implemented to support 35-44 years 2,000 this policy at local sites and raise employee awareness. Diversity is monitored by specific committees covering signed collective 2,149 25-34 years agreements on this issue. A forward-looking “Equality and 1,888 Diversity” discussion and action group has been set up, whose members are employees, Human Resources managers and employee 750 < 25 years representatives. It met for the first time at the end of 2016 to consider 721 religion in a corporate environment, three years after the Group 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 published its first in-house guide on the subject (which was updated Men in 2015). With the support of a specialized consulting firm, the working Women group produced an analysis grid, which complements the guidelines and takes a very practical approach, to help managers, including HR Managers, to deal with the various possible scenarios. The inter-generational contract, renewed in France in 2016 with the To promote diversity and combat the risk of discrimination, each site employee representatives, aims to bring young people, and particularly in France has a local Diversity Committee. All the local committees those without qualifications, into the workforce, to hire and keep older have been trained in diversity indicators and measurement by the employees and to ensure that knowledge is transferred. Under this specialized body ISM Corum. The Group has also set up (in 2011) agreement, between 250 and 290 new hires are planned in France by a Diversity Council incorporating the LICRA(1). This body provides 2019, 25% of whom will be young people, rising to 33% in the case mediation services and recourse to employees regarding any type of new hires to replace retired employees at industrial sites. The new of diversity or discrimination related issues that are not successfully contract also includes a systematic ergonomic analysis of the jobs resolved by local bodies within the Group. It has not yet needed to held by employees over 57, so as to reduce physical hardship as much meet. as possible. Over the period covered by the previous contract (20132016), the Group largely exceeded the recruitment forecasts, including To improve the diversity of intern and work-study trainee applicant for young people who received training and assistance, primarily profiles, and particularly increase the share of young people from through mentorships. The average age of Group employees is 41.8. poor districts, in 2017, in France, the Group began a partnership with recruitment firm Mozaïk RH, a specialist in the promotion of diversity. This collaboration resulted in a dozen people being hired in 2017 and will continue in 2018. (1) International League against Racism and Antisemitism. 112 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy GENDER EQUALITY this category. They also accounted for 30% of expatriate managers. They still only make up 18% of the Group’s 180 or so key managers, Gender equality in the workplace is an integral part of the nonhowever, although this percentage is rising, standing at 12% in 2015. discrimination and diversity promotion policy followed by Groupe SEB. To accelerate the rise of women to senior management positions, the In France, it is the object of a collective agreement (renewed at Human Resources department is planning to have at least one woman the end of 2015) on five major themes: remuneration; professional in the short list of applicants for key posts. The mentoring program development, training, promotion and classification; recruitment; launched in 2017, based on strict gender parity, is also contributing working conditions; and the work-family life balance. It requires (see Attractiveness section on page 107). every French company within the Group to define an action plan In addition, to make it easier for women to move into technical jobs, with monitoring indicators. Every year, a comparative annual report traditionally held by men, since 2016 the Group has asked all the is produced on the action plan showing the progress made. In 2017, French sites to introduce specific training (awarding academic credits) the Rumilly site took this opportunity to present the progress made for them, accompanied by offers of higher grade jobs. Production with its gender equality in the workplace agreement through an event operators can in this way become line supervisors, machinists or attended by local elected officials, the HR directors of companies in welders. The Group is also doing its bit to promote gender equality the local employment area and the site’s employees. in the workplace by being a partner in the digital platform Egalitées. Among the measures taken to help people balance their work and fr, where it presents the profiles of several women within the Group personal lives, employees were given the option of flexible work scheduling, and several sites introduced child-care or concierge service arrangements (Rumilly and Écully). In France, the agreement with jobs that have traditionally been considered to be masculine roles (“The gender of my job” heading). In 2017, it contributed to a project to raise awareness of job diversity set up by the association “Femmes 3 on quality of life at work, signed in June 2016, took up a number of ici et ailleurs” (Women here and elsewhere), based on a traveling suggestions from the Forum on gender equality in the workplace exhibition that will be doing a three-year tour of French schools. held in March of the same year, attended by 150 employees from all Many countries have adopted specific laws on sexual harassment, the French sites, and the Group’s Chairman and CEO and the Senior and the Group is particularly aware of this issue. In the Nordic Executive Vice-president, Human Resources. The proposals taken countries, for example, it updated its policy in this area in 2017, and up in the quality of life at work agreement include tele-commuting, disseminated it to all its employees through the intranet. In India, where ensuring the diversity of applications transmitted by recruitment the government legislated against sexual harassment in the workplace firms, and the paying of childcare costs during training, under certain in 2013, Groupe SEB has introduced a very detailed policy to prevent conditions. such behavior, along with a procedure for filing complaints. In 2016, The Group is also endeavoring to improve the balance between men the subsidiary organized awareness-raising sessions on this policy and women in management worldwide: in 2017, 36.7% of managers for all its staff. It has created a sexual harassment committee, one of were women (29% in 2007) and 45% of the external new hires in whose tasks is to manage complaints. GENDER BREAKDOWN BY CLASSIFICATION (Worldwide, including WMF Germany and EMSA Germany) (in %) 2017 2016 2015 MEN Manual workers 32.2 34.9 35.0 Employees 18.5 17.7 17.1 Managers 7.5 7.5 7.4 TOTAL 58.1 60.1 59.5 WOMEN Manual workers 18.5 20.4 21.1 Employees 19.0 15.1 15.2 Managers 4.3 4.4 4.2 TOTAL 41.9 39.9 40.5 At the end of 2017, 50.7% of the Group’s workforce were manual workers, 37.5% were employees and 11.8% were managers, 36.7% of whom were women. Excluding Supor, manual workers, both male and female, represented 34.2% of the workforce, while the percentage of managers totaled 18.0%. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 113 3 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES their workstations are examined. They also receive increased specific financial assistance, training to develop their employability and, if they Disability represents a two-fold challenge for Groupe SEB, which wish, mentoring by a Group employee, organized on a voluntary basis. works to prevent it through its health and safety policy, while Disabled employees reaching the end of their careers may reduce their providing employment opportunities to people with disabilities. working hours by 20% by producing a doctor’s note, while keeping The three-year collective agreement on people with disabilities was the same rate of pay and benefits. Specific training has also been renewed by Groupe SEB in France in 2017. It aims to deliver better designed for managers to make it easier for disabled employees to conditions for disabled workers joining the workforce and ensure their return to work after a long absence. The agreement also provides for long-term integration within both industrial and tertiary companies the extending of leave to take care of sick children to disabled children, through a number of practical measures. Under the terms of this with no age limit. Groupe SEB has informed its partner schools of the agreement, disabled workers undergo frequent monitoring during signing of the agreement and works with specialized organizations to their induction within the Group and possible adaptations to improve act from the recruitment stage. (Worldwide, excluding Coranco and GS India) 2017 2016 2015 World France World France World France Number of disabled employees 439 311 453 326 461 323 % of disabled employees (a) 1.42 5.39 1.77 5.70 1.80 5.61 (a) Ratio between the number of employees with disabilities and the total number of employees as of 31 December excluding temporary employees and ESAT (sheltered employment center) employees. With the exception of Supor, where the number of physically disabled employees is relatively low, the number of disabled employees stood at 2.3% worldwide in 2017 (3.2% in 2016). EMPLOYEE-MANAGEMENT DIALOG Groupe SEB is committed to respecting freedom of association representatives. This sets forth additional measures to support the everywhere in the world and encourages employee-management careers of employees who are union representatives. Team managers dialog at its subsidiaries, on both an individual and collective basis. also receive training in employee-management dialog. It also works to create employee representation bodies in all the Groupe SEB has a European Group Committee with employee countries in which it operates. This commitment was reaffirmed in representatives from 14 European Union countries and the United the Group’s Code of Ethics. Kingdom. In France, to encourage the exercise of trade union rights, in 2007 Groupe SEB signed a specific agreement with employee COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS (Worldwide, excluding Coranco and GS India) 2017 2016 2015 France 38 51 25 Other EMEA countries 35 32 29 Americas 12 12 18 Asia 37 38 38 WORLD 122 133 110 A total of 122 collective agreements were signed in 2017. 32.0% of center has been enhanced and given action plans, which are focused these agreements related to remuneration (39), 19.7% to health and particularly on training to plan ahead for changes in job roles due to safety (24), 5.7% to diversity (7) and 9% to employee-management robotization, digitization, and so on. It also gives increased importance dialog (11). The Group renewed three major agreements in France in to mentoring in various fields of expertise, with 30 new mentors being 2017: Profit-sharing and Bonuses, Disability and Forward Planning of trained over the 2017-2019 period. Employment and Skills (GPEC). This last agreement, which was signed At the end of 2017, almost 70% of Groupe SEB’s workforce was by three out of the four representative union organizations, is more covered by a collective agreement signed in the course of the year. comprehensive and operational than the previous version, as the career Excluding EMSA Germany and WMF Germany, this rate reaches 83%. 114 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy QUALITY OF LIFE AT WORK The Group also pays close attention to its employees’ quality of life adopt a healthier way of life through the Living Healthy program. At the at work. In order to make progress, since 2012 it has used a survey main sites, Well-being committees relay more than 100 initiatives, such (64 questions) conducted by the Great Place To Work institute to as weight-loss competitions, online stress management seminars, assess employees’ perceptions in this area. This employee survey sports activities, cooking and health workshops, and help giving up was first introduced in France and has now been extended to all smoking. Every year, more than 200 participants receive a bonus the continents, so that it covered around 40 countries at the end based on the points that they have amassed. Between 2012 and 2016, of 2017. The participation rate for the 2017 survey was 76%, with health costs per employee fell by 4% at GS USA, compared with an 65% of employees saying that Groupe SEB is a great place to work average rise of more than 10% for the country as a whole. Colombia and 71% saying they are proud to work for the Group. Each country has also implemented a well-being at work improvement plan named conducts the Great Place To Work survey every two years. An action “Groupe SEB te consiente” (Groupe SEB takes care of you) along three plan is implemented based on the detailed results, to improve on main lines: “me, other people and the world around me”. areas of weakness, with extensive employee involvement. Progress A collective agreement on quality of life at work was signed in 3 is in fact being made: in 2017, countries that carried out the survey France in 2016. It took practical form in 2017 with the introduction for the second time improved their overall score by 3 points on of various measures such as tele-commuting, which has been a real average. The Iberian subsidiary (Spain and Portugal) led the pack, success with employees, more than 330 of whom had already adopted gaining 13 points, as 82% of its employees were globally satisfied. it by the end of the year. Another measure considered to be very Managers are invited to get involved so that the actions produce positive by its users is the telephone support service for employees results and ultimately employees’ perceptions improve. In France, and their spouses who are caring for an elderly or disabled loved for example, the sales subsidiary has included the Great Place To one (Responsage). The actions taken also include a social assistance Work survey in the management and monitoring tools for its companyhotline rolled out to all the sites, improvements to break rooms and, wide project Be One. As a result, during the 2016 Great Place To on some sites, easier access to intercompany nursery facilities and Work campaign, this entity recorded the biggest gain in France. In the offering of concierge/personal services. this country, numerous actions have been undertaken since 2015 to improve managerial communication and information about career As part of the prevention of psychosocial risks, in 2012 Groupe SEB development. Several sites have launched initiatives to present jobs set up a counseling office in France, outsourced to the specialist firm in different areas to encourage transfers and raise awareness between Turka. The aim is to offer assistance and support to any employee who teams. These include the “Experience my job” operation, the “1 hour, becomes the victim of or witness to such situations as harassment, 1 job” conferences and the “Tell me about your job” series of videos discrimination and workplace violence or the stress resulting from on Intracom. them. The employee may remain anonymous if he or she wishes. In any event, the Turka counselor assists the employee and/or puts them The actions carried out by subsidiaries to improve quality of life at in contact with the person in the best position to help. Between 2015 work differ according to local priorities. The priority for GS USA, for and 2017, 51 employees contacted the counseling office, which is less example, is health, and it has been encouraging its employees to than the national average according to the firm Turka. HEALTH AND SAFETY For several years, Groupe SEB has been developing measures to in working groups and visit five French sites. This seminar also allowed reduce the number of workplace accidents and limit the number of coordinators to get to know each other better, share a common vision work-related illnesses (and particularly musculoskeletal disorders in and boost the international momentum, maintained by the creation France). To step up the implementation of this policy globally, the of a community on Yammer (Groupe SEB social network). Tertiary position of Group Health and Safety Director, reporting directly to the sites have EHS advisors. The Group has also undertaken to certify its President for Industry, was created in 2017. health and safety management system (OHSAS 18001), with 97% of its industrial and logistical entities certified at the end of 2017. The health and safety policy draws on a global network of 32 Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Coordinators, who cover all of the industrial and logistics sites (more than 40) in 13 countries. At Supor, a central EHS Coordinator oversees the activities of the SAFETY EHS Coordinators at the various sites in China and Vietnam. In 2017, Groupe SEB’s safety approach, in the form of the worldwide Safety this network gained three new members, representing WMF and in SEB program, is backed by the highest level of management, as EMSA. It met for a week in France in October at the first international demonstrated by the letter addressed by Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise seminar dedicated to Health, Safety and the Environment. This event to all employees in 2013. The Chairman has also made a video on was an opportunity for EHS coordinators to discuss the Group’s the subject, which has been translated into eight languages and strategies in this field up to 2020, share more than 60 good practices GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 115 3 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy broadcast widely to the teams, with the support of local management. HEALTH The 2020 Safety road map emphasizes the involvement of employees as participants in their own safety. At the plants, for example, safety In the health field, Groupe SEB focuses a large part of its efforts on is one of the points that is reviewed daily by the production teams as combating musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) in the upper limbs, part of the OPS (Operation Performance SEB) initiative. The Group and lower back pain. The aim is to prevent them from appearing and has set itself a target of halving the number of accidents (LTI – Lost slow their deterioration. This is a major issue for the industrial sites, Time Injuries) by 2020, while including temporary staff in its reporting. particularly in Europe, exacerbated by the aging of the workforce and extensions to the pension age. The Group’s response involves In 2017, the Group continued to roll out its safety standards worldwide. awareness-raising and training measures, taking MSD prevention These procedures formalize the Group’s minimum requirements, above into account from the design phase forward and carrying out specific and beyond compliance with national and international regulations. measures on the sites. These standards are incorporated into safety management procedures and are written in English, French and Chinese. They apply to all In 2016, Groupe SEB laid the groundwork for an international health teams worldwide. Some standards concern safety organization and plan (Health in SEB). An analysis was performed on all the industrial management, while others target the prevention of specific risks (falls and logistics sites to identify the main health risks (dust, noise, from a height, machine protection etc.). Internal audits are conducted repetitive work, etc.). This inventory was used as a basis for the to ensure their application. At the end of 2017, 22 standards were creation of Group standards and to define health targets, accompanied operational. Of the five new standards rolled out in 2017, two are by monitoring indicators. In 2017, the Group introduced a worldwide particularly important: the standard relating to individual protection indicator that can be used to conduct monthly monitoring of equipment and the new version of the behavior-based safety improvements in workstation ergonomics (excluding WMF and EMSA). inspection (VCS) standard. As more than 80% of accidents could The objective is for every site to improve 20% of its workstations per be avoided by making behavioral changes, the aim of the VCS is year according to ergonomic criteria. to eliminate dangerous practices and conditions on the basis of a In France, the Group launched the Health Plan 2 (2017-2020) in discussion between the employee “inspected” and a line manager. 2017, following on from the first health plan in 2009. Its aim is to The health and ergonomic aspects of the new VCS standard have pass a new milestone by combining health with performance and been strengthened, notably by including new checkpoints relating to prioritizing prevention and the well-being of employees. It has three postures. Every industrial or logistics site employee is inspected twice focal areas: reducing physical and psychological risks (and especially a year on average for risky sectors. In 2017, WMF started to introduce MSDs); making health dashboard charts more reliable and developing VCSs at its industrial and logistics sites. communication; and improving safety management. A multidisciplinary Another good practice that has become a Group standard is the Health Steering Committee has been set up to share good practices Safety Pyramid. This aims to detect future events likely to result and the focal areas for development of the Group’s health policy, in accidents so that these can be prevented. When faced with a to monitor health-related issues in the workplace, and to manage potentially hazardous situation or a “near miss”, the individual is the measures taken, with the promotion of investments that combine supposed to take immediate action to prevent the risk and to report health with performance. it so that corrective measures can be taken. The number of VCSs Every French industrial and logistics site has a Steering Committee and the number of reports in connection with the Safety Pyramid are for Musculoskeletal Disorders and one or more MSD Specialists who used by the Group as safety policy management indicators, along ensure that risks are taken into account upstream, at the product with the accident rate. design stage, and downstream, by amending workstations where Since 2013, every workplace accident has been reported to all site appropriate. In 2017, the Group had 35 MSD specialists in France, who managers and to Groupe SEB’s safety community to strengthen will be joined by eight new specialists who have just completed their preventive measures (Safety Vigilance Flash system). Each industrial training in 2018. Ergonomic improvements to workstations, training and logistics site has also defined five “unbreakable rules” to and staff rotations, warm-up and cool-down exercises, as well as a address major risks, no deviation from which will be tolerated. These quick response whenever an employee indicates discomfort while supplement the six universal “golden rules” that are designed to working are all actions that have been taken to prevent the emergence ensure that everyone within the Group contributes to the safety of of MSDs. all. These golden rules, illustrated through a cartoon, are available Since 2015, the Groupe SEB University and the Industry department in 10 languages. have offered a training program, primarily for the methods teams, Since 2016, the Group has strengthened the safety culture in its tertiary several modules of which are devoted to the prevention of MSDs and commercial entities (offices and shops). The golden rules are (School of Methods). systematically communicated and some sites have introduced their own unbreakable rules. These entities are also now part of the Safety Vigilance Flash system. 116 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy (Worldwide, excluding GS India and Coranco) 2017 2016 2015 FRANCE Number of workplace accidents with days lost 40 48 53 Number of days lost 2,160 2,588 2,202 LTIR (a) 4.8 5.8 6.3 Severity rate (b) 0.26 0.31 0.26 Number of workplace fatalities 0 0 0 OTHER EMEA COUNTRIES Number of workplace accidents with days lost 9 6 9 Number of days lost 143 101 248 LTIR (a) 2.0 1.4 2.4 Severity rate (b) 0.03 0.02 0.07 Number of workplace fatalities AMERICAS Number of workplace accidents with days lost 12 0 11 0 25 0 3 Number of days lost 362 436 694 LTIR (a) 2.5 1.9 4.0 Severity rate (b) 0.07 0.07 0.11 Number of workplace fatalities 0 0 0 ASIA Number of workplace accidents with days lost 21 34 39 Number of days lost 1,113 2,357 2,832 LTIR 0.6 0.9 1.0 Severity rate (b) 0.03 0.06 0.07 Number of workplace fatalities 0 0 3 WORLD Number of workplace accidents with days lost 82 99 126 Number of days lost 5,482 5,482 5,976 LTIR (a) 1.5 1.8 2.2 Severity rate (b) 0.07 0.10 0.10 Number of workplace fatalities 0 0 3 (a) Lost Time Injury Rate. (b) Number of days lost per thousand hours worked. All the data shown in the table exclude temporary employees. five years. France recorded 40 Lost Time Injuries without temporary staff (LTI) and 64 Lost Time Injuries with temporary staff (LTI i). It also The frequency rate of workplace accidents (TF1), used by the Group recorded 143 occupational accidents with and without days lost workuntil 2013, corresponds to the number of occupational accidents with related in 2017, excluding temporary staff. The severity rate was 0.26 days lost per million hours worked. It counts all types of accidents excluding temporary staff. with days lost including those that are not directly related to working conditions. In 2014, Groupe SEB adopted a new system of accounting Worldwide, the LTIR, excluding temporary staff, stood at 1.5 in 2017, for accidents that includes the idea of a link with work. This is the one versus 1.8 in 2016. This progress confirms the trend for the last few used by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) years. Groupe SEB recorded 82 Lost Time Injuries without temporary and is applied in many large groups. Accidents which have no direct staff (LTI) and 113 Lost Time Injuries with temporary staff (LTI i). causal link with work are no longer counted in the Group’s Lost Time In 2018, the target for LTIR i (including temporary staff) is set at 2,5 Injury Rate (LTIR). The new internal recording system has no effect worlwide and 5,5 in France. The Group-wide severity rate was 0.07 on local legal declarations, which remain unchanged. The LTIR target excluding temporary staff. for 2017 was 5.1 for France and 1.5 worldwide. The 2 targets were met. In total, Groupe SEB recorded 210 occupational accidents with and In France the LTIR, excluding temporary employees, stood at 4.8 without days lost work-related in 2017, excluding temporary staff, and in 2017, versus 5.8 in 2016. This rate has been more than halved in 267 including temporary staff. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 117 3 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy Two Group entities account for nearly 65% of the total number of A worldwide survey of work-related illnesses has been conducted workplace accidents with days lost: France, which reported 49% since 2013. 66 new cases of work-related illnesses were recognized of accidents, and Supor China. Thanks to the increase in accident throughout the Group in 2017. Work-related illnesses rose compared prevention measures worldwide, and in Group standards and tools, with 2016, when 62 cases were reported. Supor China reported 9 fewer accidents than in 2016. Number of new work-related illness cases recognized in the year 2017 2016 2015 France 55 57 48 Other EMEA countries 0 0 0 Americas 11 4 3 Asia 0 1 1 WORLD 66 62 52 Groupe SEB is aware of the importance of the issue of work-related rotations where this is permitted by the organization of the workstation, illnesses, especially Musculoskeletal Disorders (MSDs), and has taken warm-up and stretching exercises and a quicker response when an health measures in France, such as ergonomic improvements to employee reports that they are experiencing pain. Several sites in workstations on production sites, with the introduction of an indicator France also pay for visits to a physiotherapist and offer a hotline to monitored monthly, training in manual handling, for example, staff an osteopath. OHSAS 18001 CERTIFICATION (Worldwide) 2017 2016 2015 Number of certifiable entities 35 36 37 Entities holding OHSAS 18001 certification (a) 97% 92% 89% (a) Based on industrial and logistics entities at the end of the year concerned. Since 2007, the Group has set all its sites to work on the certification Action plans have been launched to bring this figure up to 100%. of its health and safety management system (OHSAS 18001). At the end of 2017, 97% of the Group’s industrial and logistics entities had this workplace health and safety certification. GLOBAL SOCIAL PROTECTION FLOOR In terms of social protection, in 2017 the Group made significant coverage. In 2017, for instance, medical insurance was extended in progress in its efforts to offer its employees, throughout the world, several countries, including Poland, Ukraine and Canada. a high level of coverage compared to the local context, beyond regulatory obligations. A worldwide inventory of practices, produced in 2016 in the 73 countries where the Group has employees, already PAYROLL AND CHARGES showed that 85% of them had death insurance cover. In 2017, the Group formalized the 3 pillars of its social protection policy, which will Groupe SEB is committed to the implementation of a fair and be gradually implemented between now and 2020 and which consist transparent remuneration policy that is understandable by all. It is of death insurance; major medical risk (hospitalization) cover and the committed to paying wages in every country in line with current introduction of systematic medical examinations; and maternity or regulations and minimum industry standards, enabling employees to paternity leave. The pilot phase of this program was launched in 2017 cover their basic needs and to benefit from disposable income. Using in the Eurasia region. job evaluation tools, every employee’s position can be assessed in relation to others in terms of remuneration and responsibility. The The Group is also keen to review employment contracts on a regular remuneration of all managers who have a certain level of responsibility basis in order to supplement and/or improve existing insurance comprises a variable portion related to the results of the Group and those of the entity in which they work. 118 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy 2017 2016 2015 (in € millions) World France World France World France Remuneration (a) 921.1 244.8 601.7 242.7 576.5 238.2 Payroll taxes (b) 185.8 69.0 125.9 68.0 122.4 69.0 Pension and other post-employment benefit plan costs 56.9 42.7 55.5 41.3 54.0 39.9 (a) Excludes bonuses and proﬁt-sharing – includes provisions for paid holidays, excludes employee beneﬁts. (b) Includes provisions for payroll taxes on paid holidays. WMF and EMSA joined the consolidation scope in 2017. “Worldwide” data include “France” data. BONUS AND PROFIT-SHARING SCHEMES listed on the Paris Stock Exchange in 1975, the Group has had AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS employee shareholders. In 40 years, it has implemented 13 employee shareholding operations, gradually extending beyond France starting In the area of profit sharing, Groupe SEB has been a pioneer: for in 1992. The last operation, in 2012, covered 30 countries and the plan over 50 years it has tied employee pay to the company’s financial performance and does so in most countries in which it operates. In France, 50% of the total bonuses paid by the Group is distributed was taken up by over 30% of the employees concerned. At the end of 2017, there were 885 direct employee shareholders (shares managed by the Group’s shareholder department directly), plus 1,297 former 3 evenly across all employees in France. In addition, since it was employee shareholders. (France) (in € thousands) 2017 2016 2015 Provision for bonuses 19,058 19,337 14,324 Provision for profit sharing 18,498 17,458 17,091 TOTAL 37,556 36,795 31,415 Amounts paid over the year in question for the previous year. In 2017, the amount paid in profit-sharing and bonuses will amount to €37,6 million in respect of 2017. Please note that figures include the employer’s social tax contribution. The profit-sharing bonus was discontinued in 2015. TRAINING AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT Training is essential to skills development. It covers all Group programs offered, regardless of their job or place in the reporting employees and most training programs are organized in a decentralized line. All the existing e-learning modules have migrated to iGrow@ manner. Every year, the Human Resources department defines SEB, notably the Digital Academy and Managerial Competency the Group’s training priorities. Using this frame of reference, each Model modules, and the Group has begun to create new programs subsidiary develops its own training plan based on the employees’ on various subjects. These include the Compliance program, which needs and expectations. In the case of managers, these expectations will have modules on the Code of Ethics, IT security and the protection are expressed during the Annual Appraisal Interviews, carried out of personal data, internal control, and anti-competitive practices. worldwide. In France, all non-managerial employees have an Annual Aside from this free access for all to e-learning modules, in some Appraisal Interview, which includes a training and skills development pilot countries iGrow@SEB can be used by connected employees component. A global reporting system makes it possible to track the to submit training requests online, after which the process continues training provided throughout the world. automatically (approval by the employee’s line manager and the HR department and setting up of the training). This is the case in the In 2017, the Group greatly enhanced the Training part of its new digital United States, France, Mexico and Hong Kong. This ramp-up of digital HR platform iGrow@SEB, translated into five languages (English, technology in the Group’s training offering was given a boost at the French, German, Spanish and Portuguese). By the start of 2018, every start of 2017 by the creation of the position of e-learning Manager connected employee worldwide included in the SAP HR databases within the Training department. (excluding Supor) had access to this platform and to all the e-learning GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 119 3 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy TRAINING (WORKFORCE AND TRAINING HOURS) (Worldwide) 2017 2016 2015 World (c) World (a) World (a) Number of training hours 489,628 401,810 521,197 (b) Number of employees trained 29,954 25,015 24,324 Number of women trained 12,954 8,663 8,962 Number of men trained 16,999 16,352 15,362 (a) Excluding Groupe SEB Korea. (b) Data updated to correct a calculation error. (c) Excluding All-Clad, the Supor training hours include e-learning. Supor data was included in the consolidated data in 2014. Groupe SEB This training offering is based on four “bricks” of skills, adapted to Korea was included in the consolidation scope in 2017. Excluding employees’ various training needs: DÉCLIC (review of fundamental Supor, WMF and ESMA, almost 84% of Group employees received concepts in core subjects); General Training Certificate (national at least one training session in 2017. education diploma combined with an internet and computer skills certificate); RIAE (in-house recognition of professional experience) and Of the total hours of training completed in 2017 (excluding Supor, AllVAE (validation of professional experience). In 2017, 67 employees Clad, WMF and EMSA), 24% was for manual workers, 42% for office received this type of training. All of the Group’s French sites have employees and 34% for managers. WMF organized 90,424 hours of had career centers since 2011 and aim to allocate 20% of their total training and trained 3,084 people in 2017. training budget to training designed to improve the employability of In addition to the training referred to above, connected employees employees with limited qualifications. (excluding SUPOR, WMF and EMSA) spent more than 1,800 hours In France, Groupe SEB also makes use of inter-generational on the iGrow@SEB platform through the various e-learning modules. mentoring to facilitate the integration of new employees, to transfer In France, Groupe SEB employs 5,771 people across around 15 sites. core skills and know-how and to support work-study trainees during Its industrial operations are moving towards greater automation and their apprenticeships. This is included in the GPEC (occupation computerization of production systems, with new management system and skills forecasting) (2017) and inter-generational contract (2016) requirements. In this regard, the Group is committed to guaranteeing collective agreements. To support this program, a booklet on the employability of its employees, to facilitate their professional mentoring was created in 2015 and is given to each mentor/mentee development. This is the aim of the training organized under the GPEC pairing. 282 pairings were in operation in 2017 (209 mentors of (Forward Planning of Employment and Skills), which is the object of a work-study trainees, 27 mentors in various fields of expertise and collective agreement renewed in 2017 (see page 114). 46 mentors facilitating employee integration). 120 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy TRAINING BUDGETS (a) (Worldwide, excluding WMF and EMSA) (as a % of payroll) 2017 (c) 2016 2015 (b) France 4.33 3.90 3.86 Other EMEA countries 1.52 2.15 2.35 Americas 2.73 0.89 1.16 Asia 0.88 1.03 1.30 WORLD 2.59 2.38 2.53 (a) Teaching costs + expenses, wages for interns. (b) Excluding Groupe SEB Korea. (c) Excluding All-Clad. 3 The Group’s training expenses were 2.59% of its payroll in 2017. For Asia and 3.19% Group-wide. WMF’s training expenses account for the Supor subsidiary, these expenses amounted to 0.69% of its payroll 0.54% of its payroll. for this year. Excluding Supor, this percentage stands at 1.44% for GROUPE SEB UNIVERSITY (UGS) (Worldwide, excluding WMF and EMSA) 2017 2016 2015 Number of trainees 1,112 900 998 Number of training sessions 157 95 121 Number of training hours 31,681 25,306 22,708 The increase in the number of hours and the number of people trained the help of Supor’s teams. Developing Your Leadership Impact targets is linked to the creation and roll-out of new training programs. a wider population of managers, while Developing Our Talents is for young people with potential. More than 130 people completed one The Groupe SEB University, which celebrated its 25th anniversary in of these three programs in 2017. The UGS is also in the process of 2016, offers high-level training to employees, in France and elsewhere. developing a new program for middle managers to expand the scope It continued to focus on leadership, digital tools and “professional” of employees receiving such training. This will alternate face-to-face sales and marketing skills in 2017. sessions with e-learning and should benefit nearly 100 people in 2018 The UGS played a big role in implementing the training to support and many more in 2019. the worldwide introduction of the Digital Workplace (see below) in Within the Sales & Marketing School, the UGS has revived the 2017, in close collaboration with the communication and information “First” program, which explains Groupe SEB’s fundamentals (strategy systems (IT) teams. From January to October, more than 4,400 people and processes) to new members of the Innovation Community (e.g. were trained in 28 countries during half-day sessions led by one Marketing, Research, and Design employees). It has also designed a person from the UGS and one from the IT teams. More than 1,600 specific e-learning module on Key Account Planning for key account employees completed the Digital Workplace course online, with the managers. Nearly 200 of these managers followed this module in 2017. help of 12 video tutorials and 12 user guides. In 2017, in France, the UGS also launched a program on the OPS On the theme of leadership, the UGS’s training offering is based (Opération Performance SEB) initiative for the local management of on three main programs. Advanced management is designed for the industrial sites. This will be extended to the Supor and Germany sites Group’s senior managers, and the first part takes place in China, with in 2018. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 121 3 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS AND THE DIGITAL UNIVERSE The Group is stepping up its digital transformation in every field, The video content was considerably developed in 2017, with series including the working environment of its employees. In 2017, for based on employee stories. Three of these series focus on jobs instance, the worldwide roll-out of the Digital Workplace, based (“Tell me about your job”), Group strategy, and marketing good on Microsoft Office 365, was completed, improving the employee practices, while the fourth (“3 questions for….”) gives the floor to experience. All of the Group’s connected employees (around different speakers talking about key issues, and particularly the 9,000 people) now benefit from a much larger storage capacity, new, Group’s digitization. The Telex, which is published almost daily, keeps higher performance, collaborative services and an internal social employees informed about the Group’s news across the world. The network named Yammer. They can access their work space regardless Group also helps employees to use social media appropriately, both of their location and the device that they use. This roll-out has been in the professional sphere and in their private activities on the internet, supported by an extensive communication campaign translated into especially when they refer to the Group. This is the purpose of the 15 languages that includes posters, videos, a dedicated section on new version of the Guide to Social Media Good Practices, which was the intranet, presentation packs, and e-mails. To launch Yammer and published at the start of 2017. present its main uses (collaborative monitoring, mutual assistance, The in-house press also plays an important role. “Tempo”, the Group’s sharing of areas of interest and events) a fun game was released at digital magazine, is published in French, English and Chinese. In the end of the year to support the community dynamic. 2017, its audience was expanded to all of the Group’s connected More generally, the Group’s digitization has been accompanied by employees. Many site newspapers and topical newsletters supplement many other communication initiatives, including “Chroniques du the platform. Digital” (Digital Chronicles) on the Intranet, which offers articles and 2017 was also the year of the official inauguration of the new head video interviews, themed events in the head office’s “Digital Room” office on the SEB Campus in Écully, where around 1,000 people (40 sessions with a total of more than 2,000 participants), and the work. The Campus benefits from local communication that was very organizing of a Data Day in December. active in 2017, with a cycle of conferences with well-known speakers With regard to Intracom (the intranet portal), plans are under way to (“SEB Talks”), management workshops to share good practices move from a simple approach based on access to the Group’s intranets between team managers, a job and internal transfer week, a quality to an approach involving a customized working environment for of life at work week, and other events. The communication team also every employee according to their areas of interest, including both supported the Research department with the implementation of the information functionalities and access to their professional tools and “All innovators” challenge. This challenge invited Campus employees the communities of their choice. The collaborative sites previously to submit product innovation ideas. Six out of the 63 projects proposed hosted on Intracom began their migration to the new Digital Workplace were selected through a vote on Yammer for further development in (SharePoint Online tool) at the end of 2017. partnership with the SEBLab in the first quarter of 2018. In 2018, the “All innovators” challenge will be extended to the whole of France. ABSENTEEISM RATE (Worldwide, excluding Coranco, GS India, GS Singapore, GSE Ivory Coast, Vietnam Fan and Supor) 2017 2016 2015 World France France France Absenteeism rate (a) 4.0 4.4 4.0 4.0 (a) Ratio between the number of days absent and the hypothetical number of days present. 122 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility A responsible employment policy OVERTIME (Worldwide) 2017 2016 2015 Worldwide Worldwide Worldwide excluding excluding excluding Supor Supor Supor Supor Supor Supor Number of overtime hours (in thousands) 652 11,268 874 10,469 794 9,427 Full-time equivalent (individuals) 291 5400 381 5,014 345 4,509 For the Chinese subsidiary, Supor, these figures reflect the local in a standard working week and 60 hours including overtime. Every context, where work is highly seasonal, and there are pressures on employee must also have at least one day off each week, except 3 the recruitment of labor in eastern China. France accounts for 56,150 in exceptional circumstances, as explained in the Group’s Code of hours of overtime (equal to 31 full-time equivalent jobs). Ethics. Groupe SEB is actively working to achieve these objectives, particularly in its Chinese plants. Given the diversity of the Group’s sites and local regulations governing working time, Groupe SEB’s aim is not to exceed 48 hours EXTERNAL LABOR (a) (Worldwide, excluding WMF Germany and EMSA Germany) 2017 2016 2015 France 851 635 517 Other EMEA countries 651 441 36 Americas 699 1,560 1,475 Asia 431 406 354 WORLD 2,632 3,042 2,382 (a) Temporary full-time equivalent employees. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 123 3 Corporate Social Responsibility A corporate citizen 3.7. A corporate citizen The Group’s commitment to social issues is reflected both in its contribution to the economic and social growth of the regions where it operates and in corporate philanthropy initiatives, focused mainly on furthering inclusiveness. A RESPONSIBLE PARTICIPANT IN THE ECONOMY Groupe SEB fulfills its economic and social responsibilities in the regions region, where more than 3,812 employees work at six sites: Écully, where it is located. In addition to the jobs it generates, it supports the Pont-Évêque, Mions, Saint-Jean-de-Bournay, Saint-Priest and development of local businesses, especially players in the non-profit Rumilly. Internal promotion and skills development are priorities for and social sectors. Whenever possible, it favors the use of companies the Group, whose commitment to the Lyon area is shown particularly that support disadvantaged people looking for employment. This in its membership of the “Alliance et Territoires” network, led by the responsible purchasing policy has been extended to include social Maison de Lyon pour l’Emploi. The aim of this network is to bring down clauses in calls for tender (see page 105). At the local level, a lot of barriers between member companies and create an intercompany the Group’s sites are already working towards this goal. In France, for GPEC (Forward Planning of Employment and Skills) and regional GPEC example, the Is-sur-Tille plant has worked for many years now with the dynamic in the Lyon area. Groupe Coopératif Demain (formerly Juratri), a company specifically More generally, the Group is an active member of the community in specializing in recycling that has 140 employees, around half of whom every region in which it operates. It maintains a number of links with are part of an inclusive employment program. Ten companies from the local operators, and particularly with educational establishments, protected sector (companies providing work to people with disabilities providing classroom talks and inviting students to take part in site visits and sheltered employment centers) provide catering, cleaning, or work experience programs. In the US, for several years now the reception and gardening services to the Group’s new head office in industrial site of Canonsburg (All-Clad) has been working with three Écully, inaugurated in 2017. The head office has also strengthened its high schools on manufacturing and engineering-related topics. Students partnership with Handishare, a company providing work to disabled analyze the site’s complex issues, look for alternative solutions and workers, in subcontracted Human Resources services (responses make recommendations. This initiative, which benefits dozens of high to job applications) and general services. At Pont-Évêque, the plant school students every year, won recognition for the Canonsburg site in subcontracts the assembly of plastic parts, labeling and product 2015 at the Champions of Learning Awards, held in Pennsylvania by the packaging to the Ateliers de l’Isère Rhodanienne ESAT (sheltered Consortium for Public Education. In Germany, WMF has a partnership employment center) and employs 30 people on a full-time equivalent with the University of Geislingen in areas relating to eco-design and basis. In 2017, the work subcontracted to the disability and inclusive sustainable development. employment sector totaled more than €3.7 million, equal to 171 FTE (Full-Time Equivalent) jobs, across all of the Group’s French sites. Groupe SEB also takes part in discussions on social issues, such as nutrition, health and aging. These topics are also handled by its research Although the Group has become more international in recent years, and development teams (see pages 131-132). it has maintained a firm local footing in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY A GLOBAL CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY POLICY on providing expertise, and cross-partnership or product-sharing operations. To encourage employee involvement, the subsidiary may Groupe SEB’s corporate philanthropy policy is an integral part of its give every permanent employee one day a year of working time to corporate social responsibility approach. Its objective is to harmonize work on a public interest project linked to the fight against exclusion. the various subsidiaries’ philanthropic commitments. The Fonds The social purpose of Groupe SEB’s corporate philanthropy policy is Groupe SEB endowment fund team is tasked with implementing the the ﬁght against exclusion, in four areas of action: corporate philanthropy policy, ensuring the coherence of the various projects worldwide and coordinating the Group’s community actions. ■ Inclusive employment; ■ Education and training; In 2017, the Group formalized and clarified its corporate philanthropy policy in a document disseminated to all the Corporate Philanthropy ■ Supplying household equipment and providing access to a healthy Correspondents (one correspondent per subsidiary). This document diet; sets out the Group’s corporate philanthropy mission and strategic ■ Help for people with health issues. focuses, the participants involved (subsidiaries and Fonds Groupe The people helped may be homeless, excluded from the world of work SEB), their roles, and the various possible forms of contribution. These or in a very vulnerable position. include financial donations, donations of products, philanthropy based 124 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility A corporate citizen LOCAL INITIATIVES communities. The operation, based on votes for the best recipes, enabled the collection of funds for the food bank, and volunteers from Every year, the Charity Week, which is coordinated by the Fonds GS Egypt helped to make up food parcels. During this campaign, the Groupe SEB, is a high point of Group employees’ worldwide two Facebook communities acquired more than 630,000 followers. For involvement in community actions. In 2017, the theme of the event, Christmas, this time, the Australian subsidiary ran a product-sharing held at the end of November/in early December, was “Food and the campaign whereby for every AUD 200 of Tefal products bought, the Community”. It resulted in the participation of employees from 48 sites, company donated AUD 100 of domestic equipment products to in 28 different countries, in a wide range of actions. Each subsidiary families in difficulty. In many countries, Christmas is a period when was able to share its initiatives with the whole Group thanks to the there is a lot of corporate philanthropy activity, especially involving the Charity Week community newly created on the internal social network donation of toys. This was the case particularly in Spain, in partnership Yammer. In Turkey, for example, employees paid for 300 packed with the Red Cross. lunches that they handed out to homeless people in Istanbul. Many countries held food collections, including Brazil, the USA, Russia, France, Colombia, Argentina and Mexico. These sometimes gave FONDS GROUPE SEB rise to original initiatives, as in Mexico, where the teams organized a cash kitty competition to maximize the funds collected to provide Aside from its duties leading and coordinating the annual Charity 3 basic foodstuffs for a reception center for the elderly. In Is-sur-Tille, Week and its role advising on and steering the subsidiaries’ corporate a pancake sale helped to fund donations of products to two local philanthropy initiatives, the Fonds Groupe SEB provides financial community food banks. In Colombia, volunteers distributed groceries support for various projects focused on inclusiveness, mainly in to 320 vulnerable families in Medellin as part of the “Atelier des Rêves” France. In 2017, the Fonds Groupe SEB supported 16 projects from (Dream Factory) led by the Imusa-Samurai Foundation. In Rumilly, a support budget that amounted to €352,000 in cash and €308,000 jars of honey from hives set up on the Group’s site were gifted to a in product donations. neighboring retirement home. As for the Japanese subsidiary, during the Charity Week it inaugurated a vegetable garden offering part-time Governance and operation work to physically or mentally disabled people. The goal is to integrate Governance of the Fonds Groupe SEB is split between two key these people into the community while producing fruit and vegetables entities: the Board of Directors and the Operational Committee, that can be used for various purposes, including educational projects. supported by a team dedicated to the Fonds. Cooking workshops were also organized at all four corners of the The Board of Directors sets the strategy for the Fonds. Its members globe for various groups of people, such as disadvantaged young are: people in Australia, people working with diabetics in Chile and disabled adults in Turkey. ■ Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise: Chairman and CEO of Groupe SEB, Chairman of the Fonds; The Group’s subsidiaries also directly support and initiate projects all over the world outside Charity Week. ■ Vincent Léonard: Senior Executive Vice-president, Finance, Treasurer of the Fonds; In China, for example, since 2006, Supor has pressed ahead with its vast construction program, building schools for disadvantaged ■ Harry Touret: Senior Executive Vice-president, Human Resources; children in rural areas. 20 schools have opened since the project’s ■ Marianne Eshet: Managing Director of the Fondation Solidarité launch (including three in 2017 in the Guizhou, Henan and Yunnan SNCF; provinces) and three are under construction. In addition to funding ■ Guillaume Bapst: Director of the Association Nationale de schools and organizing training sessions for teachers, this program Développement des Épiceries Solidaires (ANDES). asks employees to volunteer through leadership, learning support and The Operational Committee reviews and selects the projects submitted book donation initiatives. to the Fonds and monitors their implementation, thereby contributing In Korea, in 2012, the Groupe SEB subsidiary entered into a to the steering and improvement of future philanthropic programs. partnership with the American NGO Child Fund, supporting It has 10 members, who are Group employees, selected for the disadvantaged children. This includes a charity sale held every year diversity of their skills (management, HR, communication, union in September, whose proceeds go to the organization, and a festive representatives, etc.) and their commitment to solidarity. event for children living in hostels at Christmas time. The staff of the subsidiary are widely involved during these two busy periods. An operational team of two people delivers and assesses the projects and develops the network of employee volunteers. In the Scandinavian countries (Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland), Groupe SEB continued the partnership begun more than 10 years ago by OBH with the Star of Hope organization, which is working Projects supported for education, healthcare and food for orphans. The four subsidiaries IN FRANCE are currently sponsoring 30 children in the Philippines, who receive support until they reach adulthood. Among other things, they benefit Since 2007, the Fonds has supported 395 projects in France aimed at from school books, food and recreational activities. “better living for all”, conducted by charitable organizations with which it has close links, such as Emmaüs Défi, the Association Nationale de During Ramadan, GS Egypt supported the food bank through Développement des Épiceries Solidaires (ANDES), the Agence du Don a digital campaign on the theme “Une recette pour la générosité” en Nature (ADN), Énergie Jeunes and the Institut Télémaque. (A recipe for generosity) targeted at the Tefal and Moulinex Facebook GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 125 3 Corporate Social Responsibility A corporate citizen Énergie Jeunes, for example, works to encourage children to continue The Fonds also runs programs to encourage employees to get involved with their studies at priority assisted schools in disadvantaged areas in community projects. For the fifth year running, it organized the API through input from volunteers from the corporate world. These Sol’ in-house call for projects. The aim of this initiative is to support volunteers instill in young people the desire to learn, using highly projects sponsored by the Group’s employees. In 2017, the Fonds interactive teaching methods. Since 2013, around 30 employees supported 15 projects selected by the sites’ local juries. The Fonds have taken part in initiatives in the Lyon, Isère and Burgundy regions. also launched the “Déﬁs Solidaires en Équipe (Team Community The arrangement has proven to be highly effective: a study (2016) Challenges) in France in 2017, again to get employees involved. has shown that high school students who take part get much higher For a day or half-day paid for by the company, volunteer employees grades than other students. Also in the area of education, the Fonds share a useful experience for the benefit of an association. At the has supported the Institut Télémaque since 2011 and acts as the first session, in the spring, 94 employees from five sites got involved President of the Rhône-Alpes branch. The organization works with in 11 challenges (participation in the Emmaüs Movement’s bric-adeserving and motivated young people from modest backgrounds brac activity, creation of a vegetable garden, painting work with the until the age of 18, through a school corporate mentorship program. Fondation des Apprentis d’Auteuil, introducing high school students In 2017, 15 Group employees acted as tutors to one young person to the business world, and so on). The operation was repeated during each to help them prepare for the future. The young people assisted Charity Week, when 75 employees from the Écully Campus took part. through this project were welcomed to the Group’s fablab (SEBLab) The Group’s subsidiaries outside France are also invited to suggest in November, where they took part in creative work on the toaster of community challenges for their teams. 2050. Since 2016, the Group has also been a partner of the Institut de l’Engagement, which gives a helping hand to young people ON AN INTERNATIONAL LEVEL approaching the end of civic service as they get started in life. The Fonds Groupe SEB has been in partnership with the Life Project 4 Youth charitable organization in Vietnam since 2014. It supports the The Fonds renewed its support, in 2017, for the Agence du Don development of an occupational training center to help marginalized en Nature (ADN – the Agency for Donations in Kind), of which it young people create a life plan. Set up in Ho Chi Minh City, close to has been a founding member since 2008. The ADN collects new, the Asia Fan site, this center, known as “Lanterns & Lights”, makes unsold non-food products from manufacturers for redistribution to lanterns from recovered materials. Since June 2014, it has already organizations assisting people in difficulty. Since its inception, support trained 41 young people and currently has around 15 or so young for the Fonds has translated into the donation of 251,000 products, people on its 9to 18-month inclusive employment program. Beyond financial assistance totaling €255,000, and the provision of skills. In developing their basic knowledge, the youngsters experience the 2017, the Group became a partner of the ADN campaign “Partager creation, development and management of an economic microc’est donner !” (Sharing is giving!) raising public awareness of the initiative. They are provided with support for their personal plans, difficulty that the 9 million people living below the poverty line in whether this involves creating their own business, joining a company France have in accessing everyday products. It took this opportunity or continuing their schooling. In 2016, the Fonds extended its support to donate more than 10,000 items of cookware. to the creation of two new Life Project 4 Youth centers in New Delhi Of the new projects supported in 2017, two are in the area of inclusive in India, one concentrating on the production and sale of healthy employment: the association Cannelle et Piment, created by snacks near the station, and the other, near the offices of GS India, vulnerable women of various origins, offers work as a “world cuisine” specializing in the renovation and creation of textile objects and caterer; and the non-profit undertaking Icare has set up an inclusive products. The aim of these two centers is to train 90 to 100 young employment workshop in the cultural field, in connection with the Lyon adults over the course of three years. Since 2016, 70 young people Contemporary Art Biennial. have completed an inclusive employment program. During Charity Week, volunteers from GS India spent a day at one of the two centers to carry out renovation work (painting) and rehabilitate the garden. Total corporate philanthropy expenses (Worldwide) (in €) 2017 2016 2015 Financial donations 2,165,756 1,925,452 1,786,402 including Fonds Groupe SEB 352,000 360,000 322,000 Product donations 509,309 551,184 1,068,239 including Fonds Groupe SEB 308,065 246,955 852,328 TOTAL CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY EXPENSES 2,675,064 2,476,636 2,854,641 Overall, the Group allocated more than €2.68 million to corporate the brand or company in terms of communications or public relations. philanthropy activities in 2017, up by nearly €200,000 compared Cause-related marketing products, where a product is sold and part with 2016. This change is mainly due to the increase in exceptional of the proceeds go to charity, are an example of cross-partnerships. donations of Groupe SEB France products to the Fonds Groups SEB. Donations of less than €10,000 for a single public-interest organization This includes donations to public-interest organizations and crossare reportable. partnerships that are more like sponsorship, having a strong impact for 126 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovations meeting consumer expectations 3.8. Sustainable innovations meeting consumer expectations Consumer satisfaction is Groupe SEB’s number one objective. Our focuses to allow companies to access the Group’s expertise and priority is to better understand consumers’ expectations so as to resources. The targeted opportunities have applications in three meet their needs, but also to help them towards more responsible main fields: well-being (the preservation of health and beauty capital consumer practices, from the point of view of both nutrition and and the aging of the population); the connected world (the home and health and respect for the environment. To achieve this, the Group’s connected objects, robotics and digital applications and services); and innovation teams are opening up to new methods and are taking sustainable development (new forms of energy and new materials, and on technological challenges in fields such as materials, energy reduction of the carbon footprint). 3 consumption and ergonomics. They are making progress particularly The Group also sees social issues as an opportunity to explore new with circular economy solutions, which aim to save the planet’s business models delivering social utility. The BiiS (“boost innovation resources by extending product lifetimes, promoting recycling and with a social impact”) program, backed by the Research and prioritizing product use rather than product ownership. Sustainable Development departments, was launched in this spirit This strong innovation policy is based on frequent and extensive in 2017. It allows multidisciplinary teams of six to eight volunteer exchanges between the marketing, R&D, design, quality, consumer employees to experiment with a social intrapreneurship assignment support and sustainable development teams. It is also enhanced by for three months, working on it for two to four hours a week. Their an open collaboration with outside partners, including start-ups that aim is to develop an idea that meets a social need and may result in the Group invests in through the SEB Alliance fund. This investment a sustainable business model. Several projects dreamed up by these fund is designed to identify and invest in emerging companies that BiiS teams are currently being examined in-depth, including a shared offer disruptive technologies and/or new business models. The kitchen concept for urban zones (access to healthy food) and products sectors targeted are in line with Groupe SEB’s strategic innovation suitable for people with reduced dexterity. RESPECT FOR CONSUMERS PRODUCT LIABILITY improvement of product and process quality. The Quality Management System is discussed in greater detail see pages 32 and 33. Groupe SEB is committed to offering customers high-quality products For products, the Group controls quality at each stage in the design that are guaranteed to be safe and harmless. In each country, and manufacturing process, including with subcontractors. The first it complies with all the standards and regulations governing the quality tests are carried out from the design phase, on all products products it sells. Responsible products are the first theme addressed (excluding purely aesthetic variants): pre-production runs are tested in Groupe SEB’s Code of Ethics, evidence of the importance that it in testing rooms close to the design teams. For endurance tests, places on respect for the consumer. products are subjected to an intensive sequence of operating cycles in standard conditions of use, which may be spread over several Quality weeks, without interruption. At the Shaoxing (China) site, for example, Groupe SEB has developed a Quality Management System (QMS) endurance tests on kettles were carried out in 2017 on 248 products, that describes the steps to be taken, at every level, to ensure the which each ran for 2000 to 6000 heating cycles, depending on the quality of the products sold and related services. The QMS covers range. In Is-sur-Tille, 208 toasters were tested over 5,360 cycles all Groupe SEB activities, processes and sites throughout the world. each on average. Other tests cover shock resistance, functionalities, Every Group operation, every site, every function and every employee behavior in a wet environment, the performance of packaging, and so is responsible for the quality of the work performed and for compliance on. In the case of innovative products, the Group also conducts tests with the rules contained in the Quality Assurance documentation. in the homes of volunteer consumers to take all possible methods of Regular examination of the various components of the System during use into account, even the most unlikely ones. Management Reviews makes it possible to check the efficiency of In 2014, the Group added an extra validation stage prior to the Group processes and to manage the actions needed for the ongoing commencement of new product manufacturing (Pilot Run Validation). GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 127 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovations meeting consumer expectations This involves the pre-production of an additional hundred or so regulatory requirements. As part of its commitment to quality, the products, with extremely demanding quality criteria, so as to Group has introduced a “Health & Environment” notice which has reduce the scrap rate as much as possible. In the space of three been in use for several years now on Tefal/T-fal non-stick cookware. years, the number of products considered to be “good the first time This commitment provides a guarantee of the absence of PFOA(1), round” after this process has risen from 61% to 80%, highlighting Lead and Cadmium and thus of the safety of its coatings for both the the progress made in the upstream development phase. During consumer and the environment. production, accelerated operating tests (short live tests lasting a few With regard to unpopular substances, the Group classifies in this days) are carried out on randomly selected products to identify any category substances that, although not banned by the regulations, faulty components that may have slipped through the quality control are considered by some stakeholders, such as NGOs, to be potentially conducted by the supplier undetected. hazardous. On this basis, the Group is working on plans to replace a The Group also incorporates customer comments gathered by Call number of these substances and materials, even though they are not Centers within a continuous improvement loop. These are forwarded currently covered by the regulations, in order to stay a step ahead of to the marketing teams, who factor them into product development. future directives. Phtalates, for example, which will soon be included Proof of the continuous improvement in quality is that returns under in the RoHS European directive (2), were already viewed as unpopular warranty have continued to fall since 2009 and have dropped by a substances by Groupe SEB in 2012. factor of nearly 2.5 in eight years. Finished product quality indicators are also continuing to improve, such as the percentage of potentially faulty products, which has decreased by 30% since 2015 (Group and FEEDBACK AND SERVICE subcontractors’ plants). To answer consumers’ questions, Groupe SEB has call centers in most Finally, the Group takes monitoring measures and proactive steps to of the larger countries. In 2014, it set up multi-country call centers to raise quality standards in the interests of consumers (see page 96). provide a better service to the greatest number of consumers. In 2017, it expanded the call center in Sofia, which now covers Australia and New Zealand, as well as nine countries in eastern and central Europe. SAFETY AND HARMLESSNESS This center has a team that is able to respond in every language within the region in question and to cater for the various time zones. Product safety A second multi-country call center has been up and running in Lisbon since 2016 for Spain and Portugal. In India, the after-sales service Product safety is ensured by a rigorous set of procedures implemented structure was completely overhauled in 2015/2016 to bring it up to at every stage of product development and production. During Group standards. There is now a professional, effective network there development, each project review (RP1 to RP4) includes formal of nearly 250 repair technicians, who are selected then trained. The checking of product compliance via a series of validations listed in Group has also developed a smart phone application for the country, the EMQS (Environment, Marketing, Quality and Standards) reference allowing customers to book a repair time slot, as repairs at home are document. Several of these validations make a direct contribution to very common practice in India. In France, Groupe SEB once again won product safety, such as robust design analysis or field tests which “Customer Service of the Year” in 2017 for its quick responses and validate the design under real conditions. During the production the quality of its customer relations on all communication channels, phase, lots of tests are carried out on the production lines (electrical i.e. telephone, email, social networks and brand websites. insulation, sealing tightness, etc.) and samples are taken on a regular basis for accelerated functional testing which could reveal possible Keen to help the consumer in all circumstances, the Group continues anomalies not detectable on the new product. A final check is made at to expand the services it offers. In 2015, it developed new product the end of the production line, after packaging (test of finished product use and maintenance videos (on average, one a month), which were quality), where sample products are unpacked and tested to check posted on YouTube and could be accessed via brand websites. It also that all the production tests have been carried out. hosts consumer mutual aid communities on several brand sites, replicating the dedicated Cuisine Companion multi-functional food Harmlessness and unpopular substances processor forum in France hosted on the product’s website, which already has nearly 16,000 members, and the seb.fr website, which With regard to product harmlessness, the Group is particularly vigilant boasts an active membership of more than 12,000 people. when it comes to selecting component materials, going beyond (1) PFOA: Perfluorooctanoic acid is a substance used as an aid to polymerization in lots of polymer manufacturing processes. (2) Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances. 128 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovations meeting consumer expectations THE CENTRAL ROLE OF THE CIRCULAR ECONOMY IN SUSTAINABLE INNOVATIONS REPAIRABILITY parts are delivered to repair centers within 24 to 48 hours, rising to a maximum of four days in other parts of the world. Nearly six million spare parts are stored at the Group’s central warehouse in Faucogney Groupe SEB: a repairability pioneer (15,000 m2) in the east of France. In addition, in a growing number of Product repairability is a vital aspect of the circular economy, as by countries, consumers can directly order accessories, consumables increasing the lifetime of products it helps to reduce both the resources and spare parts on the brand websites. Direct orders were possible consumed and waste, and therefore preserve the environment. in 19 countries in 2017. Since 2016, the Group has used a second It is also beneficial for consumers (economic advantage) and for spare parts and accessories warehouse in Hong Kong to deliver parts Groupe SEB, which retains users of its products by extending their to repair centers or consumers in Asia more quickly. service lives as much as possible. The Group is a pioneer in this field. Its repairability policy, initiated in 2008, reached maturity in 2015 with New avenues for encouraging repairs 3 its “10-year repairable product” commitment. Since 2016, this logo In 2017, Groupe SEB introduced a new initiative to encourage more has been displayed on more than 90% of the new electrical appliances consumers to repair their products after the warranty period. To sold in Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa for the four brands remove the main obstacles, which are fear of a high repair cost and the Tefal, Rowenta, Moulinex and Krups, and for Seb and Calor in France risk of paying for a quote for nothing, the Group has developed a ﬁxed and Belgium. The extending of this commitment to the WMF, OBH price repair offering adapted to each product family whereby, for a Nordica and Supor is under review. In North America, the Group is price known in advance, the consumer is assured that their product doing additional research to adapt its communication on product will be repaired, regardless of the fault and the age of the appliance repairability to the local environment. (up to the 10-year repairability commitment). This scheme was trialled The Group’s eco-design guide includes repairability in its main in France at the end of 2017, during a repair day in partnership with priorities. Right from the start, products are designed to be easily a distributor customer and the WWF. It will be rolled out in France in disassembled and reassembled so that only the worn parts have to the spring of 2018, firstly under the Rowenta brand name. be replaced. In 2016, the Group adopted a demanding deﬁnition of To help consumers who wish to repair their products themselves, since the level of repairability of its electrical appliances. In addition to the the summer of 2017, the Group has been trying out the idea of posting availability and price of parts criteria, this definition now includes the video tutorials online presenting simple repairs. These are accessible percentage of repairable faults. The Group considers a product to be on the brand websites and explain, for example, how to replace the mostly repairable if at least 80% of faults are repairable (one or two Actifry’s paddle motor or a blender bowl’s drive shaft. Spare parts parts at most are not available or cost more than half of the product’s are also available on the brand websites, accompanied by detailed price, and this/these part(s) account for less than 20% of the risk of operating instructions particularly covering safety aspects. faults). A product is fully repairable (100% of faults are repairable) if all the components that can be replaced are available and none cost The Group is also exploring new methods such as the 3D printing more than half the price of the product. of spare parts. Manufacturing parts on demand will simplify stock control and extend availability almost indefinitely. A project relating to In 2017, 92.8% of the total volume of electrical appliances sold this issue was launched in 2015 and qualification testing is under way worldwide were repairable (73.4% fully and 19.4% mostly). with initial repairs for volunteer “pilot” customers. These customers regularly provide the Group with information about how the parts hold Repair center and spare parts network up over time. At the end of 2017, 28 3D-printed parts were being Whether or not products are under warranty, the Group invites tested. This program will continue in 2018. consumers to have them repaired in preference to exchanging them by pointing them towards the approved repair centers in its network Communication and raising of stakeholders’ (over 6,500 worldwide). To achieve this, it is increasing the number of awareness information channels, with product documentation, brand websites, After focusing on France in 2016, in 2017 Groupe SEB increased explanatory videos, etc. As a result, the percentage of products its communication about its repairability policy in other countries in repaired in approved centers is increasing. In Europe, for example, Europe, for example through the press, NGOs, consumer associations the percentage rose from 70.3% in 2012 to 82.10% in 2017 for and public organizations. Its “10-year repairable product” commitment products under warranty, and was up by 21% between 2014 and is now largely relayed on social networks in Spain, Portugal, Romania, 2016 for products out of warranty. Poland, and other countries. As the Group is considered to be the To encourage product repairs, the Group guarantees its repair centers European leader in repairability, it has been invited to present its that some 40,000 listed spare parts will be available for as long as approach at conferences organized by various public institutions, 10 to 15 years after products cease to be manufactured, including such as the Belgian Senate, the European Court of Justice and the sourced products, at the cheapest possible price (this price has not Métropole du Grand Paris. increased since the 30% reduction in 2012). In Western Europe, spare GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 129 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovations meeting consumer expectations This commitment to repairability has won it many awards, particularly United States, the Group has introduced a similar scheme, which it in France. It received the Top/Com Grand Prix for its innovative manages internally. After checking and possible repackaging, products communication campaign on the subject in 2017, for instance. without defects are put back into stock for sale through the traditional channels, whereas products classed as seconds are resold through specialist channels (e.g. wholesalers) and products that cannot be POOLING PRODUCT USE repaired are given to disassembly/recycling companies. At the forefront of new, more sustainable, models of consumption The All-Clad brand is also acting to extend the lifetime of products and in support of the circular economy, since 2015, the Group has with an unprecedented product line, which since 2015 has offered its been testing an innovative kitchen appliance rental service in France chef customers second-hand pans reconditioned at the Canonsburg to respond to ad hoc consumer requirements. Christened Eurêcook, it plant in the United States. The All-Clad pans, recovered from chefs, are was rolled out in the Dijon area in partnership with a network of public disassembled, cleaned, returned to their original condition, brushed, and private sector operators such as Ademe, the ENVIE association and polished for a pristine result. They leave the plant looking as good, and Groupe Casino. The principle is simple. The consumer books and working as well, as when they were new, but at half the price and their appliance on the www.eurecook.fr website, chooses the rental with much less of an impact on the environment (95% less energy period (from one evening to one week) then picks it up from one of consumed). This ENCORE range has received support from a number the pick-up points. During this test phase, 28 appliances have been of chefs. 2,500 pans were reconditioned in 2017. available for rent. Once they have been returned, the products are systematically cleaned, checked and re-packaged. END-OF-LIFE RECYCLING The Eurêcook service is part of the Groupe SEB sustainable development initiative for more than one reason. From an environmental In Europe, the collection and processing of small electrical appliances perspective, it is in keeping with the optimization of natural resources are managed by national eco-organizations. Groupe SEB is (a single product is used more often) and packaging is re-usable particularly involved in this in France, as part of Éco-Systèmes, the and eco-designed (cellular polypropylene). From an affordability country’s largest eco-organization for Waste Electrical and Electronic perspective, due to its lower cost of use, Eurêcook makes appliances Equipment (WEEE). more affordable for economically vulnerable people. Lastly, it calls in As yet there is no specific channel for aluminum pans, saucepans or a local inclusive employment company (Envie) to take care of product stew pots, however. In France, for example, 60% end up as household cleaning and logistics. This trial should be extended to Paris in 2018. waste, although they are 80% recyclable. Since 2012, Groupe SEB has introduced ever more initiatives to promote the recycling of end-of-life cookware, especially in Europe, where it plays a leading role in this EXTENDING THE LIFETIME OF PRODUCTS field. In France, it collaborates with specialist company Excoffier and Although Groupe SEB is working hard to encourage the repairing of with major distributors in an operation whereby consumers are invited products under warranty, some customers or consumers prefer to opt to deposit their old products in stores, in exchange for a discount to exchange their products for new ones. Products that are returned voucher to buy a new product. The used products are collected before to the Group’s site in Alençon through distributors’ after-sales services being sorted and crushed. The main materials (aluminum, stainless have mostly not been used much and have a single fault. Instead of steel and plastic) are separated then recycled in the manufacture of sending them for disassembly and recycling, Groupe SEB France has new products, including Tefal cookware. 1,500 stores took part in decided to give them a second life by allowing the association Envie this scheme in 2017, including a new participant, BHV, with its store Anjou to recover them under a partnership concluded in 2017. Envie in the Marais in Paris. Over the last two years, nearly 600 metric Anjou, an inclusive employment operator, collects faulty products at tons of cookware have been collected and then processed thanks the Alençon site, and disassembles, repairs and reconditions them to these operations in France. Other countries have been running at its workshop near Angers before reselling them at a modest price similar schemes for several years, such as the Netherlands, which in its store with a one-year warranty. Thanks to this partnership, the has been part of the program since 2014. In 2017, it carried out two association has already perpetuate 3.5 new permanent jobs. In the operations of this kind. SOCIALLY-ENGAGED BRANDS Since 2013, Groupe SEB has been stepping up the integration of to develop products and solutions through new partnerships and sustainable development at the very heart of its activity. Tefal and preferred lines of communication. Rowenta, the Group’s flagship brands, which are already heavily The other Group brands are gradually following in their footsteps, like involved in this field, were the first to include their commitment Moulinex, which is working on making home-made cooking easier for in their brand platform. They have both defined priority areas for people who want to eat healthily but don’t want it to be complicated. action. Accordingly, Tefal places particular emphasis on a healthy Giving consideration to social and environmental issues is a winning and sustainable diet, while Rowenta focuses on the environmental strategy for the brands, as shown by Havas Media Group’s Meaningful performance of products. This translates into specific R&D efforts Brands study, which examines the performance of brands with regard 130 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovations meeting consumer expectations to the quality of life and well-being of consumers (1,500 brands in (Gastronomic Vegetable Proteins) research project in this field. Its 33 countries). The 2017 edition of this study included two Groupe SEB goal is to make leguminous plants more appealing to consumers, brands for the first time for the French scope (Seb and Moulinex). Both particularly through simpler preparation (faster cooking), easier went straight to the top of the Meaningful Brands national ranking of digestion and improved sensory properties. This project, supported brands that count the most for French consumers (4th and 6th place by French public funds, was launched in 2017 for a three-year period. respectively). Another trend that shows the growing awareness of the importance of Products and services for a healthier diet sustainable consumption is that more and more countries are looking Consumers are increasingly concerned about the quality of their food. at ways to combat food waste. Groupe SEB is contributing through Groupe SEB is innovating to help them along this path through the its core business, which promotes “home-made” meals, which by solutions offered by its various brands. These solutions are designed nature tend to limit this waste, as food is prepared as needed. It to simplify the lives of people who want to eat more healthily without also offers food storage boxes in its portfolio of products. Lastly, losing out on taste. awareness-raising actions on the theme of food waste are carried out by several subsidiaries. For several years now, Groupe SEB Brazil, TEFAL for example, has held cooking classes showing how to use fruit and Since its founding and the invention of the non-stick frying pan, vegetables in their entirety, including peelings. 3 allowing less fat to be used, Tefal has constantly developed products that encourage a healthy diet. For instance, the Actifry fryer (sold under the Seb brand in France and Belgium), in which healthy, tasty meals NUTRITION AND WELL-BEING can be prepared using only a spoonful of oil, makes the consumer’s experience easier through the My Actifry application. In addition to Research projects on nutrition a “step by step” aid to cooking from a recipe, the app incorporates a number of services, including nutritional coaching to help consumers The themes of nutrition and food are at the center of Groupe SEB’s eat a balanced diet and stay healthy. In particular, it encourages users business and therefore also of its research policy. A sign of the to eat fresh products (particularly fruit and vegetables), passes on importance that it gives to the issue of diet and eating well is the nutritional advice and offers weekly menus for one year, together with creation in 2017 within its technology center of two divisions dedicated suggestions of recipes that can be followed using the appliance. In to nutrition and anthropology. These are staffed by a dozen people. many countries, Actifry is at the heart of operations to raise awareness On the issue of diet, the Group belongs to a “hard core” of members of healthier ways of living and a better diet. This was particularly the of the European consortium InnoLife (more than 130 companies, case in 2017 in Canada, the United Kingdom and Turkey (wideresearch organizations and top-flight universities) selected in 2014 reaching communication program, #BetterForYou). The Canadian by the European Union (EU) to conduct the EIT Health program on team, for example, developed several videos showing how Actifry can the subject of “Healthy living and active aging”. Within this framework, help consumers cook traditional dishes like the famous “poutine” more the Group manages the Cook2Health project, launched in 2016 with healthily. It also collaborated with Hot For Food, the vegan cooking doctors, nutritionists and digital operators. This project consists in YouTube channel that featured Actifry in a recipe demonstration. measuring the impact on people’s health of regularly using connected Optigrill, another flagship Tefal product dedicated to cooking kitchen appliances through an extensive program of clinical trials. The meat and fish, protects consumers’ health through its exclusive last wave of trials, which started at the beginning of 2018, involves 160 grilling technology, which significantly limits the formation of toxic people having their daily cooking practices monitored, at home, for one compounds (polyaromatic hydrocarbons, including benzopyrene, year (in France and the United Kingdom). The aim is to demonstrate which is carcinogenic). The effectiveness of this technology, based the value of personalized assistance in changing behavior towards a on the cooking temperature, has been proven through polyaromatic healthier diet, with the goal of prevention. hydrocarbon assays by an independent laboratory. Groupe SEB is also participating in another major research project MOULINEX supported by the EU, on the theme of rice, as part of the EIT Food program. This aims to develop new cooking processes that are able With its exclusive focus on the kitchen appliance universe, Moulinex is to reduce the glycemic index of rice in order to prevent diabetes and committed to simplifying home-made cooking that provides a better obesity. Given the importance of this issue for Asia, which accounts nutritional balance. Some of the products developed by the brand for a large share of global rice consumption, employees of the Chinese include functionalities that are suited to new dietary trends, such subsidiary Supor are involved in this project alongside the Research as Multicook & Grains (also offered under the Tefal brand in some department. countries), which offers cooking programs specific to leguminous plants. This family of grains is becoming popular again with the rise Another family of foods that is attracting growing interest with a view of flexitarianism (1), which is based particularly on the fact that the to stabilizing, or even decreasing, the consumption of animal proteins, production of plant proteins has less of an environmental impact than is leguminous plants. Groupe SEB is involved in the PROVEGGAS the production of animal proteins. (1) A flexible vegetarian diet (or semi-vegetarianism). GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 131 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovations meeting consumer expectations Moulinex also trialed an application to get children interested in taste, all permanent ranges of bagged cylinder vacuum cleaners produced named Kiddy Cookeo, in 2016. This app gets them involved, along at this site. Preparations are also being made to integrate this same with their parents, in preparing recipes with the Cookeo multicooker. recycled material in the steam irons produced in Erbach (Germany). It also offers workshops teaching about textures and flavors and When it comes to reducing energy consumption, the vacuum cleaner includes educational content for parents. field is symbolic of the considerable progress made by Rowenta. The brand quickly gained a head start on the European regulations, Products to promote well-being which introduced maximum power thresholds of 1,600 watts in 2014, Personal and home care Groupe SEB is also innovating for the benefit then 900 watts in 2017. In less than three years, the marketing and of consumers’ well-being in their everyday lives. R&D teams have redesigned all the cylinder vacuum cleaner ranges, reducing energy consumption by 70% with no trade-off in terms In 2017, in France, Tefal launched the Body Partner smart bathroom of cleaning power and noise level. The Silence Force 4A+ vacuum scales that incorporate a unique and exclusive body shape tracker cleaner launched in 2017, for example, has a 550 watt rating only for device. As well as measuring the user’s weight and fat mass/lean maximum cleaning power. Hair dryers have also benefited from this mass ratio, Body Partner shows their hydration rate and, above all, energy efficiency drive. The new generation of the Studio Dry range, integrates body shape data captured by a smart tape measure. All for instance, which is one of Rowenta’s best sellers, has benefited of this information is sent to a smart phone application, where it since 2017 from the Effiwatts technology. As a result, it consumes generates dashboard charts that allow the user to track the various 20% less energy to achieve the same performance, i.e. 1,700 watts parameters over time. instead of 2,100 watts for the benchmark models. In terms of home care, the Rowenta range of air puriﬁers, Intense Pure Air, has been increasingly successful outside France since Tefal, Krups and Moulinex its launch in China at the end of 2014. The range is the result of a Tefal also focuses on the use of recycled materials. In cookware, this partnership between Groupe SEB and Ethera, a start-up in which approach was launched in 2009 with Enjoy spatulas, made of 95% it invested through the SEB Alliance fund. The exclusive, patented recycled PET, and the Natura cookware range, made of 100% recycled technology NanoCaptur, with which these air purifiers are fitted, aluminum. In the electrical product category, a raclette grill with a base destroys any formaldehyde, a gas recognized as one of the most containing recycled polypropylene was released in 2016. harmful to people’s health that can be found in every home. In 2017, new product ranges equipped with this technology were launched in In 2017, it was Krups’s turn to take similar steps with the use of China and South Korea. recycled ABS (another type of plastic) in an internal part of the Expresseria coffee machine, produced in Mayenne. This “open” innovation approach allows the Group to expand its panel of cutting-edge technologies. Another example of a partnership Another example is an initiative to combat technological obsolescence. through SEB Alliance is SeniorAdom, a start-up that has developed a Moulinex offers owners of Cuisine Companion food processors next generation, non-invasive remote assistance solution that enables the chance to enhance them with the new functionalities of the people with reduced mobility to continue living at home and can detect i-Companion, the connected version of this product, launched in 2016. when they have fallen or are feeling unwell. This is for a cost limited to the difference between the prices of the two products, with no additional transport costs. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE PRODUCTS ACCESSIBLE TO THE GREATEST Another area that the Group’s brands are working hard on is their NUMBER OF PEOPLE commitment to preserving the environment. Making products more ergonomic and easier to use is another Rowenta of Groupe SEB’s areas of research. This includes factoring in the needs of people with reduced dexterity. For example, the Group In 2016, Rowenta entered into a three-year partnership with the WWF has collaborated in France with the Institut de la Vision and the to consolidate its environmental approach, building on joint actions École Nationale Supérieure de Création Industrielle on prototypes of begun back in 2014. The partnership targets three areas of work: products adapted for the visually-impaired. This project has increased energy efficiency, repairability and the use of recycled materials. The the innovation teams’ awareness of visual impairment and resulted WWF’s support covers both technical issues and measures to raise in suggestions for ways to improve existing and future products. In the awareness of consumers and other stakeholders. In 2017, efforts 2018, the Group will collaborate with Handicap International on making were more specifically focused on the integration of recycled materials products accessible to the greatest number of people as part of the in products, with substantial progress being made. BiiS program (see page 127). After launching a steam generator whose casing is made from Accessibility is also an issue when it comes to financial vulnerability; polypropylene from the recycling of electrical and electronic devices how can we meet the specific needs of low-income consumers? (Silence Steam) in 2015, Rowenta is extending its use of this material In addition to building its brand policy to meet the needs of different to vacuum cleaners: at the end of 2017, it adapted the production lines categories of consumers, Groupe SEB is studying various scenarios at the Vernon site to the production of vacuum cleaner bases made and business models to address this matter. from recycled polypropylene. As of spring 2018, these will be fitted on 132 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable innovations meeting consumer expectations Imusa supports the tinteros Seb, Tefal and Moulinex sign up to the Malin In Colombia, the local Groupe SEB brand Imusa sells more than a Program million isolating bottle flasks, notably to meet the growing activity of In France, the Malin Program helps families in difficulty to improve tinteros. A very large majority of these street vendors of coffee and the diet of their children from 0 to 3 years old. Groupe SEB is a snacks, who live and work in impoverished conditions, use isolating stakeholder through its brands Seb, Tefal and Moulinex and has bottle ﬂasks produced at the Rionegro site. Imusa’s teams have defined a common strategy with the Malin Program for home made designed a model for them that is better suited to their need to keep cooking and family-based diets. This program, in which many public the coffee hot for as long as possible, as well as a special trolley to and private partners are involved, has helped to follow nearly 6,500 transport them and a folding chair. Imusa has taken many actions families in 2017 on 5 pilot sites, and encouraging initial results have to support tinteros and help them to improve their circumstances, been observed in terms of behavioral changes by families. The three including training that teaches them the basics of how to management Group brands have contributed in two areas : advice for families to their activity and health and safety. Imusa has thus been assisting encourage them to cook (recipes, education to taste ...) and access around 2,000 tinteros for several years. to products at very attractive prices to make preparing home-made meals easier. The aim is to offer a useful offer for the Malin Program families while developing a sustainable business, a prerequisite for 3 long-term work and a deployment across France. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 133 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Reduction of environmental impacts 3.9. Reduction of environmental impacts From a product’s design to its end of life, the Group takes measures Information on Groupe SEB’s environmental expenditure is available to limit its environmental footprint (eco-design, eco-manufacturing, on page 223. eco-logistics, recycling etc.). It does so by means of its product The data given below are for a worldwide scope for ISO 14001-certified eco-design guide and ISO 14001 international certification. In the entities (1). They also exclude Asia Fan Binh Duong and GS Brazil factories, offices, laboratories and warehouses, all Group employees Jaboatão as these entities were certified mid-2017. The SEB Campus and contractors are made aware of the importance of respecting the head office in Écully joined the reporting scope in 2015. environment. Groupe SEB’s environmental strategy is supervised by the Quality, Standards and Environment department and is coordinated Data concerning new acquisitions will be included progressively, as across the sites by Environment, Health and Safety Coordinators. and when they are integrated into the various Group processes, and therefore exclude EMSA and WMF. ANALYSIS OF THE GROUP’S GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In 2017, Groupe SEB launched an assessment of the greenhouse Scope 2: emissions caused by the consumption of electricity bought gases (GHGs) emitted along the entire length of its supply chain. This at the Group’s ISO 14001-certified industrial and logistics analysis was performed according to data for 2016 with the help of the sites consultancy firm Deloitte. It distinguishes scope 1 and 2 greenhouse Scope 2: 149,106 tCO2eq gas emissions that are directly linked to the Group’s activities from so-called indirect scope 3 emissions. Scope 1 and 2 emissions (207,155 tCO2eq) consist of the Group’s emissions from its industrial and logistics sites (see eco-production Scope 1: emissions linked to the consumption of fossil fuels (mostly section on page 140). natural gas) used for certain industrial processes or to heat buildings on the Group’s ISO 14001-certified industrial and Scope 3: indirect emissions that are not directly linked to the logistics sites. manufacture of products (e.g. purchases of goods and services, the use of products sold, and downstream and Scope 1: 58,049 tCO2eq upstream transport) Scope 3: 15,473,978 tCO2eq Groupe SEB’s total emissions in 2016 amounted to 15.7 million tons of CO2 equivalent. These break down as follows: BREAKDOWN OF GROUPE SEB’S ANNUAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Raw materials Manufacturing 1.3% Product use 69.3% components and Other 1.6% upstream transport Downstream transport 1.5% 26.3% (1) Certificates obtained by sites prior to their acquisition by Groupe SEB were not taken into consideration. 134 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Reduction of environmental impacts Glossary Raw materials, components and upstream transport: emissions linked to the extraction of raw materials and the processing of materials and components by Groupe SEB. This includes emissions generated by purchasing services such as upstream transport. Production: emissions linked to the energy consumed by the Group’s industrial and logistics sites (combustion of fossil fuels and electricity consumption) = scopes 1 and 2 Downstream transport: emissions linked to transportation of the Group’s finished products from the plant to customers’ warehouses. Use of products: the calculation of emissions linked to the use of products takes into account the electricity consumed by small electrical appliances, the gas and electricity required for operation, and the washing (in hot water) of cookware. For every product category, the calculation considers their hypothetical use over the year and the sales volume. Other: this emissions item covers various types of emissions that are not very significant if taken separately. It includes, for example, emissions linked to Group employees’ journeys to work, business travel, and consumers’ trips to stores. It also includes emissions linked to the end of life of products. Methodological note The emissions factors used are taken from databases (that of the International Energy Agency and the carbon database of ADEME – the French 3 Environment and Energy Management Agency). There is a degree of uncertainty in the GHG Protocol’s calculation method, since it is based on average emissions factors and given the number and type of data requested. It nevertheless provides information about the proportions of the Group’s main emissions items, which serve as a useful guide for its strategies to reduce its carbon footprint. To calculate the Group’s carbon footprint, the teams notably used the eco-production reporting data for scopes 1 and 2, and the life cycle studies for the different product families for scope 3. The emissions generated by product manufacture, described in the “Eco-production” section, and the GHG emissions linked to logistics presented in the “Eco-logistics” section, are monitored by a dedicated reporting system. Products that have contributed to GHG emissions account for 94% of sales by volume and 98% by revenue. This assessment confirmed that the main priorities for improving the Group’s carbon footprint are: ■ products and their use; ■ raw materials; ■ the transporting of products and components; ■ product manufacture. 2020 TARGETS Groupe SEB has set itself ambitious targets for 2020 to reduce its ■ 20% fewer greenhouse gas emissions from the transportation of carbon footprint: products and components (per product sold) (base year: 2013). ■ 20% lower energy consumption by electrical products (base year: Progress at the end of 2017: 25% reduction. 2013). With regard to combating climate change, in 2016 Groupe SEB Progress at the end of 2017: the Group has identified the product joined the Science Based Targets initiative launched in 2015 by the families with the greatest impact in terms of energy consumption, and WWF, alongside the Global Compact (UN), the WRI (World Resources defined methods for the precise measurement of this consumption. It Institute) and the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). This initiative is targeting its efforts on these families; encourages large companies worldwide to align their greenhouse gas emission reduction targets with the IPCC’s recommendations for ■ 20% lower energy consumption by production plants (base year: limiting the average global temperature rise to 2°C. 2010). Progress at the end of 2017: 19% reduction at constant scope (1); Rowenta also entered into a partnership with the WWF in 2016, which is symbolic of the Group’s commitment to reducing the environmental ■ at least 20% recycled materials in new products. impact of its products (see page 132). Progress at the end of 2017: 35% for products manufactured by the Group; (1) Covers all the industrial and logistics sites within the 2010 sustainable development reporting scope. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 135 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Reduction of environmental impacts ECO-DESIGN OF PRODUCTS Groupe SEB’s eco-design policy aims to reduce the environmental ENERGY EFFICIENCY footprint of the Group’s products throughout their life cycle. To move forward with this policy, it is supported by an eco-design guide that Over the whole product life cycle of small electrical appliances (2), clearly incorporates every stage of the life cycle of products and their three-quarters of the energy impact comes from their energy packaging (extraction of raw materials, manufacturing, transport, consumption during the use phase, which far outstrips the figure for use and end of life). It is structured around the Group’s eco-design the manufacturing phase. Groupe SEB is taking many measures to priorities: energy efficiency, recyclability, repairability, use of recycled reduce this consumption and making significant progress. Vacuum materials and bio-sourced polymers, reduction of carbon footprint cleaners are a good example of this: In less than three years, the during transport, replacement of unpopular substances, etc. For marketing and R&D teams have revisited all the cylinder vacuum each eco-design priority, the guide states the Group’s ambitions cleaner ranges, reducing energy consumption by 70% with no tradeand defines performance levels based on measurable criteria. Ecooff in terms of cleaning power and noise level. The Group has thus design is embedded within the product design process and allows gained a head start on the European regulations, which reduced project teams to select the appropriate performance level for each the maximum power of vacuum cleaners to 900 watts in 2017. As new product based on the specifications. of 2015, all new Rowenta models have had ratings of between 750 and 900 watts. To achieve this level of performance, the Group developed This guide is a key tool in meeting the 2020 environmental targets. low input/high output motors, designed more effective suction nozzles It has been distributed to the Group’s entire innovation community, and improved all air flows to reduce charge losses. i.e. the marketing, R&D, design, purchasing, quality and legal teams. Its introduction was underpinned by a major training initiative in Aware of the importance of the energy issue, and wishing to continue 2014/2015, and additional training is regularly organized for the to stay ahead of changes in the regulations, in 2015, the Group development teams, particularly on measuring the environmental decided to ramp up its coordination of these types of initiatives. The performance of products. In 2017, for example, around 50 people at Smart Energy Products project was created by a team combining the Brazilian subsidiary benefited from a refresher training course on the Quality, Standards and Environment department, the Sustainable the guide, at the subsidiary’s request. Development department and the Research department and working closely with the strategic business areas. The first stage consisted In 2016, the Group undertook to establish the environmental profile in identifying the product families with the greatest impact in terms of each product family through summary fact sheets for internal use of energy consumption, given their individual consumption and that answer three key questions: Which stage of the product life cycle the volumes sold, in order to concentrate the project’s efforts on affects climate change the most? What resources are required to them. In 2016, the Group defined a standard method for calculating manufacture the product and make it work? What ways are there to consumption and energy efficiency for each of these families, and reduce the impact on the climate and resources? These fact sheets, one or two standard products that will be used as a benchmark for designed with the participation of the development, marketing and measuring progress. The new calculation method has been applied quality teams, are both awareness-raising materials and a tool to to all the products developed since. At the same time, the Group is assist with targeting eco-design efforts. Three new fact sheets were continuing its research work, particularly on new motor technologies. disseminated in 2017 with the support of an e-learning module (in French and English) and are available on the intranet. These cover These measures are in keeping with the 2020 target of a 20% vacuum cleaners, pressure cookers and straighteners. They raise the reduction in the energy consumption of products (base year 2013). number of environmental profiles produced to date to eight. They are reflected in the new generations of products released on the market (see page 132) The Group regularly updates its product life cycle studies. These significant studies (1), which measure the various impacts of products In terms of energy consumption on stand-by, all the Group’s products on the environment, make it possible to orient our research so as are below the thresholds set by the European regulations, applicable to reduce their ecological footprint. They potentially concern all since 07/01/2013 (0.5 W on stand-by without display and 1 W with the Group’s products, divided into “families” based on the internal display). This indicator is therefore no longer an issue for the Group classification of the product portfolio. In 2017, 81% of the 48 product and is no longer included in reporting. families defined as the most significant by the environment department were covered by a life cycle study. The studies of vacuum cleaners and pressure cookers were fully reviewed. A special effort was made to make the methodology more robust and to include new data from recyclers, particularly in partnership with Eco-Systèmes, the main French eco-organization for Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). (1) Life cycle studies conducted on the most representative models of each of the Group’s product families in terms of technical features, sales and geographic distribution. (2) Excluding battery-operated products. 136 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Reduction of environmental impacts USE OF RECYCLED MATERIALS RECYCLABILITY Groupe SEB is using more and more recycled materials in its products. All of the Group’s products are evaluated in terms of their potential In 2014, it intensified its work on incorporating recycled plastics into recyclability, using a harmonized approach, which was set out in 2016. its products, spurred on by the Purchasing, Quality, Standards and To increase the rate of recyclability, the Group gives preference to Environment and Research departments. This involved collaboration materials that can be recycled (metallic components, certain plastics with recyclers to improve the quality of plastics, verification of their like polypropylene) and seeks to reduce the number of different compliance with regulations, performing injection and prototype materials used in its products to facilitate sorting. It also provides for testing, launch of pre-production runs, and so on. It notably set up a quick and easy disassembly of its appliances. For example, the Tefal circular economy loop for small electrical appliances with Veolia and Turbo Pro Anticalc steam iron, launched at the end of 2016, has a heat Éco-Systèmes in France. This cooperation resulted, in 2015, in the sale shield (the part above the sole-plate) made from recyclable plastic of a steam generator whose casing is made of polypropylene recycled PBT, rather than non-recyclable BMC, which was the case for previous from electrical and electronic devices, which is a first for the Group. ranges. Thanks to this change, this iron’s recyclability percentage is Compared with virgin plastic, the recycled plastic used to manufacture 82%, compared with 76% for an equivalent iron with a BMC shield. this product reduces the impact on global warming by nearly 70%. The same change was made to the Calor Express Compact steam In 2016 and 2017, other products integrating recycled plastics were ironing station. 3 produced, including a raclette grille and a coffee machine, and a dozen The average potential recyclability for new product families designed new projects are in progress (see page 132). Aside from its partnership in 2017 reached around 83%. With regard to cookware, the materials with Veolia, the Group has developed its dealings with other recyclers of these items are about 80% recyclable, essentially comprising with the aim of increasing its expertise to meet its needs. It carries out metals (aluminum and steel). training and awareness-raising operations in-house for the relevant teams (design teams, laboratories, quality, marketing, etc.). At the end of 2017, for products manufactured in-house, it had already exceeded REPAIRABILITY its target of incorporating 20% recycled materials in new products by 2020, with a share of 35%. See pages 129-130. UNPOPULAR SUBSTANCES See page 128. ECO-MANUFACTURING Since 2003, the Group has adopted a worldwide environment innovative” project designed to reduce its environmental impact. management system. This system aims, first and foremost, to control 43 projects were listed at the end of 2017, submitted by 27 sites the use of resources (energy and water) and to reduce waste and and entities (60% of which were energy related). Three projects emissions. This approach has resulted in the gradual certification of were considered to be particularly remarkable for their innovative the sites in accordance with ISO 14001, whose guidelines the Group and reproducible nature, the significant environmental benefit that undertakes to adhere to, namely compliance with current regulations they offer and their quick return on investment. The Is-sur-Tille site and laws, and the principle of continuous improvement and pollution (France) is the first in the Group to have installed a solar powerprevention. In 2017, it adopted the new version of this standard based air-conditioning system for an assembly workshop where the (2015 version replacing the 2004 version). This particularly stresses temperature was very high in the summer. Photovoltaic panels supply the concept of leadership, within an increased role for management, the electricity needed by the air-conditioning units, and is used on the up to site director level. It also reflects a more global approach to the site for other purposes when these units are not in use. This initiative impact of the site’s operation on a product’s life cycle. This change improves working conditions using a carbon-neutral solution. In Brazil, has meant that the teams tasked with environmental management in the new Itatiaia site incorporated environmental considerations from its the field have had to acquire new expertise. This has been achieved construction in 2016, with its natural ventilation and lighting and mist through training, support for the sites (in France with the help of teams cooling system, but the eco-innovative project that set it apart in 2017 of students specialized in the environment), and through greater was an everyday environmentally-friendly practice aimed at waste contributions from the international network of Health, Safety and reduction: to encourage employees to stay hydrated without throwing Environment coordinators. This network, which facilitates the sharing away large quantities of plastic cups, the site’s management gave of good practices, met for the first time in Écully in October 2017 (see each of them a reusable drinking bottle. This is simple and effective, page 115). avoiding 2.9 tons of plastic cup waste each year. The third noteworthy initiative came from Supor’s Shaoxing site (in China), where there are In order to share good practices, each industrial and logistics around 120 plastic injection machines. These usually use a highly site worldwide is invited each year to present at least one “ecoenergy-intensive heating coil. Staff at Shaoxing carried out a study GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 137 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Reduction of environmental impacts through which they arrived at an alternative technique: a new heating Since 2010, the Group has reduced the energy consumption of strip that consumes 30% less energy. Its surface temperature is also a its industrial and logistics sites by 19%, at constant scope, and is lot lower, making working conditions more comfortable for operators. therefore on its way to achieving the target of a 20% reduction that In 2017, 20 presses were fitted with them. it has set itself for 2020. In addition to these three examples, several sites stood out for their Other measures taken by the sites to improve their environmental dynamic and proactive approach to energy management, such performance include several that concern the reduction of waste, as in as Erbach (Germany), Rumilly and Tournus (France). They received Lourdes (France), where the component delivery pallets were aligned ISO 50001 certification for their energy management systems in with the Group’s finished product palletization standards so that they 2016 as a result. The four WMF sites in Germany are also ISO 50001 can be reused for shipments to customers. Other projects concern certified. Again in the energy field, since 2012, Supor’s site in Yuhuan product manufacturing procedures. In Rionegro, for example, the (in China) has been implementing a proactive action plan that has optimization of the aluminum smelting process has halved the quantity reduced its consumption per unit produced by 35% between 2013 of material needed to produce a caldero (pressure cooker) and the and 2017. Generally speaking, all the sites are continuing to gradually energy consumption per unit produced has been reduced by nearly replace their existing lights (particularly including fluorescent tubes) 10%. Water is also a resource whose consumption the Group is trying with LED systems (50% to 75% lower consumption). This operation to limit. Several sites, such as Hangzhou (in China) and Rionegro (in will not only reduce the energy footprint, but also generate significant Colombia), have therefore introduced systems for the recycling of savings. wastewater, which is reused, after being treated, in the production process or to supply the washrooms. The Rionegro site has also Energy is also one of the components of the Plant of the Future project shifted towards the use of rainwater. launched in 2016 by Groupe SEB. A cross-functional working group, led by the Sustainable Development department, is exploring the Various initiatives are leading to the sharing of good practices, as in implementation of neutral or positive energy solutions, with a two-fold Omegna (Italy), where the site has taken advantage of two existing economic and ecological objective. Several green energy generation 80m wells (used for its industrial processes) to introduce a reversible experiments are in progress: solar panels will be installed in the first cooling/heating system for its offices. The system is based on the half of 2018 at the SEB Campus in Écully, and other projects are fact that, at that depth, water remains at a stable temperature (around under review, including in South America. An Environment (energy and 10°C), whatever the season. Passing through a circuit which does the waste) component was incorporated in the industrial sites’ dashboard rounds of the site premises, the water cools the buildings in summer charts in 2017, alongside Safety, Quality, Cost, Time and Commitment and can heat them in winter. indicators. ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION Groupe SEB’s goal is for all of its industrial and logistics entities to be ISO 14001 certified worldwide. (Worldwide) 2017 2016 2015 Number of certiﬁable entities 35 36 37 Entities holding ISO 14001 certification (a) 97% 94% 92% (a) Based on industrial and logistics entities at the end of the year considered (including the Group’s head ofﬁce). The SEB Do Brasil sites in Mooca and Sao Bernardo Do Campo have been transferred to the new Itatiaia site. The transfer was completed in the second half of 2017. Action plans are in place to bring entities that are not yet certified up to Groupe SEB standards. 138 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Reduction of environmental impacts CONSUMPTION OF RESOURCES (ISO 14001-certified entities) Direct raw materials (in tons) 2017 2016 2015 Total consumption of metals 161,731 145,461 148,571 Total consumption of plastics* 89,315 83,183 73,200 Total consumption of packaging 105,775 96,930 92,417 * This indicator consolidates polymers including plastics and rubber. Indirect raw materials Total consumption of natural gas (in GWh) 2017 233.5 2016 224.9 2015 220.2 3 Total consumption of liquefied gas (in tons) 886.5 2,966.4 2,607.0 Total consumption of electricity (in GWh) 366.6 355.6 373.6 3 Total consumption of water (in thousands of m ) 3,531.5 3,338.8 3,192.4 Total consumption of heating oil excluding fuel (in m3) 14.9 18.8 27.4 Total natural gas consumption increased by 4% and total electricity WATER SUPPLY ACCORDING TO LOCAL CONSTRAINTS consumption by 3%. This increase is due mainly to higher consumption In 2017, Groupe SEB consumed more than 3.5 million m3 of water at the Tefal Rumilly and Supor Hangzhou sites related to a rise in worldwide, mainly in cookware manufacturing processes. In addition production. The Supor Yuhuan site has switched from electricity to to the volumes consumed, it is of paramount importance, however, to natural gas, which has also contributed to the increase in global natural consider the location of consumption, in order to look at consumption gas consumption. in relation to regions under water stress where water is a sensitive With stable production, the Tefal Tournus site reduced its natural resource. In 2015, the Group, wishing to assess the risks relating to gas consumption by 18% following an action plan to reduce energy water and its availability, carried out an analysis of its industrial plants consumption that included optimizing the operation of its process according to the geographic location of the sites in question, using and heating equipment. the World Resources Institute’s (WRI) reference tool, the “Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas”. This assessment was updated in 2016. The Supor Yuhuan site is the main consumer of liquefied gas for its production process. The site switched to natural gas in 2017, which This analysis showed that none of the Group’s industrial or logistics reduced the Group’s liquefied gas consumption by 70%. sites is in a region under “extreme” or “high” water stress according to the “Overall Water Risk” indicator, which measures availability, quality Total water consumption rose by 6%, mainly at the sites where and water-related dispute risks on an aggregate basis. In addition, production increased, such as Supor Shaoxing and Yuhuan and 20 of the Group’s industrial or logistics sites are located in regions Tefal Rumilly. Note that the All-Clad site has reduced its consumption exposed to a risk which is considered to be “low” or “low to medium”. through a program to eradicate excessive water consumption. The In the future, the Group will pay particular attention to the 12 industrial GS Colombia site in Rionegro has introduced a rainwater collection and logistics sites located in regions where the risk is considered to system reducing the site’s impact through recovery of this water. be “medium to high”. The Group is thus attentive to the preservation of water resources. Good practices aimed at reducing water consumption and recycling effluents have been introduced at the industrial sites. These are shared through eco-innovative projects (see pages 137-138). GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 139 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Reduction of environmental impacts Land use in plant closures, Groupe SEB ensured that sites were reclaimed in accordance with local legislation. Where appropriate or required by Besides metal stamping (pressure cookers, frying pans and law, the Group conducts soil and sub-soil surveys, even though the saucepans), surface treatments (non-stick) and the manufacture of majority of sites are not subject to any such compulsory assessments. certain components that occupy less than 10% of total production Pollution studies carried out at sites that have been operational long staff, most of Groupe SEB’s production involves assembly operations. term, confirmed that the Group’s business does not have any notable Groupe SEB therefore believes it has no significant impact on or impact on the soil and sub-soil. material use of land. In addition, where industrial restructuring resulted WASTE (ISO 14001-certified entities) 2017 2016 2015 Non-hazardous waste (NHW)* (in tons) 24,548 21,239 20,112 Percentage of NHW recycled* (as a %) 72.5 68.7** 73.2 Percentage of NHW used for energy* (as a %) 6.6 6.8** 5.7 Production of Hazardous Waste – excluding waste oil, effluent and sludges (in tons) 1,861 1,488** 1,429 Sludges produced by internal wastewater treatment plants (in tons) 4,132 3,945 4,343 * Excluding Oils, Metals and Sludges. ** Data updated to correct a calculation error. In 2017, nearly 73% of the Group’s non-hazardous waste was treated GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS through recycling and 6.6% was used to produce energy. The Group also records its metal waste: 16,844 tons. Groupe SEB’s sites and activities are not directly impacted by climate change given the nature of its current plants. The Group has set up The quantity of non-hazardous waste grew by 16% in 2017, following a climate change-related risk assessment, however, and has all the the ramp-up of production at the Supor Yuhuan and Supor Hangzhou necessary insurance to cover any financial consequences. sites. The production of hazardous waste was also affected by the transfer of the Mooca site to Itatiaia in Brazil. (ISO 14001-certified entities) (in tons of CO2 equivalent) 2017 2016 2015 Greenhouse gas emissions 210,456 207,155* 239,911 * Data updated following a review of the greenhouse gas emission factor framework. Greenhouse gas emissions rose by 1.59% following the increase in DISCHARGES INTO WATER energy consumption (see indirect resource consumption table on p 139). (ISO 14001-certified entities) With regard to volatile organic compounds (VOCs), Groupe SEB Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) represents the amount of oxygen regularly tests its emissions (which are relatively small in terms of necessary to oxidize the organic matter and mineral content in a body volume) in order to treat and control these emissions. The Group has of water. It is used to measure the degree of organic and chemical made significant investments, totaling several million euros, to improve pollution of the water. In 2017, Groupe SEB emitted 203 metric tons the sites most concerned by VOCs (e.g. Rumilly). These investments of COD from its own wastewater treatment plants. aimed to treat emissions as well as to overhaul processes in order to very substantially reduce VOCs. NOISE AND OTHER DISTURBANCES At many sites, management of noise pollution must comply with regulations and any complaints in this regard must be managed in accordance with ISO 14001. All certified sites therefore have procedures in place to deal with complaints relating to noise. Furthermore, noise pollution, light pollution and odors from the Group’s sites are insignificant given its operations. 140 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Reduction of environmental impacts BIODIVERSITY found. Between 50 and 150 hatchlings take flight from there each year. At the Pont-Évêque site, the traditional upkeep of its green spaces Risk prevention is integral to the ISO 14001 certification process in has been replaced by a partnership with the association Naturama. order to preserve the ecological balance surrounding the sites. The As a result, Soay sheep, a race threatened with extinction, have sites define the procedure to be followed in the event of an incident taken possession of 17,000 m2 of greenery. This has reduced the and implement preventative measures, such as water reservoirs site’s ecological footprint through natural maintenance by sheep, and for extinguishing fires and pipe cut-off systems. Many sites feature increased the fauna and flora thanks to the manure produced. At retention systems underneath the tooling to prevent pollution from the Group’s new head office in Écully, a 300 m2 conservation garden accidental spills. was created in 2016, in partnership with the Vavilov Institute (Saint Petersburg), the world’s oldest plant gene bank. Groupe SEB decided Certain industrial sites have also launched local initiatives, especially to join the network of Vavilov gardens in line with its sustainable in France, to promote biodiversity. The Is-sur-Tille site, for instance, development commitment, particularly to contribute to maintaining created a flower meadow and installed a nesting tower for swallows biodiversity and developing healthy and sustainable eating. This in 2014. This tower was used by a colony of swallows as a place to garden is open to visitors to the site who can explore it independently give birth and set up a home in a place where they were not usually thanks to explanatory signs. ECO-LOGISTICS 3 The transportation of products, as well as the raw materials and the improvement of product import and distribution flows. The actions components used to make them, is a major source of greenhouse gas undertaken in 2017 resulted in the following progress: emissions within Groupe SEB, which clearly aims to reduce them: it ■ Increase in the transport unit loading rate: +2 pallets/truck on has set itself a target of reducing these emissions per product sold by average leaving the Orléans platform; 20% by 2020 (base year 2013). The target had already been reached at ■ Increase, by a factor of more than 5 in 2017 compared with 2016, the end of 2017, with a 25% reduction. Reducing the carbon footprint is one of the main priorities of the eco-design guide. in the number of direct deliveries to European customers from the Mions platform without passing through the subsidiaries’ platforms; An initial assessment of greenhouse gas emissions related to transport ■ Increase in transport methods other than road transport: 58% was conducted by the Group in 2009 and its reliability is steadily increase in rail transport between the port of Le Havre and the improving. To improve the carbon footprint of its logistics activities, Orléans platform compared with 2016; Groupe SEB is focusing on two main areas: increasing the loading rate of transport units (trucks or containers) and developing new, ■ Encouraging of haulage firms to improve their sustainable low-impact transport methods as alternatives to road transport (river development approaches (customer distribution flows): three out transport, rail, etc.). of the six haulage firms are signatories to the Objectif CO2 Charter (introduced in 2016 by the French Ministry of Transport and the Groupe SEB’s Supply Chain department oversees the Group’s ecoADEME). logistics policy and strategy. Its eco-logistics unit coordinates all actions, in France and internationally, and consolidates annual data Groupe SEB has decided on the worldwide adoption of the Fret using the Tennaxia sustainable development reporting system. It relies 21 methodology for calculating GHG emissions linked to the on the logistics managers of the plants and commercial subsidiaries transportation of its products and components in connection with this in carrying out this work. In conjunction with the purchasing teams, commitment. It began to apply it at the end of 2017, with support in the the eco-logistics unit also monitors haulage firms (inserting social form of training for the people responsible for reporting. The roll-out and environmental clauses into Purchasing contracts, requesting CO2 of this new tool will continue in 2018. It will make the Group’s carbon and alternative transport reports each month, setting up sustainable analysis more reliable, in particular by reducing the extrapolation development systems within the company, etc.) and encourages the aspect. use of alternatives to road transport to cut the Group’s CO2 emissions Since 2005, Groupe SEB has also been part of the Club Déméter, from product transport. alongside distributors, logistics partners, manufacturers and public In 2017, Groupe SEB signed up to the Fret 21 scheme launched by the bodies such as Ademe (1), the University of Aix-Marseille and Mines ADEME (1) and the AUTF (2) to help companies to better incorporate Paris. As a place in which to share thoughts and experiences, the the impact of transport within their sustainable development strategies. aim of this club is to promote environmentally-friendly logistics and This commitment initially applies to the Groupe SEB France subsidiary, to implement operational solutions designed to reduce environmental which is acting as a pilot. Efforts are concentrated on four areas for impacts. (1) French Agency for the Environment and Energy Management. (2) French Association of Freight Transport Users. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 141 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Reduction of environmental impacts GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (Worldwide) (in tons of CO2 equivalent) 2017 2016 2015 Average value of greenhouse gas emissions 205,596 206,004 204,679 The flows concerned in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions Emissions are extrapolated for some entities, including Brazil, which is are: one of the biggest contributors of greenhouse gas emissions. ■ transportation of components and raw materials between Tier 1 suppliers and the manufacturing site if this belongs to Groupe SEB; LOADING OF TRANSPORT UNITS ■ transportation of finished products between Tier 1 suppliers and warehouses of Groupe SEB subsidiaries; To reduce CO2 emissions from the transportation of products and ■ transportation of the finished product between its manufacturing components, the Group is continuing to improve the loading rate of site and the subsidiary’s warehouse; transport units. It makes particular use of the EffyPACK (which stands for PACKaging system for supply chain EFFiciencY) approach, which ■ distribution from the subsidiary’s warehouse to the client’s delivery optimizes packaging dimensions according to pallet size. The Group address. is also endeavoring to reduce the empty space inside packaging All modes of transport are included: road, rail, sea, river and air. as much as possible. Since 1 January 2017, this parameter has been Each year, a new audit is carried out and the Supply Chain department taken into account in the product design/development process. seeks to expand the calculation scope for CO2 emissions to cover new Transporting less empty space means emitting less CO2 while cutting countries. The share of extrapolated emissions is therefore steadily costs. Three training sessions have been organized to present the tool declining. to the relevant teams (R&D, design and quality) using an e-learning module. Around 50 people have already been trained in France and In 2017, Groupe SEB emitted 205,596 tons of CO2 equivalent; 23% China. from maritime transport, 37% from upstream road transport, 33% from downstream distribution and 7% from air transport. 2017 2016 2015 Container loading rate 84.2 85% 85% Truck loading rate (intergroup shipments)* 65 65% 63% * Intergroup shipments refer to shipments from plants to consolidation platforms (Rumilly P2 and Mions) or subsidiaries’ warehouses, as well as to shipments between consolidation platforms and subsidiaries’ warehouses. Containers departing from China have a loading rate of 83.8%. In other cases (preand post-shipments to/from ports, transport Containers departing from Europe have a loading rate of 87.6%. between the Group’s plants and platforms or those of its subsidiaries), These performances are close to the optimum for maritime transport. the Group prioritizes non-road transport, i.e. transport by rail and river. In the future, road transport must become the exception rather than the rule. To improve the oversight of this initiative, the SELECTING AND ORGANIZING MODES Group created a tracking chart to monitor the percentage of nonOF TRANSPORT road transport for preand post-shipment to/from ports. For each entity (plant, warehouse, commercial subsidiary etc.), changes in The Group also fosters research into transportation solutions with a this percentage have a two-fold impact in terms of cost and CO2 lower environmental impact. For long distances, primarily departing emissions. This dashboard chart, introduced in 2015, was extended to from China, the maritime route emits the lowest levels of CO2 and is all the European entities in 2016. In Europe, the non-road transport rate the least costly. Emissions have also been improved by the use of is rising significantly, reaching 46% in 2017. In Germany, for instance, new high-performance container ships: in 15 years, they have cut the review, in 2016, of the transportation of containers from the port CO2 emissions per ton transported by half. 142 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Reduction of environmental impacts of Hamburg to the Duisburg platform resulted in all the traffic being rather than using air travel in the event of urgent demand for supplies. switched from road to rail: instead of arriving in Hamburg then being Transport by rail cuts the maritime freight time by almost half, which is transported to Duisburg by road (330 km), containers now arrive in often enough, and savings in terms of cost and carbon footprint are Rotterdam and travel by rail to the platform (120 km). Results: 98% extremely favorable (CO2 emissions down by 98%). fewer CO2 emissions, at a lower cost (-41%). An operation of the The Group is also optimizing the organization of transport flows, same type was completed in the UK, and in Spain the previous year. for example by developing direct deliveries from its platform in In France, Groupe SEB has had the “MedLink Port” label since 2015. Mions (France) to European customers without passing through the This distinction is given to the biggest users of the river route (the subsidiaries’ platforms. Between 2016 and 2017, the volume of these Rhône) departing from the port of Fos (Groupe SEB is in the top 3). direct deliveries increased by a factor of more than five. In 2015, the Group also conducted tests on rail transport between China and Europe. The objective is to be able to use this solution INFORMATION SYSTEMS Groupe SEB is developing an eco-responsible IT policy based on the 72 Green IT good practices benchmark drafted by the collaborative of its useful life. In France, computers and telephones at the end of their useful lives have been given, since 2012, to the company 3 platform Opquast (Open Quality Standards). Its activities in this regard Dataserv, which calls on companies working in the protected sector strive to make progress on three fronts: to dismantle the products. More than 9,500 devices have been managed in this way since 2012. ■ Reducing the number of printers in service and the consumption of paper. The program to reduce the number of printers in service ■ Facilitating collaboration among Groupe SEB employees and make the shared use of multi-functional machines more by offering alternatives to travel. The use of the instant widespread, introduced first in Europe, is gradually being extended communication software Skype had a significant effect on reducing internationally. In 2017, it reduced the printing volume by nearly 6% travel: in 2017, it allowed the holding of around 8,300 meetings on compared with 2016. average each month (up 46% compared with 2016) and more than 420,000 one-to-one connections. The videoconferencing system, ■ Incorporating sustainability criteria in the purchasing of for its part, recorded an average of 177 video conferences a month hardware and seeing that it is properly processed at the end (average length: 1 hr 45 min). GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 143 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report by one of the statutory auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report 3.10. Report by one of the statutory auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report This is a free English translation of the independent third party report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31ST, 2017 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as independent third party, certified by COFRAC number 3-1058(1) , and member of the Mazars network of one of the company’s Statutory Auditors, we hereby report to you on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information for the year ended December 31st, 2017, included in the management report (hereinafter named «CSR Information»), pursuant to article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). COMPANY’S RESPONSIBILITY The Board is responsible for preparing a company’s management report including the CSR Information required by article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in accordance with the guidelines used by the Company (hereinafter the «Guidelines»), summarised in the management report and available on request from the Sustainable Development Department. INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L.822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. RESPONSIBILITY OF THE INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: article L. 225-102-4 of the French Commercial Code (vigilance plan of parent companies) and law n° 2016-1691, dated December 9th, ■ attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management 2016, said Sapin II (fight against corruption). report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the Our work involved 8 persons and was conducted between October third paragraph of article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code 2017 and March 2018 during a twenty-week period during a seven(Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); week period. ■ express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken We performed our work in accordance with the French professional as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance standards and with the order dated 13 May 2013 defining the with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information). conditions under which the independent third party performs its It is however not our responsibility to attest compliance with other engagement, and with ISAE 3000 concerning our conclusion on the legal dispositions where appropriate, in particular those included in fairness of CSR Information(2). (1) Scope available at www.cofrac.fr (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information 144 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report by one of the statutory auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report ATTESTATION REGARDING THE COMPLETENESS OF CSR INFORMATION Nature and scope of our work On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from them. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified that explanations were provided in accordance with article R.225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set out in the methodological note, presented in 3.4 section of the management report. Conclusion Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. 3 CONCLUSION ON THE FAIRNESS OF CSR INFORMATION Nature and scope of our work We conducted 70 interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: ■ assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; ■ verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important (detailed in appendix): ■ at parent entity level, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also verified that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; ■ at the level of a representative sample of entities selected by us(1) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents on average 27% of headcount considered as material data of social issues and between 23% and 82% of quantitative environmental data(2) considered as material data of environmental issues. For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the company. We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. (1) TEFAL Rumilly (France); SEB Is-sur-Tille (France); ALL-CLAD Canonsburg (United States); GS USA Millville (United-States); SUPOR Wuhan (China); SUPOR Shaoxing (China); ROWENTA WERKE Erbach (Germany). (2) Waste production, water consumption, and energies consumption. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 145 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report by one of the statutory auditors, appointed as an independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. Paris La Défense, March 26, 2018 The independent third party MAZARS SAS Thierry COLIN Edwige REY Partner Partner CSR & Sustainable Development APPENDIX: LIST OF CSR INFORMATION THAT WE CONSIDERED TO BE THE MOST IMPORTANT Social performance indicators Water consumption and supply according to local constraints, including indicators of city water consumption and pumping station Total workforce and breakdown by gender, age and geographical water consumption. region, including indicators of the total workforce and its breakdown by geographical region, classification and gender. Measures to prevent, recycle and dispose of waste, including indicators of production of non-hazardous waste (NHW), production Hires and redundancies. of NHW recycled, production of NHW recovered for energy, production Absenteeism, including absenteeism rate. of hazardous waste (excluding waste oil, effluent and sludge) and sludges produced by internal wastewater treatment plants. Workplace health and safety conditions. Energy consumption, measures taken to improve energy efficiency Workplace accidents, in particular their frequency and severity, and and use of renewable energy, including indicators of total electricity occupational diseases. consumption and total natural gas consumption. Training policies, including an indicator of the number of staff trained. Greenhouse gas emissions and significant polluting activity, in Number of training hours. particular by the use of products and services (manufacturing and Respect for freedom of association and the right to collective eco-logistics). bargaining. Elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. Corporate responsibility indicators Corporate partnership or sponsorship actions, including indicators of Elimination of forced or compulsory labor. financial donations and product donations. Environmental performance indicators Inclusion of social and environmental criteria in the procurement policy. Company organization to address environmental issues, and where Importance of subcontracting and integration of CSR in the applicable environmental assessment or certification procedures. relationships with suppliers and subcontractors Resources allocated to prevent environmental risks and pollution Measures taken in favor of consumer health and safety. Measures to prevent, reduce or remedy emissions into the air, water or soil that seriously affect the environment. 146 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 4.1. 2017 highlights General environment Currencies Raw materials and transport 148 148 148 149 4 4.2. Commentary on consolidated sales 152 Product sales performance 153 Geographical performance 154 4.3. Commentary on the consolidated results 157 Income statement 157 Balance sheet 158 4.4. Commentary on SEB S.A.’s results 159 Presentation of SEB S.A.’s results 159 Acquisitions of equity investments 159 Dividends paid out in the last three financial years 159 Commentary on the Breakdown of trade payables by due date 160 Sumptuary expenses and non-tax deductible expenses 160 4.5. 4.6. Outlook Post-balance sheet events 161 162 Ànancial year Egypt 162 France – Linen care 162 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 147 4 Commentary on the financial year 2017 highlights 4.1. 2017 highlights GENERAL ENVIRONMENT In 2017, the Small Domestic Equipment market once again performed In the emerging markets, 2017 ended on a very positive overall note, well and even accelerated in the great majority of countries. The despite the return of currency volatility in the second half of the year. In few major declining markets included: the UK, which remains in an China – in a political context favorable to household consumption – the uncertain position after the Brexit vote (lower household confidence Small Domestic Equipment market remained well oriented, stimulated and renewed inflation following the depreciation of sterling), and by increasing urbanization, gains in purchasing power and a surge in Japan, whose recovery in consumption has only been very gradual, e-commerce. In Brazil, the market has certainly returned to growth, despite budgetary stimuli. but while the environment is normalizing (with inflation at a record low), many uncertainties remain (including political uncertainties). In Russia, Outside the United Kingdom, the economies of the eurozone remained the market is structurally volatile and highly dependent on oil prices, generally well-oriented and benefited from firm consumption (an but since the summer of 2016 it has been rebounding strongly – worth almost universal increase in employment and wages) and even robust noting after more than two difficult years. In Turkey, the market has consumption in some countries (e.g. Germany, Spain, Portugal, and performed well against a backdrop of fiscal stimulus, high inflation and France). In a competitive and promotional context, the Small Domestic persistent political risks. Lastly, in India, market growth was severely Equipment market in this area continues to be driven by innovation hampered in the first six months of the year by government reforms and upscaling. (demonetization of notes and introduction of a single VAT system), In the United States, despite consumer confidence, the Small Domestic before recovering slightly at the end of the year. Equipment market reflects a marked dichotomy between rapid growth Overall growth in the Small Domestic Equipment market in 2017 in online commerce and an unprecedented crisis in traditional, brickswas very geographically diversified, as it was by product category: and-mortar retailing. The consequences have been many, ranging a positive momentum continued in electrical cooking, floor care from tighter management of inventories, massive destocking and store (particularly in Europe), air purification (driven by Asia), fans (particularly closures to the financial collapse of some brands. This situation, which in Europe, unlike in Latin America, due to the weather conditions), and can also be seen in Canada, complicates and significantly hinders in beverage preparation and cookware; but there was more moderate business activity with the affected customer retailers. growth in food preparation and the linen care market, despite a boom in the garment steamer category. CURRENCIES It should be remembered that the US dollar and the Chinese yuan down 14% (annual average). They were more measured in other are currencies for which the Group is “short”, i.e. the weight of its countries: sterling was down 11%, the Ukrainian hryvnia down 8% and purchases denominated in these currencies is greater than that of the Mexican peso down 3%. The currencies most closely correlated its sales. to commodities/oil were exceptions, with respective appreciation of 4% in the Brazilian real and 10% in the Russian ruble. 2017 was marked by a near-continuous weakening of the US dollar, which accelerated from the second quarter. This bout of weakness In response to constant exchange rate volatility, the Group has went in tandem with a strengthening of the euro against the major hedged for several years certain currencies to limit sudden effects on currencies. On average over the year, the euro/dollar parity was thus its performance or to smooth out its impact over time. At the same down by 3%, but the year-on-year decrease was 14% at 31 December. time, it implements an agile pricing policy, passing on tariff increases For its part, and by comparison with the euro, the yuan depreciated to compensate for the adverse effects of weakened currencies on by 3% on average over the year (-7% at 31 December). local profitability. In the case of “long” currencies, in which the Group has revenues In 2017, exchange rate fluctuations had a total negative impact higher than its costs, the trend was downward, as most of the Group’s of €98 million on the Group’s sales (compared with an impact of main currencies depreciated against the euro. These depreciations -€122 million in 2016) and -€10 million on the Operating Result from were significant in countries with high inflation: the Egyptian pound Activity (-€122 million in 2016). was down 49%, the Turkish lira down 19% and the Argentine peso 148 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Commentary on the financial year 2017 highlights RAW MATERIALS AND TRANSPORT The Group is exposed to fluctuations in the price of certain raw ■ the reappointment as directors for four years of Yseulys Costes and materials, including metals such as aluminum, nickel (used in stainless FFP Invest, represented by Bertrand Finet; steel) and copper. It is also exposed to price changes in plastics ■ the ratification of the appointment by co-option of Delphine used in the manufacture of small electrical appliances and paper Bertrand to replace Tristan Boiteux, who had resigned, for a period for packaging. These exposures are direct (for in-house production), of one year; or indirect if the manufacturing of the product is outsourced to ■ the appointment of Brigitte Forestier as director representing subcontractors. In order to spread over time the effects of sometimes employee shareholders, for a period of four years; abrupt fluctuations in metal prices, the Group partially hedges its requirements (aluminum and nickel) which protects it in the event of ■ the resignations of Bruno Bich, Tristan Boiteux, Pascal Girardot, a sharp rise in prices, but which results in some inertia in the event and Christian Peugeot. of decline. After several years of decline and a low point in early 2016, commodity INTEGRATION OF WMF prices have started to recover since that date, with an acceleration of the rise at the end of 2016, which continued throughout 2017. Thus, The acquisition of WMF was completed on 30 November 2016. aluminum prices increased by 23% on average in 2017 (i.e. an average The launch of WMF’s integration was therefore a priority in 2017, price of $1,970 per ton, compared with $1,605 in 2016). In a market in implemented through a global approach guided by a Combined which volatility continued, copper also rose by 27%, averaging $6,170 Integration Committee made up of employees from Groupe SEB and 4 per ton, compared with $4,860 in 2016. Lastly, the same trend has WMF. The process is structured around 22 projects, including 10 to been seen in nickel, but to a lesser extent, with an 8% increase and an link up WMF to Groupe SEB and 12 to create value. average price of $10,411, compared with $9,609 in the previous year. In terms of organization, WMF’s management team was strengthened After Russia and the OPEC members reduced their production, the and the Group mobilized Group experts to contribute to and optimize price of oil per barrel hit a two-year high: it stood at $67 at the end the progress of the projects. The Consumer business was structured of December 2017, with an average price of $55 over 12 months, into a Business Unit with a strengthening of strategic marketing and up 22%. At the same time, plastics prices rose sharply (particularly the creation of a Business Development function. It underwent a thermoplastics). commercial restructuring with, on the one hand, the attachment of the German/Swiss/Austrian sales team to the Chairman and CEO Paper prices followed this uptrend, as shortages in the Asian market of WMF, and, on the other, the taking over of the activity by Groupe accelerated. As a reminder, the Chinese government decided in SEB’s subsidiaries in seven other countries. The professional business October 2016 to put stricter regulations in place, resulting in the – coffee and hotel equipment – is still managed on the basis of a closure of several paper mills. Paper prices increased by 30% on specific organization. average in Asia, which was reflected in the European market (+10%). Several initial projects have already been implemented, relating to Furthermore, although the cost of road transport remained broadly purchasing and supply chain harmonization, product offerings in the stable over the year, this was not the case for sea freight (Asia Pacific/ Consumer business, progress with the optimization of the WMF retail Europe/America), which reached historically low levels in 2016, driving network and the strengthening of the sales and increased digitization prices upwards in 2017. of the Professional Coffee business. A Premium structure was created, bringing together the All-Clad, Lagostina, WMF, and Silit brands, with CHANGES IN THE COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD a dedicated sales force. OF DIRECTORS As well as the organizational and structural aspects, the immediate linking up of the key functions was also crucial. In terms of Human On 11 May 2017, the Annual General Meeting of SEB S.A. approved Resources, the focus was immediately placed on the merging and the reorganization of the Board of Directors, resulting in: collaboration of the Groupe SEB – WMF teams, the alignment ■ a reduction in the size and the recomposition of the Board of of Human Resources management (training, job transfers, talent Directors, in order to incorporate an employee director representing management, etc.) and variable compensation schemes for senior shareholders and an employee director, while meeting the target management. In Finance, the approach was implemented, in particular, quotas for female representation (46%) and independence (33%). around the harmonization of accounting principles, the implementation The Board of Directors was thus composed of 13 members of reporting tools and Group processes and the centralization of following the Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2017, and has certain corporate functions such as treasury, tax and internal audit. had 14 members since the appointment by the Works Council of the At the same time, the harmonization of information systems was directors representing employees within six months of the Annual launched straight away. This represents a major challenge for WMF’s General Meeting; tie-up with Groupe SEB, and will be spread over several years. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 149 4 Commentary on the financial year 2017 highlights ACQUISITION OF SWIZZZ PROZZZ fast-growing industrial area with a design that is fully in line with all of the Group’s industrial and environmental standards. A new logistics In June, the Group completed its acquisition of Swiss company Swizzz center is located nearby, which is helping to optimize customer service Prozzz, a specialist in mini hand choppers with high-performance across Brazil’s entire South Region. multiple blades. Swizzz Prozzz’s products had been marketed The relocation took place in several phases: it began in November 2016 under license through various kitchen utensil brands: the business with the iron manufacturing lines, and ended with completion of the generates proforma annual sales of around €10 million. With this full relocation of Mooca’s lines at the end of August 2017. This has acquisition, Groupe SEB has continued its expansion in kitchen been followed, in a second phase, by the relocation of São Bernardo utensils, with simple products that are easy to use, affordable and do Campo’s cookware lines, which is scheduled for completion at the very complementary to its ranges. end of the first half of 2018. This project highlights the Group’s commitment to modernize its SUCCESSFUL PLACEMENT OF A NEW manufacturing base in a country where economic conditions remain 500 MILLION, SEVEN-YEAR BOND very challenging and the foreign exchange environment demands significant gains in productivity. In 2017, Groupe SEB successfully placed a €500 million bond maturing in seven years (on 31 May 2024), with a coupon of 1.50%. This issue was four times oversubscribed by a diverse investor base. AWARDS FOR GROUPE SEB It allows Groupe SEB to further strengthen the architecture of its debt by securing its medium-term financing, extending the average maturity Groupe SEB received a wide variety of awards: of its debt and obtaining attractive financing conditions. The CSR Grand Prix at the Responsible Consumption Awards organized by the ESSEC ACQUISITION OF CALL OPTIONS business school On 1 February 2017, for the second time in a row, Groupe SEB was In two transactions of identical size (28 July and 7 December), Groupe awarded the CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Grand Prix at the SEB acquired, 60,000 US call options in 2017, relating to 60,000 Responsible Consumption Awards organized by the ESSEC Business treasury shares. The acquisition of these call options will enable the School. Launched at the behest of ESSEC’s Chair of Fast-Moving Group to partially cover its obligations for the delivery of existing Consumer Goods, this award was organized in partnership with the treasury shares or payment, in relation to the eventual exercising of French Ministry of the Economy, Industry and Digital Sector. In this the conversion rights of the ORNAE (bonds redeemable in cash and/ category, the Group was rewarded by the jury for its commitment to or for existing shares), maturing on 17 November 2021. ensuring that its products remain repairable for a period of 10 years. In addition to this prize, it was the quality of all the projects submitted CREATION OF A GLOBAL INNOVATION HUB FOR by the Group that allowed it to win the CSR Grand Prix. SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES IN ÉCULLY Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise named 2016 Following on from the creation of the Products and Innovation “Financier of the Year” department in September 2015, the Group has decided to bring As part of the award organized by ANDESE (Association Nationale des together, at its global headquarters in Écully, the marketing and Docteurs ès Sciences Économiques et en Sciences de Gestion) and research teams of the kitchen electrics business, currently based in the weekly magazine Investir-Journal des finances, Thierry de La Tour Selongey, with those of the home and personal care business. The aim d’Artaise was elected 2016 “Financier of the Year”. He was presented is to optimize the innovation process, gaining agility and transversality. with the award on 18 April by François Villeroy de Galhau, Governor The teams will be set up gradually, starting in the summer of 2017, of the Bank of France. The “Financier of the Year” award, which was and 230 employees from the marketing and research teams will be created in 1984, is presented to the person who has contributed the relocated to the Group’s global headquarters by the summer of 2018. most during the past year to the development of financial activity in France. A jury of more than 300 members of the French financial community voted on the five nominees for the award. ONGOING INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING IN BRAZIL Innovation Award at the 2017 Digital In 2017, the Group began the final phase of the reorganization of Transformation Awards its industrial facilities in Brazil, combining the Brazilian production The second edition of the Digital Transformation Awards presented activities of Mooca and São Bernardo do Campo within a single, Groupe SEB with one of its four “Innovation Awards”, alongside modern industrial site at Itatiaia in Rio de Janeiro State. SNCF, FDJ and Nantes Métropole Habitat. Organized by the Solutions The historic plant at Mooca, in the heart of the São Paulo megalopolis, Numériques trade review, these awards recognize enterprises that, was suffering from productivity levels below Group standards as well thanks to digital, have been able to reinvent and transform their as major logistical limitations. The new plant in Itatiaia is located in a organization, their products or their business model, with gains in 150 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Commentary on the financial year 2017 highlights terms of growth and customer or internal benefits. Groupe SEB mergers and acquisitions category, to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise on stood out by creating connected products and combating planned 31 May. The award recognized Groupe SEB’s acquisition of WMF in obsolescence, which is detrimental to consumers, by providing an Germany. Through this award, Club des Trente seeks to demonstrate extended warranty and supplying spare parts produced by 3D printers. how finance and the financial markets can be made to serve ambitious business strategies that are compatible with the aims of sustainable First prize at 2017 “Cristal des Achats” development. The jury, chaired by Vincent Descours (CFO of the Louis Delahaize group), saw in this acquisition a future case study Groupe SEB’s Purchasing department won first prize at the 2017 for business schools. The operation, which was welcomed by the “Cristal des Achats” event held by the French National Purchasing stock market, brought together both geographical and business Board to reward best practice. The prize was presented to Hervé complementarities: Groupe SEB has thus become the leading Montaigu, the Group’s Purchasing Director, and Perrine Baylin, cookware group in Germany and the world leader in professional Purchasing Performance Manager, at the “Université des Achats” coffee machines. event on 15 May. The award related to the “purchasing maturity grid” built using OPS tools during a workshop involving 12 French, German and Chinese buyers. The Group’s various purchasing teams Groupe SEB recognized for excellent investor can now assess themselves on the basis of several criteria, and define relations an annual plan for progress in the areas that are most important for Groupe SEB was selected from more than 1,500 enterprises to them, while sharing and challenging themselves around best practices receive one of “Europe’s Most Honored Companies Awards”, which and successes. recognized the excellence of its relationships with investors, through General Management, the Finance department and the Investor Award for best Finance department Relations department. The award, allocated by a jury of financial analysts and the Investors community, was presented on 26 June to 4 At the seventh edition of the Leaders of Finance Awards held by Vincent Léonard, who represented Groupe SEB at a ceremony at the Décideurs Magazine/Leaders League on 20 April in Paris, Vincent London Stock Exchange. Léonard, Senior Executive Vice-president, Finance received the award for the Best Finance department of an international group. The ceremony was held during a gala dinner attended by 700 financial Best Investor Relations by a CEO award professionals from companies, banks, brokerages and specialist At Forum IR, the annual French event for investor relations consultancy firms. This award recognizes a year of record performance professionals, which took place in December 2017, Thierry de La and intense external growth activity. Tour d’Artaise was presented with the Best Investor Relations by a CEO award. This is the seventh time in nine events that the Group’s Club des Trente Award for best financial financial communication and investor relations has been recognized operation in 2016 by Forum IR. The Club des Trente, which brings together CFOs from the largest French groups, presented its 2016 award for best financial operation, GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 151 4 Commentary on the financial year Commentary on consolidated sales 4.2. Commentary on consolidated sales Change (based on exact ﬁgures, not rounded) Sales (in € millions) 2017 2016 As reported Like-for-like EMEA 2,690 2,495 7.8% 7.6% Western Europe 1,962 1,834 7.0% 5.8% Other countries 728 661 10.1% 12.6% AMERICAS 939 919 2.2% 3.1% North America 573 564 1.7% 3.8% South America 366 355 3.0% 2.0% ASIA 1,709 1,586 7.7% 15.3% China 1,240 1,122 10.4% 21.0% Other Asian countries 469 464 1.2% 1.6% TOTAL EXCL. WMF 5,337 5,000 6.7% 9.2% WMF 1,148 5.1% GROUPE SEB 6,485 5,000 29.7% Change (based on exact ﬁgures, not rounded) Sales (in € millions) Q4 2017 Q4 2016 As reported Like-for-like EMEA 967 910 6.3% 7.9% Western Europe 738 687 7.4% 8.1% Other countries 229 223 2.8% 7.4% AMERICAS 293 301 -2.9% 4.1% North America 185 189 -2.0% 4.2% South America 108 112 -4.5% 3.9% ASIA 431 421 2.5% 12.7% China 296 278 6.2% 19.4% Other Asian countries 135 143 -4.9% -0.5% TOTAL EXCL. WMF 1,691 1,632 3.6% 8.4% WMF 335 -1.4% GROUPE SEB 2,026 1,632 24.1% 152 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Commentary on the financial year Commentary on consolidated sales 2016-2017 SALES GROWTH ORGANIC GROWTH IN SALES BY QUARTER IN 2015, 2016, AND 2017 In % In €M 5,000 6,485 12 +1,121 +11.5 10 +9.4 +462 +8.6 +8.8 8 +8.4 +7.9 +7.8 -98 +7.2 +6.9 6 +6.5 Scope +6.0 Organic Currency and Supor +5.1 growth effect reclassification* 4 +9.2% -2.0% +22.5% 2 +29.7% 0 2016 2017 4 T1 T2 T3 T4 * Excluding €3m in WMF sales already generated by SEB 2015 2016 2017 subsidiaries and SUPOR reclassification of -€74m +8.0% +6.1% +9.2% After a brisk fourth quarter, Groupe SEB achieved in 2017 an excellent The Group’s full-year sales amounted to €6,485 million, up 29.7%, with performance, off of already high prior-year comparatives. In the organic growth of 9.2% (+€462 million), driven primarily by volumes, fourth quarter, the 24.1% increase in sales to €2,026 million breaks and a currency effect of -2.0% (-€98 million, resulting mostly from the down as follows: organic growth of 8.4% (+€138 million), a currency depreciation of the yuan, the Turkish lira, the Egyptian pound and the effect of -3.8% (-€62 million), a scope effect of €338m (WMF) and a US dollar). The scope effect amounted to €1,195 million (WMF over 12 €20m reclassification of some of Supor’s marketing spend to sales months and EMSA over 6 months for €1,151 million and €44 million, deductions, with no impact on Operating Result from Activity. It should respectively) and the reclassification of Supor’s marketing spend to also be noted that EMSA, consolidated since 1 July 2016, had no -€74 million. further impact on scope in the second half of the year. The robust sales growth was driven by all product lines and all geographical areas. PRODUCT SALES PERFORMANCE All the major product categories made a positive contribution to this enabled the Group to position itself in the new segment of versatile strong sales performance: handstick vacuum cleaners with a high-quality model with robust sales, particularly in France, Germany and Spain. As in previous ■ despite high comparatives, the very strong dynamic continued in years, these excellent performances resulted in increased market home care, with growth in activity of 30% on a like-for-like basis, share in floor care for the Group in Europe; driven by all the product families. Bagless vacuum cleaners are the main driver of growth, with further progress in Turkey, where ■ double-digit growth in food preparation with, as in 2016, contrasting the Group is expanding its product offering, including with locally situations according to product families: in blenders (the largest manufactured products, and performing well in France, Spain, market in the category), the Group repeated the very good Germany and Russia, among others. Sales are also growing rapidly performance of 2016, due in particular to the very rapid growth of and steadily in China. In Europe and Turkey, which has adopted high speed blenders in China and the solid development of sales in European regulations on performance labeling of vacuum cleaners, South Korea and Mexico. In heating and cooking food processors, the Silence Force 4A model is a big driver of growth. Meanwhile, the business was sustained despite the non-recurrence of a special Clean and Steam vacuum cleaner has continued to grow, mainly operation on Cuisine Companion in Italy. The same was true of in France and Italy. Lastly, the launch of the Air Force 360 has small food preparation appliances (beaters, hand blenders) and GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 153 4 Commentary on the financial year Commentary on consolidated sales juicers. However, sales of soy milk extractors were down in China China. Fan sales suffered throughout the year from adverse weather (due to strong competition from high speed blenders), but gradually conditions in Colombia and Brazil, but rebounded at the end of the recovered in meat mincers, sustained by a dynamic Russian market; year in Brazil, thanks to the launch of new large and ceiling models, ■ solid sales growth was registered in electrical cooking, covering which enabled 2017 to end in positive territory; nearly all the product families, except for deep fryers. Major ■ in linen care, organic growth was also pronounced, based on two contributors to this dynamic include rice cookers and electric main products types: steam generators – particularly fast-heating pressure cookers in China – where Supor continues to stand out, models – in France, Central Europe and Turkey, for example, and thanks to continuous improvement in the functionality of its products garment steamers (standing or handheld), with new advances in – as well as multicookers, driven by Cookeo and Cookeo Connect, China, Japan and the US, which are fast-growing markets. However, particularly in France. Known as Cook4me internationally, Cookeo is sales of irons proved to be more difficult in an almost stable world gradually being rolled out to other countries (e.g. Germany, Japan, market, despite clear commercial success in Russia and Brazil. and Australia). Optigrill has also confirmed its success and has The Group’s constant innovation and its ability to adapt to new continued its geographical expansion (in Russia, for example). uses and local needs (as was the case with the Freemove compact 2017 was also a good year for informal meal appliances (including iron, launched successfully in Japan) have enabled it to strengthen sandwich makers and waffle makers), and for toasters, driven its positions; particularly by the large-scale launch of a kitchen electrics range ■ in the beverage preparation market, the Group maintained a steady under the Krups brand in the US; pace of growth, thanks in particular to the major contribution of ■ cookware sales were extremely positive, driven by an increase in the new Nespresso contracts signed in Switzerland and Austria, the vast majority of countries, with the notable exception of two: the as well as the strong performance achieved in Dolce Gusto coffee US, where the (perhaps temporary) emergence of new players has machines, whose product offering continues to expand. Sales of significantly disrupted the market in 2017 and adversely affected automatic espresso machines also continued to grow, particularly in T-fal’s sales in North America; and France, due to the non-recurrence Europe, and filter coffee makers benefited from the introduction of of a major loyalty program with a retailer in 2016. Excluding the US the new Krups range of kitchen electrics in the US. Kettle sales were and France, buoyant sales of pots and pans reflect both a solid down, despite strong momentum in Japan, where the Group has core business (China, Germany, Japan, South Korea, etc.) and new strengthened its leadership, due to a very high 2016 comparison loyalty programs in several countries (Germany, Central Europe, base in China. In home beer-tapping machines, BeerTender and Le Mexico, etc.). It is also worth noting that the premium segment, Sub achieved a net increase in sales compared with 2016; served within the Group by All-Clad and Lagostina (and now also ■ lastly, in personal care, sales were up slightly on a like-for-like basis, WMF), also performed well. Meanwhile, sales of kitchen utensils driven by male beauty appliances (mainly hair trimmers) and hair again registered strong growth, again largely driven by cups, mugs removal (a loyalty program with a retailer in France), while the and thermal cups in China, but steadily expanding geographically; Steampod professional hair straightener, designed in partnership ■ the home comfort business registered solid growth in 2017 on a with L’Oréal, again registered strong sales that were nevertheless like-for-like basis. Sales of air purifiers again grew rapidly, mainly in down compared with an exceptional performance in 2016. GEOGRAPHICAL PERFORMANCE EMEA the Clean & Steam model and the versatile stick Air Force 360), steam generators, Cookeo, the Cuisine Companion cooking food processor, full-automatic espresso machines, Dolce Gusto, etc., and Western Europe led to a significant improvement in our leadership on the French small In a European market remaining overall sound, Groupe SEB achieved electrical appliance market in 2017. organic sales growth of 5.8% in 2017 and 8.1% in the fourth quarter. In Germany, the Group’s 2017 performance was outstanding. Business At year-end, and despite their different environments and high was underpinned by the ongoing roll-out of flagship products such comparatives, almost all countries posted like-for-like growth. This as Optigrill, Actifry, vacuum cleaners, coffee makers (full-automatic robust momentum translated into market share gains. espresso machines, Nespresso and Dolce Gusto) and cookware – all The Group delivered record performances in France, with fourthboosted by major growth drivers – and was further bolstered by loyalty quarter sales of €307 million (+4.7%) and full-year sales of €791 million programs with retailers. The sharp increase in sales in Switzerland (+1.4%). Despite a strong year-end, cookware revenue remained and Austria can be attributed to new partnerships with Nespresso. sluggish due to the non-repeat of loyalty programs. In small electrical Despite the non-renewal of special sales campaigns in 2016, the appliances, however, business was excellent, driven by a broad Group also had a good year in Spain where its growth, fueled by range of products, including vacuum cleaners (bagless, uprights, almost all categories, strengthened its leadership offline and online. 154 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Commentary on the financial year Commentary on consolidated sales The core business, excluding special campaigns, was also very strong In the United States, despite the favorable impact of the launch of the in Italy due mainly to the confirmed success of vacuum cleaners, new Krups kitchen electric range, in particular in the first quarter, the steam generators, Optigrill and Dolce Gusto, as well as our continued Group had a challenging year: difficulties or weaknesses at several headway in e-commerce. In the United Kingdom, despite an uncertain retail brands in light of fast-rising e-commerce; sales of core-range overall environment and the price hikes implemented to offset the cookware (T-fal) disrupted by a fierce competitive backdrop; decline in depreciation of the pound sterling, Group revenue was up like-forthe market of irons, not offset by sharp impetus in garment steamers, like. In Belgium, the Netherlands and Portugal, the Group achieved etc. While these factors were still relevant at the end of the year, growth a very good year. resumed in the fourth quarter thanks to the replenishment of Krups products, the rapid development of our sales with online pure players Moreover, 2017 was the first year of consolidation for WMF, with, in as well as strong momentum in the premium cookware segment with particular, the progressive takeover of the operational management of All-Clad and the introduction of the Lagostina brand. Consequently, WMF’s Consumer business by Groupe SEB market companies, apart full-year turnover was stable in dollars. from Germany, Austria and Switzerland. These first reorganization steps naturally caused some temporary disruptions but put the Group In Canada, as expected, fourth-quarter sales benefited from a more on the right track for 2018, with powerful action plans to roll-out and favorable momentum thanks to better cookware sales and solid accelerate revenue synergies. growth in linen care (generators and garment steamers). Nevertheless, the overall environment remains complicated, especially in the retail Other countries industry. In the other EMEA countries, the Group’s organic growth stood at Mexico is the key contributor to growth in the NAFTA region in 2017. 12.6% for the year, following a fourth quarter posting a still solid In spite of the earthquake’s impact on consumption, business dynamic growth of +7.4%. The vast majority of countries contributed to this remained quite robust in the fourth quarter, driven in particular by cookware, blenders and irons, as well as by a new loyalty program 4 very good performance which, as was the case in Western Europe, led to market share gains. with one of our key clients. The Group continued to make headway in Central Europe in 2017, through a combination of development of its core business, South America underpinned by mainstay categories and supported by strong The turnaround in the exchange rate trend that began in the summer marketing campaigns, and special sales campaigns with retailers. was confirmed in the fourth quarter, with a significant depreciation of Our sales in Ukraine have grown tremendously on a quarterly basis the Brazilian real and the Colombian peso against the euro. However, and rose by more than 50% at constant exchange rates for the full the Group achieved over the period a somewhat firmer business year. Momentum slowed significantly in the fourth quarter in Russia, activity. due mainly to the non-repeat of loyalty programs in cookware, but the The Brazilian economy is showing signs of recovery, which materialize vigorous growth in core business held steady, driven by all categories in household consumption, but the overall environment and the except coffee makers, by considerable gains in retail and by the political agenda are key uncertainties. The Group posted organic ramp-up in our network of proprietary stores. In Turkey, the continued sales growth in the fourth quarter of 3% which contributed to a slight depreciation of the Turkish lira led us to increase prices substantially. annual increase of 1%. This positive trend was driven mainly by fans However, sales in volume remained resilient, in both cookware (due in and irons – due to new product launches – while sales were down in particular to the launch of Ingenio in fourth-quarter) and small electrical food preparation and cookware. With cookware manufacturing still appliances, with a strong contribution from vacuum cleaners. Special in the transfer phase, the segment should soon benefit from the new, emphasis should be given to the increasing weight in the business of more competitive production lines at the Itatiaia site. products manufactured locally or at our plant in Egypt. In Colombia, the decrease in sales in pesos continued to stem The fourth quarter showed growing sales in Saudi Arabia – despite primarily from the drop-in fan revenue due to poor weather. In contrast, still high inventories at our distributor’s – and stable revenue in India cookware business remained on track and growth was maintained in in a wait-and-see market context. Nonetheless, the improving trend blenders. Moreover, the Group achieved a very good year in Argentina could not compensate for the decline in turnover accumulated since and ensured, despite high inflation, a double-digit growth in unit sales. the beginning of the year. ASIA AMERICAS China North America With sales growing organically at around 20%, both in the fourth After 4.2% organic growth in the fourth quarter, the Group’s 2017 sales quarter and over the year, the Group has again recorded a remarkable were up 3.8% like-for-like in NAFTA countries. This improvement can performance in China, in a market largely driven by e-commerce and be attributed to a positive performance in the United States in the which is creating value. Supor continued to implement an innovation fourth quarter and to a good year-end in Canada. strategy and contribute to the trade-up of the market in its flagship GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 155 4 Commentary on the financial year Commentary on consolidated sales products in cookware and kitchenware (woks, thermal flasks and In the other South-East Asian countries, however, 2017 performances mugs, in particular), kitchen electrics (rice cookers, electrical pressure were very mixed: revenue improved on a like-for-like basis in Thailand cookers, high-speed blenders, etc.) as well as in the non-kitchen and Malaysia after double-digit growth in the fourth quarter but fell small electrical appliance segment (air purifiers, irons and garment sharply in Vietnam and was penalized by high 2016 comparatives in steamers, vacuum cleaners). Internet sales continued to expand, and Singapore (non-recurring B2B campaigns). e-commerce accounted for more than 35% of 2017 revenue, bolstered by a Double 11 day progressing by more than 40% against 2016. All these outstanding performances of Supor must be put in perspective WMF of a rich sales history including several years of double-digit organic growth. WMF’s 2017 sales stood at €1,151 million, up 5.5% year-on-year. In the fourth quarter, WMF’s sales amounted to €338 million, practically It should be noted that, to better reflect the nature of some expenditure stable versus 2016. and ensure full consistency with other Group entities in terms of financial statements, an adjustment was made to the accounting In the professional business, WMF’s annual sales were €563 million, up format in 2017, whereby for full-year, €74 million in marketing spend 13%, with coffee (PCM) contributing +17% and the hotel equipment was reclassified as a sales decrease (of which €20 million in the fourth business down 9% due to the lack of major projects compared quarter), with no impact on Operating Result from Activity. with 2016. Turnover for the fourth quarter stood at €137 million and was stable. For professional coffee machines in particular, as has been specified throughout the year, the 2017 performance should Other Asian countries be analyzed from two perspectives: on one hand, a core business The fourth quarter was slightly down like-for-like in Asia excluding that continued to grow at a sustained pace in both Germany (with China, reflecting the diverse situations in different countries. While strong year-end momentum) and internationally; on the other hand, the Japan and South Korea, the Group’s two largest markets in the region, major impact of two large contracts signed in 2016 with Canadian and confirmed their role as strong drivers, momentum slowed somewhat in Japanese clients, but which gradually faded: as most of the deliveries Australia and business was down – sometimes significantly – in other were made between fourth-quarter 2016 and the summer of 2017, countries that account for a very small percentage of sales. the effect strongly mitigated in the third quarter, before disappearing In Japan, the Group maintained in the fourth quarter a solid growth entirely in the fourth quarter. rate, grounded in its three mainstays: cookware and kitchen tools; In the Small Domestic Equipment business (“Consumer”), sales linen care, with continued progress in the expanding garment steamer amounted to respectively €588 million and €201 million for full-year and category and the promising launch of the Freemove Mini compact fourth-quarter, almost unchanged versus 2016, due to a combination cordless iron; and kettles, where the robust improvement in sales of several factors: still sluggish cookware sales in Germany, the nonfurther strengthened our leadership on the market. This strong repeat of a major loyalty program of end-2016 in Asia and one-off momentum was fueled throughout the year by substantial growth disruptions caused by the sales reorganizations outside of Germany, drivers. In addition, the excellent performance of our network of about Austria and Switzerland. However, growth in sales of small electrical 30 proprietary stores (with six openings in 2017) should be highlighted. appliances was in the double digits fueled in particular by new product In South Korea, as in 2016, the Group had another good year in 2017, launches; WMF stores achieved a slight growth in sales in Germany; mainly owing to the ongoing business development in cookware, and lastly, international expansion is progressing rapidly. blenders and hair dryers. In Australia, after a vigorous third quarter boosted by the introduction of new products, growth in local currency slowed at the end of the year. Sales nevertheless remained on track, in particular in cookware, irons, electrical pressure cookers and Optigrill. 156 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Commentary on the financial year Commentary on the consolidated results 4.3. Commentary on the consolidated results INCOME STATEMENT OPERATING RESULT FROM ACTIVITY (ORFA) ■ a €70m increase in investment in growth drivers; approximately a quarter allocated to innovation and three quarters for advertising Operating Result from Activity (ORfA) totaled €661 million, up 30.8%. and marketing; and comprised the following: ■ a €22 million increase in commercial and administrative expenses. ■ excluding WMF, Group ORfA amounted to €583 million, up 15% on 2016. Hence, Group operating margin excluding WMF came out at approximately 11%. In addition, the currency effect (-€10 million) OPERATING PROFIT AND NET PROFIT was much lower than in previous years (-€122 million in 2016 in At end-December 2017, the Group’s Operating profit in its new scope particular); totaled €580 million, compared with €426 million in 2016. The figure ■ WMF ORfA excluding one-off PPAs was €95 million, up 12% on takes account of discretionary and non-discretionary profit-sharing 2016; expense of €38 million, practically stable on last year. It also includes 4 ■ the one-off impacts of the WMF purchase price allocation other operating income and expense of -€44 million (-€42 million in (revaluation of inventories and order books) represented -€17 million 2016), composed primarily of the industrial and logistics reorganization and were fully recognized in first-half 2017. Consequently, WMF’s implemented in Brazil (transfer of production from the Mooca and net contribution to Group ORfA totaled €78 million. San Bernardo sites to the new Itatiaia site), charges stemming from As such, Group Operating Result from Activity in 2017 excluding the integration of WMF and the pooling of Groupe SEB and WMF one-off impacts of the WMF purchase price allocation amounted to entities in several countries, and expenses incurred by the creation €678 million, up 34.2%, for an operating margin of 10.5%. It should of the Group’s global Innovation Hub in Lyon for the small electrical be noted that the integration of WMF’s Small Domestic Equipment appliance business. business into the Group’s market companies will not allow for this Net financial expense came out at -€72 million, compared with detailed analysis in 2018. -€58 million in 2016. At €35 million (€30 million in 2016), interest In addition, organic growth in ORfA can be broken down as follows: expense rose moderately despite the increase in debt, mainly due to the excellent financing conditions for the acquisition of WMF. Other ■ a positive volume effect of €133 million; financial expense primarily included a €9 million increase in the fair ■ a positive mix-price effect of €80 million, which, versus previous value of the optional part of the November 2016 convertible bond issue years, is largely driven by an improvement in the mix; and unfavorable currency translation adjustments. ■ a €32 million increase in production costs, particularly reflecting Net profit amounted to €375 million, up 45%. The total included a more expensive raw materials starting in the summer period tax expense of €99 million representing an exceptionally low effective (aluminum, nickel, copper, plastics, etc.). This rise in costs was tax rate of 19.5% in 2017, thanks notably to a non-recurring effect only partially offset by better absorption of industrial costs, thanks of the tax reform in the United States and the restitution of the tax to an increase in volumes; on dividends in France. It also comprised non-controlling interests of €34 million, up on last year owing to the continued improvement of Supor’s performance in China. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 157 4 Commentary on the financial year Commentary on the consolidated results BALANCE SHEET At 31 December 2017, equity stood at €1,964 million, an increase of The Group thus ended the year with a debt to equity ratio of 97% €128 million on end-2016 despite the inclusion of negative translation (110% on a pro forma basis at end-2016) and a net debt/adjusted adjustments of €148 million (penalizing effect of the yuan, US dollar, EBITDA ratio of 2.4, compared with 2.8 at 31 December 2016. This Brazilian real and Colombian peso). ratio is consistent with the debt reduction objectives announced in May 2016. At end-2017, net debt totaled €1,905 million, compared with €2,019 million a year earlier. The €114 million decrease can be attributed to the robust generation of operating cash flow. This last amounted to €322 million for the year, used in part, excluding dividend CAPITAL EXPENDITURE payments and share purchases, to cover non-operational outflows Capital expenditure was €192 million, compared with €181 million in (mainly restructurings under way, WMF integration costs and the 2015; adjusted for the scope effect related to WMF, it was, overall, in acquisition of Swizzz Prozzz). line with the average for previous years. The main capital expenditure At end-2017, the working capital requirement stood at €1,222 million, was on molds and tooling for new products, production equipment (e.g. equal to 18.8% of Group sales (19.6% at end-2016). WMF had a slight injection molding machines, new assembly lines) and the renovation negative impact on this ratio, which amounted to 18.2% for the former of certain buildings. This comes on top of capital expenditure on business scope. production-related computer software, capitalized development costs and the refurbishing of the Group’s proprietary stores. BREAKDOWN OF OPERATING RESULT FROM ACTIVITY CASH FLOW AND CAPITAL EXPENDITURE In €m 505 594 678 661 517 552 727 +80 -32 +133 +94 -17 -70 -22 -10 181 192 157 Vo 2015 2016 2017 16 Pr eslum 17 Co ice m 20 Com m.and Grow st of sa ix les 20 Cash flow in €m ad h dr m t ive i 20 n. ex rs 17 pen Lik efor se s Capital expenditure in €m 20 Cu ke rre -li 17 Be Scop nc ies foreP PA ee ffe ct on PP -off e Ao sne -o ffs * Like-for-like: at constant exchange rates and scope of consolidation. 158 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Commentary on the financial year Commentary on SEB S.A.’s results 4.4. Commentary on SEB S.A.’s results PRESENTATION OF SEB S.A.’S RESULTS SEB S.A., the parent company of Group SEB, is a holding company. It of €5.3 million in 2016. €26.5 million in income was registered for therefore defines and implements the Group’s development strategy. It corporation tax in 2017, compared with €21.8 million in 2016. As SEB holds financial interests that enable it to have direct and indirect control S.A. is the lead company of the tax consolidation group, it recognizes over Group companies. SEB S.A. also manages the Group’s cash, tax income corresponding to the tax saving related to the deduction implements the financing policy and centralizes the management of of the losses of the loss-making subsidiaries from the overall group’s the market risks to which the subsidiaries and the Group are exposed. tax result of €19.8 million in 2017, as well as income of €10 million corresponding to the reimbursement relating to the contribution of The financial statements of SEB S.A. at 31 December 2017 are 3% on the amounts distributed for 2013 and 2016. characterized by the following amounts and transactions: SEB S.A.’s net profit for the 2017 was €268.8 million, compared with An operating expense of €17.1 million in 2017, compared with an €45.6 million for 2016. expense of €19.5 million in 2016. At 31 December 2017, total assets amounted to €4,699.5 million, Net financial income of €268.9 million in 2017, compared with 4 compared with €4,697.9 million at the end of 2016, representing a €48.6 million in 2016, representing an increase of €220.3 million yearslight increase of €1.6 million. on-year. This net financial income mainly comprises: Non-current assets amounted to €4,341.5 million, up €30.0 million ■ Dividends received, which increased substantially in 2017 to compared with 31 December 2016. They mainly comprised equity €223.4 million, from €100.3 million in 2016; investments for a net amount of €1,574.2 million, compared with ■ Favorable currency effects in 2017 of €87.1 million, compared with €1,619.9 million in 2016, and longand medium-term loans granted a loss of €47.9 million in 2016; for €2.766.1 million, compared with €2,690.5 million in 2016. ■ Net write-downs of equity investments of €44.9 million, compared In terms of liabilities, the company’s equity stood at €1,224.0 million with €7.9 million in 2016. at 31 December 2017, compared with €1,043.9 million in 2016. SEB Profit from ordinary activities before tax was therefore €251.8 million S.A.’s borrowings amounted to €3,207.6 million at 31 December 2017, in 2017, compared with €29.1 million in 2016. An extraordinary net compared with €3,177.9 million in 2016. expense of €9.5 million was registered, compared with an expense ACQUISITIONS OF EQUITY INVESTMENTS SEB S.A. acquired an equity investment of 56.9% in the capital of Ethera on 28 July 2017. SEB S.A. did not acquire any other significant equity investments in 2017 in companies with their registered offices in France. DIVIDENDS PAID OUT IN THE LAST THREE FINANCIAL YEARS Dividends Share premium 2015 70,901,642 2,722,104 2016 75,896,898 2,936,383 2017 85,347,160 3,236,360 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 159 4 Commentary on the financial year Commentary on SEB S.A.’s results BREAKDOWN OF TRADE PAYABLES BY DUE DATE Article D. 441 I.-1°: Invoices received and not settled at the closing date of the ﬁnancial year that are in arrears 0 days 91 days Total(1 day (in € millions) (indicative) 1 to 30 days 31 to 60 days 61 to 90 days or more or more) (A) Late payment tranches Number of invoices concerned 12 Total amount of invoices concerned excl. VAT (1.80) Percentage of total amount of purchases excl. VAT for the year 20% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% (B) Invoices excluded from (A) relating to debts and receivables that are disputed aor not reported Number of invoices excluded 10 Total number of invoices excluded 0.00 (C) Payment deadlines for references used (contractual or statutory deadline – Article L. 441-6 or Article L. 443-1 of the French commercial code) Payment deadlines used to calculate late Statutory deadlines: The payment deadlines range from 30 days to 60 days. payments Contractual deadlines: The payment deadlines conform to the legal deadlines. SUMPTUARY EXPENSES AND NON-TAX DEDUCTIBLE EXPENSES Pursuant to the provisions of Article 223 quater of the French Tax depreciation of passenger vehicles. This expense is not deductible Code, we inform you that the financial statements for the last financial from the tax result according to Article 39-4 of the French General year contain sumptuary expenses of €20,403 corresponding to the Tax Code. 160 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Commentary on the financial year Outlook 4.5. Outlook Groupe SEB posted an excellent year in 2017, combining strong in Professional Coffee, implementing the actions to improve performances in line with its objectives and a promising start from profitability in the Consumer business, and ramping up operational WMF. synergies. Delivering on all these topics will once again call for a strong mobilization of the teams. Like 2017, 2018 will be a rich and busy year marked by a two-fold objective: Moreover, the economic environment is likely to be more challenging in 2018 in terms of commodities and currencies. Despite high ■ pursue the Group’s profitable growth (former scope) in a small comparatives for the former scope and an exceptional 2017 in household equipment market that should remain buoyant, by Professional Coffee for WMF, Groupe SEB’s objective in 2018 is to continuing to harness our solid fundamentals – innovation, the achieve further organic sales growth, improve its Operating Result power of our brands, broad distribution, international presence, from Activity and continue to reduce its debt level in order to bring industrial expertise and top-quality execution – to make a difference; its net debt/adjusted EBITDA ratio down below 2 at the end of 2018. ■ pursue in parallel the integration of WMF by rolling out the projects initiated, executing investment and acceleration plans 4 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 161 4 Commentary on the financial year Post-balance sheet events 4.6. Post-balance sheet events EGYPT Groupe SEB signed an agreement at end-2017 to merge the small With a view to strengthening their existing cooperation, Groupe SEB electrical appliances and cookware businesses with its historic partner and the Zahran family have set up a new entity, Groupe SEB Egypt in Egypt, the Zahran family, with the aim of strengthening its industrial Zahran, owned 55% by Groupe SEB and 45% by Zahran. Bringing base in the country to serve the local market and for exports. together the small electrical appliance and cookware businesses, the company aims to: The Zahran group, established in 1967, is Egypt’s largest cookware manufacturer. It has two industrial sites and 11 Zahran stores, and ■ accelerate sales growth in Egypt and take best advantage of the employs more than 700 people. It has been producing and selling market’s strong potential; cookware under the Tefal and Zahran brands in Egypt since 1973. ■ capitalize on the relationship of trust established over a number of In addition, in 2013, Groupe SEB created a joint venture with Zahran, years with the Zahran family; Groupe SEB Egypt, in which it has a controlling shareholding of 75%, ■ strengthen the Group’s production base in the region to facilitate which manufactures and sells small electrical appliances (including access to certain markets in Africa and the Middle East. vacuum cleaners, blenders, and small food processors), mainly under The transaction has been submitted to the approval of the Egyptian the Moulinex and Tefal brands. The plant is located at Borg El-Arab, regulatory authorities and should be finalized in second-quarter 2018. near Alexandria. Groupe SEB posted sales of around €20 million in Egypt in 2017. FRANCE – LINEN CARE As part of its strategy of strengthening its competitiveness in linen for the neighboring site of Pont-Évêque (619 employees on permanent care, Groupe SEB announced capital expenditure in France of nearly contracts), which manufactures and assembles these products. The €15 million in early 2018. new product ranges call for increasingly innovative plastic injection processes and require new, high-tonnage injection molding machines By 2020, this project will involve the transfer of the business and all of which the Saint-Jean-de-Bournay site cannot accommodate. the employees from the Saint-Jean-de-Bournay site to the neighboring site at Pont-Evêque, whilst keeping jobs. Groupe SEB therefore plans to extend the existing site at Pont-Évêque by building an injection molding machine workshop with a surface area The two sites, which are 18km apart, are interdependent and are of 7,300 m2 and two storage buildings. These new premises, which the only industrial production sites for the Group’s irons and steam are designed to be ergonomic and safe, will improve the working generators in France. Saint-Jean-de-Bournay (162 employees on conditions of employees and optimize logistical flows. permanent contracts) is dedicated to plastics, making injected parts 162 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 5.1. Financial statements Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated cash flow statement 164 164 164 165 166 5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 167 5.2. Notes to the consolidated financial statements 169 Figures at 31 December 169 5.3. Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 233 Opinion 233 Basis for opinion 233 Justification of assessments – Key audit matters 233 Verification of the information pertaining to the Group presented in the management report 235 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements 235 Responsibilities of management and those charged Consolidated with governance for the consolidated financial statements 236 Responsibilities of the statutory auditors relating Ànancial statements to the audit of the consolidated financial statements 236 Detailed description of the statutory auditors’ responsibilities 237 5.4. History of significant consolidated items and ratios 238 5.4.1. History of significant consolidated items 238 5.4.2. History of consolidated ratios 239 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 163 5 Consolidated financial statements Financial statements 5.1. Financial statements CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT Year ended 31 December (in € millions) 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 Revenue (Note 3) 6,484.6 4,999.7 4,769.7 Operating expenses (Note 4) (5,824.0) (4,494.5) (4,341.7) OPERATING RESULT FROM ACTIVITY 660.6 505.2 428.0 Statutory and discretionary employee profit-sharing (Note 5) (37.6) (36.7) (31.4) RECURRING OPERATING PROFIT 623.1 468.5 396.6 Other operating income and expense (Note 6) (43.6) (42.2) (25.3) OPERATING PROFIT 579.5 426.3 371.3 Finance costs (Note 7) (34.9) (29.8) (27.5) Other financial income and expense (Note 7) (36.7) (28.2) (20.3) Share of profits of associates PROFIT BEFORE TAX 507.9 368.3 323.5 Income tax (Note 8) (99.3) (77.7) (82.4) PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 408.6 290.8 241.1 Non-controlling interests (Note 20) (33.6) (32.2) (35.2) PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT 375.0 258.6 205.9 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT PER SHARE (IN UNITS) Basic earnings per share (Note 9) 7.56 5.20 4.20 Diluted earnings per share (Note 9) 7.50 5.15 4.14 The accompanying Notes 1 to 33 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in € millions) 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 Profit for the period 408.6 290.8 241.1 Exchange differences on translating foreign operations (147.9) (32.3) 50.9 Gains (losses) on cash flow hedges (21.1) (16.8) (16.8) Restatement of employee benefit obligations, net of tax (a) (b) 14.0 (17.4) (0.7) Other comprehensive income (155.0) (66.5) 33.4 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 253.6 224.3 274.5 Non-controlling interests (24.2) (22.0) (46.5) COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT 229.4 202.3 228.0 (a) Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss. (b) The pre-tax effect of this restatement is shown in Note 22.4 Change gains and losses recorded in other comprehensive income. 164 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Financial statements CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Year ended 31 December ASSETS (in € millions) 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 * 31/12/2015 Goodwill (Note 10) 1,467.5 1,515.0 544.9 Other intangible assets (Note 10) 1,170.6 1,201.6 485.0 Property, plant and equipment (Note 11) 820.5 836.8 596.5 Investments in associates (Note 13) 11.1 Other investments (Note 13) 33.8 18.0 16.7 Other non-current financial assets (Note 13) 15.4 13.3 10.4 Deferred taxes (Note 8) 62.9 89.1 50.3 Other non-current assets (Note 17) 10.6 13.3 23.6 Long-term derivative instruments (Note 25) 3.4 0.5 5.0 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 3,584.7 3,698.7 1,732.4 Inventories (Note 15) 1,112.1 1,067.0 820.9 Trade receivables (Note 16) 1,015.8 1,052.9 886.0 Other receivables (Note 17) 100.0 100.6 90.2 Current tax assets 73.5 59.6 44.5 Short-term derivative instruments (Note 25) 45.6 50.6 45.9 Other financial investments (Note 24) 216.8 204.6 244.5 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 18) 538.7 414.5 770.8 5 CURRENT ASSETS 3,102.5 2,949.8 2,902.8 TOTAL ASSETS 6,687.2 6,648.5 4,635.2 * After ﬁnalization of the WMF purchase price allocation entries (Note 2.1). LIABILITIES (in € millions) 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 * 31/12/2015 Share capital (Note 19) 50.2 50.2 50.2 Reserves and retained earnings (Note 19) 1,806.6 1,677.6 1,728.6 Treasury stock (Note 19) ( 67.3) ( 56.8) (71.2) Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,789.5 1,671.0 1,707.6 Non-controlling interests (Note 20) 174.8 165.2 200.1 EQUITY 1,964.3 1,836.2 1,907.7 Deferred taxes (Note 8) 216.7 272.5 70.1 Long-term provisions (Note 21) 354.0 384.1 185.8 Long-term borrowings (Note 24) 2,067.3 1,553.6 707.0 Other non-current liabilities (Note 23) 47.3 45.7 41.7 Long-term derivative instruments (Note 25) 20.7 10.5 3.5 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 2,706.0 2,266.4 1,008.1 Short-term provisions (Note 21) 90.0 112.5 61.0 Trade payables (Note 23) 905.8 915.4 695.2 Other current liabilities (Note 23) 351.7 380.0 291.6 Current tax liabilities 51.7 42.3 31.5 Short-term derivative instruments (Note 25) 39.5 23.0 16.6 Short-term borrowings (Note 24) 578.2 1,072.7 623.5 CURRENT LIABILITIES 2,016.9 2,545.9 1,719.4 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 6,687.2 6,648.5 4,635.2 * After ﬁnalization of the WMF purchase price allocation entries (Note 2.1). The accompanying Notes 1 to 33 are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 165 5 Consolidated financial statements Financial statements CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT Year ended 31 December (in € millions) 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT 375.0 258.6 205.9 Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses (Notes 10 and 11) 177.9 122.9 146.5 Change in provisions (Note 21) (11.4) 2.9 Unrealized gains and losses on financial instruments (Note 25) (0.4) 6.9 9.5 Income and expenses related to stock options plan (Note 19.2) 17.7 13.1 13.9 Gains and losses on disposals of assets 1.8 1.1 1.9 Other 0.1 (6.0) Non-controlling interests (Note 20) 33.6 32.2 35.2 Current and deferred taxes (Note 8) 98.2 78.5 81.7 Finance costs (Note 7) 34.3 36.1 28.0 CASH FLOW (a) 726.9 552.3 516.6 Change in inventories and work in progress (Note 15) (109.9) (0.5) 26.5 Change in trade receivables (Note 16) (12.0) 39.1 (137.6) Change in trade payables (Note 23) 38.6 87.0 41.8 Change in other receivables and payables (Notes 17 and 23) (40.8) 23.0 45.7 Income tax paid (116.9) (88.7) (88.6) Net interest paid (29.1) (36.1) (28.0) NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 456.8 575.9 376.4 Proceeds from disposals of assets (Note 11) 13.7 6.6 5.0 Purchases of property, plant and equipment (Note 11) (165.0) (162.4) (133.6) Purchases of software and other intangible assets (Note 10) (27.4) (19.0) (23.5) Purchases of financial assets (Notes 13 et 24) (30.7) 20.5 (62.8) Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (Note 2) (8.1) (1,695.2) (18.5) Effect of other changes in scope of consolidation (Note 2) NET CASH USED BY INVESTING ACTIVITIES (217.4) (1,849.5) (233.4) Change in long-term borrowings (Note 24) 515.5 846.6 130.1 Change in short-term borrowings (Note 24) (487.9) 395.4 273.4 Issue of share capital (Note 19) Transactions between owners (Note 20) (27.5) (196.1) (24.1) Change in treasury shares (Note 19.4) (27.2) (2.7) (3.6) Dividends paid, including to non-controlling interests (101.1) (92.0) (85.4) NET CASH USED BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES (128.3) 951.2 290.3 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 13.0 (33.9) (3.9) NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 124.2 (356.4) 429.4 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period (Note 18) 414.5 770.8 341.4 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (Note 18) 538.7 414.5 770.8 (a) Before interest and income taxes paid. 166 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Financial statements CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Equity Reserves attributable and to owners NonShare Share retained Translation Treasury of the controlling (in € millions) capital premium earnings differences stock parent interests Equity AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 (NOTE 19) 50.2 88.1 1,354.8 137.0 (79.0) 1,551.0 173.5 1,724.5 Profit for the period 205.9 205.9 35.2 241.1 Other comprehensive income (17.5) 39.6 22.1 11.3 33.4 Comprehensive income 188.4 39.6 228.0 46.5 274.5 Dividends paid (73.6) (73.6) (11.8) (85.4) Issue of share capital Reduction of share capital Changes in treasury stock 7.8 7.8 7.8 Gains (losses) on sales of treasury stock, after tax (7.5) (7.5) (7.5) Exercise of stock options 13.9 13.9 13.9 Other movements (12.0) (12.0) (8.1) (20.1) AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 (NOTE 19) 50.2 88.1 1,464.0 176.6 (71.1) 1,707.6 200.1 1,907.7 Profit for the period 258.6 258.6 32.2 290.8 Other comprehensive income (34.2) (22.1) (56.3) (10.2) (66.5) Comprehensive income 224.4 (22.1) 202.3 22.0 224.3 5 Dividends paid (78.8) (78.8) (13.2) (92.0) Issue of share capital Reduction of share capital Changes in treasury stock 14.4 14.4 14.4 Gains (losses) on sales of treasury stock, after tax (11.2) (11.2) (11.2) Exercise of stock options 13.1 13.1 13.1 Other movements* (176.3) (176.3) (43.7) (220.1) AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 (NOTE 19) 50.2 88.1 1,435.2 154.5 (56.6) 1,671.0 165.2 1,836.2 Profit for the period 375.0 375.0 33.6 408.6 Other comprehensive income (7.1) (138.5) (145.6) (9.4) (155.0) Comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 367.9 (138.5) 0.0 229.4 24.2 253.6 Dividends paid (88.6) (88.6) (12.4) (101.0) Issue of share capital 0.0 0.0 Reduction of share capital 0.0 0.0 Changes in treasury stock (10.6) (10.6) (10.6) Gains (losses) on sales of treasury stock, after tax (12.9) (12.9) (12.9) Exercise of stock options 17.7 17.7 17.7 Other movements (16.5) (16.5) (2.1) (18.6) AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 (NOTE 19) 50.2 88.1 1,702.7 16.0 (67.2) 1,789.4 174.9 1,964.3 DIVIDENDS PROPOSED FOR 2017 (103.3) (103.3) (103.3) BALANCE AFTER APPROPRIATION AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 50.2 88.1 1,599.4 16.0 (67.2) 1,686.1 174.9 1,861.0 * Of which acquisition of 7.91% of non-controlling interests of Supor (Note 20). GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 167 5 Consolidated financial statements Financial statements CONTENTS Note 1. Summary of significant accounting policies 169 Note 20. Non-controlling interests 203 NOTE 1.1. BASIS AND SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION 170 NOTE 1.2. TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 21. Other provisions 204 AND CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS 170 NOTE 21.1. PRODUCT WARRANTIES 204 NOTE 1.3. USE OF ESTIMATES 170 NOTE 21.2. CLAIMS AND LITIGATION AND OTHER CONTINGENCIES 205 NOTE 1.4. ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND VALUATION METHODS 171 NOTE 21.3. RESTRUCTURING PROVISION 205 NOTE 1.5. INCOME STATEMENT PRESENTATION 176 Note 22. Employee benefits 206 Note 2. Changes in scope of consolidation 177 NOTE 22.1. ASSUMPTIONS 206 NOTE 2.1. TRANSACTIONS IN 2017 AND FOLLOW-UP ON THE MAIN NOTE 22.2. ANALYSIS OF THE PENSION AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT TRANSACTIONS IN 2016 177 BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 207 NOTE 2.2. 2016 PRO FORMA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 178 NOTE 22.3. RECOGNIZED COSTS 207 NOTE 2.3. OTHER TRANSACTIONS IN 2016 AND 2015 180 NOTE 22.4. CHANGE IN GAINS AND LOSSES RECORDED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 208 Note 3. Segment information 182 NOTE 22.5. MOVEMENTS IN PROVISIONS 209 NOTE 3.1. GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENT INFORMATION (BY LOCATION OF ASSETS) 182 NOTE 22.6. MOVEMENTS IN PENSION AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT NOTE 3.2. REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION OF THE CUSTOMER BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 209 AND BUSINESS SECTOR 185 NOTE 22.7. ANALYSIS OF PLAN ASSETS 210 NOTE 22.8. OTHER INFORMATION 211 Note 4. Operating expenses 185 Note 23. Trade payables and other liabilities 211 Note 5. Employee benefits expenses 186 Note 24. Borrowings 212 Note 6. Other operating income and expenses 186 NOTE 24.1. TOTAL BORROWINGS 212 NOTE 6.1. RESTRUCTURING COSTS 187 NOTE 24.2. NET DEBT 214 NOTE 6.2. IMPAIRMENT LOSSES 187 NOTE 6.3. GAINS AND LOSSES ON ASSET DISPOSALS AND OTHER 187 Note 25. Fair value of financial instruments 215 NOTE 25.1. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 215 Note 7. Finance costs and other financial income NOTE 25.2. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 217 and expense 188 NOTE 25.3. INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES RECOGNIZED AT FAIR VALUE 218 Note 8. Income tax 188 NOTE 8.1. INCOME TAX EXPENSE 188 Note 26. Financial risk management 218 NOTE 8.2. ANALYSIS OF INCOME TAX EXPENSE 189 NOTE 26.1. RISK MANAGEMENT 218 NOTE 8.3. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ON THE BALANCE SHEET 189 NOTE 26.2. FINANCIAL MARKET RISKS 219 NOTE 8.4. OTHER INFORMATION 190 NOTE 26.3. LIQUIDITY RISK 222 NOTE 26.4. CREDIT RISK 222 Note 9. Earnings per share 191 Note 27. Environmental expenditure 223 Note 10. Intangible assets 191 Note 28. Off-balance sheet commitments 223 Note 11. Property, plant and equipment 195 NOTE 28.1. SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS 223 NOTE 28.2. COMMITMENTS ARISING IN THE ORDINARY COURSE OF BUSINESS 223 Note 12. Leases 198 Note 29. Significant events, litigation and contingent liabilities 224 Note 13. Investments in other financial assets 198 NOTE 29.1. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND LITIGATION 224 NOTE 13.1. INVESTMENTS 198 NOTE 29.2. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 224 NOTE 13.2. OTHER NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS 198 Note 30. Related party transactions 225 Note 14. Product development costs 199 NOTE 30.1. TRANSACTIONS WITH ASSOCIATES AND NON-CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 225 Note 15. Inventories 199 NOTE 30.2. DIRECTORS’ AND OFFICERS’ COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 225 Note 16. Trade receivables 199 Note 31. Subsequent events 227 Note 17. Other receivables and non-current assets 200 Note 32. List of consolidated companies at 31 December 2017 (% of group ownership) 228 Note 18. Cash and cash equivalents 200 NOTE 32.1. FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 228 NOTE 32.2. ASSOCIATES 232 Note 19. Equity 200 NOTE 32.3. NON-CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES WHERE GROUPE SEB HAS A % INTEREST OF AT LEAST 20% 232 NOTE 19.1. SHARE CAPITAL 200 NOTE 19.2. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 201 NOTE 19.3. RESERVES AND RETAINED EARNINGS (BEFORE Note 33. Fees paid to statutory auditors 232 APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT) 202 NOTE 19.4. TREASURY SHARES 202 168 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 5.2. Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements FIGURES AT 31 DECEMBER (IN € MILLIONS) SEB S.A. and its subsidiaries (together “Groupe SEB” or “the Group”) are a world reference in the design, manufacture and marketing of cookware and Small Domestic Equipment: pressure cookers, irons and steam generators, kettles, coffee machines, deep fryers, toasters and food processors. SEB S.A.’s registered office is at Chemin du Moulin Carron, 69130 Écully, France and it is listed on the Euronext-Paris Eurolist market (ISIN code: FR0000121709). Note 1. Summary of significant accounting policies The Consolidated Financial Statements were authorized for publication Standards and amendments by the Board of Directors on 27 February 2018. not early-adopted by the Group 5 As a company listed in a European Union member state and The Group did not early-adopt any standards, amendments or pursuant to regulation (EC) no. 1606/2002 of 19 July 2002, the interpretations in 2017 that are mandatory as from 1 January 2018 or Group’s published Consolidated Financial Statements for FY 2017 that are applicable despite not having been adopted by the European and the comparative financial statements for FYs 2016 and 2015 Union as they do not contradict any existing standards. These texts were prepared in accordance with the IFRS (International Financial concern in particular: Reporting Standards) as adopted by the European Union at 31 December 2016. These guidelines can be downloaded from the ■ IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and IFRS 9 European Commission’s website http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/ – Financial Instruments, published in May and July of 2014 accounting/ias_en.htm. This includes the standards published by the respectively, with an application date of 1 January 2018. The Group IASB (International Accounting Standards Board), namely the IFRS, has not identified any material impacts related to the application of IAS (International Accounting Standards) and the interpretations from these new standards; the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) ■ the following amendments and improvements to existing standards and the former Standard Interpretations Committee (SIC). will have no material impact on the Group’s financial statements: ■ amendment to IFRS 2 – Share-Based Payments, providing Mandatory new standards, clarification on the valuation of cash-settled plans or in the event amendments and interpretations of a change in a cash-settled plan to an equity-settled plan, The Group adopted the following standards, amendments and ■ amendment to IAS 40 – Transfers of Investment Property, interpretations applicable as of 1 January 2017. Their date of ■ annual improvements to IFRS (2015 2017 cycle), mainly application matches that of the IASB. concerning: ■ amendments to IAS 7 – Disclosure Initiative. This amendment — IAS 12 and the tax consequences of payments for financial provides for additional disclosures to be made in the notes to instruments classified as equity instruments, the financial statements, notably concerning changes in financial — IAS 23 – Borrowing costs that can be included in the cost of liabilities on the balance sheet; these new disclosures are presented the asset, in Note 24.2; — IFRS 3 & IFRS 11 – Previously Held Interests in a Joint Operation; ■ amendment to IAS 12 — Income Taxes. This amendment clarifies ■ IFRIC 22 – Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance how to estimate whether there will be sufficient future taxable profit Consideration, when recognizing deferred tax assets on unrealized losses; ■ IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments. ■ annual improvements to IFRS (2014-2016 cycle), mainly concerning IFRS 12. This text clarifies the scope of disclosure obligations. In addition, the impacts on Groupe SEB’s financial statements of IFRS 16 – Leases, whose first application date is 1 January 2019, are These new standards and amendments had no material impact on still being analyzed. the Group’s financial statements. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 169 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 1.1. BASIS AND SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION ■ income statement items are translated at the weighted average exchange rate for the year, apart from depreciation, amortization Material companies that are exclusively controlled by SEB S.A. either and impairment losses on non-monetary items; directly or indirectly are fully consolidated. ■ the resulting exchange differences are recognized in the income The profits of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are statement for the year. recognized in the consolidated income statement from the acquisition These financial statements in the functional currency are then date or up to the disposal date. translated into euros using the closing rate method. Where necessary, the financial statements of subsidiaries are restated In accordance with the option available to first-time adopters under to comply with Group accounting policies. IFRS 1, Groupe SEB elected to reset to zero at 1 January 2004 the Material companies over which SEB S.A. exercises significant cumulative translation differences arising on consolidation of foreign influence, directly or indirectly, are accounted for by the equity method. entities. Certain companies fulfilling all of the above criteria are not consolidated because they are not material to the Group: 1.2.2. Translation of foreign currency transactions ■ revenue of less than €15 million; Foreign currency transactions are recognized and measured in ■ total assets of less than €15 million; accordance with IAS 21 – Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange ■ total debt of less than €5 million. Rates. Transactions in currencies other than the euro are initially The list of consolidated companies is presented in Note 32. recognized at the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date. All material intra-group transactions have been eliminated in Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than consolidation. the euro are translated at the closing exchange rate. The resulting exchange gains and losses are recognized in the income statement except where they are recognized directly under other comprehensive NOTE 1.2. TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN FINANCIAL income or refer to eligible cash-flow hedges or hedges of a net STATEMENTS AND CURRENCY investment in a foreign entity. TRANSACTIONS Non-monetary foreign currency assets and liabilities carried at historical cost are translated using the exchange rate on the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at fair 1.2.1. Translation of the financial statements value in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate on the of foreign operations date on which this fair value was measured. The financial statements of foreign entities are prepared in their Where a profit or a loss on a non-monetary item is recognized under functional currency, corresponding to the currency of the primary other comprehensive income, any exchange component of this profit economic environment in which the entity operates. The functional or loss is recognized directly under other comprehensive income. In currency of most foreign entities is their local currency. contrast, where a profit or a loss on a non-monetary item is recognized The Group’s functional and reporting currency is the euro. directly in the income statement, any exchange component of this profit or loss is recognized in the income statement. The financial statements of the Group’s subsidiaries are translated into euros by the closing rate method, as follows: The Group’s exposure to certain currency risks is hedged using forward contracts and options (see below for the accounting methods ■ assets and liabilities in a functional currency other than the euro applicable to hedging positions). are translated at the closing rate at the balance sheet date and income statement items are translated at the weighted average rate for the year; NOTE 1.3. USE OF ESTIMATES ■ the resulting exchange differences are recognized as a separate component of equity, under “Translation reserve”. The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance The financial statements of subsidiaries whose functional currency with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that have is not the local accounting currency are initially translated into the an impact on the reported amounts of assets and liabilities – such functional currency using the historical rate method, as follows: as accumulated depreciation, amortization and impairment losses – and contingent assets and liabilities on the date of the Consolidated ■ non-monetary assets and liabilities: non-current assets, inventories Financial Statements, as well as on income and expenses for the year. and securities and the corresponding movements recorded in the income statement are translated at the historical exchange rate; These estimates are made on a going concern basis and reflect ■ monetary assets and liabilities: cash, short and long-term loans and amounts and assumptions that management considers relevant borrowings, operating receivables and payables are translated at and reasonable given the Group’s operating environment and the closing rate at the balance sheet date; past experience. Forecasting and producing medium-term plans are rendered difficult by the current economic environment. The 170 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements for the period were prepared on the B) OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS basis of financial parameters for the market available at the end of the Software licenses and internal software development costs are period. The value of certain assets, such as goodwill and trademarks, recognized as intangible assets when it is probable that they will is estimated at the year-end based on the long-term economic outlook generate future economic benefits. They are amortized by the straightand management’s best estimates, taking into account the reduced line method over useful lives ranging from three to five years. Other visibility of future cash flows. software licenses and software development costs are expensed as The assumptions used – which mainly concern impairment tests incurred. on non-current assets – and the sensitivity of reported amounts to Patents, licenses and trademarks with a finite useful life are amortized changes in these assumptions, are presented in the relevant notes to over the shorter of the period of legal protection and their expected these Consolidated Financial Statements, in accordance with IAS 36. useful life, not to exceed 15 years. Estimates are adjusted following any change in the circumstances Trademarks with an indefinite useful life are not amortized but are on which they were based or when any new information comes to tested for impairment. light. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions. In business combinations, order books and customer relationships The main estimates and assumptions used to prepare the Consolidated are recorded as recurring transactions with existing customers at the Financial Statements concern the measurement of pension and other date of acquisition. post-employment benefit obligations (Note 22.1), deferred taxes (Note 1.4.10), property, plant and equipment (Note 1.4.3), intangible C) GOODWILL assets (Notes 1.4.1 and 10), investments in associates and other Goodwill arising from consolidated companies is recognized as a investments, impairment of current assets (Notes 1.4.5 and 1.4.6), balance sheet asset under “Goodwill”. short and long-term provisions (Notes 1.4.11 and 1.4.12), certain financial instruments (Note 1.4.4 – Derivative instruments) and shareIt is measured as the excess of the Group’s interest in the net fair based payments (Note 1.4.11 – Share-based payments). value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination over the consideration transferred. The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of assets transferred, equity NOTE 1.4. ACCOUNTING POLICIES instruments issued and liabilities incurred by the acquirer to the former owner on the acquisition date, plus any contingent consideration. In AND VALUATION METHODS 5 the case of an acquisition carried out in stages, the difference between The financial statements of Group companies are prepared in the carrying amount of the previously held interest and its acquisitionaccordance with local generally accepted accounting principles. They date fair value is recorded directly in the income statement on the are restated to comply with Group accounting policies. acquisition date under “Other operating income and expenses”. The notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements include analyses For each business combination, any non-controlling interest in the of assets and liabilities by maturity where disclosure of this information acquired company may be measured either at fair value on the is required under IFRS. acquisition date (full goodwill method) or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquired company’s identifiable 1.4.1. Intangible assets net assets (partial goodwill method). The fair values provisionally attributed to identifiable assets and A) DEVELOPMENT COSTS liabilities, non-controlling interests measured at fair value and the Under IAS 38 – Intangible Assets, research costs are recognized as various components of the consideration transferred may be adjusted an expense and development costs are recognized as an intangible by the acquirer for a period of twelve months after the acquisition asset when the Group can demonstrate (IAS 38, paragraph 57) (nondate. After that period, any adjustments are recognized prospectively exhaustive list): in profit or loss with no adjustment to goodwill. ■ its intention to complete the development project; Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least once ■ that it is probable that the expected future economic benefits a year. For impairment testing purposes, goodwill is classified by attributable to the asset will flow to the Group; cash generating units, which correspond to uniform groups jointly generating independent cash flows. ■ its ability to reliably measure the cost of the asset. The method used to test cash generating units for impairment is Development costs that do not fulfill the above criteria are expensed described in Note 1.4.3. during the year in which they are incurred. When impairment is noted, the difference between the carrying In Groupe SEB’s Consolidated Financial Statements, qualifying amount of the asset and its recoverable amount is recognized in other development costs incurred after the advance design phase and operating expenses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversible. before the manufacturing phase are recognized as intangible assets. Badwill (negative goodwill) is recognized directly in the income Development costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over three statement under “Other operating income and expenses” and is to five years, corresponding to the same useful life as that applied to attributed in full to the acquirer. specific tooling. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 171 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.4.2. Property, plant and equipment Impairment losses on CGUs and on assets with an indefinite useful life is recorded in “Other operating income and expenses”. Property, plant and equipment are initially recognized at cost and are Following the acquisition of the WMF Group at the end of 2016 and depreciated by the straight-line method over their estimated useful taking into account its impact on the Group’s general organization, lives. the CGUs have been redefined. Maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred. In fact, Groupe SEB has identified three distinct categories of CGU: The useful lives are as follows: A “Professional” CGU comprising intangible assets and industrial ■ buildings: 10-40 years; assets (mainly tools, machinery and buildings) related to professional ■ plant and machinery: 10 years; activities (coffee machine and hotels) to which a portion of the goodwill ■ office equipment: 3-10 years; calculated at the time of the WMF acquisition has been allocated. ■ vehicles: 4-5 years; A “Consumer EMEA” CGU, covering activities relating to cookware and electrical cooking in the EMEA area. This new CGU includes ■ tooling: 1-5 years. intangible assets and industrial assets (mainly tools, machinery and Each asset component with a useful life that is different from that of buildings) related to its consumer activities in the EMEA region, to the asset to which it belongs is depreciated separately. Useful lives which a portion of the goodwill calculated at the time of the WMF are reviewed at regular intervals and the effect of any adjustments are acquisition has been allocated. This grouping is in line with the recognized prospectively. synergies identified in the EMEA region when WMF was acquired. No items of property, plant or equipment have been revalued. Independent CGUs for marketing subsidiaries that may be grouped In accordance with IAS 17 – Leases, finance leases that transfer together in the event of pooled resources and for Group entities substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an outside the EMEA region having closely-related industrial and asset are recognized in property, plant and equipment for an amount commercial activities. corresponding to the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and Impairment losses recognized for non-financial assets other than the present value of the minimum lease payments. goodwill are reviewed at each annual and interim period-end and A liability for the same amount is recorded under “Finance lease adjusted as necessary. liabilities”. 1.4.4. Financial instruments 1.4.3. Impairment of non-current assets Financial instruments are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39 – In accordance with IAS 36 – Impairment of Assets, the net carrying Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets is Financial assets and liabilities are recognized in the balance sheet tested at the appearance of impairment and reviewed at each closing. when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the Assets with an indefinite useful life – corresponding in the case of instrument. They are recognized at the fair value of the consideration the Group to goodwill and trademarks – are tested for impairment given or received. Transaction costs directly attributable to the at least once a year, irrespective of whether there is any indication acquisition or issue of the financial asset or liability are included in of impairment. the initial measurement of all financial assets and liabilities. Acquisition Assets with a finite life are tested whenever events or circumstances costs include direct external transaction costs. indicate that their carrying amount may not be recovered. A) FINANCIAL ASSETS Impairment tests are performed at the level of each Cash-Generating Financial assets consist of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates as well Unit (CGU). A CGU is defined as an identifiable group of assets that as operating receivables, debt securities and other cash equivalents generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash classified as current assets. inflows from other groups of assets. The value in use of these units is determined by reference to net discounted future cash flows. Available-for-sale An impairment loss is recognized for any excess in an asset’s Available-for-sale financial assets are assets that are intended to carrying amount over its recoverable amount. Recoverable amount be held for an indefinite period but which may be sold in response corresponds to the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and to changes in market interest rates or liquidity needs. They include its value in use, calculated using the discounted cash flows method. investments in non-consolidated companies. The impairment loss thus determined is first allocated against goodwill and then pro-rata to the other assets based on their carrying amounts. At each period-end, they are measured at fair value and the resulting unrealized gain or loss is recognized in equity. When the assets are The capitalized amount of development projects in progress is also sold, the cumulative gains and losses previously recognized in equity tested for impairment. are reclassified to profit. 172 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements When there is objective evidence of significant or prolonged decline At the inception of each hedge, the hedging relationship is formally in Fair Value, the impairment loss is recognized directly in the income documented by the Group, specifying in particular its risk management statement. objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. The Group also documents how it will assess the hedging instrument’s effectiveness When the fair value of investments in non-consolidated companies throughout its useful life in offsetting exposure to changes in fair value cannot be reliably measured, they are measured at their historical cost. or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. Recognized at amortized cost Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the derivative These assets include loans and receivables and held-to-maturity instrument ceases to be a highly effective hedge or when it expires investments. or is sold, terminated or exercised. Held-to-maturity investments are financial assets with a fixed maturity Changes in the fair value of derivative instruments that do not qualify that the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. for hedge accounting are recognized in profit. They are measured at amortized cost, determined by the effective interest method. 1.4.5. Inventories B) FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Raw materials and goods purchased for resale are measured at Financial liabilities comprise borrowings and other financing, including purchase cost, using the weighted average cost method. bank overdrafts, and operating liabilities. Work-in-progress and finished products are measured at cost, Borrowings and other financial liabilities are measured at amortized including raw materials and labor and a portion of direct and indirect cost, determined by the effective interest method. production costs. Any financial liabilities hedged by interest rate swaps are hedged In accordance with IAS 2, inventories are measured at the lower of against future cash flows. Changes in the fair value of the swap are cost, determined as explained above, and net realizable value. recorded in the balance sheet, with the effective portion recognized Net realizable value corresponds to the estimated selling price in the in equity. ordinary course of business less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale (mainly distribution C) DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS costs). 5 Market risks (interest rate, currency and commodity price risks) are hedged, generally through the use of derivative instruments. The carrying amount of inventories does not include any borrowing costs. In accordance with IAS 32 and IAS 39, derivative instruments are measured at fair value. 1.4.6. Trade receivables The accounting treatment of changes in fair value depends on the Trade receivables are measured at their nominal amount, which future use of the derivative and the resulting accounting classification. is equivalent to their fair value in view of their short-term maturity. Derivative instruments designated as the hedging instrument in a Where necessary, these receivables are impaired, to align them to hedging relationship may be classified as either fair value or cash their estimated net realizable value. Provisions for impairment of trade flow hedges: receivables are determined on the basis of their age and identified ■ a fair value hedge is a hedge of the exposure to changes in fair recovery risks. value of a recognized asset or liability, or an unrecognized firm commitment, that is attributable to a particular risk and could affect 1.4.7. Cash and cash equivalents profit; Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and on hand ■ a cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in the and short-term investments in money market instruments. These value of future cash flows relating to existing or future assets or instruments have maturities of less than three months; they are liabilities. readily convertible into known amounts of cash and are subject to an The gain or loss arising from remeasurement at fair value of derivative insignificant risk of changes in value. instruments designated as fair value hedges is recognized in profit, The consolidated cash flow statement is presented using the indirect offsetting all or part of the gain or loss recognized on the hedged item. method and cash flows are analyzed between operating, investing In the case of cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss and financing activities. arising from remeasurement of the derivative instrument at fair value is IAS 7 – Statement of Cash Flows was amended following the recognized in equity and the ineffective portion is recognized in profit. publication of IAS 27R. The aggregate cash flows arising from The cumulative gains and losses on cash flow hedges recognized in obtaining or losing control of a subsidiary are classified as investing equity are reclassified into profit when the hedged item affects profit. activities while cash flows arising from changes in ownership interests Hedge accounting is applied when: in a fully consolidated subsidiary are classified as financing activities. Transactions with jointly controlled entities or entities accounted for ■ the hedging relationship is formally designated and documented at by the equity method continue to be classified as investing activities. the inception of the hedge; ■ the hedge is expected to be highly effective and is determined actually to have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which it was designated. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 173 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.4.8. Net debt Defined contribution plans Contributions to these plans are recognized as an expense for the Net debt corresponds to total long-term and short-term borrowings period to which they relate. less cash and cash equivalents and derivative instruments related to Group financing. It also includes potential short-term financial Defined benefit plans investments with no significant risk of a change in value but whose In accordance with IAS 19, as amended – Employee Benefits, maturity on the subscription date is longer than three months. obligations are calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected Unit credit method based on final salaries. This method 1.4.9. Treasury stock sees each period of service as giving rise to an additional Unit of Treasury stock is deducted from equity at cost. Any gains or losses benefit entitlement and measures each Unit separately to build up the arising from the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of treasury stock final obligation. The final obligation is then discounted. The actuarial are recognized directly in equity without affecting profit. assumptions used to calculate the obligation include staff turnover rates, mortality rates, the discount rate and the retirement age. 1.4.10. Income taxes The assumptions vary according to local laws and regulations in the host countries concerned. Income tax expense reported in the income statement corresponds to current tax for the period and changes in deferred taxes. A provision is recorded in the balance sheet for any unfunded obligations, corresponding to defined benefit obligations not covered In accordance with IAS 12 – Income Taxes, deferred taxes are by plan assets. recognized, using the liability method, for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax Current service cost, corresponding to the increase in the present base. They are determined using tax rates (and tax laws) that have value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from employee been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. service in the current period, and the effect of plan amendments and reductions, are recognized in the Operating Result from Activity. Temporary differences include: Actuarial gains and losses, resulting from changes in actuarial a) taxable temporary differences, which are temporary differences that assumptions and experience adjustments (i.e. the effects of the will result in taxable amounts in determining taxable profit (tax loss) differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has of future periods when the carrying amount of the asset or liability actually occurred) are recognized in “Other comprehensive income”. is recovered or settled; and Interest income or interest expense calculated on the defined benefit b) deductible temporary differences, which are temporary differences obligation net of the value of plan assets by applying the discount that will result in amounts that are deductible in determining taxable rate used to determine the defined benefit obligation is recognized in profit (tax loss) of future periods when the carrying amount of the “Other financial income and expenses”. asset or liability is recovered or settled. Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary The difference between the actual return on plan assets and the differences and tax loss carry forwards to the extent that it is highly interest income calculated by applying the discount rate is recorded probable that future taxable profits will be available in the foreseeable in other comprehensive income. future against which they can be utilized. For plans that have a surplus – corresponding to the excess of plan Deferred tax assets previously unrecognized at the date of a business assets over the defined benefit obligation – the Group applies the combination or during the 12-month purchase price allocation period limit provided for in IAS 19, as amended in determining any asset are subsequently recognized as an adjustment to profit or loss recognized in the balance sheet. provided they meet the recognition criteria. B) OTHER LONG-TERM BENEFITS In accordance with IAS 12, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not Certain subsidiaries pay jubilees to employees who have completed discounted. a certain number of years’ service or offer employees “time savings accounts”. The cost of these long-term benefits is calculated on an 1.4.11. Employee benefits actuarial basis and recognized in profit over the service lives of the employees concerned. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized A) PENSION AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT immediately in profit during the period in which they are generated, PLANS as their deferral is not allowed under IFRS. In some countries, the Group is required to pay length-of-service Pension and other post-employment benefit costs are classified as awards to employees on retirement or pension benefits under formal operating expenses, except for the interest cost, which is included in pension plans. The Group also pays contributions to governmentother financial income and expenses in accordance with the alternative sponsored pension plans in its various host countries. The accounting treatment allowed under IAS 19R. treatment of these pension and other post-employment benefit plans depends on the type of plan, as follows: 174 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Contributions to external funds and payments to employees are in this case the shares are issued in exchange for employee services reported in the cash flow statement under “Cash flows from operating rendered in prior periods. The charge is recognized on the income activities”. statement, under “Discretionary and non-discretionary profit-sharing.” In accordance with IAS 19R, which was early-adopted on 1 January 2012, unrecognized actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit 1.4.12. Provisions obligations at 31 December 2009 and past service costs were In accordance with IAS 37 – Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and recognized in equity in the opening balance sheet starting 1 January Contingent Assets, a provision is recognized when the Group has a 2010. present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits C) SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be Stock option plans are measured and recognized in accordance with made of the amount of the obligation: IFRS 2 – Share-Based Payment. Stock options represent a benefit for the grantee and, accordingly, are treated as part of the Group’s A) PROVISIONS FOR WARRANTY COSTS compensation costs. Option grants are not cash-settled, and the The Group provides a warranty on its products. The estimated costs of benefit is therefore recognized as an expense over the vesting period the warranty are accrued at the time of sale, based on historical data. by adjusting equity for an amount corresponding to the fair value of the underlying equity instruments. As the stock options granted to This item also includes provisions for product recalls, which are set employees of Group subsidiaries are only exercisable for SEB S.A. up when the recall is decided by Groupe SEB. shares, they are deemed to be equity-settled share-based payments. B) PROVISION FOR CLAIMS AND LITIGATION The fair value of stock options at the grant date is determined using the As a general principle, all known claims and litigation involving the Black & Scholes option pricing model. This model takes into account Group are reviewed by management at each period-end. All necessary the option exercise price and period, market data at the grant date provisions have been recorded to cover the related risks, as estimated (risk-free interest rate, share price, volatility, expected dividends) and after obtaining advice from outside legal advisors. grantee behavior assumptions (average holding period of the options). The fair value of performance shares corresponds to the share price C) RESTRUCTURING PROVISION on the grant date less a discount covering the lock-up feature and the The Group is considered as having a constructive obligation when 5 value of future dividends that will not be received during the vesting management has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, or has period. raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the The compensation cost recorded for each plan is determined by restructuring by starting to implement that plan or announcing its main multiplying the fair value per option or performance share by the features and no inflow of economic benefits is expected that would estimated future number of shares to be delivered. The estimated offset the costs of the plan. number of shares is adjusted at each balance sheet date, as necessary, The amount of the related provision corresponds to forecast cash based on a revised estimate of the probability of non-market-based outflows under the plan. performance criteria being met, leading to an adjustment of the In a business combination, a contingent liability will be recognized compensation cost. where there is a current obligation arising from past events and its The compensation cost is recognized in employee benefits expense fair value can be measured reliably. on a straight-line basis over the option or performance share vesting period by adjusting equity. When a grantee leaves the Group before 1.4.13. Off-balance sheet commitments the end of the vesting period, resulting in the rights to the options or performance shares being forfeited, the cumulative compensation cost For several years now, the Group’s reporting system has included is canceled by recording an equivalent amount in income. Conversely, detailed reporting of off-balance sheet commitments. The if a grantee leaves the Group earlier than originally expected, while process provides for the reporting by consolidated subsidiaries, maintaining his or her rights to the stock options held, amortization of in their consolidation packages, of information about the following the cost of his or her options or performance shares is accelerated. commitments that they have given: ■ guarantees, endorsements and bonds; D) EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLANS ■ security interests (mortgages and pledges); When employee rights issues are carried out, if the shares are offered at a discount to market price, the difference between the offer price ■ commitments under operating leases, firm orders for fixed assets; and the market price is recorded as an expense. The expense is ■ other commitments. measured on the date the rights are granted, corresponding to the point at which both the Group and the employees understand the 1.4.14. Transactions between owners characteristics and terms of the offer. Acquisitions or disposals of non-controlling interests that do not affect It takes into account matching employer contributions to the plan the Group’s control of a subsidiary are treated as transactions between and any discount offered on the shares, less the deemed cost to the owners and accounted for in equity. The carrying amounts of the employee of the lock-up applicable to the shares. subsidiary’s assets (including goodwill recognized upon obtaining It is recognized in full in the income statement in the year of the rights control) and liabilities remain unchanged. issue, provided the shares are not subject to any vesting condition, as GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 175 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements In the event of a partial disposal leading to the loss of control of a 1.5.3. Recurring Operating profit subsidiary, the Group (a) recognizes the assets (including any goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary at their carrying amounts at the date Recurring Operating profit corresponds to Operating Result from when control is lost; (b) recognizes the carrying amount of any nonActivity less statutory and discretionary employee profit sharing. controlling interests in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost; (c) recognizes the fair value of the consideration received; 1.5.4. Operating profit (d) recognizes any investment retained in the former subsidiary at its Operating profit is comprised of all the recurring and non-recurring fair value at the date when control is lost; (e) reclassifies to profit or income and expenses generated in the course of the Group’s ordinary loss any gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income and activities, including income and expenses resulting from one-off (f) recognizes any resulting difference as a gain or loss in profit or loss decisions or transactions that are unusual in terms of their amount. attributable to owners of the parent. The remeasurement at fair value Other non-current items, reported under “Other operating income and of the retained investment therefore affects profit or loss. expenses”, mainly include the following (see Note 6 for details): ■ costs of significant restructuring plans as well as non-recurring NOTE 1.5. INCOME STATEMENT PRESENTATION and significant costs related to the consolidation of new entities within the Group; ■ impairment losses on property, plant and equipment and intangible 1.5.1. Revenue assets, including goodwill; Revenue corresponds to the value, excluding tax, of goods and ■ costs related to business combinations (excluding the costs services sold by consolidated companies in the course of their of issuing equity instruments or of new debt contracted for the ordinary activities, after eliminating intra-group sales. purpose of the business combination) and remeasurement at fair Revenue is recognized when the significant risks and rewards of value of any previously held investment on the date control was ownership are transferred to the buyer, generally when the customer obtained; receives a product. ■ gains or losses recognized upon losing exclusive control of a Revenue is assessed for an amount corresponding to the fair value of subsidiary, including the remeasurement at fair value of any retained the consideration received or receivable as determined after deducting investment; rebates and discounts. ■ gains and losses on unusual, abnormal and infrequent events Advertising expense contributions billed by customers and the cost (litigation, asset disposals, etc. involving unusually large amounts) of consumer promotions that do not fulfill the criteria for recognition and changes in provisions booked for these types of events. as revenue are recognized as a deduction from revenue. The reported amount of revenue also includes miscellaneous revenues. 1.5.5. Other income statement items Freight and other costs billed to customers are treated as an integral Accrued interest on interest-bearing instruments is recognized by the part of revenue. effective interest method based on the purchase price. Accruals are booked for deferred rebates granted to customers on Dividend income is recognized when the shareholder’s right to receive the basis of contractual or constructive commitments identified at payment is established. the period-end. Finance costs are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. 1.5.2. Operating Result from Activity and operating expenses 1.5.6. Earnings per share The Group’s main performance indicator is the Operating Result Basic earnings per share correspond to profit attributable to owners from Activity (ORfA). Operating Result from Activity corresponds to of the parent divided by the weighted average number of shares sales less operating expenses. Operating expenses compromise outstanding during the period, excluding treasury stock. the cost of sales, research and development costs, advertising Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the weighted costs and distribution and administrative expenses. ORfA does not average number of shares outstanding to take into account the dilutive include discretionary and non-discretionary profit-sharing or other effect of stock options and other consolidated equity instruments non-recurring operating income and expense. These are defined in issued by the company. section 1.5.4. 176 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2. Changes in scope of consolidation NOTE 2.1. TRANSACTIONS IN 2017 AND WMF has eight production plants worldwide: Four in Germany, one FOLLOW-UP ON THE MAIN in Switzerland, one in the Czech Republic, one in China and one in India. It uses multi-channel distribution, including an extensive network TRANSACTIONS IN 2016 of its own stores. It has 6,000 employees in 16 countries, including around 4,600 in Germany. 2.1.1. Follow-up on significant transactions After finalizing the purchase price allocation entries, the net fair value in 2016 of the identifiable assets and liabilities at 31 December 2016 breaks down as follows: WMF On 20 May 2016, Groupe SEB signed an agreement with KKR to 31 December 2017 acquire the German group WMF, the world leader in professional coffee (b) (a) machines and the leader in cookware in Germany. This deal was subject (in € millions) to clearance by the relevant competition authorities, in particular at Non-current assets 876.5 365.8 European level. This clearance was obtained on 22 November 2016 and the acquisition of WMF finalized on 30 November 2016. Given Inventories 219.7 229.0 that the date of acquisition was very close to the year-end, the Group Trade receivables 192.1 199.3 decided to use the balance sheet as of 31 December 2016 as the Net debt (564.7) (563.0) opening balance sheet due to the operational difficulties in preparing Trade and other payables (111.9) (108.1) reliable financial statements within a short period of time and the fact Other net liabilities (482.2) (324.3) that one month of income statement is not material at Group level. TOTAL NET ASSETS 129.4 (201.3) Founded in 1853, WMF operates three major business lines: PERCENT INTEREST 100% 100% professional coffee machines, small household appliances (cookware NET ASSETS ACQUIRED 129.4 (201.3) and small domestic appliances) and catering equipment. Over the 5 Non-controlling interests years, it has built up strong positions: CASH OUTFLOW FOR THE ■ in the professional coffee segment, in which it is the global leader WMF GROUP ACQUISITION 1080.2 1081.5 with 28% market share, way ahead of the no. 2; Final goodwill 950.8 1282.8 ■ in the cookware segment, where WMF is the uncontested leader in (a) Provisional estimate at 31 December 2016. Germany with 20% of the market. (b) After ﬁnal allocation of the purchase price. Through this structuring acquisition, Groupe SEB: The following intangible assets were identified as a result of the work ■ acquires a strong global leadership position in the highly attractive carried out by an independent expert to allocate the purchase price: professional coffee machine market, which is fast growing, highly ■ brands whose fair value is respectively €487 million for WMF, profitable and a significant source of recurring income from the €94 million for Schaerer, €23 million for Silit, €11 million for Kaiser, service activities; and €9 million for Hepp; ■ considerably strengthens its position in the cookware segment ■ customer relationships with an estimated fair value of €54 million; by becoming the no. 1 in Germany with in particular a high-end ■ technologies worth €25 million and order books amounting to stainless steel product offering; €3 million. ■ speeds up its development in the strategic cookware articles and This work also resulted in the revaluation of some property, plant and accessories segment, following on from the acquisition of EMSA, equipment for approximately €30 million. Provisions for contingencies generating revenue of in excess of €350 million; and liabilities were also recorded for approximately €48 million relating ■ expands its trademark portfolio with the addition of new established to ongoing disputes or tax and environmental risks. trademarks including the iconic WMF, but also Schaerer, Silit, Kaiser and HEPP; The pro forma income statement for 2016 presented in Note 2.2 was prepared in line with the provisions of AMF recommendation 2013-08. ■ gains access to a network of 200 direct outlets in Germany, a strong Its purpose was to present the results for 2016 as if the acquisition of source of brand awareness and of sales. WMF had been completed as at 1 January 2016. In addition, this acquisition will generate significant synergies. In terms of revenue, this will enable the international roll-out of the EMSA WMF trademark and products through the Groupe SEB network as On 28 June 2016, Groupe SEB completed the acquisition of EMSA. well as add Group products to the WMF trademark. Furthermore, the integration of WMF provides an opportunity to ramp up productivity, generating full-year synergies estimated at around €40 million by 2020. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 177 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Founded in 1949, the German-based EMSA specializes in the design, ETHERA manufacture and sale of kitchenware articles and accessories. Its core On 31 May 2017, Groupe SEB acquired control of Ethera by exercising business is built around three product categories: vacuum jugs and the convertible bonds it held in the company. Prior to this transaction, flasks, kitchenware articles and accessories (kitchen aids) and storage Ethera was owned by SEB Alliance, an investment company of Groupe jars. The EMSA product offering is built around innovation and quality, SEB. ETHERA develops and markets high-performance solutions combining functional features and design. Production is carried out at for indoor air quality diagnosis, monitoring and treatment. The goodwill three industrial sites in Germany, China and Vietnam. generated by this takeover amounts to approximately €1.4 million. A well-known trademark in German-speaking countries, EMSA After buying out some non-controlling interests, the Group now owns primarily covers the core-range segment and boasts strong positions 95.4% of this company. in Germany in thermoware and food storage containers, where it is the market leader. EMSA is also present in the rest of Europe and the SWIZZZ PROZZZ Middle East. EMSA generated revenue of €85 million in 2016. On 1 June 2017, Groupe SEB finalized the acquisition of Swizzz Prozzz, a Swiss company specializing in small manual food choppers After finalizing the purchase price allocation entries, the final net equipped with high-performance multi-blade systems. Swizzz fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities at the time of the Prozzz products have so far been marketed under license through acquisition of control on 30 June 2016 breaks down as follows: various kitchen utensil brands with great commercial success; the activity corresponds to annual pro forma revenue of around €8 to (in € millions) 30 June 2016 €10 million. With this acquisition, Groupe SEB is continuing to expand Non-current assets* 34.3 into kitchen utensils with products that are simple, easy to use, affordable and very complementary to its existing ranges. Inventories 20.7 Trade receivables 10.3 Because of the immaterial nature of this acquisition and the ongoing Net debt (36.2) legal restructuring, the investment in this company was provisionally presented as of 31 December 2017 under “Other investments” in the Trade and other payables (11.0) consolidated balance sheet. Other net liabilities (20.1) TOTAL NET ASSETS (2.0) LEGAL RESTRUCTURING PERCENT INTEREST 100% Legal restructuring measures initiated in Scandinavian countries in NET ASSETS ACQUIRED (2.0) 2016 were finalized during the first half of 2017. These operations had Non-controlling interests no impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. CASH OUTFLOW FOR THE EMSA In addition, as part of the merger of the consumer activities of WMF ACQUISITION 21.9 and Groupe SEB, certain legal restructuring measures were initiated Goodwill 23.9 in the second half of 2017. These operations have no impact on the * Comprising the EMSA brand estimated at €10.7 million by an independent Group’s consolidated financial statements. assessor In view of the immaterial amounts, comparative figures at 31 December NOTE 2.2. 2016 PROFORMA FINANCIAL 2016 have not been restated. STATEMENTS 2.1.2. Transactions in 2017 The pro forma income statement presented below was prepared in accordance with AMF recommendation 2013-08. It was included in BHS TABLETOP AG the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended In the first half of the year, WMF sold its 24.9% stake in BHS Tabletop 31 December 2016 and was intended to present the 2016 profit or AG. This company was accounted for using the equity method in the loss as if WMF had been acquired on 1 January 2016. financial statements at 31 December 2016. Because of the immaterial Certain income statement items were directly related to the first year nature of the remaining interest in Bauscher Hepp Inc, which was also of consolidation and were therefore considered as non-recurring accounted for using the equity method at 31 December 2016, it was items. In addition, given that the fair value measurement of the deconsolidated during the first half of 2017. identifiable assets and liabilities of WMF was provisional at the time of preparation of these proforma financial statements, the effects of the final measurement of the fair value of these assets and liabilities would have had an impact on these financial statements. 178 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.2.1. Proforma 2016 income statement InterGroup company Proforma Stock (in € millions) SEB reported WMF 2016 ﬁnancing elimination recurring step-up Proforma Revenue 4,999.7 1,099.7 (4.3) 6,095.1 6,095.1 Operating expenses (4,494.5) (1,006.2) 4.3 (5,496.4) (13.9) (5,510.3) OPERATING RESULT FROM ACTIVITY 505.2 93.5 0.0 0.0 598.7 (13.9) 584.8 Statutory and discretionary employee profit-sharing (36.7) 0.0 (36.7) (36.7) RECURRING OPERATING PROFIT 468.5 93.5 0.0 0.0 562.0 (13.9) 548.1 Other operating income and expenses (42.2) (15.6) (57.8) (57.8) OPERATING PROFIT 426.4 77.9 0.0 0.0 504.3 (13.9) 490.4 Finance costs (29.8) (8.0) (5.5) 8.0 (35.3) (35.3) Other financial income and expenses (28.2) 0.1 (28.1) (28.1) Share of profits of associates 0.5 0.5 0.5 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 368.4 70.5 (5.5) 8.0 441.4 (13.9) 427.5 Income tax (77.7) (25.5) 1.4 (2.4) (104.2) 4.2 (100.1) PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 290.8 45.0 (4.1) 5.6 337.3 (9.7) 327.6 Non-controlling interests (32.2) (0.4) (32.6) (32.6) PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT 258.6 44.6 (4.1) 5.6 304.7 (9.7) 295.0 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENT PER SHARE (IN UNITS) Basic earnings per share 5.20 6.12 5.93 Diluted earnings per share 5.15 The “WMF 2016” income statement represented the consolidated 6.06 5.87 impact of intangible assets in the process of being measured and to 5 income statement prepared by WMF plus a series of reclassifications eliminate the entries that should have impacted the opening balance made to bring it into line with the Groupe SEB accounting policies as sheet and not the 2016 profit (loss). Finally, the WMF cost of debt in detailed in Note 1 “Summary of significant accounting policies” herein. 2016 was replaced by a standard borrowing cost determined on the In addition, these financial statements were adjusted to offset the basis of the financing arranged by Groupe SEB. 2.2.2. Notes to the Proforma 2016 income statement 2.2.2.1. REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION OF THE CUSTOMER AND BUSINESS SECTOR 2016 SALES (in € millions) Reported WMF 2016 Eliminations Proforma EMEA 2,494.9 848.0 (4.3) 3,338.6 Americas 918.7 186.0 1,104.7 Asia 1,586.1 65.7 1,651.8 TOTAL 4,999.7 1,099.7 (4.3) 6,095.1 2016 SALES (in € millions) Reported WMF 2016 Eliminations Proforma Cookware 1,626.1 603.5 2,229.6 Small domestic appliances 3,373.6 75.5 (4.3) 3,444.8 Professional coffee machines 420.7 420.7 TOTAL 4,999.7 1,099.7 (4.3) 6,095.1 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 179 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2.2.2.2. OPERATING EXPENSES 2016 (in € millions) Reported WMF 2016 Consolidation entries Proforma Purchased raw materials and goods (2,427.0) (432.7) (9.6) (2,869.3) Labor costs (205.2) (145.7) (350.9) Freight costs (121.7) (121.7) Other production costs (267.3) (267.3) COST OF SALES (3,021.2) (578.4) (9.6) (3,609.2) Research and development costs (92.2) (20.7) (112.9) Advertising (130.9) (32.2) (163.1) Distribution and administrative expenses (1,250.2) (383.9) (1,634.1) OPERATING EXPENSES (4,494.5) (1,015.2) (9.6) (5,519.3) 2.2.2.3. OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES 2016 (in € millions) Reported WMF 2016 Proforma Restructuring costs (19.0) (8.5) (27.5) Impairment losses (0.8) (0.8) Gains and losses on asset disposals and other (22.4) (7.1) (29.5) OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES (42.2) (15.6) (57.8) The main components of other operating income and expenses of WMF related to the restructuring of logistics activities and extraordinary costs related to the transaction. NOTE 2.3. OTHER TRANSACTIONS IN 2016 ■ the transfer of €150 million from China to France. AND 2015 This transaction was completed in early July 2016. Legal restructuring in Germany OBH Nordica Group and the United States On 31 August 2015, Groupe SEB acquired 100% of the shares of OBH Nordica Group, a major operator in the small electrical appliance The legal restructuring measures initiated in Germany and the market in Scandinavia. These shares were previously owned by TritonUnited States in 2015 were completed in the first half of 2016. This managed funds. restructuring had no impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. Founded in 2002 and based in Sundbyberg, north of Stockholm, OBH Supor Nordica markets a wide range of small kitchen equipment (electrical applicances and cookware), representing 80% of its revenue, as well In late December 2015, Groupe SEB signed an agreement with the as personal and home care appliances. As a result of strong in-house Su family holding company, Supor Group, to buy 50 million shares, innovation, the company enjoys leading positions in the Nordic region, or 7.91% of the share capital of Supor, at a unit price of CNY 29 per implementing a single brand strategy with high brand awareness share. This transaction was finalized on 23 June 2016. Groupe SEB in Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Norway. OBH Nordica has also then owned 81.17% of the company. developed a solid foothold in all distribution channels, with access to Furthermore, as part of a legal restructuring, 25% of the shares in some 4,200 points of sale. Zehjiang Supor EA and Wuhan Cookware, which were previously OBH Nordica generated sales of SEK 628 million in 2015 (approximately held by an intermediate holding company based in Hong Kong, €67 million) and has around 7% value market share in the Nordic were transferred to the Supor Group parent company, thereby giving small electrical appliances market. The portion of sales attributable it outright ownership of these subsidiaries. At the Group level, this to Groupe SEB in 2015 was €28.6 million. transaction had the following impact: ■ a slight change in the ownership interest in these companies from 85.88% to 81.17% for Zehjiang Supor EA and from 85.49% to 81.17% for Wuhan Cookware; 180 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities when Atakoy Groupe SEB obtained control of the company on 31 August 2015 was as follows: On 30 June 2015, the Group took over part of the retail business of one of its former distributors in Turkey. This deal resulted in estimated (in € millions) 31 August 2015 goodwill of around €3 million. Non-current assets* 17.5 Supor Inventories 18.3 In late December 2014, Groupe SEB acquired 10 million Supor shares Trade receivables 8.8 (1.58% of the capital) owned by the Su founding family at a price of Net debt (3.0) CNY 17.50 per share. This transaction was completed once approval Trade and other payables (5.4) had been obtained from the Chinese authorities, increasing the Other net liabilities (8.2) Groupe SEB holding to 73.13% at 31 December 2015. TOTAL NET ASSETS 27.2 PERCENT INTEREST 100% NET ASSETS ACQUIRED 27.2 Non-controlling interests CASH OUTFLOW FOR THE OBH NORDICA GROUP ACQUISITION 17.7 Badwill (9.5) * Mainly comprising the OBH Nordica brand estimated at €13.3 million by an independent assessor. 5 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 181 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 3. Segment information In accordance with IFRS 8 – Operating segments, financial information is presented by geographical segment, which is the basis of the internal information reviewed and used by the chief operating decision makers, i.e. the members of the Executive Committee. NOTE 3.1. GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENT INFORMATION (BY LOCATION OF ASSETS) Intra-Group (in € millions) EMEA Americas Asia WMF transactions Total 31/12/2017 Revenue Inter-segment revenue 2,685.0 921.8 1,700.9 1,147.7 6,455.4 External revenue 214.6 1.4 1,143.4 (1,330.2) 29.2 TOTAL REVENUE 2,899.6 923.2 2,844.3 1,147.7 (1,330.2) 6,484.6 Proﬁt (loss) Operating Result from Activity 190.9 65.8 331.1 77.6 (4.8) 660.6 Operating profit 137.3 48.9 330.8 67.4 (4.9) 579.5 Finance costs and other financial income and expenses 71.8 Profit (loss) attributable to associates Income tax (99.2) PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 408.6 Balance sheet Segment assets 1,799.2 822.3 1,212.2 2,168.7 (305.3) 5,697.1 Financial assets 853.6 Tax assets 136.5 TOTAL ASSETS 6,687.2 Segment liabilities (333.3) (231.7) (471.5) (971.0) 258.8 (1,748.7) Borrowings (2,705.7) Tax liabilities (268.4) Equity (1,964.4) TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (6,687.2) Other information Capital expenditure and purchases of intangible assets 93.0 17.1 42.5 39.7 192.3 Depreciation and amortization expense (78.2) (17.7) (31.5) (41.3) (168.7) Impairment losses (5.6) (2.9) (0.7) (9.2) In 2017, data for the WMF Group are presented separately. As from Intra-group transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis, 1 January 2018, these will be distributed within each segments to under terms and conditions that are similar to those that would be which they belong. offered to third parties. Inter-segment revenue corresponds to sales to external customers The geographical segment information for 2015 is based on the located within the geographical segment. Group’s structure prior to its reorganization at the end of 2015. External revenue corresponds to total sales (within the Group and to external customers) generated outside the geographical segment by companies within the geographical segment. 182 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Intra-Group (in € millions) EMEA Americas Asia WMF transactions Total 31/12/2016 Revenue Inter-segment revenue 2,487.3 899.9 1,574.9 4,962.1 External revenue 212.7 0.6 1,032.3 (1,208.0) 37.6 TOTAL REVENUE 2,700.0 900.5 2,607.2 (1,208.0) 4,999.7 Proﬁt (loss) Operating Result from Activity 168.6 58.3 304.7 (26.4) 505.2 Operating profit 105.9 42.5 304.4 (26.4) 426.4 Finance costs and other financial income and expenses (57.9) Profit (loss) attributable to associates Income tax (77.7) PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 290.8 Balance sheet Segment assets 1650.5 922.3 1270.2 2056.1 (274.1) 5,625.0 Financial assets 712.4 Tax assets 130.9 TOTAL ASSETS 6,468.3 Segment liabilities (294.2) (258.4) (484.2) (996.4) 214.4 (1,818.8) Borrowings (2,659.9) Tax liabilities Equity (153.5) (1,836.1) 5 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (6,468.3) Other information Capital expenditure and purchases of intangible assets 87.6 60.5 33.4 181.5 Depreciation and amortization expense (70.7) (16.4) (35.0) (122.1) Impairment losses (0.7) (0.7) Data for 2016 have been modified to be consistent with the WMF 2017 presentation. As from 1 January 2018, entities of the WMF subgroup will be presented within each area to which they belong. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 183 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Central Europe, Other Western Russia European North South and other Intra-Group (in € millions) France countries (a) America America Asia countries transactions Total 31/12/2015 Revenue Inter-segment revenue 736.5 930.9 576.8 370.1 1,427.7 570.3 4,612.3 External revenue 729.1 81.0 0.4 7.4 1,065.7 25.5 (1,751.7) 157.4 TOTAL REVENUE 1,465.6 1,011.9 577.2 377.5 2,493.4 595.8 (1,751.7) 4,769.7 Proﬁt (loss) Operating Result from Activity 81.1 37.7 9.9 (1.6) 251.1 46.1 3.7 428.0 Operating profit 42.1 43.2 9.0 (23.3) 251.0 45.6 3.7 371.3 Finance costs and other financial income and expenses (47.8) Profit (loss) attributable to associates Income tax (82.4) PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 241.1 Balance sheet Segment assets 762.3 536.7 465.4 364.6 1,299.7 316.9 (298.5) 3,447.1 Financial assets (b) 1,093.3 Tax assets 94.8 TOTAL ASSETS 4,635.2 Segment liabilities 486.3 310.1 86.3 89.5 431.7 120.3 (248.8) 1,275.4 Borrowings 1,350.6 Tax liabilities 101.6 Equity 1,907.7 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,635.2 Other information Capital expenditure and purchases of intangible assets 84.6 6.0 4.9 22.9 30.2 4.7 153.3 Depreciation and amortization expense 69.5 5.2 8.0 7.9 40.5 2.2 133.3 Impairment losses 3.7 9.4 13.1 (a) “Other Western European countries” correspond to the 15 countries comprising the pre-enlargement European Union included in the “Central Europe, Russia and other countries” segment. (b) Including other short-term investments. 184 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 3.2. REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION OF THE CUSTOMER AND BUSINESS SECTOR (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Western European countries 1,962.0 1,834.0 1,736.0 Other countries 728.0 661.0 608.0 EMEA 2,690.0 2,495.0 2,344.0 North America 573.0 563.0 599.0 South America 366.0 355.0 374.0 AMERICAS 939.0 919.0 973.0 China 1,240.0 1,122.0 1,020.0 Other countries 469.0 464.0 433.0 ASIA 1,709.0 1,586.0 1,453.0 SUB-TOTAL 5,337.0 5,000.0 4,770.0 WMF 1,148.0 TOTAL 6,485.0 5,000.0 4,770.0 (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Cookware 2,228.0 1,626.4 1,563.0 Small domestic appliances 3,694.0 3,373.6 3,206.7 Professional coffee machines and hotels 563.0 TOTAL 6,485.0 5,000.0 4,769.7 5 Note 4. Operating expenses (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Purchased raw materials and goods (3,069.1) (2,427.0) (2,388.8) Labor costs (347.5) (205.2) (196.1) Freight costs (150.3) (121.7) (136.6) Other production costs (325.7) (267.3) (240.7) COST OF SALES SUB-TOTAL (3,892.6) (3,021.2) (2,962.2) Research and development costs (128.9) (92.2) (88.5) Advertising (134.4) (130.9) (121.6) Distribution and administrative expenses (1,937.0) (1,250.2) (1,169.4) OPERATING EXPENSES (5,824.0) (4,494.5) (4,341.7) GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 185 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 5. Employee benefits expenses (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Wages and salaries (excluding temporary staff costs) (921.1) (601.7) (576.5) Payroll taxes (185.8) (125.9) (122.4) Pension and other post-employment benefit plan costs (56.9) (55.5) (54.0) Service cost under defined benefit plans (15.7) (1.9) (4.9) Discretionary and non-discretionary profit sharing (37.6) (36.7) (31.4) TOTAL EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES (1,217.1) (821.7) (789.2) Breakdown by geographical segment 2017 EMEA Americas Asia Total Employee benefits expense (excluding temporary staff costs) (905.9) (101.2) (210.0) (1,217.1) Average number of employees (in units) 14364 2892 14252 31508 Breakdown by geographical segment 2016 EMEA * Americas * Asia * Total Employee benefits expense (excluding temporary staff costs) (524.9) (102.2) (194.6) (821.7) Average number of employees (in units) 8,801 2,833 14,275 25,909 * Excluding WMF. Other Western Breakdown by geographical European North South Central Europe segment 2015 France countries (a) America America Asia + other countries (b) Total Employee benefits expense (excluding temporary staff costs)(b) (383.2) (82.5) (54.6) (46.4) (188.6) (33.9) (789.2) Average number of employees (in units) 5,784 1,425 680 2,246 14,541 1,273 25,949 (a) “Other Western European countries” correspond to the 15 countries comprising the pre-enlargement European Union included in the “Central Europe, Russia and other countries” segment. (b) Of which Groupe SEB India. Employees by category (in %) 2017 2016 2015 Labor costs 48.0 48.0 48.0 Employees 40.0 40.0 40.4 Managers 12.0 12.0 11.6 TOTAL 100.0 100.0 100.0 Note 6. Other operating income and expenses (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Restructuring costs (30.6) (19.0) (18.8) Impairment losses (6.1) (0.8) (9.9) Gains and losses on asset disposals and other (6.9) (22.4) 3.4 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSES (43.6) (42.2) (25.3) 186 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 6.1. RESTRUCTURING COSTS NOTE 6.2. IMPAIRMENT LOSSES 2017 2017 Restructuring costs in 2017 amounted to €30.6 million and mainly In application of the principle described in Note 1.4.3, certain concerned: manufacturing CGUs were tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the assets of each CGU with their value in use. The ■ the ongoing industrial and commercial restructuring of the Brazilian main tests and CGUs are discussed in Note 10 “Intangible assets.” subsidiary for €15 million, including the gradual transfer of small electrical appliances and cookware production lines to a new plant Since the end of 2016, our activities in India have been challenged in Itatiaia, Rio de Janeiro; by a major reform of the “GST” VAT tax and a demonetization law ■ expenses related to the transfer of Strategic Marketing and that had a major impact on consumption during the year. The Group Research activities from Selongey to Ecully for approximately reflected this slowdown in 2017 in the business plan used as a basis €4.7 million; for the impairment test, which led it to recognize a partial goodwill impairment of €5.4 million. The main assumptions used for the test ■ expenses related to the mergers of WMF’s consumer activities and sensitivity analyses are presented in Note 10. with those of Groupe SEB’s historical entities for approximately €8 million; 2016 ■ expenses which, on an individual basis, were not material. In 2016, no material impairment losses were recognized. 2016 Restructuring costs in 2016 amounted to €19.0 million, and mainly 2015 concerned: The impairment of assets recognized in 2015 primarily related to real ■ the continued industrial and commercial restructuring of the Brazilian estate owned by our Venezuelan subsidiary written down to market subsidiary for €15.7 million with, in particular, the announcement of value as a result of the political and monetary climate (€6.8 million) the closure of the São Paulo plant and the gradual transfer of the and the partial impairment of certain cookware brands in Brazil (€2.0 million). 5 small electrical appliances production lines to a new plant located in Itatiaia in the State of Rio de Janeiro; ■ non-material expenses, when looked at individually, mainly relating NOTE 6.3. GAINS AND LOSSES ON ASSET to the ongoing implementation of the restructuring plans launched DISPOSALS AND OTHER in 2015. 2015 2017 Restructuring costs in 2015 amounted to €18.8 million, primarily In 2017, the Group incurred residual expenses relating to the WMF including: acquisition, along with expenses relating to the integration of WMF into its processes and tools for approximately €4 million. ■ the continuation of the industrial and commercial restructuring of the Brazilian subsidiary for €8.7 million; ■ restructuring costs to return the Lourdes site to competitiveness 2016 for €5.9 million; In 2016, acquisition costs of €15 million were incurred for the ■ restructuring costs in Scandinavia following the acquisition of OBH acquisitions of WMF and EMSA. Furthermore, a €6 million expense Nordica for €3.2 million. was recognized for a customs dispute in Turkey detailed in Note 29.1.2 “Litigation”. 2015 In 2015, the €9.5 million negative goodwill arising from the initial recognition of the OBH Nordica Group was partially offset by the recognition of a €4 million charge for a provision for pollution cleanup costs in Brazil. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 187 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 7. Finance costs and other financial income and expenses (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 FINANCE COSTS (34.9) (29.8) (27.5) Interest cost on long-term employee benefit obligations (3.5) (3.9) (3.0) Exchange gains and losses and financial instruments (13.7) (8.9) (9.3) Other (19.5) (15.4) (8.0) OTHER FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES (36.7) (28.2) (20.3) The interest costs on long-term employee benefits represents the Income and expenses from financial instruments correspond to difference between the annual discounting of commitments and amortization of the time value of hedging instruments, and derivative the expected return on the corresponding financial assets held in a instruments for which the hedging relationship has not been hedging contract for these commitments, as well as the discounting documented. charges for other long-term liabilities and provisions. In 2017, the “other” item includes the change in fair value of the Exchange gains and losses on manufacturing and sales transactions conversion option of the ORNAE bond, net of the effects of its denominated in foreign currencies are included in Operating Result partial hedge, for €9.3 million. In 2016, the item included notably the from Activity. Gains and losses on borrowings in foreign currencies impairment loss on Key Ingredient’s shares and current account for and related hedges are reported under “Other financial income and €7.5 million. expenses”. Note 8. Income tax NOTE 8.1. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Current tax assets and liabilities 120.4 82.9 86.3 Deferred tax assets and liabilities (21.1) (5.2) (3.9) INCOME TAXES 99.3 77.7 82.4 Current income tax expense corresponds to taxes paid or payable in Group companies in France, Italy and the United States have elected the short term on profit for the year, based on local tax rates and tax for group relief. The agreements guarantee neutrality for each of the laws in the Group’s host countries. companies included in the scope (Note 32) and generate no significant tax savings apart from the immediate offset of the deficits on profits. 188 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 8.2. ANALYSIS OF INCOME TAX EXPENSE The difference between the effective tax rate of 19.5% (21.1% in 2016 and 25.5% in 2015) and the statutory French tax rate of 34.43% in 2017 (including additional contribution) breaks down as follows: (in %) 2017 2016 2015 STATUTORY FRENCH TAX RATE 34.4 34.4 38.0 (a) Effect of difference in tax rates (18.4) (14.2) (19.1) Unrecognized and relieved tax loss carry forwards 5.3 3.8 6.2 Prior period tax loss carry forwards recognized and utilized during the period (b) (3.2) (7.3) (0.6) Other (c) 1.4 4.4 1.0 EFFECTIVE TAX RATE 19.5 21.1 25.5 (a) The “Effect of differences in tax rates” item is affected by the large share of proﬁts made in China and by the tax reform in the United States, which led to a signiﬁcant reduction in deferred tax liabilities in that country (3.3%). (b) The change in this item is mainly due to the strong performance in the USA, where the Group is using its tax loss carry forwards and the partial recognition of our losses carried forward in Germany. (c) The «Other» item includes the refund on the dividend tax for years 2011 to 2017 (1.9%), withholding tax (1.3%), tax risks that are not individually material (0.6%), the non-deductibility of the impairment loss on Maharaja’s goodwill (0.4%) and the non-deductibility of the change in fair value of the option portion of the ORNAE convertible bond (0.8%). In 2016, included the dividend tax (0.7%), withholding tax (1.2%), unrecognized temporary differences (1.4%), tax risks that are not individually material (0.4%) and the non-deductibility of the impairment loss on the shares and current account of Key Ingredient (0.7%). In 2015, this item included the dividend tax (0.7%), the non-taxation of OBH negative goodwill (1.1%) and the non-deductibility of the impairment loss on assets in Venezuela (0.8%). Profit (loss) before tax amounted to €507.9 million versus €368.5 million in 2016 and €323.5 million in 2015. NOTE 8.3. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ON THE BALANCE SHEET (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 5 Intangible assets (brands) (302.6) (168.8) (115.9) Capitalized development costs (6.6) (6.0) (3.8) Property, plant and equipment (38.8) (39.4) (31.1) Net tax loss carry forwards 28.6 24.0 12.0 Provisions for pensions and other employee-related liabilities 64.1 77.2 51.5 Elimination of intra-Group gains 32.5 28.3 21.9 Other temporary differences 69.0 44.4 45.6 TOTAL DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (LIABILITIES) (153.8) (40.3) (19.8) Of which: Deferred tax assets 62.9 71.1 50.3 Deferred tax liabilities (216.7) (111.4) (70.1) The increase in deferred tax liabilities for the period is directly related Deferred tax liabilities on other temporary differences are principally to the allocation of the WMF acquisition price. This increase was comprised of deferred taxes on the non-deductible portion of partially offset by the impact of the tax reform in the United States provisions. that reduced our net deferred tax liabilities. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 189 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The change in net deferred tax liabilities on the balance sheet is explained as follows: (in € millions) NET DEFERRED TAXES AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 (19.8) Deferred taxes for the period recognized in profit or loss 5.2 Effect of deferred taxes recognized in equity 5.4 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (0.6) Effect of changes in the scope of consolidation (30.3) Other (0.2) NET DEFERRED TAXES AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 (40.3) Deferred taxes for the period recognized in profit or loss 21.1 Effect of deferred taxes recognized in equity 7.6 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 3.2 Effect of changes in the scope of consolidation (145.7) Other 0.3 NET DEFERRED TAXES AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 (153.8) Deferred taxes recognized in consolidated equity principally derive from deferred tax liabilities related to actuarial gains and losses on pension liabilities, derivative instruments and gains or losses on treasury shares. NOTE 8.4. OTHER INFORMATION At 31 December 2017, the Group had a number of unrecognized deductible temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards. These amounts are listed per category as well as per expiry date in the table below: Deductible temporary At 31 December 2017(in € millions) differences Tax losses Total 2018 0.0 0.0 0.0 2019 0.0 1.4 1.4 2020 0.0 0.1 0.1 2021 0.0 0.2 0.2 2022 and beyond 2.3 2.4 4.7 Unlimited 4.2 88.2 92.4 TOTAL 6.5 92.3 98.8 Unrecognized tax loss carryforwards rose from €92.2 million in 2016 in 2017, €3.6 million in 2016 and €4.2 million in 2015) and India to €92.3 million in 2017. (€3.9 million in 2017, €2.6 million in 2016 and €2.5 million in 2015). The item mainly concerns Germany (€20.4 million in 2017, €28.2 million In 2016, given that the Group’s US subsidiaries had returned to profit, in 2016 and €27.8 million in 2015), Brazil (€45.7 million in 2017, almost all of the tax losses carried forward in the Unites States had €33.9 million in 2016 and €18.2 million in 2015), Spain (€3.3 million been capitalized. 190 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 9. Earnings per share (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Numerator Profit attributable to owners of the parent 375.0 258.6 205.9 After tax effect of dilutive potential shares Profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share 375.0 258.6 205.9 Denominator Weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate basic earnings per share 49,596,964 49,749,160 49,037,044 Effect of dilutive potential shares 407,581 496,356 670,030 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate diluted earnings per share 50,004,546 50,245,516 49,707,074 Basic earnings per share (in €) 7.56 5.20 4.20 Diluted earnings per share (in €) 7.50 5.15 4.14 The dilutive impact may relate to the various existing stock option and performance share plans (see Note 19.2). Note 10. Intangible assets In accordance with IAS 38, intangible assets with an indefinite useful Intangible assets with a finite useful life are amortized by the straightlife – corresponding to trademarks and goodwill – are no longer amortized but are tested for impairment at each year-end. The impairment testing method is described in Note 1.4. line method over their estimated useful life. Amortization expense is included in “Operating Result from Activity”. The Group also holds certain trademarks – such as the Tefal 5 international trademark and the SEB and Calor regional trademarks – which are not recognized in the balance sheet. Intangible Patents assets in 2017 and Development progress (in € millions) licenses Trademarks Goodwill Software costs and other Total Cost At 1 January(b) 48.1 1,042.2 1,573.6 94.5 30.1 116.0 2,904.5 Acquisitions/additions 0.1 9.4 3.6 14.3 27.4 Disposals (8.6) (3.8) (7.7) (0.4) (20.5) Other movements(a) 0.1 10.7 (3.9) 11.0 (0.7) (2.9) 14.3 Foreign currency translation adjustments (1.9) (34.6) (45.3) (3.5) (0.4) (4.9) (90.6) AT 31 DECEMBER 37.9 1,018.2 1,524.4 107.5 24.9 122.1 2,835.1 Depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January(b) 26.0 11.2 58.6 57.5 14.6 20.5 188.2 Foreign currency translation adjustments (1.1) (1.4) (7.2) (2.7) (0.2) (1.9) (14.5) Additions 3.4 15.3 5.0 12.3 35.9 Impairment losses 5.5 5.5 Depreciation and impairment written off on disposals (8.6) (3.8) (7.7) (0.3) (20.4) Other movements(a) (0.2) 2.4 (0.1) 2.3 AT 31 DECEMBER 19.5 9.8 56.9 68.7 11.6 30.5 197.0 Carrying amount at 1 January 22.1 1,031.0 1,515.0 37.0 15.6 95.5 2,716.2 CARRYING AMOUNT AT 31 DECEMBER 18.4 1,008.4 1,467.5 38.8 13.3 91.7 2,638.1 (a) Including changes in scope of consolidation. (b) After ﬁnalization of WMF purchase price allocation entries (Note 2.1). GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 191 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Intangible assets in 2016 Patents and Development progress (in € millions) licenses Trademarks Goodwill Software costs and other Total Cost At 1 January 38.3 403.5 601.8 80.6 26.6 60.6 1,211.4 Acquisitions/additions 6.6 3.9 4.7 3.8 19.0 Disposals (8.3) (7.5) (1.7) (17.5) Other movements * 8.0 145.9 1,312.0 57.5 17.4 124.6 1,665.4 Foreign currency translation adjustments 1.8 9.0 (8.2) 2.6 0.4 (0.6) 5.0 AT 31 DECEMBER 48.1 565.0 1,905.6 136.3 41.6 186.7 2,883.3 Depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January 22.2 11.0 56.8 54.3 18.1 19.1 181.5 Foreign currency translation adjustments 0.6 0.7 1.8 2.2 0.2 0.3 5.8 Additions 2.9 9.2 3.5 1.8 17.4 Impairment losses Depreciation and impairment written off on disposals (8.4) (7.1) (0.8) (16.3) Other movements * 2.1 33.1 42.0 11.4 39.3 127.9 AT 31 DECEMBER 27.8 44.8 58.6 99.3 26.1 59.7 316.3 Carrying amount at 1 January 16.1 392.5 545.0 26.3 8.5 41.5 1,029.9 CARRYING AMOUNT AT 31 DECEMBER 20.3 520.2 1,847.0 37.0 15.5 127.0 2,567.0 * Including changes in scope of consolidation. Intangible assets in 2015 Patents and Development progress (in € millions) licenses Trademarks Goodwill Software costs and other Total Cost At 1 January 39.2 377.5 563.2 84.3 34.0 59.0 1,157.2 Acquisitions/additions 0.5 12.6 4.2 3.1 20.4 Disposals (17.8) (11.8) (0.5) (30.1) Other movements * 0.1 13.9 3.1 4.1 0.7 (4.0) 17.9 Foreign currency translation adjustments (1.5) 12.1 35.5 (2.6) (0.5) 3.0 46.0 AT 31 DECEMBER 38.3 403.5 601.8 80.6 26.6 60.6 1,211.4 Depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January 19.5 7.8 51.2 63.3 22.9 16.3 181.0 Foreign currency translation adjustments (0.2) 0.6 5.6 (2.2) (0.2) 1.0 4.6 Additions 2.9 11.0 6.2 1.7 21.8 Impairment losses 2.0 0.7 2.7 Depreciation and impairment written off on disposals (17.8) (11.0) (28.8) Other movements * 0.6 0.2 (0.6) 0.2 AT 31 DECEMBER 22.2 11.0 56.8 54.3 18.1 19.1 181.5 Carrying amount at 1 January 19.7 369.7 512.0 21.0 11.1 42.7 976.2 CARRYING AMOUNT AT 31 DECEMBER 16.1 392.5 545.0 26.3 8.5 41.5 1,029.9 * Including changes in scope of consolidation. 192 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Trademarks and goodwill were tested for impairment according to the Other CGUs tested separately method described in Note 1.4.3. by comparing their carrying amount to their value in use, with the exception of the trademarks mentioned ALL-CLAD below, which were valued using the relief from royalty method. The All-Clad CGU (including the trademark for €120.7 million and The discount rates used were based on a weighted average cost of goodwill for €46.6 million at 31 December 2017) was tested for capital that factors in market borrowing rates, gearing ratio, beta and impairment by comparing the carrying amount to its value in use. country risk using Damodaran methodology. The mature country risk The value in use is defined as the sum of discounted cash flows based premium used for 2017 was 5.69%. Specific equity risk premiums on a five-year business plan and taking into account a terminal value ranging from 0.7% to 6.4% were applied to the Group’s different based on the cash flow of the final year of the plan. The main actuarial CGUs, according to their size, region and other specific characteristics. assumptions used were as follows: The impairment tests in 2017 were broadly based on a 2018 budget ■ a discount rate of 6.82% (versus 7.42% in 2016 and 7.54% in 2015); that largely assumed a continuation of the trends seen in 2017 for ■ a long-term growth rate of 3%, in line with forecasts for the highthese CGUs. end household goods sector, and similar to the rate used since All-Clad was acquired. The “Professional” CGU as defined This test gave rise to no additional impairment of goodwill in 2017. in Note 1.4.3. All-Clad’s economic performance in 2017 was in line with forecasts. The test of this CGU, which included trademarks for €316.8 million The sensitivity of the test to changes, taken in isolation, in the and goodwill for €712 million (exclusively arising from the allocation of assumptions used to calculate the value in use of the All-Clad CGU the WMF acquisition price), was carried out by comparing the carrying at the end of 2017 is as follows: amount with its value in use. The value in use is defined as the sum ■ the use of a 13.42% discount rate (i.e. a 6.6-point increase) would of the discounted cash flows according to the acquisition business have reduced the impairment test margin to zero; plan and taking into account a terminal value based on the cash flow of the final year of the plan. The main actuarial assumptions used ■ a one-point decrease in the growth rate to perpetuity would not were as follows: result in any additional impairment loss being recognized; ■ a discount rate of 8.26%; ■ a 14-point reduction in the Operating Result from Activity for the 5 final year of the business plan used to calculate the terminal value ■ and a long-term growth rate of 2% in line with forecasts for the would reduce the test margin to zero; high-end household goods sector. ■ as regards the sales trends for 2018-2022, Group management This test, carried out for the first time, did not indicate any impairment currently considers the most probable scenario to be average risk for the assets allocated to this CGU. A one-point change in the annual growth of 3.1%. A revision of sales forecasts to flat over the discount rate or long-term growth rate would not affect the valuation entire period would result in no additional goodwill impairment loss. of this CGU. IMUSA The “Consumer EMEA” CGU as defined The Imusa CGU (including the trademark for €14.9 million and goodwill in Note 1.4.3. for €23.4 million at 31 December 2017) was tested for impairment by The test of this CGU, which included trademarks for €367.3 million comparing its carrying amount to its value in use. The value in use and goodwill for €376.5 million (of which €307 million in trademarks is defined as the sum of discounted cash flows based on a five-year and €239 million in goodwill from the allocation of the WMF acquisition business plan and taking into account a terminal value based on the price), was carried out by comparing the carrying amount with its value cash flow of the final year of the plan. The main actuarial assumptions in use. The value in use is defined as the sum of discounted cash flows used were as follows: based on a five-year business plan and taking into account a terminal ■ a discount rate of 12.75% (versus 12.93% in 2016 and 12.96% value based on the cash flow of the final year of the plan. The main in 2015); and actuarial assumptions used were as follows: ■ a long-term growth rate of 3% in line with forecasts for the sector. ■ a discount rate of 7.66%; The test did not lead to any impairment loss being recognized. ■ and a long-term growth rate of 2% in line with forecasts for the The sensitivity of test results to changes in the individual assumptions household goods sector. used in 2017 to determine the value in use of the Imusa CGU assets This test, carried out for the first time, did not indicate any impairment is as follows: risk for the assets allocated to this CGU. A one-point change in the ■ the use of a 15.0% discount rate (i.e. a 2.25-point increase) would discount rate or long-term growth rate would not affect the valuation have reduced the impairment test margin to zero; of this CGU. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 193 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ■ a one-point decrease in the growth rate to perpetuity would not ■ taking into account only the first nine years of the business plan result in any additional impairment loss being recognized; would have resulted in the recognition of an additional impairment ■ the use of an unchanged percentage for Operating Result from loss of €14 million. Activity over the course of the business plan and a 2.2-reduction SUPOR compared with the current year would reduce the test margin to At 31 December 2017, the Supor CGU (including the trademark for zero; €109.1 million and goodwill for €368.0 million) was compared to its ■ as regards the sales trends for 2018-2022, the Groupe SEB market value. ZJ Supor is listed on the Shenzhen stock market and the management currently considers the most probable scenario to be share has enough liquidity to make this a good basis for comparison. average annual growth of 3.6%. A 10% downward revision in sales At 31 December 2017, Supor shares were trading at CNY 40.38. The forecasts over the entire period would not result in any goodwill carrying amount at the same date was CNY 14.55 per share. impairment loss being recognized. MAIN BRANDS TESTED USING THE RELIEF FROM ROYALTY MAHARAJA METHOD OR RELATED TO CGUS CONSIDERED AS NON-MATERIAL In 2017, an impairment loss of €5.4 million was recognized on The following brands have been assigned to the new Consumer EMEA Maharaja’s goodwill (Note 6). CGU: The Maharaja CGU (including the trademark for €10.5 million and ■ Lagostina for €30.4 million; goodwill for €22.3 million at 31 December 2017) was tested for ■ OBH Nordica for €12.8 million; impairment by comparing the carrying amount to its value in use. The value in use is defined as the sum of discounted cash flows based ■ EMSA for €10.7 million. on a 10-year business plan and taking into account a terminal value The Arno brand (€25.2 million) was specifically tested using the based on the cash flow of the final year of the plan. The main actuarial relief from royalty method which consists of discounting the royalty assumptions used were as follows: revenues that would be derived from licensing the trademarks. ■ a discount rate of 14.65%; and In addition, the Rowenta, Krups, Moulinex, Panex, Clock, Rochedo, ■ a long-term growth rate of 5% in keeping with those used in this Penedo, Imusa USA, Umco, MiroWearEver and AsiaVina brands were geographic area. recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements for a total of €50.4 million. Since the end of 2016, our activities in India have been challenged by a major reform of the “GST” VAT tax and the demonetization law The main assumptions used in the 2017 tests were as follows: that had a major impact on consumption during the year. The Group ■ royalty rate: 2.0% to 5.5% (unchanged from 2016 and 2015); reflected this slowdown in 2017 in the business plan used as a basis ■ discount rate after tax: from 5.53% (Rowenta) to 18.65% (Arno) for the impairment test, which led it to recognize a partial goodwill (range between 6.13% and 18.93% in 2016); impairment of €5.4 million. ■ long-term growth rate: 1% to 3% (unchanged from 2016 and 2015). The sensitivity of test results to changes in the individual assumptions used in 2017 to determine the value in use of the Maharaja CGU The Group ran sensitivity analyses on the values in use of all these assets is as follows: assets under different cash flow scenarios for 2018-2022. It also tested the sensitivity of these values in use to different assumptions on ■ a one-point increase in the discount rate (15.65%) would have discount rate (1% increase) and growth to perpetuity (1% decrease). resulted in the recognition of an additional impairment loss of The decreases in value in use under each of these simulations taken approximately €8.4 million; on their own would not result in the impairment of the trademarks in ■ a one-point decrease in the growth rate to perpetuity would have the balance sheet. Furthermore, the margin of these tests is significant resulted in the recognition of an additional impairment loss of apart from the impairment tests for the Brazilian cookware trademarks. approximately €3.7 million; They were partially written down in 2015. The remaining amounts are ■ a 3.3-point decrease in the Operating Result from Activity rate for not material at Group level. the final year of the business plan, used to calculate the terminal value, would have resulted in the impairment of all goodwill; 194 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 11. Property, plant and equipment Other property, 2017 Machinery and plant and Fixed assets (in € millions) Land Buildings equipment equipment in progress Total Cost At 1 January(b) 67.7 664.5 1,174.8 390.0 70.4 2,367.4 Acquisitions/additions 1.7 17.0 58.8 29.4 58.0 165.0 Disposals (1.2) (16.9) (43.8) (26.0) (0.5) (88.4) Other movements(a) 0.1 26.6 64.4 12.3 (57.1) 46.3 Foreign currency translation adjustments (2.6) (21.3) (35.2) (8.2) (2.3) (69.7) AT 31 DECEMBER 65.6 669.9 1,219.1 397.6 68.5 2,420.7 Depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January(b) 7.4 315.6 920.9 286.8 1,530.6 Foreign currency translation adjustments (0.1) (6.9) (25.8) (5.8) (38.6) Additions 0.3 26.5 74.8 33.9 135.4 Impairment losses 1.8 1.8 Depreciation and impairment written off on disposals (0.4) (11.8) (42.2) (24.3) (78.8) Other movements(a) 15.6 29.9 4.1 49.7 AT 31 DECEMBER 7.2 339.0 959.3 294.7 1,600.2 Carrying amount at 1 January 60.2 348.9 254.0 103.3 70.4 836.8 5 CARRYING AMOUNT AT 31 DECEMBER 58.5 330.9 259.7 102.9 68.5 820.5 (a) Including changes in scope of consolidation. (b) After ﬁnalization of WMF purchase price allocation entries (Note 2.1) At 31 December 2017, no single asset impairment was material in its own right. Other property, 2016 Machinery and plant and Fixed assets (in € millions) Land Buildings equipment equipment in progress Total Cost At 1 January 40.3 436.6 1,001.1 145.4 82.0 1,705.4 Acquisitions/additions 6.8 45.9 41.7 16.2 51.8 162.4 Disposals (1.5) (2.3) (59.8) (9.3) (0.9) (73.8) Other movements* 5.8 162.7 182.0 236.1 (64.0) 522.6 Foreign currency translation adjustments 2.3 5.2 9.8 1.6 1.5 20.4 AT 31 DECEMBER 53.7 648.1 1,174.8 390.0 70.4 2,337.0 Depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January 7.2 214.6 782.8 104.3 1,108.9 Foreign currency translation adjustments 2.1 6.8 1.3 10.2 Additions 0.2 21.1 69.2 15.7 106.2 Impairment losses Depreciation and impairment written off on disposals (1.9) (58.0) (8.2) (68.1) Other movements* 79.7 120.1 172.3 372.1 AT 31 DECEMBER 7.4 315.6 920.9 285.4 1,529.3 Carrying amount at 1 January 33.1 222.0 218.3 41.1 82.0 596.5 CARRYING AMOUNT AT 31 DECEMBER 46.3 332.5 253.9 104.6 70.4 807.7 * Including changes in scope of consolidation. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 195 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Other property, 2015 Machinery and plant and Fixed assets (in € millions) Land Buildings equipment equipment in progress Total Cost At 1 January 42.5 416.0 962.7 139.5 55.2 1,615.9 Acquisitions/additions 0.3 7.3 48.3 10.4 66.6 132.9 Disposals (3.2) (30.6) (10.5) (1.2) (45.5) Other movements* 0.1 11.5 22.2 6.3 (37.3) 2.8 Foreign currency translation adjustments (2.6) 5.0 (1.5) (0.3) (1.3) (0.7) AT 31 DECEMBER 40.3 436.6 1,001.1 145.4 82.0 1,705.4 Depreciation and impairment losses At 1 January 7.0 192.0 732.3 97.5 1,028.8 Foreign currency translation adjustments (0.5) (1.8) (0.3) (2.6) Additions 0.2 17.3 79.7 15.2 112.4 Impairment losses 7.4 2.8 0.3 10.5 Depreciation and impairment written off on disposals (2.0) (29.4) (9.5) (40.9) Other movements* 0.4 (0.8) 1.1 0.7 AT 31 DECEMBER 7.2 214.6 782.8 104.3 1,108.9 Carrying amount at 1 January 35.5 224.0 230.4 42.0 55.2 587.1 CARRYING AMOUNT AT 31 DECEMBER 33.1 222.0 218.3 41.1 82.0 596.5 * Including changes in scope of consolidation. 196 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Most of the Group’s operations are on 39 major industrial sites. They are distributed as follows: Region Country Plant Main products France Rumilly Cookware, informal meal equipment Tournus Cookware Selongey Pressure cookers Pont-Évêque Irons, steam generators, epilators Is-sur-Tille Deep fryers, ovens France Saint Jean de Bournay Plastic components Lourdes Meat grinders and small food preparation equipment Mayenne Food processors, blenders, fully-automated espresso machines Saint-Lô Electronic components Vernon Vacuum cleaners Germany Erbach Steam irons Emsdetten Kitchenware Geislingen an der Steige Cookware; professional coffee machines Diez Cookware Western European Riedlingen Cookware countries Hayingen Cutlery Switzerland Zuchwill Professional coffee machines Italy Omegna Cookware Czech Domazlice Catering utensils, components Republic 5 North America United States Canonsburg Cookware Brazil Recife Fans, washing machines, blenders Itatiaia (Rio Janeiro) Blenders, washing machines, fans and cookware South America Colombia Cajica Blenders, fans Rio Negro Plastic goods, cookware China Shanghai Steam irons, steam cookers Yuhuan Cookware Wuhan Cookware Hangzhou Rice cookers Shaoxing Kettles, electric pressure cookers, induction hotplates, deep fryers, bread machines, coffee machines, soy milk makers Asia TaiCang Kitchenware Heshan Cutlery India Baddi Food processors, blenders, fans Vietnam Vinh Loc Fans Binh Duong-Asia Fans Components (motors) Ho Chi Minh-SUPOR Cookware Binh Duong-EMSA Garden products Russia Saint-Petersburg Cookware Other countries Egypt Borg el Arab Blenders, small food preparation equipment, irons The Group owns all of its plants, except for the one in Shanghai activities and corporate teams. In March 2016, all head-office functions (China). were thus moved to this site in the Lyon region, bringing them under one roof with a view to improving the functioning and efficiency of the Logistics warehouses and commercial and office buildings are Group’s organization. All leases are with unrelated lessors and reflect generally leased, except for the Group’s headquarters building in normal market terms. Écully. As previously reported, on 13 January 2014, Groupe SEB bought the Parc Mail office complex in Écully, already used by some of its GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 197 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 12. Leases Finance leases can be analyzed as follows: Carrying amounts (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Land Buildings 0.2 Machinery and equipment 4.9 5.1 2.9 Other 0.7 1.0 1.0 CARRYING AMOUNT 5.8 6.1 3.9 These amounts are included in Note 11 “Property, plant and equipment.” Groupe SEB does not have any finance leases related to intangible assets or investment property. Commitments under leases are as follows: 2017 (in € millions) Finance leases Operating leases LEASE COMMITMENTS: Due within one year 1.8 83.9 Due in one to five years 3.2 186.7 Due beyond five years 0.4 82.7 TOTAL MINIMUM FUTURE LEASE PAYMENTS 5.4 353.3 Future interest costs 0.2 DISCOUNTED PRESENT VALUE OF LEASE COMMITMENTS 5.2 353.3 Lease payments recorded in expenses for the year totaled: (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Lease payments 120.6 63.3 57.8 Note 13. Investments in other financial assets NOTE 13.1. INVESTMENTS 13.1.2. Other investments At 31 December 2017, “Other investments” amounted to €33.8 million. 13.1.1. Investments in associates This largely consists of non-controlling interests in several entities and investments in non-consolidated entities due to their non-material size At 31 December 2016, equity accounted investments worth €11 million in the Group. This item also includes the shares of the Swizzz Prozzz had been consolidated following the WMF acquisition. In the first entities acquired in 2017. half of 2017, WMF sold its 24.9% stake in BHS Tabletop AG. This company was accounted for using the equity method in the financial statements at 31 December 2016. Because of the immaterial nature of the remaining interest in Bauscher Hepp Inc, which was also NOTE 13.2. OTHER NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL accounted for using the equity method at 31 December 2016, it was ASSETS deconsolidated during the first half of 2017. These assets are mainly comprised of endorsements and guarantees, chiefly for property leases. 198 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 14. Product development costs (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GROSS EXPENDITURE (138.5) (104.0) (99.8) Research tax credit 6.1 7.4 7.1 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT NET EXPENDITURE (132.4) (96.6) (92.6) as a % of revenue 2.0% 1.9% 1.9% CAPITALIZED DEVELOPMENT COSTS 3.5 4.3 4.2 as a % of R&D expenditure 2.7% 4.5% 4.5% RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS RECOGNIZED DIRECTLY IN THE INCOME STATEMENT (NOTE 4) (128.9) (92.2) (88.5) AMORTIZATION FOR THE PERIOD RECOGNIZED IN COST OF SALES (5.0) (3.4) (6.1) TOTAL COST RECOGNIZED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT (133.9) (95.7) (94.5) as a % of revenue 2.1% 1.9% 2.0% In 2017, research and development expenditure totaled €132.4 million Overall, research and development costs recognized in the income (compared with €96.6 million in 2016 and €92.6 million in 2015). statement came to €133.9 million (€95.7 million in 2016 and €94.5 million in 2015). Capitalized development costs amounted to €3.5 million (versus €4.3 million in 2016 and €4.2 million in 2015). Note 15. Inventories 5 2017 2016 * 2015 Carrying Carrying Carrying (in € millions) Cost Depreciation amount Cost Depreciation amount Cost Depreciation amount Raw materials 257.7 (18.3) 239.4 253.6 (9.9) 243.7 190.7 (9.6) 181.1 Work in progress 22.7 (2.4) 20.3 22.4 (0.2) 22.2 6.8 (0.3) 6.5 Finished products and goods purchased for resale 886.7 (34.4) 852.3 837.7 (36.6) 801.1 658.2 (24.9) 633.3 TOTAL 1167.1 (55.1) 1112.0 1,113.7 (46.7) 1067.0 855.7 (34.8) 820.9 * After ﬁnalization of the WMF purchase price allocation. Note 16. Trade receivables (in € millions) 2017 2016 * 2015 Trade receivables (including discounted bills) 1032.4 1072.9 898.0 Provision for doubtful debt (16.6) (20.0) (12.0) TOTAL 1015.8 1052.9 886.0 * After ﬁnalization of the WMF purchase price allocation. The fair value of trade receivables is equivalent to their carrying At 31 December 2016, the Group had sold €50 million worth of trade amount, in view of their short maturities. receivables to Société Générale. As the sale of receivables was without recourse, the receivables were deconsolidated. A receivables aging analysis is presented in Note 26.4. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 199 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 17. Other receivables and non-current assets (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS 10.6 13.3 23.6 Prepaid expenses 8.7 8.8 5.7 Prepaid and recoverable taxes and other receivables * 91.3 91.8 84.5 OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES 100.0 100.6 90.2 * Including VAT claims amounting to €78.8 million at 31 December 2017 (€82.6 million at 31 December 2016, and €85.3 million at 31 December 2015). The fair value of other non-current assets and other receivables is equivalent to their carrying amount. At the period-end, other receivables broke down as follows: (in € millions) Short term Long term Total Prepaid expenses 8.7 1.3 10.0 Prepaid and recoverable taxes and other receivables 91.3 9.3 100.5 TOTAL 100.0 10.6 110.6 Note 18. Cash and cash equivalents (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Cash at bank 439.8 378.8 713.7 Marketable securities 98.9 35.7 57.1 TOTAL 538.7 414.5 770.8 Cash equivalents are mainly composed of very short-term investments, such as SICAV money market funds, whose market value corresponds to their carrying amount at the balance sheet date. Note 19. Equity NOTE 19.1. SHARE CAPITAL After deducting treasury shares, the weighted average number of shares outstanding in 2017 was 49,596,964 (49,749,160 in 2016 and At 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015, the share capital was made 49,037,044 in 2015). up of 50,169,049 shares with a par value of €1 each. At 31 December 2017, the Founder Group held 40.79% of the One class of shares carries double voting rights and the right to a share capital (of which FÉDÉRACTIVE: 21.18 % and VENELLE supplementary dividend. Shares acquire double voting rights when INVESTISSEMENT: 19.61%). These shares represent 53.31% of the they are fully paid-up and have been registered in the name of the voting rights. same owner for five years. 200 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 19.2. SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 19.2.1. Stock options Information about stock option plans at 31 December 2017 is provided below: EXERCISE OF STOCK OPTIONS At 31/12/2017 Date Number of options Exercise price Type of grant * of exercise of expiry granted exercised canceled Outstanding (in €) Purchase plan 12/06/2009 12/06/2013 12/06/2017 371,300 353,484 17,816 0 28.05 Purchase plan 18/06/2010 18/06/2014 18/06/2018 412,592 355,388 18,513 38,691 53.86 Purchase plan 15/06/2012 15/06/2016 15/06/2020 408,925 291,505 17,621 99,799 54.12 TOTAL 1,192,817 1,000,377 53,950 138,490 Of which movements in 2017 0 149,866 2,550 * The grant date corresponds to the date of the Board Meeting when the option grants were decided. In accordance with IFRS 2 – Share-Based Payment, stock options are 19.2.2. Performance shares measured at the grant date. The valuation method used is the Black & Scholes option pricing model. The initial valuation is not adjusted In 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017, the Board of Directors granted for any subsequent changes in value after the grant date. performance shares to certain employees and corporate officers. The value is recorded in employee benefits expense on a straight-line Performance shares granted under the plans are subject to vesting 5 basis over the option vesting period offset in consolidated equity. periods of three years (2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 plans). In addition, the final vesting of performance shares is subject to the achievement No expense was recognized for stock options in 2017, versus of objectives identical to those used to calculate the variable €0.5 million in 2016 and €1.1 million in 2015. compensation of the Group’s senior managers and executives, based on revenue and Operating Result from Activity. After this vesting period, the performance shares remain locked up for a further twoyear period, with the exception of the 2017 plan, which does not require a lock-up period. Further information on the performance share plans is provided in the table below: At 31/12/2017 Date Number of shares Share price of end of at the grant Type of grant (a) of vesting lock-up granted vested canceled Outstanding date (b) Performance shares 22/07/2014 22/07/2017 22/07/2019 169,175 165,075 4,100 0 64.00 Performance shares 12/05/2015 12/05/2018 12/05/2020 169,450 0 3,425 166,025 81.41 Performance shares 19/05/2016 19/05/2019 19/05/2021 168,605 0 3,600 165,005 96.63 Performance shares 11/05/2017 11/05/2020 11/05/2020 193,450 0 0 193,450 151.6 TOTAL 700,680 165,075 11,125 524,480 (a) The grant date corresponds to the date of the Board Meeting when the option grants were decided. (b) Share price on the date of the Board Meeting. For the 2014, 2015 and 2016 plans, the fair value of performance immediately purchasing an equivalent number of shares free of any shares includes a discount to reflect the impact of the restriction on restrictions, with the purchase financed by debt repayable at the end the sale of the shares represented by the lock-up. The measurement of the lock-up using the proceeds from the forward sale and dividends method used to determine this discount is based on a strategy that received during the lock-up period. consists of selling the shares at the end of the lock-up period and GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 201 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements As the shares granted for the 2017 plan have no lock-up clause, the fair value only takes into account the absence of dividends during the vesting period. The main assumptions used to determine the fair value of performance shares were as follows: Assumptions 2017 plan 2016 plan 2015 plan 2014 plan Share price on the grant date (in €) 151.60 96.63 81.41 64.00 Risk-free interest rate (5-year rate in 2016, 2015 and 2014) 1.63% (0.16%) 0.19% 0.47% Average interest rate on a 5-year general purpose loan 6.13% 6.19% 5.97% Expected dividend yield 1.92% 1.96% 2.11% 2.34% Discount for the lock-up (as a % of the priceon the vesting date) 15.30% 14.77% 12.00% INITIAL VALUE (in € millions) 28.6 14.0 11.9 13.1 AMOUNT RECOGNIZED IN EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES IN 2017 (in € millions) 6.6 4.8 3.6 1.5 NOTE 19.3. RESERVES AND RETAINED EARNINGS NOTE 19.4. TREASURY SHARES (BEFORE APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT) The Group buys back shares for the following purposes: Retained earnings include the reserves shown in the balance sheet ■ for cancellation in order to reduce the company’s share capital; of SEB S.A. (of which €1,151 million was available for distribution ■ for allocation to employees, managers or corporate executives at 31 December 2017, compared with €971 million at 31 December of the company or of related companies upon exercise of stock 2016 and €1,004 million at 31 December 2015), and SEB SA’s share options or vesting of performance shares; of the post-acquisition retained earnings of consolidated subsidiaries. ■ for delivery on redemption, conversion, exchange or exercise of SEB S.A.’s share of the retained earnings of foreign subsidiaries is share equivalents. considered to be permanently invested. Any withholding taxes or additional taxes on distributed income are only recognized when Share buybacks are carried out based on market opportunities and distribution of these amounts is planned or considered probable. only when the Group has sufficient cash to fund the transactions. In 2017, the Group bought back 542,354 shares at a weighted average price of €149.36 and sold 629,758 shares at an average price per share of €85.39. The €12.9 million after tax loss on the sales was recognised directly in equity without affecting profit (loss) for the period. At 31 December 2017, the Group held 534,706 treasury shares at an average price of €125.84 per share. Movements in treasury shares were as follows: (in number of shares) 2017 2016 2015 Shares held in treasury at 1 January 622,110 1,074,453 1,291,242 Purchases Buyback plan 228,914 218,633 350,000 Liquidity contract 313,440 326,956 664,174 Sales Shares sold on the market (314,817) (328,034) (673,909) Shares allocated on exercise of stock options, and under the performance share and employee share ownership plans (314,941) (669,898) (557,054) Shares canceled during the period SHARES HELD IN TREASURY AT 31 DECEMBER 534,706 622,110 1,074,453 202 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 20. Non-controlling interests Changes in non-controlling interests are as follows: (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 AT 1 JANUARY 165.2 200.1 173.5 Non-controlling interests in profit 33.6 32.2 35.2 Dividends paid (12.4) (13.2) (11.8) Exercise of stock options Non-controlling interests in shares issued by subsidiaries Changes in scope of consolidation and acquisition by the Group of non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (2.0) (43.7) (8.1) Foreign currency translation adjustments (9.4) (10.2) 11.3 TOTAL AT 31 DECEMBER 175.0 165.2 200.1 Since 31 December 2008, non-controlling interests have primarily 7.91% of the share capital of Supor, at a unit price of CNY 29 per concerned the non-controlling interests of the ZJ Supor Group. The share. This deal was completed on 23 June 2016 and brought SEB’s share of non-controlling interests therefore mainly changed in line with interest in the company to 81.17% changes in the ZJ Supor Group’s reserves (particularly net income At 31 December 2017, Groupe SEB held 81.18% of the company’s and translation adjustments), purchases, sales or any other voluntary shares. adjustments to SEB’s stake in ZJ Supor. The ZJ Supor Group is made up of various subsidiaries, whose name, In late December 2014, Groupe SEB acquired 10 million Supor shares line of business, location and percentage of interest are shown in (1.58% of the capital) owned by the Su founding family at a price 5 Note 32 herein. The 2016 dividends paid to non-controlling interests in of CNY 17.50 per share. This transaction increased Groupe SEB’s 2017 were €12.4 million. The 2017 net income of this sub-group taken interest to 73.13% at 31 December 2015. by itself was €173.0 million for revenue of €1,760.6 million. The impact In late December 2015, Groupe SEB signed an agreement with the of the sub-group on the consolidated statement of comprehensive Su family holding company, Supor Group, to buy 50 million shares, income consists solely of foreign currency translation adjustments. Summary 2017 balance sheet of the Supor sub-group (in € millions) ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Non-current assets 648 Shareholders’ equity 1,113 Inventories 268 Trade receivables 69 Long-term provisions 10 Other receivables 42 Trade payables 192 Net cash and cash equivalents 376 Other current liabilities 88 TOTAL 1,403 TOTAL 1,403 Summary 2017 cash ﬂow statement of the Supor sub-group (in € millions) Net cash from operating activities 149 Net cash used by investing activities (29) Net cash used by financing activities (60) NET INCREASE/DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 60 Financing activities during the period mainly concerned the payment Since this group is located in China, the cash it generates is subject of dividends to the Group and non-controlling interests, as well as to the foreign exchange controls in effect in that country. the implementation of a new plan to grant performance shares to the Group’s senior managers and executives. This four-year plan was initially valued at €24 million. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 203 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 21. Other provisions Provisions are classified as short-term or long-term according to whether the obligation is expected to be settled within or beyond one year. 2017 2016 * 2015 (in € millions) non-current current non-current current non-current current Pension and other post-employment benefit obligations (Note 22) 279.6 14.3 305.8 20.2 143.5 9.6 Product warranties (21.1) 8.3 33.2 7.5 35.9 4.8 22.9 Claims and litigation and other contingencies (21.2) 60.7 31.0 67.0 37.5 32.5 16.1 Restructuring provisions (21.3) 5.4 11.5 3.8 18.9 5.0 12.4 TOTAL 354.0 90.0 384.1 112.5 185.8 61.0 * After ﬁnalization of the WMF purchase price allocation entries (Note 2.1). Provision movements (other than provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits) over the year are as follows: Other (in € millions) 01/01/2017 Increases Reversals Utilizations movements * 31/12/2017 Product warranties (21.1) 43.4 16.6 0.9 16.4 (1.2) 41.5 Claims and litigation and other contingencies (21.2) 104.5 15.0 2.8 19.9 (5.1) 91.7 Restructuring provisions (21.3) 22.7 18.1 1.1 21.0 (1.8) 16.9 TOTAL 170.6 49.7 4.8 57.3 (8.1) 149.9 * “Other movements” include foreign currency translation adjustments and the effect of changes in the scope of consolidation. Other (in € millions) 01/01/2016 Increases Reversals Utilizations movements (a) 31/12/2016 (b) Product warranties (21.1) 27.7 16.8 0.4 13.7 13.0 43.4 Claims and litigation and other contingencies (21.2) 48.6 12.8 6.1 11.3 60.5 104.5 Restructuring provisions (21.3) 17.4 14.4 1.0 9.6 1.5 22.7 TOTAL 93.7 44.0 7.5 34.6 75.1 170.6 (a) “Other movements” include foreign currency translation adjustments and the effect of changes in the scope of consolidation. (b) After ﬁnalization of the WMF purchase price allocation entries (Note 2.1). Other (in € millions) 01/01/2015 Increases Reversals Utilizations movements * 31/12/2015 Product warranties (21.1) 24.7 17.7 0.8 15.9 2.0 27.7 Claims and litigation and other contingencies (21.2) 52.5 16.4 5.6 15.8 1.1 48.6 Restructuring provisions (21.3) 12.2 12.0 0.6 5.0 (1.2) 17.4 TOTAL 89.4 46.1 7.0 36.7 1.9 93.7 * “Other movements” include foreign currency translation adjustments and the effect of changes in the scope of consolidation. NOTE 21.1. PRODUCT WARRANTIES The warranty, which is either legal or contractual, generally covers a period of one or two years. Provisions for product recalls are recorded Provisions are recorded for the estimated cost of repairing or as soon as the recall is decided. replacing products sold under warranty to customers and consumers. 204 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 21.2. CLAIMS AND LITIGATION AND OTHER CONTINGENCIES Certain subsidiaries are involved in claims and litigation with third parties. The corresponding provisions have been determined in accordance with the principle described in Note 1.4. At 31 December, this item included: (in € millions) 2017 2016 * 2015 Supplier claims and litigation 2.4 2.3 3.5 Local government claims, litigation and contingencies 20.0 16.8 6.2 Commercial claims, litigation and contingencies 1.1 2.3 1.8 Employee claims, litigation and contingencies 12.1 13.3 14.9 Sales returns Other claims, litigation and contingencies 56.1 69.8 22.2 TOTAL 91.7 104.5 48.6 * After ﬁnalization of the WMF purchase price allocation entries (Note 2.1). Except for the litigation described in Note 29.1.2., and contingent liabilities included in Note 29.2, “Other claims, litigations and contingences” the provisions constituted are individually immaterial. NOTE 21.3. RESTRUCTURING PROVISION Restructuring provisions break down as follows: 5 (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Severance costs 15.9 20.7 15.6 Site closure costs 1.0 2.0 1.8 TOTAL 16.9 22.7 17.4 The short-term portion of restructuring provisions amounted to €11.5 million. The remaining €5.4 million concerns costs expected to be incurred over the next one to five years, mainly for early retirement schemes and for rent on sites no longer being used. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 205 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 22. Employee benefits NOTE 22.1. ASSUMPTIONS Provisions for pension and other post-employment benefit obligations, determined as explained in Note 1.4, mainly concern France and Germany. The obligations are determined by qualified actuaries using a certain number of assumptions. These assumptions are revised once a year. Discount rates are determined based on the yields of investment grade corporate bonds with maturities that match the remaining life of the benefit obligations at the measurement date. Assumptions France 2017 Germany 2017 WMF 2017 Economic assumptions between 2.50% between 1.75% Rate of salary increases and 4.00% and 2.50% 2.50% Discount rate (based on Iboxx AA) 0.90% and 1.50% 2% 1.50% Average remaining service life of participating employees 14.7 21.3 16 Demographic assumptions Retirement age 60 to 65 years* 65 years 65 years Staff turnover 0% to 13.3% 7.50% INSEE TD/TV 2012-2014 Mortality tables and TGH/TGF 2005 HEUBECK RT 2005 G HEUBECK RT 2005 G * Depending on employee age and category (management or other). Assumptions France 2016 Germany 2016 WMF 2016 Economic assumptions between 2.50% between 1.75% Rate of salary increases and 3.50% and 2.50% 1.75% Discount rate (based on Iboxx AA) 1.00% and 0.65% 1.00% 1.50% Average remaining service life of participating employees variable 21 years 15 years Demographic assumptions Retirement age 60 to 65 years * 65 years 65 years Staff turnover 0% to 12% 7.50% INSEE TD/TV 2012-2014 Mortality tables and TGH/TGF 2005 HEUBECK RT 2005 G HEUBECK RT 2005 G * Depending on employee age and category (management or other). Assumptions France 2015 Germany 2015 Economic assumptions between 2.50% between 1.75% Rate of salary increases and 3.50% and 2.50% Discount rate (based on Iboxx AA) 2.00% and 1.50% 2.00% variable depending on Average remaining service life of participating employees entity 11 to 16 years Demographic assumptions Retirement age 60 to 65 years * 65 to 67 years Staff turnover 0% to 8.3% Mortality tables INSEE TD/TV 2011-2013 HEUBECK RT 2005 G * Depending on employee age and category (management or other). 206 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 22.2. ANALYSIS OF THE PENSION AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS The total obligation breaks down as follows: 2017 (in € millions) France Germany WMF Other countries Total Projected benefit obligation based on final salaries 137.7 84.8 134.8 17.2 374.5 Present value of plan assets (70.3) (5.0) (5.3) (80.6) DEFICIT 67.4 79.8 134.8 11.9 293.9 Recognized liability 67.4 79.8 134.8 11.9 293.9 Recognized asset NET 67.4 79.8 134.8 11.9 293.9 2016 (in € millions) France Germany WMF Other countries Total Projected benefit obligation based on final salaries 144.1 89.5 140.7 16.8 391.1 Present value of plan assets (55.5) (4.6) (5.0) (65.1) DEFICIT 88.6 84.9 140.7 11.8 326.0 5 Recognized liability 88.6 84.9 140.7 11.8 326.0 Recognized asset NET 88.6 84.9 140.7 11.8 326.0 2015 (in € millions) France Germany Other countries Total Projected benefit obligation based on final salaries 130.3 70.9 15.6 216.8 Present value of plan assets (55.1) (4.2) (4.4) (63.7) DEFICIT 75.2 66.7 11.2 153.1 Recognized liability 75.2 66.7 11.2 153.1 Recognized asset NET 75.2 66.7 11.2 153.1 Obligations for the payment of jubilees were €8.3 million at 31 December 2017 (€8.6 million at 31 December 2016 and €7.9 million at 31 December 2015). NOTE 22.3. RECOGNIZED COSTS The cost recognized in the income statement for pension and other post-employment benefit plans breaks down as follows: 2017 (in € millions) France Germany WMF Other countries Total Service cost 8.3 0.7 8.6 1.6 19.2 Interest cost 1.2 0.9 1.7 0.5 4.3 Expected return on plan assets (0.5) (0.1) (0.6) Other (1.1) 0.1 (1.0) COST FOR THE PERIOD 7.9 1.6 10.3 2.1 21.9 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 207 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2016 (in € millions) France Germany Other countries Total Service cost 6.8 0.6 1.7 9.1 Interest cost 2.2 1.5 0.6 4.3 Expected return on plan assets (0.9) (0.1) (0.1) (1.1) Other (5.5) (1.0) (0.3) (6.8) COST FOR THE PERIOD 2.6 1.0 1.9 5.5 2015 (in € millions) France Germany Other countries Total Service cost 7.6 0.6 1.6 9.8 Interest cost 2.2 1.5 0.4 4.1 Expected return on plan assets (0.9) (0.1) (0.1) (1.1) Other (2.4) (2.4) (4.8) COST FOR THE PERIOD 6.5 2.0 (0.5) 8.0 NOTE 22.4. CHANGE IN GAINS AND LOSSES RECORDED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 2017 (in € millions) France Germany WMF Other countries Total At 1 January (61.5) (32.4) (4.4) (98.3) Actuarial gains and losses 9.1 4.8 2.9 (0.4) 16.4 Return on plan assets greater/(less than) expected return 4.3 0.1 4.4 Other (0.1) 0.2 0.1 AT 31 DECEMBER (48.1) (27.5) 2.8 (4.6) (77.4) Actuarial gains and losses for the period were mainly due to changes in the discount rate. 2016 (in € millions) France Germany Other countries Total At 1 January (46.0) (22.8) (3.7) (72.5) Actuarial gains and losses (16.5) (9.6) (0.7) (26.8) Return on plan assets greater/(less than) expected return 1.0 1.0 Other AT 31 DECEMBER (61.5) (32.4) (4.4) (98.3) 2015 (in € millions) France Germany Other countries Total At 1 January (43.3) (25.0) (6.0) (74.3) Actuarial gains and losses (4.2) 2.2 (0.4) (2.4) Return on plan assets greater/(less than) expected return 1.5 1.5 Other 2.7 2.7 AT 31 DECEMBER (46.0) (22.8) (3.7) (72.5) 208 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 22.5. MOVEMENTS IN PROVISIONS Movements in provisions break down as follows: (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Net at 1 January 326.0 153.1 159.1 Cost for the period 21.9 5.5 8.0 Contributions paid (34.8) (11.5) (14.7) Actuarial gains and losses and other changes (19.2) 178.9 0.7 NET AMOUNT AT 31 DECEMBER 293.9 326.0 153.1 NOTE 22.6. MOVEMENTS IN PENSION AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS MOVEMENTS IN PENSION AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 2017 (in € millions) France Germany WMF Other countries Total PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT 1 JANUARY 2017 144.1 89.5 140.7 16.8 391.1 Service cost 8.3 0.7 8.6 1.6 19.2 Interest cost 1.2 0.9 1.7 0.5 4.3 Benefits paid (5.8) (4.4) (12.8) (1.4) (24.4) Plan amendments Actuarial gains and losses Curtailments/Settlements (9.4) (0.7) (4.8) (2.9) 0.4 (16.7) (0.7) 5 Other 2.9 (0.5) (0.7) 1.7 PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 137.7 84.8 134.8 17.2 374.5 MOVEMENTS IN PENSION AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 2016 2016 (in € millions) France Germany WMF Other countries Total PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT 1 JANUARY 2016 130.3 70.9 15.6 216.8 Service cost 6.8 0.6 1.7 9.1 Interest cost 2.2 1.5 0.6 4.3 Benefits paid (6.2) (4.2) (1.7) (12.1) Plan amendments Actuarial gains and losses 17.0 9.6 0.7 27.3 Curtailments/Settlements * (1.0) (0.3) (1.3) Other * (5.0) 11.1 140.7 0.2 147.0 PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 144.1 89.5 140.7 16.8 391.1 * Of which nearby consolidated companies: €140.7 million WMF and €12.2 million EMSA. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 209 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements MOVEMENTS IN PENSION AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 2015 (in € millions) France Germany Other countries Total PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT 1 JANUARY 2015 123.5 74.9 36.7 235.1 Service cost 7.6 0.6 1.6 9.8 Interest cost 2.2 1.5 0.4 4.1 Benefits paid (4.8) (3.9) (3.5) (12.2) Plan amendments Actuarial gains and losses 4.3 (2.2) 0.4 2.5 Curtailments/Settlements * (0.4) (19.9) (20.3) Other (2.1) (0.1) (2.2) PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 130.3 70.9 15.6 216.8 * Of which (€19.4 million) associated with the change of plan in the Netherlands which now has a deﬁned-contribution plan. NOTE 22.7. ANALYSIS OF PLAN ASSETS CHANGE IN PLAN ASSETS IN 2017 (in € millions) France Germany WMF Other countries Total PLAN ASSETS AT 1 JANUARY 2017 55.5 4.6 5.0 65.1 Expected return on plan assets 0.5 0.1 0.6 Contributions paid 10.0 0.4 0.6 11.0 Benefits paid (0.1) (0.4) (0.5) Actuarial gains and losses and other 4.3 0.1 4.4 PLAN ASSETS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 70.3 5.0 5.3 80.6 CHANGE IN PLAN ASSETS IN 2016 (in € millions) France Germany WMF Other countries Total PLAN ASSETS AT 1 JANUARY 2016 55.1 4.2 4.4 63.7 Expected return on plan assets 0.9 0.1 0.1 1.1 Contributions paid 0.4 0.8 1.2 Benefits paid (1.5) (0.1) (0.3) (1.9) Actuarial gains and losses and other 1.0 1.0 PLAN ASSETS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 55.5 4.6 5.0 65.1 CHANGE IN PLAN ASSETS IN 2015 (in € millions) France Germany Other countries Total PLAN ASSETS AT 1 JANUARY 2015 50.6 3.8 21.6 76.0 Expected return on plan assets 0.9 0.1 0.1 1.1 Contributions paid 2.0 0.4 1.0 3.4 Benefits paid (0.1) (0.8) (0.9) Actuarial gains and losses and other * 1.6 (17.5) (15.9) PLAN ASSETS AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 55.1 4.2 4.4 63.7 * Of which (€17.5 million) associated with the change of plan in the Netherlands which now has a deﬁned-contribution plan. 210 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Plan assets in France are managed by two insurance companies and ■ the balance in equity funds. are invested as follows: The return on these funds was 5.23% in 2017. ■ approximately 50% in the insurance company’s general portfolio, The actual return on plan assets for 2017 should be in line with the primarily composed of government bonds, corporate bonds mostly expected rate and actuarial gains and losses generated in 2018 are rated AAA or AA, shares in blue-chip international companies not expected to be material. (managed directly) and high-yield office property; The only contributions to these plans are paid by the employer. Plan ■ approximately 10% in bond funds; members make no contributions. NOTE 22.8. OTHER INFORMATION 22.8.1. Cash outflows expected in future periods Cash outﬂows expected in future periods (in € millions) France Germany WMF Total In less than 1 year 3.9 4.5 6.5 14.9 1 to 5 years 14.5 18.4 28.1 61.0 TOTAL 5 YEARS 18.4 22.9 34.6 75.9 22.8.2. Expected contributions to plans 22.8.3. Sensitivity analysis in the following year A 0.25% reduction in the discount rate would increase the projected No material contribution is currently planned. benefit obligation by around €11.0 million and a 0.25% increase in the discount rate would reduce the obligation by approximately €10.2 million. The impact on 2017 service cost of a change in the projected benefit obligation resulting from the application of either of the above discount rates would not be material. 5 Note 23. Trade payables and other liabilities (in € millions) 2017 2016 * 2015 TRADE PAYABLES 905.8 915.4 695.2 Accrued taxes and employee benefits expenses 346.4 350.0 299.0 Due to trade payables of non-current assets 15.9 15.7 16.5 Other payables 36.7 60.0 17.8 OTHER LIABILITIES 399.0 425.7 333.3 * After ﬁnalization of the WMF purchase price allocation. At the end of the period, trade payables and other liabilities broke down as follows by maturity: Current Non-current Total TRADE PAYABLES 905.8 0.0 905.8 Accrued taxes and employee benefits expenses 301.3 45.0 346.4 Due to trade payables of non-current assets 15.9 0.0 15.9 Other payables 34.5 2.3 36.7 OTHER LIABILITIES 351.7 47.3 399.0 Non-current accrued taxes and employee benefits expense corresponds mainly to employee time savings accounts in France. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 211 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 24. Borrowings NOTE 24.1. TOTAL BORROWINGS (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Bonds 1,146.2 642.1 497.4 Bank borrowings 1.5 Finance lease liabilities 3.7 3.9 2.2 Other debts (including private placements) 900.2 887.5 181.8 Non-discretionary profit-sharing 17.1 20.1 24.1 LONG-TERM BORROWINGS 2,067.3 1,553.6 707.0 Bonds 299.8 Bank borrowings 84.6 8.0 34.2 Commercial paper 447.0 849.0 110.0 Current portion of long-term borrowings 46.6 215.7 179.5 SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS 578.2 1,072.7 623.5 TOTAL BORROWINGS 2,645.5 2,626.3 1,330.5 At 31 December 2017, Group debt was composed of short-term and ■ a €150.0 million convertible bond issue (ORNAE – bonds redeemable long-term borrowings. The Group has diversified its financing sources in cash and/or existing shares) maturing in 2021; and borrowings now comprise: ■ €447 million in French commercial papers drawn from a €1 billion ■ €862 million in private placement notes (Schuldschein instruments); program with an A2 short-term rating from Standard & Poor’s. ■ a €500 million bond debt due in 2022; At 31 December 2017, the weighted average interest rate on long-term bank borrowings (falling due in over a year) was 1.66%. ■ a €500 million bond debt due in 2024; 212 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Characteristics of borrowings (nominal amounts) Due At 31 December 2017 Issuing Outstanding In less than In more than Original (in € millions) currency Term balance 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years interest rate Schuldschein 2 EUR 2019 5.0 5.0 Euribor variable Schuldschein 2 EUR 2019 57.0 57.0 Fixed Schuldschein 3 EUR 2019 49.0 49.0 Fixed Schuldschein 3 EUR 2019 126.0 126.0 Euribor variable Schuldschein 3 EUR 2021 130.0 130.0 Euribor variable (b) Schuldschein 3 EUR 2021 146.5 146.5 Fixed Schuldschein 3 EUR 2023 102.5 102.5 Euribor variable (b) Schuldschein 3 EUR 2023 180.0 180.0 Fixed Schuldschein 3 EUR 2024 18.0 18.0 Euribor variable (b) Schuldschein 3 EUR 2026 48.0 48.0 Fixed ORNAE (c) EUR 2021 150.0 150.0 Fixed Bonds EUR 2022 500.0 500.0 Fixed Bonds EUR 2024 500.0 500.0 Fixed Commercial paper (a) EUR 2017 447.0 447.0 Fixed Other bank borrowings (including overdrafts) 158.0 123.5 33.7 0.8 Variable Finance lease liabilities 5.2 1.5 3.6 0.1 Non-discretionary profit-sharing EUR 23.3 6.2 17.1 TOTAL (a) All commercial paper is due in less than a year. 2,645.5 578.2 1,217.9 849.4 5 (b) Partly hedged by variable rate for ﬁxed rate swaps. (c) Excluding the ORNAE option portion. Loan maturities (undiscounted nominal amounts, including accrued interest) Due At 31 December 2017 Expected In less than In more than (in € millions) Issuing currency Term cash outﬂows 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Schuldschein 2 EUR 2019 5.2 0.1 5.1 Schuldschein 2 EUR 2019 61.4 2.2 59.2 Schuldschein 3 EUR 2019 49.8 0.4 49.4 Schuldschein 3 EUR 2019 128.0 1.0 127.0 Schuldschein 3 EUR 2021 136.5 1.3 135.2 Schuldschein 3 EUR 2021 153.0 1.6 151.4 Schuldschein 3 EUR 2023 113.3 1.3 7.1 104.9 Schuldschein 3 EUR 2023 197.4 2.9 11.6 182.9 Schuldschein 3 EUR 2024 19.9 0.2 1.2 18.5 Schuldschein 3 EUR 2026 57.8 1.1 4.3 52.4 ORNAE EUR 2021 150.0 150.0 Bond 1 EUR 2022 559.4 11.9 547.5 0.0 Bond 2 EUR 2024 552.5 7.5 30.0 515.0 TOTAL 2,184.2 31.5 1,279.0 873.7 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 213 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Confirmed credit facilities The Group also has unused, confirmed credit facilities that break down as follows by maturity: At 31 December Conﬁrmed credit (in € millions) facilities 2017 * 2018 1,010 2019 1,010 2020 1,010 2021 1,010 2022 50 * Outstanding amounts of conﬁrmed lines of credit at year-end, of which: • a syndicated credit facility for €960.0 million, expiring in July 2021; • a bilateral loan for €50 million, maturing in 2022. None of these credit lines include any acceleration clauses. NOTE 24.2. NET DEBT (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Long-term borrowings 2,067.3 1,553.6 707.0 Short-term borrowings 578.2 1,072.7 623.5 TOTAL BORROWINGS 2,645.5 2,626.3 1,330.5 Net cash and cash equivalents * (538.7) (414.5) (770.8) Other current financial investments * (213.1) (203.5) (243.6) Derivative instruments (net) 10.8 11.2 (0.5) NET DEBT 1,904.6 2,019.5 315.6 * Of which €393 million in China (Note 20 – Non-controlling interests). Net financial debt corresponds to total long and short-term borrowings change in value but whose maturity on the subscription date is longer less cash and cash equivalents, other current financial assets and than three months. derivative instruments used for Group financing purposes. It also At 31 December 2017, none of these borrowings were subject to early includes short-term financial investments with no significant risk of a repayment clauses based on covenants. Changes in liabilities included in Group financing activities (in € millions) 2017 Gross debt at 1 January 2,626.3 Net derivative instruments at 1 January 11.2 New borrowings during the period 500.0 Repayments during the period (470.9) Change in fair value (0.4) Changes resulting from the acquisition or loss of control of subsidiaries (4.5) Currency translation adjustment (5.3) Gross debt at 31 December 2,645.5 Net derivative instruments at 31 December 10.8 214 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 25. Fair value of financial instruments NOTE 25.1. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2017 Financial instruments by category At fair value through proﬁt or Assets Carrying loss (excluding available Loans and Held to Derivative (in € millions) amount Fair value derivatives) for sale receivables maturity instruments ASSETS Investments in non-consolidated companies 24.3 24.3 24.3 Other non-current financial assets 15.3 15.3 15.3 Other non-current assets 1.7 1.7 1.7 Trade receivables 1,015.8 1,015.8 1,015.8 Other current receivables, excl. prepaid expenses 8.5 8.5 8.5 Derivative instruments 49.1 49.1 49.1 Other financial assets 213.1 213.1 213.1 Cash and cash equivalents 538.7 538.7 538.7 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 1,866.5 1,866.5 751.8 24.3 1,041.3 0.0 49.1 LIABILITIES Long-term borrowings 2,067.3 2,134.1 2,134.1 Other non-current liabilities 2.3 2.3 2.3 5 Trade payables 905.8 905.8 905.8 Other current liabilities 50.3 50.3 50.3 Derivative instruments 60.2 60.2 60.2 Short-term borrowings 578.2 578.2 578.2 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 3,664.1 3,730.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 3,670.7 60.2 2016 Financial instruments by category At fair value through proﬁt or loss Assets Carrying (excluding available Loans and Held to Derivative (in € millions) amount Fair value derivatives) for sale receivables maturity instruments ASSETS Investments in non-consolidated companies 28.4 28.4 28.4 Other non-current financial assets 13.3 13.3 13.3 Other non-current assets 2.8 2.8 2.8 Trade receivables 1,060.1 1,060.1 1,060.1 Other current receivables, excl. prepaidexpenses 13.3 13.3 13.3 Derivative instruments 51.1 51.1 51.1 Other financial assets 203.5 203.5 203.5 Cash and cash equivalents 414.5 414.5 414.5 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 1,787.0 1,787.0 618.0 28.4 1,089.5 51.1 LIABILITIES Long-term borrowings 1,553.6 1,607.8 1,607.8 Other non-current liabilities 3.1 3.1 3.1 Trade payables 911.7 911.7 911.7 Other current liabilities 72.6 72.6 72.6 Derivative instruments 33.6 33.6 33.6 Short-term borrowings 1,072.7 1,073.0 1,073.0 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 3,647.3 3,701.8 3,668.2 33.6 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 215 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2015 Financial instruments by category At fair value through proﬁt or Assets Carrying loss (excluding available Loans and Held to Derivative (in € millions) amount Fair value derivatives) for sale receivables maturity instruments ASSETS Investments in non-consolidated companies 11.1 11.1 11.1 Other non-current financial assets 10.4 10.4 10.4 Other non-current assets 1.9 1.9 1.9 Trade receivables 886.0 886.0 886.0 Other current receivables, excl. prepaid expenses 17.9 17.9 17.9 Derivative instruments 50.9 50.9 50.9 Other financial assets 243.6 243.6 243.6 Cash and cash equivalents 770.8 770.8 770.8 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS 1,992.5 1,992.5 1,014.4 11.1 916.2 50.9 LIABILITIES Long-term borrowings 707.0 719.3 719.3 Other non-current liabilities 1.7 1.7 1.7 Trade payables 695.2 695.2 695.2 Other current liabilities 32.6 32.6 32.6 Derivative instruments 20.1 20.1 20.1 Short-term borrowings 623.5 630.4 630.4 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2,080.1 2,099.2 2,079.1 20.1 Financial assets consist of shares in subsidiaries and affiliates as well Financial assets that are not quoted in an active market are recognized as operating receivables (excluding tax and social security claims), in the balance sheet at cost, which is representative of their fair value. debt securities and other cash equivalents classified as current assets. Financial liabilities include borrowings and other financing, including The fair value of trade and other receivables (classified as held-tobank overdrafts, and operating liabilities (excluding accrued taxes and maturity investments) is equivalent to their carrying amount, in view employee benefit expense). of their short maturities. Borrowings that are not quoted in an active market are measured Non-current financial assets consist mainly of investments in nonby the discounted cash flows method, applied separately to each consolidated companies, certain receivables related to those individual facility, based on market rates observed at the period-end investments and operating receivables due beyond one year. for similar facilities and the average spread obtained by the Group for its own issues. 216 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 25.2. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS The fair value of derivative instruments is as follows: 2017 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Notional Fair Notional Fair Notional Fair Notional Fair (in € millions) amount value amount value amount value amount value FAIR VALUE HEDGES Forward sales of foreign currencies* 94.8 3.1 47.9 (0.4) 38.2 1.4 41.2 (1.5) Forward purchases of foreign currencies* 147.2 5.7 122.2 (3.8) 52.1 2.7 110.4 (4.3) Call option purchases 6.9 6.9 6.9 0.7 Put option purchases 8.5 0.4 1.7 1.2 TOTAL 9.2 (4.3) 4.7 (5.8) SUPERHEDGES AND TRADING TRANSACTIONS Currency swaps GBP 1.4 7.1 9.3 AUD 16.9 17.0 0.1 ARS 8.4 0.7 4.0 (0.1) BRL 117.2 1.6 1.7 CAD 18.1 18.0 CHF 23.5 0.1 5.9 CLP 5.7 6.6 (0.3) CZK 0.1 4.5 5 DKK 21.3 3.1 11.6 HKD 5.5 6.2 (0.1) HUF 5.2 5.5 MXN 6.9 7.6 NOK 3.5 SEK 3.7 3.1 0.9 USD 188.2 5.6 237.8 (1.7) 27.5 0.4 8.5 JPY 7.2 43.6 0.2 THB 21.1 0.4 1.2 18.9 0.1 SGD 8.8 0.3 ZAR 3.8 Other hedges of debt 2.9 (5.8) 4.3 (4.2) TOTAL 11.4 (8.0) 5.1 (4.5) CASH FLOW HEDGES Forward purchases and sales of foreign currencies 389.3 14.5 478.5 (22.1) 561.2 32.8 289.5 (10.1) Zero-premium collars (currencies) 375.4 7.8 375.4 (6.7) 125.4 6.1 94.7 (2.5) Floating/fixed rate swaps 60.0 125.5 245.5 (1.6) Aluminum derivatives 45.3 3.7 24.3 1.9 4.5 (0.1) Nickel derivatives 3.8 0.4 0.1 0.2 1.3 TOTAL 26.5 (28.8) 40.9 (14.4) HEDGES OF THE NET INVESTMENT IN FOREIGN OPERATIONS Currency swaps 33.6 0.1 39.4 0.4 TOTAL 0.1 0.4 ORNAE Redemption option (19.1) (8.9) Call on ORNAE 1.8 TOTAL 1.8 (19.1) (8.9) TOTAL DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS 49.1 (60.2) 51.1 (33.6) NET IMPACT ON EQUITY (INCLUDING FAIR VALUE ADJUSTMENTS RECOGNIZED IN PROFIT) (11.1) 17.5 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 217 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements The derivatives expiring beyond one year are cash flow hedges. They also include the value of the option embedded in the convertible bond (ORNAE optional reimbursement in cash and/or existing shares). At 31 December 2017, the fair value of these instruments breaks down as follows: In more than At 31 December 2017 (in € millions) In less than 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 years Total Forward purchases and sales of foreign currencies (7.5) (7.5) Zero-premium collars (currencies) 1.2 (0.1) 1.1 Floating/fixed rate swaps Aluminum derivatives 3.4 0.3 3.7 Nickel derivatives 0.4 0.4 ORNAE (17.3) (17.3) TOTAL (2.5) (17.1) (19.6) The fair value of derivative instruments is determined by the discounted future cash flows method using forward exchange rates (exchange), market interest rates (interest rate hedges) and aluminum and nickel prices (metal) at 31 December 2017. NOTE 25.3. INFORMATION ON FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES RECOGNIZED AT FAIR VALUE In accordance with the amended IFRS 7, fair value measurements are classified using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements. The hierarchy breaks down into three levels as follows: ■ level 1: instrument quoted in active markets; ■ level 2: valuation techniques for which all significant inputs are based on observable market data; ■ level 3: valuation techniques for which any significant input is not based on observable market data. 31 December 2017 (in € millions) Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 ASSETS Derivative instruments 49.1 49.1 Other financial assets 213.1 213.1 Cash and cash equivalents 538.7 538.7 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE 800.9 751.8 49.1 LIABILITIES Derivative instruments 60.2 60.2 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE 60.2 60.2 The portfolio of derivative financial instruments used by the Group to manage its risks mainly includes forward currency sales and purchases, options strategies, interest rate swaps, currency swaps and commodity swaps. These instruments are classified as Level 2, as their fair value is calculated using internal valuation models based on observable data. Note 26. Financial risk management NOTE 26.1. RISK MANAGEMENT risk. Hedging transactions are managed centrally. They are carried out in specific cases by Group subsidiaries when required by local Risks are managed centrally by Group Corporate Finance, Treasury regulations but these transactions remain under the control of the and Tax department. Group Finance, Treasury and Tax department. Hedging transactions are carried out in the financial markets with a limited number of high-quality partners in order to avoid counterparty 218 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 26.2. FINANCIAL MARKET RISKS ■ imports of goods from SEB Asia by marketing subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the US dollar; ■ purchases of industrial components from external suppliers by 26.2.1. Currency risks the manufacturing subsidiaries, that are billed in a currency other The majority of the Group’s sales are billed in currencies other than the than their functional currency (for example, components purchased euro, mainly the US dollar, Chinese yuan, Russian ruble, Brazilian real, by the Group’s production plants that are billed in US dollars or Japanese yen and Korean won. Most billing currencies correspond Chinese yuan). to the functional currencies of the subsidiaries concerned and do not These risks are managed at Group level by SEB S.A., which acts as give rise to any transactional currency risk at the local level. the subsidiaries’ sole counterparty, except where this is not possible Similarly, goods purchased for resale (sourced products) billed due to local regulations. In the main currencies, resulting balance sheet in US dollars or Chinese yuan are bought from Asian suppliers by currency positions are partially hedged by means of simple financial SEB Asia, whose functional currency is also the US dollar. instruments (forward hedges and options strategies). With respect to the US dollar and the Chinese yuan, currencies in which the Group The main sources of transactional currency risks therefore arise from: has a net buying position, the Group hedges a portion of SEB Asia ■ intra-group billings between Group companies with different billings with Group subsidiaries. functional currencies, as follows: The Group’s overall currency risk management policy sets very strict ■ exports by manufacturing subsidiaries in the euro zone billed in rules for the hedging of currency risks associated with highly probable the local currency of the marketing subsidiaries, future transactions. ANALYSIS OF CURRENCY RISKS ON INTER-COMPANY COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS The Group’s net exposure to notional currency risks primarily concerns the following currencies (excluding the functional currencies of Group companies). In 2017 (in € millions) USD CNY RUB BRL KRW GBP JPY CAD Other Total assets 28 14 14 9 9 8 78 Total liabilities Future transactions NET POSITION BEFORE HEDGING (131) (131) (132) (132) 28 14 14 9 9 8 78 5 Forward purchases of foreign currencies * 121 144 3 1 Forward sales of foreign currencies * (12) (7) (23) (11) (12) (3) (14) (10) (72) Call option purchases 7 Put option purchases (4) (1) (3) NET POSITION AFTER HEDGING (15) 5 5 3 2 2 (6) (2) 7 In 2016 (in € millions) USD CNY PLN RUB GBP JPY Other Total assets 13 7 8 10 49 Total liabilities (81) (109) Future transactions NET POSITION BEFORE HEDGING (81) (109) 13 7 8 10 49 Forward purchases of foreign currencies * 52 110 1 Forward sales of foreign currencies * (11) (7) (5) (8) (35) Call option purchases 7 Put option purchases (1) NET POSITION AFTER HEDGING (23) 2 2 1 1 1 15 * The notional amounts of forward purchases and sales of foreign currencies shown in the above table do not include positions taken on 30 December. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 219 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements In 2015 (in € millions) USD CNY RUB PLN GBP JPY Other Total assets 5 9 8 10 49 Total liabilities (64) (86) Future transactions NET POSITION BEFORE HEDGING (64) (86) 5 9 8 10 49 Forward purchases of foreign currencies * 65 103 Forward sales of foreign currencies * (5) (4) (8) (6) (11) (35) NET POSITION AFTER HEDGING 1 12 1 1 2 (1) 14 * The notional amounts of forward purchases and sales of foreign currencies shown in the above table do not include positions taken on 31 December. At 31 December 2017, the euro was trading at USD 1.19930, RUB 69.392, CNY 7.83815 and JPY 135.01. At 31 December 2017, the sensitivity analysis of the position after hedging was as follows: (in € millions) USD CNY RUB BRL KRW GBP JPY CAD Other Hypothetical currency appreciation 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% IMPACT ON PROFIT (1.6) 0.5 0.6 0.5 0.2 0.3 (0.7) (0.3) 0.8 CURRENCY RISKS ON FINANCING SEB S.A. is the main provider of financing for its subsidiaries. Current account advances are made in the subsidiaries’ functional currency. As SEB S.A. raises long-term financing in euros, it is exposed to currency risks on these advances. This exposure is hedged by borrowing or lending in the subsidiary’s functional currency using currency swaps, so as to offset the current account positions. Currency risks on financing are therefore systematically hedged from the moment there are competitive derivative instruments available on the market. The Group does not, however, apply hedge accounting to these transactions. In 2017 (in € millions) USD Other Total assets 210 269 Total liabilities (273) (69) NET POSITION BEFORE HEDGING (63) 200 Hedging positions 50 (207) NET POSITION AFTER HEDGING (13) (7) In 2016 (in € millions) USD Other Total assets 339 205 Total liabilities (316) (37) NET POSITION BEFORE HEDGING 23 168 Hedging positions (19) (112) NET POSITION AFTER HEDGING 4 55 In 2015 (in € millions) USD Other Total assets 423 138 Total liabilities (267) (26) NET POSITION BEFORE HEDGING 156 112 Hedging positions (153) (124) NET POSITION AFTER HEDGING 3 (12) The appreciation or depreciation of these currencies, assuming all other variables remained the same, would have an impact on profit. 220 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements At 31 December 2017, the sensitivity analysis of the net position after hedging was as follows: (in € millions) USD Other Hypothetical currency appreciation 10% 10% IMPACT ON PROFIT (1.5) (0.7) CURRENCY RISKS ON NET INVESTMENTS In 2016, this loan was replaced by a loan denominated in Colombian IN FOREIGN OPERATIONS pesos. Groupe SEB is also exposed to currency risks on its net investment The balance of this loan at 31 December 2017 was COP 121 million. It in foreign operations, corresponding to the impact of changes is hedged by currency swaps, whose fair value at 31 December 2017 in exchange rates for the subsidiaries’ functional currencies on was €0.1 million, recorded in equity. SEB S.A.’s share in their net assets. Group policy does not require these risks to be hedged. 26.2.2. Interest rate risk However, the Group decided in 2012 to hedge the exposure on a Group policy consists of hedging interest rate risks based on trends in long-term intra-group loan to its Colombian subsidiary denominated in market interest rates and changes in the Group’s overall debt structure. dollars, which is treated as part of its net investment in this subsidiary. The following table analyses financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2017, based on interest rate reset dates: Overnight to 1 year 1 to 5 years More than 5 years In 2017 (in € millions) Floating rate Fixed rate Floating rate Fixed rate Floating rate Fixed rate Total assets 751.8 Total liabilities (123.5) (454.7) (294.7) (923.2) (121.3) (728.1) NET POSITION BEFORE HEDGING 628.3 (454.7) A floating/fixed interest rate swap was arranged to hedge interest payable by December 2026. (294.7) (923.2) (121.3) (728.1) 5 AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 (in € millions) Due within one year 1 to 5 years More than 5 years Floating/fixed rate swaps 65 120.5 Assuming total borrowings remain constant at 31 December 2017 €3.6 million to financial expenses and would have no material impact levels throughout the year and with the same currency breakdown, on net debt. an immediate 1% rise in interest rates would add an estimated The change in the impact on equity of the interest rate swap at 31 December 2017 was as follows: (in € millions) 31/12/2017 FAIR VALUE AT 1 JANUARY (1.6) Change in fair value 1.6 Amount recognized in income statement Fair value at 31 December (0.0) 26.2.3. Commodity risks At 31 December 2017, 25,680 tons of aluminum and 426 tons of nickel purchases were hedged. Commodity risks arising from changes in the prices of certain raw The Group uses swaps to set the prices of these commodities. These materials used by the Group – mainly aluminum, copper and nickel hedges of raw material purchases are qualified as cash flow hedges used to produce stainless steel – are hedged by derivative instruments. under IAS 39 when the criteria listed in Note 1.4.4 are met. The Group anticipates its needs for the coming year (except for China) and hedges them on a conservative basis, covering about 80% of its At 31 December 2017, the commodity derivative instruments showed estimated purchases for the next six months. an unrealized gain of €4.1 million. In 2016, there was an unrealized gain of €1.8 million. And in 2015, there was an unrealized loss of €1.5 million. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 221 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Derivative instruments expiring in 2017 led to a loss of €4.1 million, ZJ Supor, which is now 81.17%-owned by Groupe SEB, is listed on compared with losses of €0.1 million in 2016 and €1.5 million in 2015. the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. At 31 December 2017, the share price was CNY 40.38, valuing Groupe SEB’s investment at €3,434.6 million. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Changes in the Supor share price have no impact on Groupe SEB’s A 10% increase in metal prices at 31 December 2017 would have had Consolidated Financial Statements, as ZJ Supor is fully consolidated. a €5.3 million positive impact on equity, while 10% decrease would Similarly, changes in the share price have no impact on the company have had an equivalent negative impact, assuming all other variables accounts of SEB Internationale because its interest in ZJ Supor is remained constant. classified as a long-term investment and is not marked to market. A 10% increase or decrease in metal prices versus their average prices in 2017 would have had a €16.6 million positive or negative impact on the Operating Result from Activity. NOTE 26.3. LIQUIDITY RISK To manage the liquidity risk that may arise due to financial liabilities 26.2.4. Equity risk and treasury stock reaching maturity or needing to be settled early, the Group implements It is not Group policy to hold significant portfolios of equities or equity a financing strategy based on: funds. ■ maintaining cash, cash equivalents and other financial investments The Group does, however, hold a portfolio of treasury stock. It thus at a certain level at all times (€751.8 million at 31 December 2017); established: and additional liquid resources including: ■ a liquidity contract set up in order to ensure that there is a sufficiently ■ a €1.0 billion commercial paper program. At 31 December 2017, liquid market for SEB shares and to stabilize the share price; and €447 million had been drawn down; ■ the share buyback program, mainly for allocation on exercise of ■ other debt facilities including: employee stocks options and of performance shares awarded to ■ a €960.0 million syndicated credit facilities expiring in 2021, employees. ■ a €50.0 million bilateral credit facility expiring in 2022, Treasury stock is deducted directly from equity. Gains and losses from ■ several Schuldschein loan credit lines totaling €862 million sales of treasury shares are also recognized in consolidated equity. maturing in 2019, 2021, 2023, 2024 and 2026, Based on the closing SEB share price on 31 December 2017 (€154.45), ■ a €497.3 million bond debt due in 2022, the market value of shares held in treasury at that date stood at ■ a €497.7 million bond debt due in 2024, €82.6 million. A 10% increase or decrease in the share price would therefore have led to an €8.3 million change in the market value of ■ a €150.0 million convertible bond issue (ORNAE bonds treasury stock. redeemable in cash and/or existing shares) maturing in 2021. Cash and cash equivalents and debt are described in Note 18 and Note 24, respectively. NOTE 26.4. CREDIT RISK At the period-end, trade receivables broke down as follows based on their age: Past due (in € millions) Current 0-90 days 91-180 days Over 181 days Total Net trade receivables 772.7 223.0 15.3 5.0 1016.0 To avoid default risks, Groupe SEB sets individual credit limits that For more than five years, the customer credit risk has been covered are regularly updated based on the customer’s financial position and by credit insurance taken out with COFACE. At 31 December 2017, payment history. most of the Group’s subsidiaries were covered by insurance on trade receivables that would apply in the event of non-recovery. Groupe SEB’s main customers are well-known international retailers, and for the year ended 31 December 2017, no single customer accounted for more than 5% of total sales. 222 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 27. Environmental expenditure Environmental expenditure and capital expenditure amounted to do not include taxes on packaging or the cost of disposing of waste €11 million in 2017, compared with €8.6 million in 2016 and €9.1 million electrical and electronic equipment. in 2015. The main costs are presented below, including the breakdown These amounts include routine environmental management system between amounts recognized as expenses and as capital expenditure. costs, covering areas such as water and waste management. They 2017 2016 2015 Capital Capital Capital (in € millions) Expenditure expenditure Total Expenditure expenditure Total Expenditure expenditure Total Ambient air quality 0.5 0.4 0.9 0.5 0.6 1.1 0.6 1.0 1.6 Waste water management and water saving systems 2.2 0.6 2.8 1.8 0.4 2.2 2.2 0.4 2.6 Waste management 2.3 2.3 1.7 0.1 1.8 2.4 2.4 Soil protection and decontamination 2.9 0.3 3.2 2.4 0.1 2.5 1.0 0.2 1.2 Other environmental protection measures 1.3 0.5 1.8 0.9 0.1 1.0 1.0 0.3 1.3 TOTAL 9.2 1.8 11.0 7.3 1.3 8.6 7.2 1.9 9.1 At 31 December 2017, the total provisions for environmental risk amounted to €1.4 million and mainly related to depollution costs at the “Plant 3” site in Brazil. Note 28. Off-balance sheet commitments 5 NOTE 28.1. SPECIFIC COMMITMENTS Specific commitments are discussed in the following notes: ■ Note 22 Employee benefits; ■ Note 24 Borrowings; ■ Note 25 Fair value of financial instruments. NOTE 28.2. COMMITMENTS ARISING IN THE ORDINARY COURSE OF BUSINESS Commitments related to operating activities (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Firm orders for property, plant and equipment 34.2 35.6 44.9 Guarantees and bonds given * 0.1 0.3 Commitments under non-cancelable operating leases 353.3 308.9 132.4 Miscellaneous financial commitments 18.7 6.0 6.8 TOTAL COMMITMENTS GIVEN 406.3 350.5 184.4 Guarantees received for trade receivables under credit insurance policies 805.7 714.9 662.9 Miscellaneous financial commitments TOTAL COMMITMENTS RECEIVED 805.7 714.9 662.9 * Financial guarantees given by the Group to banks within the context of external ﬁnancing of subsidiaries were reclassiﬁed as Related party transactions (Note 30.1). GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 223 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements At year-end 2016, commitments given were primarily caused by the In 2015, the Supor Group signed a contract worth €7.1 million, acquisition of WMF and the rise in commitment under non-cancelable enabling it, from 2016, to extend the right to use the Supor brand to operating leases of €141.3 million. other small domestic appliance segments. Note 29. Significant events, litigation and contingent liabilities NOTE 29.1. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND LITIGATION Given the uncertain outcome of the proceedings, no provision was funded in the financial statements at 31 December 2017. 29.1.1. Significant events C) CUSTOMS DISPUTE IN TURKEY On 1 February 2016, Groupe SEB Istanbul, the Group’s Turkish NEW BOND ISSUE subsidiary, received notification from the Customs Authorities stating A new €500 million, 7-year bond issue bearing a 1.5% coupon was that, according to their interpretation, our imports are liable for an subscribed on 31 May 2017. additional tax which has, to date, not been settled. The notification This new issue allows Groupe SEB to further consolidate its debt received covered the period from 1 January 2013 to 28 September structure through: 2015 and involved a tax adjustment of €4.5 million and penalties of €13.5 million. The Group has challenged the full amount of this tax ■ the continued securing of refinancing for part of its debt; adjustment, while at the same time signing up to an amnesty offered by ■ the extension of the average maturity of its debt; the Turkish government that limits the exposure to around €6 million. ■ attractive financing terms. This amount was fully provisioned in the 2016 financial statements and was partially paid over the course of 2017. The remaining balance The bonds were admitted to trading on Euronext Paris on 31 May 2017. stood at €2.3 million at 31 December 2017. 29.1.2. Litigation In the past 12 months, other than the proceedings reflected in the financial statements and described in the accompanying notes, there A) SUPPLIER DISPUTES have been no other government, legal or arbitration proceedings A provision for contingencies was set aside in 2009 following a (including any such proceedings which are pending or threatened of dispute with a Chinese supplier concerning a shipment. The current which the Group is aware) which may have or have had in the recent estimated maximum expense of around €1.5 million is fully covered past significant effects on the Group and/or its financial position or (see Note 21.2) although, at the time of writing, the Group is disputing profitability. the entire amount and the ongoing lawsuit is expected to be lengthy. B) FRENCH COMPETITION AUTHORITY INQUIRY NOTE 29.2. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The French Competition Authority conducted an inquiry into the pricing Provisions were funded for risks and contingent liabilities estimated and listing practices of several domestic appliance manufacturers, at €48 million in connection with the WMF acquisition which covered including Groupe SEB France and Groupe SEB Retailing, with regard litigation, tax, environmental and regulatory risks (see Note 2.1). to certain online retailers. No other contingent liabilities have been identified to date. 224 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 30. Related party transactions NOTE 30.1. TRANSACTIONS WITH ASSOCIATES AND NON-CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES The Consolidated Financial Statements include transactions carried out in the normal course of business with associates and non-consolidated companies. All of these transactions are carried out on arm’s length terms. (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 Revenue Other income Purchases and expenses 2.0 1.2 0.6 Other non-current financial assets 0.7 Customers Suppliers 1.1 In 2017, Groupe SEB paid €0.2 million to Robart for studies and of which €0.1 million in 2016 and €0.4 million in 2015. In 2015, research (€0.2 million in 2016) and €1.7 million to 1000 Mercis for Groupe SEB acquired the Key Ingredient “CMS” application for services (€0.7 million in 2016). €6.2 million. This is a search engine which provides the basis for digital applications in connected products. In addition, in 2015, Groupe SEB paid Ethera €0.2 million in royalties for the use of its technology and to purchase filters used in the Financial guarantees given by the Group to banks in connection manufacture of air purifiers. These royalties amounted to €0.2 million with the external financing of subsidiaries stood at €25.3 million at in 2016. Ethera was consolidated into the Group’s financial statements 31 December 2017 (versus €15.2 million at 31 December 2016 and 5 as of 2017. €60.7 million at 31 December 2015). The Key Ingredient Company (non-consolidated due to its immaterial size within the Group) invoices research and development services, NOTE 30.2. DIRECTORS’ AND OFFICERS’ COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS Details of the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, including current members and those who retired in 2017, are provided in the Corporate Governance chapter of this document. The following table provides an analysis of the compensation and benefits paid to the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee: (in € millions) 2017 2016 2015 SHORT-TERM BENEFITS Fixed remuneration 4.1 4.0 3.9 Variable remuneration 3.9 4.0 3.9 Directors’ fees 0.5 0.4 0.4 OTHER BENEFITS Post-employment benefits 3.1 2.9 2.9 Share-based payments (stock options) 7.3 4.7 3.6 TOTAL 18.9 16.0 14.7 Pension commitments The amount of benefits payable under this plan in addition to the applicable statutory schemes represents up to 25% of a reference The two corporate officers are members of the collective supplementary compensation calculated on the average of the target compensation pension scheme which includes Groupe SEB’s French senior for the past three years; managers (members of the Executive and Management Committees). ■ a supplementary defined-benefit plan, subject to seniority and The scheme complements the statutory schemes and is composed service conditions, with the potential benefits accruing per year of as follows: service being 0.8% of the reference compensation calculated on ■ a defined-benefit deferred compensation plan, under which the average of the annual target compensation over the preceding beneficiaries are subject to seniority and presence conditions. three years and capped at 20 years’ service, i.e. a maximum of 16% of the reference compensation. A collective defined-benefit GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 225 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements plan is available to senior executives, with a contribution equal to actual performance in relation to targets over the last four full years 8% of their salaries. Benefits payable under this plan are deducted of service, as follows: from the supplementary pension originating from the supplementary ■ if the average actual performance is below 50% of the targets, no defined benefit plan. termination benefit will be paid; To be eligible for the defined benefit plans, Groupe SEB executives ■ if the average actual performance represents 50% to 100% of the must have been a member of the Group Executive Committee or targets, the termination benefit will be comprised between 75% Management Committee for at least eight years. and 100%, based on a straight-line calculation; The scheme is capped at 41% of the reference remuneration (including ■ if the average actual performance exceeds the targets, the the income from compulsory plans), this reference remuneration being termination benefit will be paid in full. itself capped at 36 times the annual social security ceiling in force at The Board of Directors retains the right to reduce such termination the time of retirement. benefits, by a maximum of one-half, if the previous year-end presents As a result, the supplementary pension scheme for French top a net loss, without such benefits falling below the fixed salary plus management (including the Chairman and CEO and the Chief Operating bonuses for the previous full financial year, should application of the Officer) complies with AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations as performance criteria based on the achievement of targets confer updated in November 2015: entitlement to the payment of termination benefits. ■ seniority required: minimum eight years on the Executive Committee Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract does not contain or Management Committee; a non-competition clause. ■ rate of progression: entitlements based on seniority up to a Entitlement to stock options in the event of termination: maximum of 3.0% annually and capped at 20 years’ seniority; In the event that Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract ■ reference period used: average of the target remuneration for the is terminated, except for serious misconduct or gross negligence, past three years; he will be entitled to all the share purchase or subscription options ■ maximum of 41% including benefits from statutory schemes. granted to him under the same terms and conditions of exercise that Groupe SEB intends to outsource the entire commitment through would have applied had he remained in office. This provision will also matching payments to a fund into which the pension contributions apply in the event that Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment are made on a regular basis. contract is terminated pursuant to resignation from the Group, were such resignation to arise from a change in the control of the Group. The various conditions of the retirement plan imply that, at legal However, he will forfeit the options that would have been granted to retirement age, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise will be entitled to receive him over the 18 months prior to the termination of his term of office a gross replacement ratio (including statutory plans) of 32.58% of his as corporate officer should he resign on his own initiative. reference remuneration and that, at legal retirement age, Bertrand Neuschwander will be entitled to receive a gross replacement ratio FOR MR BERTRAND NEUSCHWANDER (including statutory plans) of 36.2% of his reference remuneration. In the event of dismissal, he will be entitled to severance payment The supplementary and top-up plan expense relating to Thierry equal to two years’ remuneration, minus the amounts paid under the de La Tour d’Artaise and Bertrand Neuschwander, recognized in the non-competition clause and any termination benefits connected to Consolidated Financial Statements at 31 December 2017, amounts the termination of the employment contract. to €47,074. The reference remuneration used to calculate the severance allowance consists of the last two years of fixed and variable remuneration that Severance allowance Bertrand Neuschwander received in his capacity as Chief Operating and non-compete payments Officer. FOR MR THIERRY DE LA TOUR D’ARTAISE In accordance with Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code, payment of the allowance will be subject to performance Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise will not be entitled to any compensation conditions, measured in the following manner: in case of termination of his corporate mandate. ■ if he is dismissed within four years of his appointment as corporate His employment contract, signed when he joined Groupe SEB in 1994 officer, the severance allowance will be adjusted based on actual and last amended when he was appointed CEO of the company, was performance in relation to target over the last four full years of suspended on 1 March 2005 for the duration of his term as corporate service, as follows: officer. ■ as corporate officer, for the period following his appointment, and In the same way, as for other Executive Committee members, the contract stipulates that in the event of termination of his employment ■ as a salaried employee, for the preceding period; contract at Groupe SEB’s initiative, except as a result of gross ■ if he is dismissed after four years from his appointment as corporate negligence or serious misconduct, or at his own initiative following a officer, the severance allowance will be adjusted based on actual change of control of Groupe SEB, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise will be performance in relation to target, in this capacity, over the last four eligible for a total termination benefit equal to two years’ remuneration. years of service; In accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-42-1 of the French ■ for both scenarios, Commercial Code, an addendum to this contract was signed making ■ if the average actual performance is below 50% of the targets: the termination benefit subject to performance conditions. The no termination benefit is paid, revised contract stipulates that the termination benefit, set at two years’ remuneration (calculated on the average remuneration earned ■ if the average actual performance represents 50% to 100% of during the last two full financial years), will be adjusted based on the targets: the termination benefit is comprised between 75% and 100%, based on a straight-line calculation, 226 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements ■ if the average percentage achieved is above 100% of the benefit for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of is paid. shareholders on 12 May 2015, in accordance with the procedure Furthermore, the severance allowance shall only be paid in the provided for related party agreements. event of involuntary termination and remains capped at two years of CONTINUATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT remuneration (fixed and variable received), including the non-compete clause and any contractual compensation for dismissal. Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise began his career at Groupe SEB in 1994 and was appointed Vice-Chairman in 1999. He was appointed Pursuant to the non-compete agreement, in case of termination of Chairman and CEO in 2000. In accordance with changing governance his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, by means of dismissal or practice, his employment contract was suspended in 2005. resignation, he shall be prohibited for a one-year period, renewable once, from working in any manner with a competitor of Groupe SEB. On 17 February 2012, in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors reviewed the situation and agreed that the In consideration of this non-compete clause and for its entire employment contract of Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise should remain duration, Bertrand Neuschwander will receive a monthly non-compete suspended due to his age, his personal situation and his seniority payment amounting to 50% of his monthly average fixed and variable within Groupe SEB. remuneration paid over his last 12 months of service within the Group. For Bertrand Neuschwander, on 22 April 2014, the Board of Directors The Board of Directors may release Mr Neuschwander from this nondecided that the suspension of his employment contract was in line compete clause. with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. This non-compete agreement and the terms of severance detailed Details of the compensation policy and the components of the above were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 April 2014. remuneration of these two people appear in Note 2.5 Remuneration They were also disclosed as part of the permanent information Policy and are not reiterated in this note. related to compensation and benefits. Furthermore, it was submitted Note 31. Subsequent events Egypt At the end of 2017, Groupe SEB signed an agreement with its longFrance – Linen care As part of its strategy to strengthen the competitiveness of the linen 5 standing partner in Egypt, the Zahran family, to combine the small care segment, in early 2018 Groupe SEB announced an investment domestic appliances and cookware activities to consolidate its of nearly €15 million in France. industrial base in Egypt in order to serve the local and export markets. By 2020, this project will involve the transfer of the activity and all Founded in 1967, the Zahran Group is the leading cookware employees from the Saint-Jean-de-Bournay site to the nearby Pontmanufacturer in Egypt. It has two manufacturing sites and 11 Evêque site, while maintaining jobs. Zahran stores, and employs more than 700 people. Since 1973, it These two sites, located at a distance of 18 kilometers from each has produced and distributed cookware under the Tefal and Zahran other, are interdependent and are the only ones which produce brands in Egypt. the Group’s irons and steam stations in France. Saint-Jean-deIn addition, in 2013, Groupe SEB set up a joint venture with Zahran, Bournay (162 permanent employees) is a plastics plant specialized “Groupe SEB Egypt”, in which it has a 75% controlling interest, to in making injected components for the neighboring Pont-Evêque site manufacture and market small domestic appliances (e.g., vacuum (619 permanent employees), which manufactures and assembles cleaners, small food processors) mainly under the Moulinex and Tefal the products. The new product ranges use increasingly innovative brands. The plant is located in Borg El-Arab, near Alexandria. plastic injection processes and require new high-tonnage injection molding machines that the Saint-Jean-de-Bournay site is not able To further strengthen the existing partnership, Groupe SEB and the to accommodate. Zahran family decided to set up a new entity, Groupe SEB Egypt Zahran, which is 55%-owned by Groupe SEB and 45% by Zahran. Groupe SEB is therefore planning to extend the current Pont-Evêque This company combines the two activities, Small Domestic Equipment site by building a 7300m2 injection molding machine shop and two and cookware, and has the following objectives: storage buildings. These new facilities, designed with worker comfort and safety in mind, will improve working conditions for employees and to accelerate sales growth in Egypt and maximize the strong potential optimize logistics flows. of this market; To the best of the Group’s knowledge, no other events have occurred to capitalize on the trusting relationship established over many years since 31 December 2017 that could have a material impact on the with the Zahran family; Group’s consolidated financial statements. to strengthen the Group’s industrial base in the region and facilitate access to certain markets in Africa and the Middle East. The transaction, subject to approval by the Egyptian regulatory authorities, is expected to close in the second quarter of 2018. In 2017, Groupe SEB achieved around €20 million of revenue in Egypt. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 227 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 32. List of consolidated companies at 31 December 2017 (% of group ownership) NOTE 32.1. FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES Company Core business (b) Headquarters Registration no. % voting rights % interest EMEA EUROPE SEB S.A. (a) Parent company France 300,349,636 Calor S.A.S. (a) * France 956,512,495 100 100 S.A.S. SEB (a) * France 302,412,226 100 100 (a) Tefal S.A.S. * France 301,520,920 100 100 Rowenta France S.A.S. (a) * France 301,859,880 100 100 Groupe SEB Moulinex S.A.S. (a) * France 407,982,214 100 100 SIS S.A.S. (a) *** France 399,014,216 100 100 SEB Développement S.A.S. (a) *** France 016,950,842 100 100 Groupe SEB France S.A.S. (a) ** France 440,410,637 100 100 Groupe SEB Retailing S.A.S. (a) ** France 440,410,884 100 100 Holding SEB Internationale S.A.S. (a) company France 301,189,718 100 100 (a) Groupe SEB Export ** France 421,266,271 100 100 Holding SEB Alliance S.A.S. (a) company France 440,410,918 100 100 Immobilière Groupe SEB S.A.S. (a) *** France 799,230,388 100 100 Ethera S.A. (a) *** France 520,944,182 95.4 95.4 Rowenta Werke GmbH * Germany 100 100 Groupe SEB Deutschland GmbH ** Germany 100 100 EMSA GmbH * Germany 100 100 Homeware Trading GmbH ** Germany 100 100 Groupe SEB Osterreich GmbH ** Austria 100 100 Groupe SEB Belgium S.A. NV ** Belgium 100 100 Groupe SEB Denmark AS ** Denmark 100 100 Groupe SEB Iberica S.A. ** Spain 100 99.8 Groupe SEB Finland OY ** Finland 100 100 Groupe SEB UK Ltd ** United Kingdom 100 100 Tefal UK Ltd Dormant United Kingdom 100 100 Groupe SEB Hellados S.A. ** Greece 100 100 Groupe SEB Italia SpA ** Italy 100 100 Lagostina SpA * Italy 100 100 Casa Lagostina S.R.L. ** Italy 100 100 Groupe SEB Norway AS ** Norway 100 100 Groupe SEB Nederland BV ** Netherlands 100 100 Holding Rowenta Invest BV company Netherlands 100 100 SEB Portugal Electrodomesticos Ltda. ** Portugal 100 100 Tefal OBH Nordica Group AB *** Sweden 100 100 Groupe SEB Schweiz GmbH ** Switzerland 100 100 EURASIA Groupe SEB Bulgaria EOOD ** Bulgaria 100 100 Groupe SEB MKU & P D.O.O. ** Croatia 100 100 Holding Groupe SEB for Trade and Consultancy company Egypt 100 100 Groupe SEB for Importation ** Egypt 100 93.8 228 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Core business (b) Headquarters Registration no. % voting rights % interest Groupe SEB Egypt for Household Appliances ** Egypt 75 75 Groupe SEB Central Europe Ltd ** Hungary 100 100 Groupe SEB India PVT Ltd * India 100 100 Groupe SEB Baltic OU ** Latvia 100 100 Groupe SEB Polska ZP Z.O.O. ** Poland 100 100 Groupe SEB CR s.r.o ** Czech Republic 100 100 Groupe SEB Romania S.R.L. ** Romania 100 100 Groupe SEB Vostok ZAO * Russia 100 100 Groupe SEB Slovensko s.r.o ** Slovakia 100 100 Groupe SEB d.o.o. ** Slovenia 100 100 Groupe SEB Istanbul EV A.S. ** Turkey 100 100 Groupe SEB Ukraine ** Ukraine 100 100 AMERICAS NORTH AMERICA Groupe SEB Canada Inc. ** Canada 100 100 Coranco Corporation Ltd ** Canada 100 100 Groupe SEB USA ** United States 100 100 All-Clad Metal-Crafters LLC * United States 100 100 Holding Groupe SEB Holdings Inc. company United States 100 100 Imusa USA Corp. ** United States 100 100 Groupe SEB Mexico S.A. de CV ** Mexico 100 100 5 Groupe SEB Servicios S.A. de CV *** Mexico 100 100 SOUTH AMERICA Groupe SEB Argentina S.A. ** Argentina 100 100 SEB Do Brasil Produtos Domesticos Ltda. * Brazil 100 100 SEB Comercial de Produtos Domesticos Ltda. ** Brazil 100 100 Lojas SEB de Produtos Domesticos Ltda. ** Brazil 100 100 SEB Brazil Real Estate *** Brazil 100 0 Groupe SEB Chile Ltda. ** Chile 100 100 Groupe SEB Colombia S.A. * Colombia 100 99.5 Groupe SEB Venezuela S.A. ** Venezuela 100 100 Corporación GSV 2015, C.A. *** Venezuela 100 100 ASIA CHINA Holding ZJ Supor company China 81.2 81.2 SX Supor * China 100 81.2 WH CKW * China 100 81.2 Holding WH Pressure company China 100 81.2 WH Supor *** China 100 81.2 WH Waste *** China 100 81.2 YH Waste *** China 100 81.2 ZJ Rubber * China 100 81.2 ZJ Supor EA * China 100 81.2 Hangzhou Omegna Commercial Trade Co. Ltd ** China 100 81.2 Shanghai Supor Cookware Marketing Co. Ltd ** China 100 81.2 SSEAC Co. Ltd * China 100 100 EMSA Taicang Co. Ltd ** China 100 100 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 229 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Company Core business (b) Headquarters Registration no. % voting rights % interest ASIA-PACIFIC Groupe SEB Australia PTY Ltd ** Australia 100 100 Groupe SEB Korea Co. Ltd ** South Korea 100 100 SEB Asia Ltd **/*** Hong Kong 100 100 Grain Harvest Holding Development Ltd company Hong Kong 100 100 Groupe SEB Japan Co. Ltd ** Japan 100 100 Groupe SEB Malaysia SDN. BHD ** Malaysia 100 100 Groupe SEB Singapore PTE Ltd ** Singapore 100 100 South East Asia Domestic Appliances PTE, Ltd *** Singapore 90.4 100 Groupe SEB Thailand Ltd ** Thailand 100 100 Vina Electric Fan * Vietnam 100 100 Vietnam Supor * Vietnam 100 81.2 EMSA Vietnam Co. Ltd * Vietnam 100 100 AFS Vietnam Management Co. Ltd *** Vietnam 90.4 100 (a) Companies within the tax consolidation group in France. (b) Core business: * manufacturing, sales and marketing; ** sales and marketing; *** services. 230 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements WMF companies Core business (a) Headquarters Registration no. % voting rights % interest EMEA EUROPE WMF France SARL ** France 421,742,586 100 100 WMF France Consumer Goods SARL ** France 309,434,017 100 100 Schaerer France SARL ** France 537,799,777 100 100 Finedening TopCo GmbH Holding company Germany 100 100 WMF Group GmbH * Germany 100 100 Silit-Werke Beteiligungsgesellschaft GmbH *** Germany 100 100 Silit Haushaltswaren GmbH *** Germany 100 100 Silit-Werke GmbH & Co. KG * Germany 100 100 ProHeq GmbH * Germany 100 100 Boehringer Gastro Profil GmbH ** Germany 100 100 W. F. Kaiser u. Co. GmbH * Germany 100 100 ProLOG Brand Logistics GmbH & Co.KG *** Germany 100 100 ProLOG Logistics Services GmbH & Co. KG *** Germany 100 100 ProLOG Temp GmbH *** Germany 100 100 WMF Consumer-Electric GmbH ** Germany 100 100 ProMONT Montage GmbH * Germany 100 100 Schaerer Deutschland GmbH ** Germany 100 100 WMF Gastronomie Service GmbH *** Germany 100 100 WMF Versicherungsdienst GmbH *** Germany 100 100 WMF Immobilienverwaltungs GmbH *** Germany 100 100 WMF in Österreich Ges.m.b.H. ** Austria 100 100 Guy Van Bogaert BVBA WMF Española S.A. WMF United Kingdom Ltd ** ** ** Belgium Spain United Kingdom 100 100 100 100 100 100 5 WMF Italia S.p.A. ** Italy 100 100 WMF Nederland B.V. ** Netherlands 100 100 Guy Van Bogaert Nederland BV ** Netherlands 100 100 WMF Schweiz AG ** Switzerland 100 100 Schaerer AG * Switzerland 100 100 EURASIA WMF Bulgaria EOOD ** Bulgaria 100 100 Coffee Day Schaerer Technologies p.l. * India 51 51 ProHeq (CZ) s.r.o. * Czech Republic 100 100 AMERICAS NORTH AMERICA Schaerer USA Corporation ** United States 100 100 WMF Americas, Inc. ** United States 100 100 ASIA CHINA WMF (Shanghai) Co. Ltd *** China 100 100 WMF Consumer Goods (Shanghai) Co., Ltd ** China 100 100 WMF (He Shan) Manufacturing Co. Ltd * China 100 100 WMF Group Operations Far East Co. Ltd *** China 100 100 ASIA-PACIFIC WMF (Hong Kong) Manufacturing Co. Ltd Holding company Hong Kong 100 100 WMF Group Hong Kong Ltd *** Hong Kong 100 100 WMF Japan Corporation K.K. ** Japan 100 100 WMF Far East K.K. ** Japan 100 100 WMF Singapore Pte. Ltd ** Singapore 100 100 (a) Core business: * manufacturing, sales and marketing; ** sales and marketing; *** services. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 231 5 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 32.2. ASSOCIATES Company Core business (a) Headquarters Registration no. % interest None NOTE 32.3. NON-CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES WHERE GROUPE SEB HAS A % INTEREST OF AT LEAST 20% Company Core business (a) Headquarters Registration no. % interest Tefal India Household Appliances PVT Ltd Dormant India 100 Groupe SEB Pars (not material in relation to the Group as a whole) ** Iran 72 Key Ingredient Corporation (not material in relation to the Group as a whole) ** United States 100 Wuhan ANZAI Kitchenware Co. Ltd (not material in relation to the Group as a whole) * China 30 Gastromedia Sp.z.o.o. *** Poland 20 Bauscher Hepp Inc. Holding company United States 49 Invenido GmbH *** Germany 30 SwizzzCut AG *** Switzerland 100 SwizzzProzzz AG *** Switzerland 100 SwizzzProzzz Vertrieb AG *** Switzerland 100 (a) Core business: * manufacturing, sales and marketing; ** sales and marketing; *** services. Note 33. Fees paid to statutory auditors Statutory auditors’ fees will be presented in Chapter 9 “Additional information” in the 2017 Financial Report and Registration Document. 232 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 5.3. Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements (For the year ended 31 December 2017) To the shareholders, SEB S.A. 112, chemin du Moulin-Carron 69130 Écully This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report includes information specifically required by European regulations or French law, such as information about the appointment of statutory auditors. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. OPINION In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your Annual the Group as at 31 December 2017 and of the results of its operations General Meeting, we have audited the accompanying consolidated for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial financial statements of SEB S.A. for the year ended 31 December 2017. Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. 5 BASIS FOR OPINION AUDIT FRAMEWORK any non-audit services prohibited by Article 5(1) of regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards statutory auditors. applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have In addition, the non-audit services that we provided to your Group and obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. its controlled undertakings during the reporting period are as follows: Our responsibilities under these standards are further described in the ■ for both firms: comfort letters for bond issues; “Responsibilities of the statutory auditors relating to the audit of the ■ for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit: acquisition due diligences and consolidated financial statements” section of our report. certification of the accounting information of an entity; ■ for Mazars: acquisition due diligence; report social; environmental INDEPENDENCE and social information; consultancy work with respect to the internal control procedures on the preparation and processing of accounting We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with the and financial information; certification of the accounting information independence rules applicable to us, for the period from 1 January of entities. 2017 to the date of our report, and in particular we did not provide JUSTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS – KEY AUDIT MATTERS In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 823-9 and R. 823-7 These matters were addressed as part of our audit of the consolidated of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) relating to the financial statements as a whole, and therefore contributed to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters opinion we formed as expressed above. We do not provide a separate relating to the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional opinion on specific items of the consolidated financial statements. judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements, as well as how we addressed those risks. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 233 5 Consolidated financial statements Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements MEASUREMENT OF THE RECOVERABLE ■ assessing, through interviews with SEB’s management control AMOUNT OF GOODWILL AND TRADEMARKS team, the consistency of future cash flow projections for the CGUs WITH INDEFINITE USEFUL LIVES and future royalties on trademarks in relation to past performance and our knowledge of the business; (Notes 1.4.1 b, 1.4 c, 1.4.3 and 10 to the consolidated financial ■ performing our own calculations to ascertain the sensitivity of the statements) value of the various assets calculated by management to changes in the main assumptions used. Description of risk We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in As part of its business development, SEB has carried out targeted Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. external growth transactions and thus recognized several goodwill amounts, representing the difference between the acquisition price and the net fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities IDENTIFICATION AND MEASUREMENT OF THE assumed as part of a business combination, on the acquisition date. FAIR VALUE OF THE ASSETS ACQUIRED AND Group assets also comprise several trademarks. LIABILITIES ASSUMED WITH RESPECT TO THE ACQUISITION OF WMF As at 31 December 2017, trademarks with indefinite useful lives and goodwill amounted to €1008.4 million and €1,467.5 million (Note 2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements) (representing 37% of the total consolidated balance sheet), respectively. Description of risk These non-current assets are subject to impairment tests each year, or SEB completed the acquisition of the WMF Group on 30 November whenever there is any indication that the carrying amount of the assets 2016 for a total amount of €1,080.2 million. As the acquisition date might not be recoverable. For the purpose of these tests, goodwill was extremely close to the period-end, SEB’s management decided and trademarks are grouped into cash-generating units (CGUs) as to use 31 December 2016 as the opening balance sheet date, at which described in Note 1.4.3 to the consolidated financial statements. point it allocated purchase price on a preliminary basis, in accordance An impairment loss must be recognized if the recoverable value of with IFRS 3 (revised). these assets is less than their carrying amount. During the 2017 reporting period, SEB’s management finalized the Recoverable amount corresponds to the higher of the asset’s fair identification and valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities value less costs to sell and the value in use of the CGU. The value of assumed from the WMF Group. The final purchase price allocation the CGUs is determined on the basis of net discounted future cash recorded during the period resulted in the recognition of €950.8 million flows, with the exception of trademarks, which are valued using the in goodwill, intangible assets of €54 million in relation to the customer relief from royalty method. The results of the impairment test are portfolio, €624 million in trademarks and €48 million in provisions for therefore sensitive to the assumptions used, especially those used risks and contingent liabilities. to determine the discount rate applied to projections of future cash Purchase price allocation requires a significant degree of judgment flows, the method for grouping together CGUs, and future changes from management in terms of determining the fair value of the in revenues in terms of volume and value. intangible assets, which depends in particular on assumptions of how We deemed the measurement of the recoverable value of these nonthe business will develop, the profitability of the assets acquired, and current assets to be a key audit matter due to the materiality of the the valuation of contingent liabilities relating to the measurement of trademarks and goodwill recorded in SEB’s consolidated balance current or potential obligations. sheet and the high degree of judgment required from management Due to the materiality of this acquisition, and the degree of judgment to determine the assumptions to be used to perform the impairment required from SEB’s management to allocate the purchase price, we tests. deemed the identification and valuation of the fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed as part of the acquisition of the How our audit addressed this risk WMF Group to be a key audit matter. Our work involved: ■ assessing compliance of the methodology applied by SEB with How our audit addressed this risk current accounting standards, particularly in relation to the approach We familiarized ourselves with the key legal documents pertaining used by management to define the CGUs; to the acquisition of the WMF Group to obtain an overview of the ■ comparing the consistency of the data used to perform the transaction and to identify the specific clauses liable to have an impact impairment tests with data from the medium-term plans prepared on the determination and allocation of the purchase price. by management and presented to the Board of Directors; We assessed the WMF Group’s opening balance sheet as at ■ verifying the reasonableness of the key assumptions used by 31 December 2016 and conducted a critical assessment of the management for discounting the net future cash flows of the harmonization of the WMF Group’s accounting policies with those CGUs (including the discount rate and the long-term growth rate) of the Groupe SEB. by checking them against comparable companies and external market data, taking into account the economic and financial climate specific to each CGU; 234 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements Our work also involved: Management assesses the amount of provisions for deferred rebates granted to customers and offset against customer receivables based ■ assessing compliance with current accounting standards of the on the contractual or constructive commitments of Groupe SEB methodology used by management to identify the assets acquired entities identified at period-end. and the liabilities assumed from the WMF Group; ■ conducting a critical assessment of the work performed by an Given the complex and diverse nature of existing agreements with independent expert on the valuation of the WMF Group’s intangible retailers in various countries with different legislations, there is a risk assets; that the provision may be incorrectly estimated. ■ assessing the reasonableness of the assumptions and methodology In light of this complexity, we deemed the measurement of provisions used by management to measure the assets acquired and liabilities for deferred rebates to be a key audit matter. assumed, particularly the measurement of intangible assets and provisions for risks and contingent liabilities. How our audit addressed this risk Lastly, we assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures pertaining Our work primarily involved: to the acquisition in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. ■ obtaining an understanding of the internal control procedures implemented by management in relation to the recognition of revenue and the estimation of rebates, and testing the effectiveness MEASUREMENT AND RECOGNITION OF PROVISIONS FOR DEFERRED REBATES of key controls relating to these procedures; ■ analysing of the differences between the amounts set aside for (Note 1.5.1 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements) provisions in the previous reporting period and amounts actually paid during the period with a view to assessing the reliability of the Description of risk measurement of deferred rebates; SEB’s consolidated revenues are recognized after deduction of ■ testing, on a sample basis, the amount of provisions for deferred rebates and discounts, as well as advertising expense contributions rebates estimated at period-end based on the contract terms billed by customers and the cost of consumer promotions, referred (amount of revenue, rebate percentage). to as “deferred rebates”. VERIFICATION OF THE INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE GROUP 5 PRESENTED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT As required by law and in accordance with professional standards We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its applicable in France, we have also verified the information consistency with the consolidated financial statements. pertaining to the Group presented in the management report of the Board of Directors. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS APPOINTMENT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS As at 31 December 2017, PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and Mazars were in the thirty-third year and the third year of total uninterrupted We were appointed Statutory Auditors of SEB S.A. by the Annual engagement, respectively. General Meetings held on 15 June 1985 for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit and 12 May 2015 for Mazars. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 235 5 Consolidated financial statements Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management is responsible for preparing consolidated financial concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern statements presenting a true and fair view in accordance with and using the going concern basis of accounting, unless it expects International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the to liquidate the company or to cease operations. European Union and for implementing the internal control procedures The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial it deems necessary for the preparation of consolidated financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risk statements free of material misstatement, whether due to fraud or management systems, as well as, where applicable, any internal audit error. systems, relating to accounting and financial reporting procedures. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going of Directors. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS RELATING TO THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OBJECTIVE AND AUDIT APPROACH REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial statements. We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program consolidated financial statements as a whole are free of material implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report any misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, significant deficiencies in internal control that we have identified but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. professional standards will always detect a material misstatement Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements and reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users which constitute the key audit matters. We have detailed these matters taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. in this report. As specified in Article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code, We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided our audit does not include assurance on the viability or quality of for in Article 6 of regulation (EU) no. 537/2014, confirming our management of the company. independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France, A more detailed description of our responsibilities as statutory auditors as defined in particular in Articles L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of the French for the audit of the consolidated financial statements is set out in the Commercial Code and in the French Code of Ethics for statutory appendix to this report and is an integral part hereof. auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss any risks to our independence and the related safeguard measures with the Audit Committee. Lyon and Courbevoie, 26 March 2018 The statutory auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit MAZARS Nicolas Brunetaud Thierry Colin 236 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional ■ Assess the appropriateness of management’s use of the going standards applicable in France, the statutory auditors exercise concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence professional judgment throughout the audit. obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability They also: to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the ■ I dentify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the audit report. However, consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, future events or conditions may cause the company to cease to design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditors conclude that obtain audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to a material uncertainty exists, they are required to draw attention provide a basis for their opinion. The risk of not detecting a material in the audit report to the related disclosures in the consolidated misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or are from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional inadequate, to issue a qualified opinion or a disclaimer of opinion; omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; ■ Evaluate the overall presentation of the consolidated financial ■ Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit statements and assess whether these statements represent the in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion presentation; on the effectiveness of the internal control; ■ Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial ■ Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the information of the entities or business activities within the Group to reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. The the related disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statutory auditors are responsible for the direction, supervision and statements; performance of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and for the opinion expressed thereon. 5 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 237 5 Consolidated financial statements History of signiﬁcant consolidated items and ratios 5.4. History of significant consolidated items and ratios 5.4.1. HISTORY OF SIGNIFICANT CONSOLIDATED ITEMS (in € millions) 2017 2016 (f) 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (f) 2010 (f) 2009 2008 RESULTS Sales in France 804 779 739 700 666 689 705 712 685 668 Sales outside France 5,681 4,221 4,031 3,553 3,495 3,371 3,258 2,940 2,491 2,562 Total sales 6,485 5,000 4,770 4,253 4,161 4,060 3,963 3,652 3,176 3,230 Operating Result from Activity 661 505 428 368 410 415 455 438 355 342 Operating profit 580 426 371 314 364 368 402 349 248 279 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 375 259 206 170 200 194 236 220 146 152 Depreciation, amortization and impairment losses 178 123 146 123 112 109 115 117 124 110 Employee benefits expense (b) 1,250 831 802 753 737 698 665 627 549 563 Discretionary and non-discretionary profit sharing and matching contributions to employee savings plans 38 37 31 33 37 48 44 50 33 38 (c) EBITDA 765 550 508 434 475 475 516 468 372 388 Adjusted EBITDA (e) 808 591 533 455 485 474 511 488 416 394 BALANCE SHEET (AT 31 DECEMBER) Shareholders’ equity after appropriation 1,861 1,746 1,829 1,650 1,460 1,395 1,279 1,487 1,169 992 Net debt 1,905 2,019 316 453 416 556 673 131 243 649 Non-current assets 3,508 3,583 1,654 1,593 1,413 1,434 1,453 1,249 1,163 1,184 Capital expenditure 192 181 153 201 127 128 131 140 109 116 Inventories and work-in-progress 1,112 1,067 821 823 731 681 702 635 466 615 Trade receivables 1,016 1,053 886 768 740 836 828 733 627 646 Net cash from operating activities 457 576 376 271 298 313 242 256 558 165 Number of employees at 31 December (in units) 32,319 32,871 26,024 25,759 24,682 24,758 24,927 23,058 20,663 18,879 SHARES(in €) (a) Total number of shares outstanding (in thousands) 50,169 50,169 50,169 50,169 50,169 50,169 49,952 49,952 49,952 50,912 Weighted average number of shares after treasury stock (in thousands) 49,597 49,749 49,037 48,694 48,344 47,718 47,886 47,414 46,477 47,326 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 7.5 5.15 4.14 3.45 4.08 4.01 4.81 4.54 3.13 3.18 Dividend per share 2.00 1.72 1.54 1.44 1.39 1.32 1.25 1.17 1.04 0.94 Dividend yield per share (in %) (d) 1.29 1.34 1.63 2.34 2.12 2.37 2.15 1.51 2.62 4.38 Price range: + high 169.90 136 97.45 68.99 69.50 67.85 82.15 82.78 40.53 44.00 + low 115.70 79.9 58.01 56.85 51.50 46.70 52.00 39.15 16.44 19.71 Price at 31 December 154.45 128.75 94.60 61.57 65.70 55.71 58.12 77.73 39.70 21.46 Stock market capitalization (in € millions) 7,748.6 6,459.3 4,746.0 3,088.9 3,296.1 2,794.9 2,903.2 3,882.8 1,983 1,093 Average daily trading volume (number of shares) 53,452 60,252 79,811 56,210 75,245 90,232 143,151 107,282 88,830 117,527 (a) Figures were restated following the three-for-one share split on 16 June 2008. (b) Excluding discretionary and non-discretionary proﬁt sharing and matching contributions to employee savings plans, including temporary staff costs. Since the Group’s transition to IFRS in 2004, the reported amounts have also included the service cost of pension and other post-employment beneﬁts. (c) Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (including amortization and impairment of goodwill and trademarks, and depreciation and amortization expense reported under “Other operating income and expenses”). (d) Dividend for the year expressed as a percentage of the closing share price at the year-end. (e) Recurring Operating proﬁt (loss) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. (f) The balance sheets and income statements for 2010, 2011 and 2016 were restated in subsequent years. The restatements were not material. 238 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Consolidated financial statements History of signiﬁcant consolidated items and ratios 5.4.2. HISTORY OF CONSOLIDATED RATIOS (in %) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (b) 2010 (b) 2009 2008 PROFITABILITY RATIOS Return on equity before appropriation of previous year’s profit 20.43 13.55 11.94 11.09 13.66 14.47 15.27 18.04 15.69 18.85 Net profit/Sales 5.78 5.17 4.32 4.00 4.80 4.78 5.96 6.03 4.59 4.69 FINANCIAL RATIOS Net debt/shareholders’ equity before appropriation (c) 96.96 109.98 16.57 26.27 27.14 38.04 50.14 8.48 22.52 71.64 Financial costs, net/Revenue 1.11 1.16 1.00 1.15 1.32 1.54 0.68 0.44 0.86 1.50 Net debt/Adjusted EBITDA (in value) (c) 2.36 3.42 0.59 1.00 0.86 1.17 1.32 0.27 0.59 1.65 INVESTMENT RATIOS (a) Investments/Sales 2.97 3.63 3.23 4.73 3.05 3.14 3.55 3.86 3.44 3.60 (a) Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, software and development costs. (b) Restated for the effects of early application of IAS 19R. (c) According to the deﬁnition of net debt, Note 1.4.8. 5 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 239 240 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 6.1. 6.2. Financial statements Income statement at 31 December Balance sheet of SEB S.A. at 31 December Notes to the SEB S.A. financial 242 242 243 6 statements 244 Significant events of the year 244 Other information 254 6.3. Five-year financial summary 259 6.4. Statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements 260 Opinion 260 Basis for Opinion 260 Emphasis of Matter 260 Justification of Assessments Key Audit Matters 261 Valuation of equity interests and related receivables 261 Verification of the Management Report and of the Other Documents Provided to Shareholders 262 Company Ànancial Information given in the management report and in the other documents provided to Shareholders with respect to the financial position and the statements financial statements 262 Report on corporate governance 262 Other information 262 Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 262 Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Financial Statements 263 Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements 263 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 241 6 Company financial statements Financial statements 6.1. Financial statements INCOME STATEMENT AT 31 DECEMBER (in € millions) Notes 2017 2016 Reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions, expense transfers 0.1 6.8 Other income 0.4 0.5 Operating income 0.5 7.3 Other purchases and external charges 9.1 14.1 Taxes other than on income 1.0 1.5 Wages and salaries 3.6 3.1 Payroll taxes 1.5 1.0 Depreciation and amortization expense 1.8 6.2 Other expenses 0.7 0.9 Operating expenses 17.6 26.8 OPERATING PROFIT 2 (17.1) (19.5) Financial income 544.8 314.7 Financial expenses 275.9 266.1 Finance costs and other ﬁnancial income and expense 3 268.9 48.6 PROFIT (LOSS) FROM ORDINARY ACTIVITIES 251.8 29.1 Non-recurring income 50.3 50.9 Non-recurring expenses 59.9 56.2 EXTRAORDINARY NET INCOME 4 (9.5) (5.3) Income tax (income) 5 (26.5) (21.8) PROFIT (LOSS) 268.8 45.6 242 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Company financial statements Financial statements BALANCE SHEET OF SEB S.A. AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 2016 Depreciation/ Assets (in € millions) Notes Gross Amortization Net Net Patents, licenses and other rights 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 Investments 1,771.9 197.7 1,574.2 1,619.9 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates 2,766.1 2,766.1 2,690.5 Other non-current assets 1.1 1.1 1.1 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 6 4,539.3 197.8 4,341.5 4,311.5 Trade accounts receivable 2.3 2.3 12.6 Other receivables 7 94.0 94.0 61.1 Marketable securities 8 96.4 96.4 55.8 Cash 155.0 155.0 135.3 Prepaid expenses 0.1 0.1 0.1 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 347.7 347.7 264.9 Deferred financing costs 7.12 7.9 7.9 8.0 Conversion losses 12 2.3 2.3 113.5 TOTAL ASSETS 4,897.3 197.8 4,699.5 4,697.9 Equity and liabilities (before appropriation of proﬁt) (in € millions) Notes 2017 2016 Share capital 50.2 50.2 Additional paid-in capital 99.3 99.3 Revaluation reserve 16.9 16.9 Legal reserve 5.2 5.2 Regulatory reserves Revenue reserves Retained earnings 0.8 7.9 775.0 0.8 7.9 818.0 6 Profit (loss) for the period 268.8 45.6 TOTAL 9 1,224.0 1,043.9 Provisions for contingencies 43.1 149.4 Provisions for charges 185.7 189.4 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES AND CHARGES 10 228.8 338.8 Bank borrowings 11 2,101.2 1,628.4 Other borrowings 11 1,106.4 1,549.5 Trade payables 2.2 1.5 Accrued taxes and employee benefits expenses 4.1 3.0 Other payables 28.5 32.4 TOTAL 3,242.4 3,214.8 Conversion gains 12 4.3 100.4 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4,699.5 4,697.9 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 243 6 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements 6.2. Notes to the SEB S.A. financial statements SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR CHANGE IN THE COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD Following on from that first transaction, SEB S.A. purchased a OF DIRECTORS further 30,000 US stock options on 30,000 of its own shares on 7 December 2017. On 11 May 2017, the Annual General Meeting of SEB S.A. shareholders The acquisition of these call options allows the company to partially approved the reorganization of the Board of Directors, to include: cover its obligations to deliver existing treasury shares or to pay ■ a reduction in the size and the recomposition of the Board of for the possible exercising of the exchange right on the ORNAE Directors: to include a director representing employee shareholders bonds redeemable for cash and/or existing shares, maturing on and a director representing employees, while meeting the objectives 17 November 2021. to increase female representation (43%) and the proportion of independent Board members (33%). The Board of Directors was thus composed of 13 members following the Annual General ACQUISITIONS DURING THE PERIOD Meeting of 11 May 2017, and has had 14 members since the appointment by the Works Council of the director representing Acquisition of Swizzz Prozzz by its subsidiary employees within six months of the Annual General Meeting; SEB Internationale ■ the reappointment for a four-year term of office of Yseulys Costes In June, Groupe SEB finalized the acquisition of Swizzz Prozzz, a and of FFP Invest, represented by Bertrand Finet; Swiss company specializing in small manual food choppers equipped ■ the ratification of the appointment by co-optation of Delphine with high-performance multi-blade systems. Swizzz Prozzz products Bertrand to replace Tristan Boiteux, who resigned, for a period have so far been marketed under license through various kitchen of one year; utensils brands with great commercial success; the activity represents ■ the appointment of Brigitte Forestier as the director representing annual proforma revenue of around €10 million. employee shareholders for a four-year term of office; With this acquisition, Groupe SEB is continuing to expand into kitchen ■ the resignations of Bruno Bich, Tristan Boiteux, Pascal Girardot utensils with products that are simple, easy to use, affordable and very and Christian Peugeot. complementary to its ranges. FINANCING OTHER INFORMATION Successful placement of a new €500 million Reimbursement of the 3% dividend tax bond issue On 6 October 2017, the French Constitutional Court ruled that tax on In May 2017, SEB S.A. successfully placed a seven-year, €500 million dividend distributions is unconstitutional. This announcement entails bond issue maturing on 31 May 2024 and bearing interest at a rate a full refund of the tax paid, regardless of the origin of the dividends of 1.50%. (i.e., whether the distributing subsidiary is located in France, in the This issue was four times oversubscribed by a diverse investor base. It EU, or outside the EU). allows Groupe SEB to further strengthen its debt structure by securing After having filed legal claims in respect of 2013 to 2017, the company medium-term financing, extending the average maturity of its debt, recognized a tax receivable in its financial statements corresponding and ensuring attractive financing terms. to all taxes paid over those years and interest on arrears. Acquisition of call options On 28 July 2017, under its share buyback program approved by the Annual General Meeting (11th resolution) of 11 May 2017, SEB S.A. purchased 30,000 US stock options on 30,000 of its own shares. 244 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements Note 1. Accounting policies NOTE 1.1. PRINCIPLES ■ For subsidiaries in receipt of medium or long-term financing, in particular SEB Internationale, the Colombian and Brazilian General accounting conventions were applied, in line with the subsidiaries, Thailand, GS Holdings, EMSA Taicang, and Immobilière principle of prudence and in compliance with the general rules on the Groupe SEB, the rate applied is the 3-month currency rate plus an preparation and presentation of annual financial statements set out in intermediation margin; French law and France’s Chart of Accounts (Plan Comptable Général) ■ SEB S.A. raises capital on the financial market and/or from financial governed by regulation 2014-03 issued by the French Accounting institutions in euros. SEB S.A. buys and sells currency swaps Standards Authority (Autorité des Normes Comptables, “ANC”) on enabling it to convert its euro financing into its subsidiaries’ local 5 June 2014. currency. The foreign exchange exposure on the financing of nonAs of 1 January 2017, the company has applied the new ANC euro subsidiaries is hedged in this way. A provision may be set aside regulation no. 2015-05 relating to forward financial instruments and to cover the unhedged portion of the risk; hedging transactions for industrial and commercial companies. The ■ to cover the ORNAE bond redemption premium, the company has effects of the application of the new regulation are described in detail purchased call options which are documented as hedges. The in Note 1.4. premium paid on the calls purchased is recognized in the balance sheet and amortized in profit or loss over the term of the hedge. The result of the hedge will be recognized at maturity if the option NOTE 1.2. SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES is exercised, symmetrically to the hedged risk; AND AFFILIATES ■ the company puts competitiveness and transactional hedges in place to cover its subsidiaries’ exposure to currency risks. The Equity interests are booked at their purchase price (after the legal hedged transactions are recorded for the guaranteed price by revaluation if necessary) including additional charges. At the closure, SEB S.A. for the operating subsidiaries and in their own currency the equity interests are valued by the company at the inventory value. for market subsidiaries. If this value is inferior to the net book value, a provision for impairment is observed, equals to the amount of the difference. Clarification of the new ANC regulation no. 2015-05: The inventory value is estimated based on the share of the net asset, ■ currency swaps linked to current accounts, intercompany loans/ which can be, if necessary, reevaluated according to the financial borrowings, and foreign currency bank accounts are revalued on prospects that include business models and economic environments the balance sheet to offset the revaluation at the closing rate of of every subsidiary. these items. The premium/discount is amortized in profit or loss 6 over the term of the hedge; ■ the competitiveness and transactional hedges taken out w ith NOTE 1.3. TREASURY SHARES banking counterparties are supported in accounting terms by foreign exchange hedges granted to Group subsidiaries. In the event of a Treasury shares are classified as follows: significant difference between the rates realized with the banking ■ all shares bought back for allocation under existing or future stock counterparties and the rates granted to the subsidiaries, any losses option or performance share plans are classified as “Marketable incurred by SEB S.A. will be written back to the subsidiaries that securities”; initiated the hedging requests; ■ all other movements – mainly treasury shares held under a liquidity ■ currency translation adjustments on hedges and hedged items are contract – are classified as “Other non-current assets”. classified in the income statement as financial income or expense. The company does not engage in optimization transactions that At year-end, an impairment loss is recognized whenever the shares’ entail additional risks for the business; average portfolio purchase price is lower than the average share price for the last month of the year. ■ financial income and expenses relating to interest rate swaps are recognized in the income statement symmetrically to the income and expenses generated by the hedged item; NOTE 1.4. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS ■ the company centrally manages commodity derivatives for the AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Group by entering into commodity derivative contracts on behalf of its subsidiaries. Realized gains and losses on derivatives entered The company manages cash and cash equivalents and currency risk into with bank counterparties are written back to the subsidiaries on behalf of the Group. that initiated the hedging requests; ■ SEB S.A. takes care of the Group’s long-term and short-term ■ the fair value of the instruments and information on the volume financing needs. With respect to the financing of subsidiaries, and nature of the instruments (type of income/underlyings) and the SEB S.A. has set up an automatic daily bank balance reporting amount of deferred realized gains and losses on the balance sheet system for some subsidiaries, while for others cash requirements or are disclosed in Note 16. surpluses are transferred manually. Short-term loans or borrowings between Group companies and SEB S.A. pay interest at the 1-month base rate for the currencies concerned, plus or minus an intermediation margin; GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 245 6 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements NOTE 1.5. CONVERSION AND MEASUREMENT The agreement also provides that subsidiary companies which are OF CASH AND SHORT-TERM BANK members of the tax group should be placed in a situation during consolidation comparable to the situation that they would have been LOANS AND CURRENT ACCOUNTS IN in if the group did not exist. FOREIGN CURRENCY With regard to the calculation of tax liability, each subsidiary “shall Cash and short-term bank loans denominated in foreign currency pay the parent company, by way of contribution to the tax on Group at the period-end are converted into local currency at the exchange companies, irrespective of the actual amount of said tax, a sum equal rate on the last business day of the period, and foreign exchange to the tax that it would have paid on income and/or net long-term translation adjustments are recognized in profit for the period under capital gains for the financial year if it had been taxed separately, “Foreign Exchange gains” or “Foreign Exchange losses”. minus all the tax deductions to which the subsidiary would have been entitled in the absence of consolidation, including its tax loss carry forwards.” NOTE 1.6. PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES The agreement also states that at the “end of a loss-making financial AND CHARGES year, the subsidiary shall not be entitled to make any claim on the parent company on this basis, even if the parent company establishes In addition to the principles described in Note 1.5 above, a provision a claim against the French Treasury by opting to carry back the total for unrealized losses on stock options is recorded to cover the outflow loss”. of funds arising in connection with the exercise of the options granted under current plans. Concerning tax credits, the subsidiaries’ liability to the parent company shall be reduced: The company also records provisions on the balance sheet for the tax savings resulting from the implementation of group relief, relating to ■ for tax credits that cannot be carried forward and cannot be the utilization of losses incurred by certain subsidiaries, which may refunded. If the subsidiary is loss-making, these claims shall be have to be transferred back to them if and when they return to profit. offset by the parent company against the income tax owed by the Group; ■ for all tax credits that cannot be carried forward but can be NOTE 1.7. INCOME TAX refunded. The fraction of the claim in excess of the income tax on Group companies owing by the subsidiary shall be repaid to the Since 2015, SEB S.A. has signed a group relief agreement with all subsidiary by the parent company. its subsidiaries benefiting from the group relief system, setting the rules for the tax group. The contract specifies that the tax group will Lastly, if the subsidiary leaves the tax consolidation group, the take effect retroactively from 1 January 2013 and, pursuant to the agreement provides that compensation shall be paid insofar as it can provisions of Article 223 A et seq. of the French General Tax Code, be determined, by mutual agreement, that the subsidiary has paid too will be tacitly renewed for additional five-year periods. much tax as a result of its membership of the Group. Note 2. Income and expenses concerning related parties (in € millions) 2017 2016 OPERATING EXPENSES Trademark registration fees 0.2 0.2 Management fees 4.7 3.0 OPERATING INCOME Royalties 0.2 0.3 FINANCIAL EXPENSES Interest and financial expenses 2.5 0.7 FINANCIAL INCOME Investment income 223.4 100.3 Interest income on receivables 41.0 30.8 NON-RECURRING INCOME Expense transfers 10.5 7.7 246 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements Note 3. Finance costs and other financial income and expenses (in € millions) 2017 2016 Dividends 223.4 100.3 Interest expense (34.8) (25.7) Interest income 42.3 31.5 Net charge/reversal of impairment on financial items (44.9) (7.9) Other financial income and expenses 82.9 (49.6) TOTAL FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE 268.9 48.6 Dividends for the year amounted to €223.4 million and came mainly €87.1 million, including a reversal of a net provision of €111.1 million from SEB Internationale for €150.0 million, Tefal for €27.5 million and on foreign exchange risks. Groupe SEB France for €29.5 million. Changes in the provision for foreign exchange risks are discussed Other financial income and expenses include foreign exchange gains in Note 10. and losses incurred and provisioned during the year for net income of Note 4. Extraordinary net income (in € millions) 2017 2016 Net reversal of charges for group relief to be transferred to subsidiaries 3.7 6.5 Gains (losses) on sales of treasury shares (16.7) (17.1) Other income (expense) (7.0) (2.4) Non-recurring expense transfer 10.5 7.7 TOTAL The reversal of the net provision for group relief totaled €3.7 million, (9.5) (5.3) Transfers of non-recurring expenses include the rebilling to subsidiaries 6 against €6.5 million in the previous year, and is discussed in Note 5. of capital losses realized during the year on the exercising of stock options for €8.3 million and the discounting of accrued income for During the period, the sale of a total of 629,758 treasury shares, unrealized capital losses for €2.2 million. including 314,817 under the liquidity contract and 314,941 shares to be granted under stock option exercises, generated a total net capital loss of €16.7 million. In addition, the discounting of the provision for unrealized losses represents a net charge of €4.6 million for the year. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 247 6 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements Note 5. Income taxes NOTE 5.1 INCOME TAX ANALYSIS Income tax for the year ended 31 December 2017 breaks down as follows: (in € millions) Before tax Tax Proﬁt (loss) Profit (loss) from ordinary activities 251.8 (6.4) 245.4 Extraordinary net income (9.5) (3.7) (13.2) Tax loss carryforwards generated/(used) 10.0 10.0 Income tax payable and miscellaneous expenses 7.6 7.6 Group relief 19.1 19.1 TOTAL 242.3 26.7 268.8 Pursuant to the decision of the French Constitutional Court, the ■ a charge of €3.7 million for the use of previous losses for the company has recognized a tax receivable in its financial statements beneficiary subsidiaries; corresponding to the entire 3% surtax on dividend distributions, paid ■ a charge a charge of €2.4 million for the Group’s exceptional for the 2013 to 2017 financial years. The expected reimbursement contribution. amounts to €12.6 million, of which €11.3 million in principal and In addition, under the tax agreement signed with member companies, €1.3 million in interest on arrears. This tax benefit is partially offset in the tax savings made by the Group as a result of consolidating lossthe financial statements by the payment of €2.7 million of this tax over making companies are retained by the parent company. From now on, the period, and by a net charge of €2.6 million on the dividend surtax a provision will no longer be recorded under “non-recurring expenses” created to fund part of the refund of the 3% surtax. to cover the tax loss carryforwards generated by members of the tax group other than SEB S.A. Only reversals of provisions are recognized when tax loss carryforwards are used. On this basis, a €3.7 million NOTE 5.2. GROUP RELIEF reversal was recognized over the period. The consolidated tax group recorded a profit for the 2017 financial year. The tax savings were recognized in the company’s financial statements and comprised tax income of €19.1 million, corresponding NOTE 5.3. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS mainly to: AND LIABILITIES ■ €19.8 million in tax losses by consolidated subsidiaries used during At 31 December 2017, the company had a liability of €1.3 million the period; (€34.6 million at 31 December 2016), corresponding to unrealized ■ €1.1 million in definitively acquired tax savings for the year; exchange gains deductible in the year following their recognition. ■ a tax saving resulting from the application of the specific rules of group relief for determining the individual result: €4.3 million; 248 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements Note 6. Non-current financial assets NOTE 6.1. CHANGE BY TYPE (in € millions) 2016 Increase Decrease 2017 Investments 1,770.4 1.5 1,771.9 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates 2,692.8 546.6 473.3 2,766.1 Treasury shares 0.9 46.2 46.2 0.9 Other non-current assets 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 TOTAL GROSS VALUE 4,464.3 594.3 519.5 4,539.1 Impairment of equity investments (150.5) (59.1) (11.9) (197.7) Impairment of other non-current assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Impairment of receivables (2.3) 0.0 (2.3) 0.0 TOTAL PROVISIONS (152.8) (59.1) (14.2) (197.7) TOTAL NET VALUE 4,311.5 535.2 505.3 4,341.4 (in € millions) 2015 Increase Decrease 2016 Investments 1,009.0 761.4 1,770.4 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates 1,679.5 1,781.2 767.9 2,692.8 Treasury shares 0.8 34.2 34.1 0.9 Other non-current assets 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.2 TOTAL GROSS VALUE 2,689.5 2,576.8 802.0 4,464.3 Impairment of equity investments (144.9) (7.1) (1.5) (150.5) Impairment of other non-current assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Impairment of receivables 0.0 (2.3) 0.0 (2.3) TOTAL PROVISIONS TOTAL NET VALUE (144.9) 2,544.6 (9.4) 2,567.4 (1.5) 803.5 (152.8) 4,311.5 6 The increase of investments relates to a 56.9% stake in Ethera for an company also recorded a write-back of €10.4 million related to Seb amount of €1.5 million. Développement and €1.5 million for Calor. Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates include advances by SEB S.A. The treasury shares recognized in non-current financial assets are to its subsidiaries in connection with the Group’s financial policy held under the liquidity contract. Over the period, 313,440 shares were (see Note 1.5). The increases in new long-term loans (€401.2 million) bought back at an average price of €147.55 and 314,817 shares were relate respectively to SEB Do Brazil Productos (€61.9 million), GS sold at an average price of €147.23 per share. At 31 December 2017, Holdings (€183.6 million) and WMF GmbH (€72 million). In addition, SEB S.A. held a total of 534,706 treasury shares at an average price the subsidiary SEB Commercial Do Brazil repaid its long-term loan of €125.84, notably to cover SEB stock option plans. for €65.9 million before taking out a new loan of €52.0 million. Other flows relate to fluctuations in subsidiaries’ current accounts, i.e., a decrease of €240.4 million, including the repayment of €275.5 million NOTE 6.2. MATURITIES OF RECEIVABLES from GS USA. All receivables are due within one year, with the exception of The valuation of the securities portfolio led the company to write intercompany medium-term loans, including new loans with the down shares of its subsidiaries for an additional €59.1 million, of Brazilian subsidiaries for €1,134.0 million, with Groupe SEB Holdings which €31.0 million for SEB S.A.S., €23.0 million for GS Moulinex, for €183.6 million, with SEB Internationale for €1,168.9 million, with €0.6 million for Rowenta, €1.0 million for SEB Alliance, €0.2 million WMF GmbH whose line of credit was increased to €671 million and for GS Retail, and €3.3 million for Immobilière Groupe SEB. The with Immobilière Groupe SEB for €80.0 million. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 249 6 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements Note 7. Other receivables and accrual accounts Other receivables totaling €94.0 million largely consisted of the ■ €23.2 million in foreign exchange hedges recognized in the following items: financial statements, of which option premiums paid during the year amounted to €1.5 million. ■ €45.0 million in income tax receivables, including the refund claim on the 3% dividend surtax granted by the French State for All receivables are due within one year, apart from: €12.6 million, the balance of tax credits receivable for €25.7 million, ■ deferred income from unrealized losses on option exercises for prepayments made to the French government for €0.4 million, and €21.6 million, mentioned above; the net tax income from Group relief on the year for €6.1 million. ■ 7.9 million in deferred arrangement fees, including €1.6 million for Tax receivables also include €3.7 million of current income tax the new €500 million bond issue, €1.6 million for the Schuldschein receivables due from subsidiaries; instrument, €0.9 million for the ORNAE bond issue, €1.5 million for ■ €21.6 million in deferred income from grantee companies for the €500 million bond issue, and €1.2 million in commitment fees rebilling unrealized losses on options still to be exercised; for the €960 million Syndicated Credit Facility. Note 8. Investments securities (in € millions) 2017 2016 Treasury shares 66.4 55.8 Investments securities 30.0 TOTAL 96.4 55.8 Note 9. Equity ■ Share capital At 31 December 2017, the share capital stood at €50,169,049 and was made up of 50,169,049 fully paid-up shares, representing 74,312,802 total “theoretical” voting rights and 73,778,096 effective voting rights (excluding treasury shares). ■ Changes in shareholders’ equity SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 BEFORE APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT 1,044.0 2016 dividend paid in 2017 (88.8) Profit (loss) for the period 268.8 Premiums on shares issued to employees SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 1,224.0 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 BEFORE APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT 1,077.2 2015 dividend paid in 2016 (78.8) Profit (loss) for the period 45.6 Premiums on shares issued to employees SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 1,044.0 ■ Potential ordinary shares at 31 December 2017 There are no convertible bonds or equity notes outstanding or securities not representing capital. 250 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements Note 10. Provisions for contingencies and charges Changes in provisions for contingencies and charges for the year are as follows: Releases of surplus (in € millions) 2016 Increases provisions Utilizations 2017 Provisions for claims and litigation Provisions for currency risks 113.4 2.3 113.4 2.3 Provisions for other contingencies 36.0 40.5 27.5 8.2 40.8 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES 149.4 42.8 140.9 8.2 43.1 Provisions for group relief 189.4 3.7 185.7 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR CHARGES 189.4 3.7 185.7 TOTAL 338.8 42.8 144.6 8.2 228.8 Releases of surplus (in € millions) 2015 Increases provisions Utilizations 2016 Provisions for claims and litigation Provisions for currency risks 102.8 113.4 102.8 0.0 113.4 Provisions for other contingencies 36.7 35.7 35.8 0.6 36.0 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES 139.5 149.1 138.6 0.6 149.4 Provisions for group relief 195.2 0.0 5.8 0.0 189.4 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR CHARGES 195.2 0.0 5.8 0.0 189.4 TOTAL 334.7 149.1 144.4 0.6 338.8 6 The company recognized a provision for currency risks pursuant to the During the year, the company underwent an Tax control by the rules of the new ANC regulation no. 2015-05, on the basis of an overall French Directorate of National and International Audits (Direction des net foreign exchange position by currency. On this basis, the provision Vérifications nationales et internationales, “DVNI”). The control was for currency risks would have been €1.8 million at 31 December 2016. completed as of 31 December 2017 and the financial consequences were subject to a provision for other contingencies of €0.5 million. In addition, provisions for other contingencies consist entirely of the provision for unrealized losses on the exercise of stock options and The reversal of the €3.7 million provision for tax losses related to the performance shares in relation to all Group grantees for €40.5 million. use of losses for which provisions had been funded in subsidiaries Deferred income from option-holder companies is also recognized as that returned to profit this year. a €21.6 million asset. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 251 6 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements Note 11. Maturities of payables Due by 31/12/2017 Due in 1 to Due beyond (in € millions) 2016 2017 Due within 1 year 5 years ﬁve years Bonds 501.2 1,005.6 5.6 1,000.0 Bank borrowings 10.1 80.2 80.2 Other debts (including private placements) 1,114.7 1,013.5 1.5 964.0 48.0 Commercial paper 849.0 447.0 447.0 Group borrowings 672.5 635.8 635.8 Other borrowings 0.3 0.8 0.5 0.3 Non-discretionary profit-sharing 27.8 23.3 6.2 17.1 Bond redemption premium 2.4 1.4 0.2 0.6 0.6 TOTAL 3,177.9 3,207.6 1,177.0 981.7 1,048.9 All payables are due within one year, with the exception of: ■ non-discretionary employee profit-sharing accounts due in more than one year are as follows: €4.9 million due in 2019, €4.3 million ■ €1,000 million of bond issues, repayable in fine in November 2022 due in 2020, €4.3 million due in 2021, and €3.9 million due in 2022; and May 2024; ■ the €2.5 million bond redemption premium for the ORNAE bond ■ the new Schuldschein instrument, €175 million of which is repayable issue and the -€0.6 million and -€0.5 million bond redemption in December 2019, €276.5 million in December 2021, €282.5 million premiums for the two €500 million bond issues. in December 2023, and €48 million in December 2026; A source of financing for the Group is its €1,000 million commercial ■ the €62 million Schuldschein instrument, due in August 2019; paper program, which has had a short-term rating of A2 from Standard ■ the new €150 million ORNAE bond issue due in November 2021; & Poor’s for several years. As of 31 December 2017, €447 million had been issued. All commercial paper is due in less than a year. Note 12. Accruals accounts NOTE 12.1. DEFERRED CHARGES (in € millions) 2017 2016 Financial expenses 7.9 7.9 TOTAL 7.9 7.9 Deferred charges mainly included the €1.3 million in charges to be amortized for the ORNAE bond, €2.9 million for the bond issues, and €2.3 million for the Schuldschein instrument. 252 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements NOTE 12.2. CONVERSION GAINS AND LOSSES (in € millions) 2017 2016 Receivables and payables denominated in foreign currency 0.0 105.1 Financial instruments 2.3 8.4 TOTAL ASSETS 2.3 113.5 (in € millions) 2017 2016 Receivables and payables denominated in foreign currency 0.0 91.7 Financial instruments 4.3 8.7 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 4.3 100.3 NOTE 12.3. DEFERRED INCOME (in € millions) 2017 2016 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates 12.0 8.0 TOTAL 12.0 8.0 NOTE 12.4. ACCRUED LIABILITIES (in € millions) 2017 2016 6 Bank borrowings 7.1 4.2 Other borrowings 0.1 0.2 Trade payables 0.4 0.6 Accrued taxes and employee benefits expenses 2.7 2.2 Other payables 0.3 0.5 TOTAL 10.7 7.7 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 253 6 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements OTHER INFORMATION Note 13. Employees The average number of employees is two people (the same number as in 2016). Note 14. Related party transactions Certain balance sheet items contain amounts concerning related party transactions, as follows: 2017 2016 (in € millions) Related parties Direct shareholding Related parties Direct shareholding Non-current financial assets 1,425.10 1,340.90 1,373.2 1,319.6 Receivables 21.6 1.3 31.2 1.2 Payables (80.2) (684.7) (137.0) (558.9) TOTAL 1,366.50 657.5 1,267.4 761.9 The advances granted to related parties mainly concerned new long-term loans to Brazilian subsidiaries for €113.9 million, to Groupe SEB Holdings for €183.6 million and to WMF for €72.2 million. Note 15. Stock option plans and performance shares Information about stock option and performance share plans at 31 December 2017 is provided below: At 31/12/2017 Date Number of options Exercise price Type of grant (a) of exercise of expiry granted exercised canceled outstanding (in €) Purchase plan 12/06/2009 12/06/2013 12/06/2017 371,300 353,484 17,816 28.05 Purchase plan 18/06/2010 18/06/2014 18/06/2018 412,592 355,388 18,513 38,691 53.86 Purchase plan 15/06/2012 15/06/2016 15/06/2020 408,925 291,505 17,621 99,799 54.12 TOTAL * 1,192,817 1,003,577 50,750 138,490 * Of which movements in 2016: 149,866 2550 254 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements At 31/12/2017 Date Number of shares Share price of end of on the grant Type of grant (a) of vesting lock-up granted vested canceled outstanding date (b) Performance shares 22/07/2014 22/07/2017 22/07/2019 169,175 165,075 4,100 0 64.00 Performance shares 12/05/2015 12/05/2018 12/05/2020 169,450 0 3,425 166,025 81.41 Performance shares 19/05/2016 19/05/2019 19/05/2021 168,605 0 3,600 165,005 96.63 Performance shares 11/05/2017 11/05/2020 11/05/2022 193,450 0 0 193,450 151.60 TOTAL 700,680 165,075 11,125 524,480 (a) The grant date corresponds to the date of the Board Meeting when the option grants were decided. (b) Share price on the date of the Board Meeting. Note 16. Financial commitments 31/12/2017 31/12/2016 (in € millions) Notional amount Market value Notional amount Market value VIS-À-VIS MARKET COMMITMENTS ON THE BALANCE SHEET FX hedges for competitiveness and transactional risk Forward sales of foreign currencies 46.9 2.7 (3.0) (0.1) Forward purchases of foreign currencies 25.0 1.9 41.1 (1.6) Call option purchases (incl. premiums) 0.0 0.0 6.9 0.7 Put option purchases (incl. premiums) 6.8 0.4 1.2 0.0 Financial FX hedges 6 Currency swaps (foreign currency borrower) 184.0 6.2 170.8 0.9 Forward financial sales/purchases 3.1 0.1 30.7 3.6 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS FX hedges for competitiveness Forward sales of foreign currencies (649.0) (11.1) (143.0) 2.5 Forward purchases of foreign currencies 218.0 3.5 675.4 13.6 Call option purchases (incl. premiums) 179.1 3.5 133.4 6.8 Put option purchases (incl. premiums) 196.3 (2.4) 101.6 (2.5) Other hedges Fixed rate payer swaps (185.5) 0.0 245.5 (1.6) Redemption options (19.1) (8.9) Call on ORNAE redemption options 1.4 0.0 Aluminum derivatives 45.3 3.5 28.8 1.8 Nickel derivatives 3.9 0.4 1.5 0.0 WITH SUBSIDIARIES Commitments on the balance sheet Forward purchases of foreign currencies 263.2 (1.4) 188.8 0.8 Forward sales of foreign currencies 160.2 (1.5) 87.0 0.8 FORWARD FINANCIAL SALES/PURCHASES (32.7) 0.0 0 0 Off-balance sheet commitments Aluminum derivatives (45.3) 3.5 0 0 Nickel derivatives (3.8) 0.4 1.5 0.0 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 255 6 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements The use and accounting treatment of financial instruments are preceding the date of maturity of the Bonds or, where applicable, the discussed in Note 1.5. Notional amounts represent the notional date of early redemption. amounts of the contracts. The market value of financial instruments In the event of the exercise of the right to the allocation of shares, the represents the gain or loss that would have been recognized had Bond holders will receive an amount in cash and, where applicable, an the contracts been settled on the market at 31 December 2017. amount payable in existing SEB shares. The company will also have It is estimated based on the exchange rate and interest rate on the option to deliver only existing SEB shares or only cash. 31 December 2017, or obtained from the counterparty banks with which the commitments have been entered into. The number of existing shares that may be delivered to the bond holders will in particular be determined by the Bond exchange ratio. Initially Commitment for the ORNAE bond issue one share for one Bond, this ratio may be adjusted in certain common With respect to the new ORNAE bond issue, it should be noted that, scenarios for such financial securities. The exchange ratio may in in the event of the exercise of the right to the allocation of shares, particular be adjusted up or down in the event of dividend payouts by representing the delivery of existing shares, the company will not issue the company between the issue date and the redemption date. any new shares. Financial commitment received The Bonds will grant entitlement to, in the manner detailed below, The company has unused confirmed credit facilities available under the allocation of existing SEB shares, at a rate of one share for the following terms: every Bond (subject to any subsequent adjustments) at any time from 17 November 2016 to the twenty-eighth trading day (exclusive) ■ syndicated credit facility of €960 million expiring in 2021; ■ confirmed credit line of €50 million expiring in 2022. No te 17. Pension commitments The two corporate officers are members of the Group supplementary Officer) complies with AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations as pension plan which includes Groupe SEB’s French senior managers updated in November 2015: (members of the Executive and Management Committees). ■ seniority required: minimum eight years on the Executive Committee The plan complements the statutory programs and is composed as or Management Committee; follows: ■ rate of progression: entitlements based on seniority up to a ■ a defined-benefit deferred remuneration plan, under which maximum of 3.0% annually and capped at 20 years’ seniority; beneficiaries are subject to seniority and continuous presence ■ reference period used: average of the target remuneration for the conditions. The amount of benefits payable under this plan in past three years; addition to the applicable statutory programs represents up to 25% ■ maximum of 41% including benefits from the statutory program. of a reference remuneration calculated on the average of the target remuneration for the previous three years; Groupe SEB intends to outsource the entire commitment through matching payments to a fund into which the pension contributions ■ a defined-benefit supplementary pension plan, under which are made on a regular basis. beneficiaries are also subject to seniority and presence conditions. Entitlements under this plan vest at an annual rate of 0.8% of a The various conditions of the retirement plan imply that, at legal reference remuneration calculated on the average of the target retirement age, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise will be able to receive remuneration for the past three years and capped at 20 years’ a gross replacement ratio (including statutory plans) of 32.58% of seniority, i.e. a maximum of 16% of the reference remuneration. his reference remuneration, and that Bertrand Neuschwander will be A collective defined-benefit plan is available for top management, able to receive a gross replacement ratio (including statutory plans) with a contribution equal to 8% of salary. Pensions earned under of 36.2% of his reference remuneration. this plan are deducted from the supplementary pension originating from the defined-benefit supplementary pension plan. Severance allowance and non-compete To be eligible for the defined benefit plans, Groupe SEB executives payments must have been a member of the Group Executive Committee or FOR THIERRY DE LA TOUR D’ARTAISE Management Board for at least eight years. Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise will not be entitled to any compensation The scheme is capped at 41% of the reference remuneration (including in the event of his dismissal from corporate office. the income from compulsory plans), this reference remuneration being itself capped at 36 times the annual social security ceiling in force at His employment contract, signed when he joined Groupe SEB in 1994 the time of retirement. and last amended when he was appointed CEO of the company, was suspended on 1 March 2005 for the duration of his term of office as As a result, the supplementary pension scheme for French top a corporate officer. management (including the Chairman and CEO and the Chief Operating In the same way, as for other Executive Committee members, the contract stipulates that in the event of termination of his employment contract at Groupe SEB’s initiative, except as a result of gross negligence or serious misconduct, or on his own initiative following a 256 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements change of control of Groupe SEB, Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise will be ■ as a salaried employee, for the preceding period; eligible for a total termination benefit equal to two years’ remuneration. ■ if he is dismissed after four years from his appointment as corporate In accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-42-1 of the French officer, the severance allowance will be adjusted based on actual Commercial Code, an addendum to this contract was signed making performance in relation to targets, in said capacity, over the last the termination benefit subject to performance conditions. The revised four full years of service; benefit is set at two years’ remuneration (calculated on the average ■ for both scenarios: remuneration earned during the last two complete financial years), and will be adjusted based on actual performance in relation to targets ■ if the average percentage achieved is below 50%: no termination over the last four years of service, as follows: benefits is paid, ■ if the average percentage achieved is below 50%, no termination ■ if average actual performance represents 50% to 100% of the benefits will be paid; targets: the termination benefit is comprised between 75% and 100%, based on a straight-line calculation, ■ if average actual performance represents 50% to 100% of the targets, the termination benefit will be comprised between 75% ■ if the average percentage achieved is above 100%: 100% of and 100%, based on a straight-line calculation; the benefit is paid. ■ if average actual performance exceeds the targets, the termination Furthermore, the severance allowance shall only be paid in the benefit will be paid in full. event of involuntary termination and remains capped at two years of remuneration (fixed and variable received), including the non-compete The Board of Directors retains the right to reduce such termination clause and any contractual indemnities for dismissal. benefits, by a maximum of one-half, if the previous year-end presents a net loss, without such benefits falling below the fixed salary plus Pursuant to the non-compete agreement, in the event of termination bonuses for the previous full financial year, should application of the of his term of office as Chief Operating Officer, through removal or performance criteria based on the achievement of targets confer resignation, he shall be prohibited for a one-year period, renewable entitlement to the payment of termination benefits. once, from working in any manner with a competitor of Groupe SEB. Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract does not contain In consideration for this non-compete clause and for its entire a non-competition clause. duration, Bertrand Neuschwander will receive a monthly non-compete payment amounting to 50% of his monthly average fixed and variable Entitlement to stock options in the event of termination: remuneration paid over his last 12 months of service within the Group. In the event that Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract is The Board of Directors may release Mr. Neuschwander from this terminated, except for serious misconduct or gross negligence, he will obligation by waiving the non-compete clause. be entitled to all the share purchase or subscription options granted to him under the same terms and conditions of exercise that would This non-compete agreement and the terms of severance detailed have applied had he remained in office. This provision will also apply above were approved by the Board of Directors on 22 April 2014. 6 in the event that Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract is They were also disclosed as part of the permanent information terminated by his resignation from the Group, were such resignation to related to remuneration and benefits. Furthermore, it was submitted arise from a change in the control of the Group. However, he will forfeit for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on the options that would have been granted to him over the 18 months 12 May 2015, in accordance with the procedures provided for relatedprior to the termination of his term of office as corporate officer should party agreements. he resign on his own initiative. CONTINUATION OF THE EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT FOR BERTRAND NEUSCHWANDER Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise began his career at Groupe SEB in In the event of dismissal, he will be entitled to severance payment 1994 and was appointed Vice-Chairman in 1999. He was appointed equal to two years’ remuneration, minus the amounts paid under the Chairman and CEO in 2000. In accordance with changing governance non-competition clause and any termination benefits connected to practice, his employment contract was suspended in 2005. the termination of the employment contract. On 17 February 2012, in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, The reference remuneration used to calculate the severance allowance the Board of Directors reviewed the situation and agreed that the consists of the last two years of fixed and variable remuneration that employment contract of Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise should remain Bertrand Neuschwander received in his capacity as Chief Operating suspended due to his age, his personal situation and his seniority Officer. within Groupe SEB. In accordance with Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial For Bertrand Neuschwander, on 22 April 2014, the Board of Directors Code, payment of the allowance will be subject to performance decided that the suspension of his employment contract was in line conditions, measured in the following manner: with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. ■ if he is dismissed within four years of his appointment as corporate Details of the remuneration policy and the components of the officer, the severance allowance will be adjusted based on actual remuneration of these two people appear in Note 2.5 Remuneration performance in relation to targets over the last four full years of Policy and are not reiterated in this note. service, as follows: ■ as corporate officer, for the period following his appointment, and GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 257 6 Company financial statements Notes to the SEB S.A. ﬁnancial statements Note 18. Post-balance sheet events On 8 January 2018, the company, through its subsidiary SEB ■ accelerate the development of sales in Egypt and make the most Internationale, announced the reinforcement of Groupe SEB in Egypt of this market’s strong potential; with its long-standing partner there, the Zahran family, through an ■ capitalize on the trusting relationship established over many years agreement to combine the small electrical applicances and cookware with the Zahran family; activities in order to consolidate its industrial base in Egypt and serve ■ strengthen the Group’s industrial base in the region to facilitate the local and export markets. access to certain markets in Africa and the Middle East. To further strengthen the existing partnership, Groupe SEB and the The transaction has been submitted to the approval of the Egyptian Zahran family decided to set up a new entity, Groupe SEB Egypt regulatory authorities and should be finalized in second-quarter 2018. Zahran, which is 55%-owned by Groupe SEB and 45% by Zahran. Bringing together the small electrical appliances and cookware businesses, the company aims to: Note 19. List of subsidiaries and affiliates NOTE 19.1. DETAILED INFORMATION CONCERNING SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES 19.1.1. Subsidiaries (more than 50%-owned) Aggregate carrying Percentage amount of shares in Loans and Dividends Equity before share of capital other subsidiaries advances Guarantees and received over (in € millions) appropriation * held and afﬁliates granted bonds given the period Calor S.A.S. 14.2 100% 83.9 12.8 S.A.S. SEB 6.1 100% 87.3 36.8 Tefal S.A.S. 36.8 100% 6.6 7.5 27.4 Rowenta France S.A.S. 6.2 100% 17.1 0 SEB Développement S.A.S. (5.0) 100% 14.8 10.6 Rowenta Invest BV 157.6 100% 211.8 0.3 SEB Internationale S.A.S. 1,361.1 100% 963.4 1,247.20 150 Groupe SEB France 132.5 98% 73.9 0 29.5 Groupe SEB Export 30.8 100% 38.0 15.2 16.5 Groupe SEB Moulinex 4.3 100% 50.2 6.7 Groupe SEB Retailing 1.0 100% 0.1 0.4 0 SEB Alliance 13.3 100% 18.6 3.1 Immobilière Groupe SEB 6.0 100% 6.7 93 Ethera (1.1) 56.90% 1.6 0 * The equity of subsidiaries does not include net proﬁt (loss) for the year, as the parent company ﬁnancial statements were not ﬁnalized at the date of publication of this document. 19.1.2. Affiliates (10% to 50%-owned) Aggregate carrying Percentage amount of shares in Loans and Dividends share of capital other subsidiaries advances Guarantees and received over (in € millions) Equity held and afﬁliates granted bonds given the period SIS 2.3 46.81% 0.5 7.4 0 The company considers that disclosure of results of individual NOTE 19.2. GENERAL INFORMATION CONCERNING subsidiaries could be seriously prejudicial to its interests. Additional OTHER SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES information analyzed by geographic segment is provided at consolidated level. Group consolidated sales generated by direct and Carrying amount of securities: €0.2 million indirect subsidiaries and affiliates totaled €6,484.6 million, and profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent came to €375.0 million. 258 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Company financial statements Five-year ﬁnancial summary 6.3. Five-year financial summary (in € thousands) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 SHARE CAPITAL AT YEAR-END a) share capital 50169 50,169 50,169 50,169 50,169 b) number of shares outstanding 50,169,049 50,169,049 50,169,049 50,169,049 50,169,049 c) number of convertible bonds outstanding OPERATIONS AND PROFIT (LOSS) FOR THE PERIOD a) net revenue, excluding tax b) profit before tax, depreciation, amortization and provisions 178,787 42,155 249,746 104,853 170,977 c) income taxes (26,464) (21,847) (22,768) (20,520) (24,590) d) profit after tax, depreciation, amortization and provisions 268,762 45,555 203,562 82,712 153,091 e) dividend payout * 103,288 88,589 79,161 73,700 67,351 EARNINGS PER SHARE (IN UNITS) a) profit after tax but before depreciation, amortization and provisions 4.09 1.27 4.52 2.47 3.90 b) profit after tax, depreciation, amortization and provisions 5.4 0.91 4.06 1.65 3.05 c) dividend per share 2.00 1.72 1.54 1.44 1.39 EMPLOYEES a) number of employees 2.00 2.00 2.00 1.60 1.00 6 b) total payroll 3,600.7 3,127 3,344 2,419 1,795 c) benefits paid (payroll taxes) 1,458.4 993 1,895 1,163 817 * Estimated in 2017. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 259 6 Company financial statements Statutory auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements 6.4. Statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements This is a translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the statutory auditors or veriﬁcation of the management report and other documents provided to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER, 31ST 2017 To the annual general meeting of SEB SA Company OPINION In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your annual general meeting, we have audited the accompanying financial statements of SEB SA for the year ended December, 31st 2017. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at December, 31st 2017 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. BASIS FOR OPINION AUDIT FRAMEWORK We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. INDEPENDENCE We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from January, 1st 2017 to the date of our report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 or in the French Code of ethics (code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. Furthermore, the non-audit services that we provided to your Company and its controlled undertakings during the financial year that are not disclosed in the management report or in the notes to the financial statements are as follows: ■ for both firms : letters of comfort as part of bond issue. ■ for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit : acquisition due diligences, as well as the issue of a certificate concerning accounting information of an entity. ■ For Mazars: an acquisition due diligence, the emission of the independent third organization report on the social, environmental and societal information, consultations concerning internal control related to the production and treatment of accounting and financial information, as well as certificates concerning accounting information of entities. EMPHASIS OF MATTER We draw attention to the matter described in Note 1.1 “Principles” to the financial statements relating to the change in the accounting methods following the ANC 2015-05 related to the accounting of the financial instruments and hedging activities. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. 260 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Company financial statements Statutory auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements JUSTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS KEY AUDIT MATTERS In accordance with the requirements of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the financial statements. VALUATION OF EQUITY INTERESTS AND RELATED RECEIVABLES (1.2 and 6.1 of the notes to the annual accounts) IDENTIFIED RISK As written in the 1.2 of the notes to the annual accounts, equity interests are booked at their purchase price (after the legal revaluation if necessary) including additional charges. At December 31st 2017, the equity interests and related receivables are booked for a net value of 4 340,3 millions euros which stands at 93% of the assets. At the closure, the equity interests are valued by the company at the inventory value. If this value is inferior to the net book value, a provision for impairment is observed, equals to the amount of the difference. The inventory value is estimated based on the share of the net asset, which can be, if necessary, reevaluated according to the financial prospects that include business models and economic environments of every subsidiary. Receivables from equity interests represent mainly overdrafts granted by SEB SA to its direct or indirect subsidiaries in accordance with the group financial policy. In view of the significant amount and of the uncertainties inherent to the use of certain elements, especially judgments and hypotheses taken on by the management to determine some forecasts, we have considered that the valuation of equity interests and related receivables was a 6 Key Audit Matter. AUDIT PROCEDURES EMPLOYED TO HEDGE THIS RISK In order to assess the reasonableness of the estimated value, based on the on the information which was given to us, our work consisted mainly in evaluating the relevance of the valuation method which was taken on by the management, and in verifying figures used, and, depending on the concerned equity interests: For the valuations based on historical elements: ■ check that the equity was in accordance with the reviewed audited accounts, and that reevaluations made, if necessary, on this equity, were based upon a supporting documentation. For the valuations based on estimate: ■ obtain the predictive cash flows and appreciate the consistency of the hypotheses with historical performances and economic environment, especially, the discounted method and the long-term growth rate. For all these concerned assets: ■ check the mathematical correctness of the inventory values that were taken on by the company; ■ assess the recoverability of the receivables from the equity interests according to the analysis made on equity shares. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 261 6 Company financial statements Statutory auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements VERIFICATION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT AND OF THE OTHER DOCUMENTS PROVIDED TO SHAREHOLDERS We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by French law. INFORMATION GIVEN IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT AND IN THE OTHER DOCUMENTS PROVIDED TO SHAREHOLDERS WITH RESPECT TO THE FINANCIAL POSITION AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors and in the other documents provided to Shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We attest that the Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance sets out the information required by Articles L. 225-37-3 and L. 225-37-4 of the French Commercial Code. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of Article L. 225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce) relating to compensation and benefits received by the directors and any other commitment made in their favour, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your company from controlling and controlled companies. Based on this work, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. With respect to the information relating to items that your company considered likely to have an impact in the event of a takeover or exchange offer, provided pursuant to Article L. 225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce), we have verified their compliance with the source documents communicated to us. Based on our work, we have no observation to make on this information. OTHER INFORMATION In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the purchase of investments and controlling interests and the identity of the shareholders and holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS APPOINTMENT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS We were appointed as statutory auditors of SEB SA by the annual general meeting held on May 12th 2015 for Mazars and on June 15th 1985 for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit. As at December, 31st 2017, Mazars and PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit were in the 3rd year and 33rd year of total uninterrupted engagement. 262 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Company financial statements Statutory auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with French accounting principles and for such internal control as management determines necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risks management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. STATUTORY AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OBJECTIVES AND AUDIT APPROACH Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As specified in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce), our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. 6 As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional judgment throughout the audit and furthermore: ■ Identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. ■ Obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control. ■ Evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the financial statements. ■ Assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein. ■ Evaluates the overall presentation of the financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 263 6 Company financial statements Statutory auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified. Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) N° 537/2014, confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce) and in the French Code of Ethics (code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and the related safeguards. Lyon and Courbevoie, March 26th, 2018 French original signed by PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars Nicolas BRUNETAUD Thierry COLIN 264 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 7.1. Information concerning the company 266 Corporate name: SEB S.A. Consultation of legal documents Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws) Allocation of profits (Article 46 of the bylaws) Annual General Meetings (Article 28 et seq. of the bylaws) Double voting rights (Article 35 of the bylaws) Limitation of voting rights Threshold clause (Article 8 of the bylaws) Identity of bearer shareholders Share capital at 31 December 2017 266 266 266 266 267 267 267 267 267 267 7 Factors which could affect a takeover bid 268 7.2. Information on share capital 269 Breakdown of share capital and voting rights at 31 December 2017 269 Changes in the share capital breakdown and voting rights over the last three years 271 Changes in the share capital over the last five years 272 Potential share capital at 31 December 2017 273 Changes in the share capital and voting rights breakdown over the last three years 273 7.3. Financial authorizations 274 Existing authorizations in relation to the share capital and share equivalents 274 7.4. Authorization for the company to trade in its own shares 274 Employee shareholding 275 Information Staff mutual investment fund and direct employee concerning the company and its shareholding 275 Statutory and discretionary employee profit-sharing 275 Stock option and performance share allocation policy 275 share capital History of stock option awards for share purchase 276 Performance shares awarded to staff 277 7.5. Stock market and dividend information 278 Stock market 278 Stock market information over three years 278 Transactions in 2017 on NYSE Euronext 278 Dividends – Dividend supplement 279 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 265 7 Information concerning the company and its share capital Information concerning the company 7.1. Information concerning the company CORPORATE NAME: SEB S.A. Registered head office: Campus SEB – 112, Chemin du Moulin Carron SEB share ISIN Code: FR0000121709 69130 Écully – France Form: limited company (société anonyme) Tel.: +33 (0) 472 18 18 18 Fax: +33 (0) 472 18 16 55 Financial year: 1 January to 31 December Business registration number: 300 349 636 RCS Lyon Law: French Industrial classification (NACE) Code: 6420 Z Duration: 99 years from 27 December 1973 LEI Code: 969500WP61NBK098AC47 CONSULTATION OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS The Company’s bylaws, minutes of Annual General Meetings and other company documents may be consulted at the company’s registered office. Company regulatory documents may be consulted on the Groupe SEB website: www.groupeseb.com CORPORATE PURPOSE (ARTICLE 3 OF THE BYLAWS) The purpose of the company in France and abroad covers: ■ the acquisition and registration of patents or inventions and the granting of all forms of licenses for the use of these patents; ■ investment in any company involved in any form of business and, therefore, the acquisition or subscription of all types of shares, ■ the acquisition, construction and management of real estate and debentures, capital holdings and interests, all types of marketable its disposal; securities, as well as the disposal of the said investments and ■ all operations contributing to the development of the company and marketable securities; to the achievement of the purpose specified above. ■ all operations concerning the financing of its subsidiaries and other companies in which it owns or may acquire a holding; ALLOCATION OF PROFITS (ARTICLE 46 OF THE BYLAWS) Profits are allocated in accordance with legal requirements and at least two financial years preceding the dividend payment, and which regulations. Dividends are drawn, as a priority, from distributable are still registered on the ex-dividend date. For any one shareholder, profits. this supplement is limited to a number of shares which may not exceed 0.5% of the share capital. This supplement may be altered or canceled The Annual General Meeting may offer shareholders a choice between by decision of an Extraordinary General Meeting which will then decide payment of dividends in cash or in new shares whose price is set on any new terms and conditions. beforehand as provided for by law. The General Meeting may, in addition, decide to distribute sums A supplementary dividend payment per share of 10% of the unit value drawn from the reserves at its disposal. In this case, the decision will of the reference dividend, which may be rounded down to the nearest expressly indicate the reserve items from which the drawings have even number of euro cents, will be paid in respect of shares registered been made. without interruption by the same shareholder in the nominal register for 266 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Information concerning the company and its share capital Information concerning the company ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGS (ARTICLE 28 ET SEQ. OF THE BYLAWS) Shareholders are notified of Annual General Meetings in accordance name or the name of the intermediary registered on the shareholder’s with legal requirements. behalf, by midnight, French time, on the second business day preceding the Annual General Meeting, either in registered share Each shareholder has the right to attend Annual General Meetings or accounts held by the company, or in bearer share accounts held by to be represented, regardless of the number of shares that they hold, the qualified intermediary. provided that said shares are fully paid up and registered in either their DOUBLE VOTING RIGHTS (ARTICLE 35 OF THE BYLAWS) Each member attending the Annual General Meeting is entitled to shares concerned are converted to bearer form or if their ownership exercise one vote for every share they hold or represent. Double is transferred, except in cases where the transfer involves a change voting rights are allocated to any fully paid-up share providing that of name in the register subsequent to family inheritance or gift. In the it has been held long enough in registered form in the name of the event of a capital increase by incorporation of reserves, profit or issue same shareholder. This registered holding period requirement set premiums, double voting rights are granted, as from their issuance, to by the founders at two years when the company was established registered shares allocated free of charge to a shareholder as a result in 1973, was extended to five years at the Annual General Meeting of the shares already held which benefit from said right. of 15 June 1985. Entitlement to double voting rights expires if the LIMITATION OF VOTING RIGHTS There is no statutory limitation on voting rights. THRESHOLD CLAUSE (ARTICLE 8 OF THE BYLAWS) There is an obligation to disclose any holding which exceeds the threshold, within the meaning of Articles L. 233-7 and L. 233-9 of the French Commercial Code, of 2.5% (or any multiple thereof) of the company’s share capital or voting rights. IDENTITY OF BEARER SHAREHOLDERS 7 The company may at any time, in accordance with the legal provisions ■ the number of shares held by each of them; and regulations in force, ask the Euroclear France securities settlement ■ where applicable, any restrictions to which these shares may be agency to provide: subject. ■ the personal name or company name, year of birth, address, and SEB S.A. makes such a request every year on 31 December. nationality of holders of shares of the company; SHARE CAPITAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 At 31 December 2017, the share capital stood at €50,169,049 and There are no stricter conditions than the law to modify shareholder was made up of 50,169,049 fully paid-up shares, representing rights. 74,312,802 total “theoretical” voting rights and 73,778,096 “effective” voting rights (excluding treasury shares). GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 267 7 Information concerning the company and its share capital Information concerning the company FACTORS WHICH COULD AFFECT A TAKEOVER BID Pursuant to Article L. 225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code, the SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENTS factors which could affect a takeover bid are as follows: OF WHICH THE COMPANY IS AWARE See following page: “Shareholder agreements – concerted voting CAPITAL STRUCTURE OF THE COMPANY blocks”. See following page: “Breakdown of share capital and voting rights at 31 December 2017”. POWERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN THE EVENT OF A TAKEOVER BID The Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2017 authorized the Board of Directors to implement a share buyback program in the event of a takeover bid, subject to legal and regulatory provisions. 268 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Information concerning the company and its share capital Information on share capital 7.2. Information on share capital BREAKDOWN OF SHARE CAPITAL AND VOTING RIGHTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Share capital Voting rights OGM EGM OGM EGM 31/12/2017 Shares % Shares % Votes % Effective % Theoretical Votes % Effective % Theoretical FÉDÉRACTIVE 4,284,033 8.54% 3 0.00% 8,503,392 11.53% 11.44% 6 0.00% 0.00% Associates 6,289,241 12.54% 10,628,271 21.18% 11,135,970 15.09% 14.99% 19,749,356 26.77% 26.58% SUB-TOTAL 10,573,274 21.08% 10,628,274 21.18% 19,639,362 26.62% 26.43% 19,749,362 26.77% 26.58% VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT 17,902 0.04% 17,902 0.04% 35,804 0.05% 0.05% 35,804 0.05% 0.05% Associates 9,088,086 18.11% 9,820,086 19.57% 18,084,442 24.51% 24.34% 19,548,442 26.50% 26.31% SUB-TOTAL 9,105,988 18.15% 9,837,988 19.61% 18,120,246 24.56% 24.38% 19,584,246 26.54% 26.35% FOUNDER GROUP 19,679,262 39.23% 20,466,262 40.79% 37,759,608 51.18% 50.81% 39,333,608 53.31% 52.93% FSP 2,633,876 5.25% 2,633,876 5.25% 2,633,876 3.57% 3.54% 2,633,876 3.57% 3.54% FFP Invest 2,521,522 5.03% 2,521,522 5.03% 5,043,044 6.84% 6.79% 5,043,044 6.84% 6.79% Employees 1,884,105 3.76% 1,884,105 3.76% 2,988,359 4.05% 4.02% 2,988,359 4.05% 4.02% French investors 5,973,687 11.91% 5,186,752 10.34% 7,051,155 9.56% 9.49% 5,477,220 7.42% 7.37% Foreign shareholders 14,645,072 29.19% 14,646,002 29.19% 15,103,528 20.47% 20.32% 15,105,387 20.47% 20.33% Individual shareholders 2,296,819 4.58% 2,295,825 4.58% 3,198,526 4.34% 4.30% 3,196,602 4.33% 4.30% Treasury shares 534,706 1.07% 534,706 1.07% TOTAL 50,169,049 50,169,049 73,778,096 74,312,802 73,778,096 74,312,802 As a reminder, voting rights attached to stripped shares belong to Some individuals who are partners of FÉDÉRACTIVE or VENELLE the bare holder for decisions covered by the Extraordinary General INVESTISSEMENT have granted the usufruct of their shares to Meeting (“EGM”) and to the usufruct holder for those covered by the foundations. These shares are included under “French investors” Ordinary General Meeting (“OGM”). Registered nominal shares held by the same person for at least five years give entitlement to double voting rights. at the OGM and under “FÉDÉRACTIVE Partners” or “VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT Partners” at the EGM. 7 The total number of “effective” voting rights or voting rights that SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENTS – are “exercisable at the Annual General Meeting” total 73,778,096, CONCERTED VOTING BLOCKS not including non-voting shares, i.e. those held by SEB S.A. at 31 December 2017. The FÉDÉRACTIVE and VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT family holding companies, representing, together with their associates, 53.31% of The total number of “theoretical” voting rights is 74,312,802. This the voting rights exercisable at the EGM, confirmed their intention number includes, under the terms of Article 223-11 of the AMF’s to implement a sustainable management policy for Groupe SEB in General regulations, all shares with voting rights attached, as well as writing to the AMF (French Financial Markets Authority) in letters dated non-voting shares. 11 May and 12 May 2009, with a view to ensuring the longevity of The term “Founder Group”, used in the table above, refers to a group their control and thus maintaining the concerted voting block formed of natural persons who are either direct descendants of the Lescure by the members of the Founder Group in May 1989. family or related to the family through marriage, and any legal entities The non-renewal of the shareholder agreement of 5 November 2005, that they control. which expired on 5 November 2009, did not, therefore, bring an end Some individuals who are partners of FÉDÉRACTIVE have temporarily to the concerted voting block formed by the parties to the agreement granted the usufruct of their shares to the controlling holding company within the meaning of Article L. 233-10 of the French Commercial FÉDÉRACTIVE, which represents the equity interests of some Code (AMF D&I no. 209C0644 of 12 May 2009). members of the founding family. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 269 7 Information concerning the company and its share capital Information on share capital Representatives of the two family holding companies also informed FÉDÉRACTIVE founding members (AMF D&I no. 208C1659 dated the Board of Directors of the wish of the voting block’s members 11 September 2008). and their representatives to exchange views prior to any significant decision and to maintain their previous agreement on the composition VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT agreement of the Board of Directors as determined in the 2005 agreement. As On 12 May 2009, VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT, its associates and such, FÉDÉRACTIVE may propose the appointment of five directors member shareholders entered into a shareholder agreement to ensure and VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT may propose the appointment of that VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT, its associates and its member four directors, with equal representation on Board Committees. shareholders mutually agreed as a matter of priority to a right of first At the time of the changes to the composition of the Board of Directors refusal applicable to any transfer or sale of shares subject to first that occurred in 2017 and that are presented in Chapter 2 of this refusal (AMF D&I no. 209C0743 dated 27 May 2009). Registration Document, the holding companies worked together In order to maintain the commitment to SEB’s share capital and take to reduce the number of their members on the Board of Directors, account of the interests of family shareholders including those that are namely four positions for FÉDÉRACTIVE and its members and three neither partners nor members of VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT or of for VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT and its members. FÉDÉRACTIVE, a new agreement was entered into on 19 November 2016. It brings together VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT, VENELLE PLUS, FÉDÉRACTIVE agreement the partners and members of VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT and is On 9 July 2008, FÉDÉRACTIVE, its associates and member intended to be open to all other family shareholders. shareholders concluded a shareholder agreement reinforcing their This new agreement is designed to strengthen the agreement of commitment to the Group. 12 May 2009, without replacing it, the latter continuing to bind the The provisions of this agreement set down preferential conditions parties thereto. It fleshes out and facilitates the exercise of prebetween its signatories for the sale or acquisition of SEB shares held, emption rights, introduces practical steps to ensure prior notification as well as a joint exit clause. They also provide for the participation of all planned transfers of SEB securities, including those under the of other investors willing to support the long-term development of pre-emption thresholds. Finally, it includes provisions organizing tagGroupe SEB and to take part in shareholder policies alongside the along rights and a subsidiary pre-emption right for SEB S.A. (AMF D&I no. 216C2696 dated 1 December 2016). COLLECTIVE COMMITMENTS TO HOLD SHARES Agreements in force during 2017 2013 2014 2016 Dutreil Dutreil Dutreil Art 885 I bis Art 885 I bis Jacob Jacob Art 885 I bis Jacob Jacob Jacob of the of the Art 787 B of Art 787 B of of the Art 787 B of Art 787 B of Art 787 B of French French the French the French French the French the French the French General Tax General Tax General Tax General Tax General Tax General Tax General Tax General Tax Regime Code Code Code Code Code Code Code Code Date of signing 12/12/2013 03/12/2014 03/12/2014 03/12/2014 01/12/2016 01/12/2016 01/12/2016 01/12/2016 Term of collective commitment 6 years 5 years 2.5 years 5 years 6 years 2 years 4 years 6 years Expiry date of commitment 12/12/2019 03/12/2019 03/06/2017 03/12/2019 01/12/2022 01/12/2018 01/12/2020 01/12/2022 1 year 1 year 1 year by tacit by tacit by tacit Renewal terms renewal renewal None None renewal None None None Shares pledged upon signing the agreement, as a percentage of the share capital 22.78 27.34 27.34 27.34 26.48 26.48 26.48 26.48 Shares pledged upon signing the agreement, as a percentage of the voting rights 29.06 36.15 36.15 36.15 36.43 36.43 36.43 36.43 Thierry de Thierry de Thierry de Thierry de Thierry de Thierry de Thierry de Thierry de Names of signatory La Tour La Tour La Tour La Tour La Tour La Tour La Tour La Tour executive officers d’Artaise d’Artaise d’Artaise d’Artaise d’Artaise d’Artaise d’Artaise d’Artaise Names of signatories holding at least 5% of the share capital and/or voting rights FSP FSP FSP FSP 270 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Information concerning the company and its share capital Information on share capital CHANGES IN THE SHARE CAPITAL BREAKDOWN AND VOTING RIGHTS OVER THE LAST THREE YEARS Share capital Voting rights OGM EGM OGM EGM 31/12/2017 Shares % Shares % Votes % Effective % Theoretical Votes % Effective % Theoretical FÉDÉRACTIVE 4,284,033 8.54% 3 0.00% 8,503,392 11.53% 11.44% 6 0.00% 0.00% Associates 6,289,241 12.54% 10,628,271 21.18% 11,135,970 15.09% 14.99% 19,749,356 26.77% 26.58% SUB-TOTAL 10,573,274 21.08% 10,628,274 21.18% 19,639,362 26.62% 26.43% 19,749,362 26.77% 26.58% VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT 17,902 0.04% 17,902 0.04% 35,804 0.05% 0.05% 35,804 0.05% 0.05% Associates 9,088,086 18.11% 9,820,086 19.57% 18,084,442 24.51% 24.34% 19,548,442 26.50% 26.31% SUB-TOTAL 9,105,988 18.15% 9,837,988 19.61% 18,120,246 24.56% 24.38% 19,584,246 26.54% 26.35% FOUNDER GROUP 19,679,262 39.23% 20,466,262 40.79% 37,759,608 51.18% 50.81% 39,333,608 53.31% 52.93% FSP 2,633,876 5.25% 2,633,876 5.25% 2,633,876 3.57% 3.54% 2,633,876 3.57% 3.54% FFP Invest 2,521,522 5.03% 2,521,522 5.03% 5,043,044 6.84% 6.79% 5,043,044 6.84% 6.79% Employees 1,884,105 3.76% 1,884,105 3.76% 2,988,359 4.05% 4.02% 2,988,359 4.05% 4.02% French investors 5,973,687 11.91% 5,186,752 10.34% 7,051,155 9.56% 9.49% 5,477,220 7.42% 7.37% Foreign shareholders 14,645,072 29.19% 14,646,002 29.19% 15,103,528 20.47% 20.32% 15,105,387 20.47% 20.33% Individual shareholders 2,296,819 4.58% 2,295,825 4.58% 3,198,526 4.34% 4.30% 3,196,602 4.33% 4.30% Treasury shares 534,706 1.07% 534,706 1.07% TOTAL 50,169,049 50,169,049 73,778,096 74,312,802 73,778,096 74,312,802 Share capital Voting rights OGM EGM OGM EGM 31/12/2016 Shares % Shares % Votes % Effective % Theoretical Votes % Effective % Theoretical 7 FÉDÉRACTIVE 4,360,202 8.69% 3 0.00% 8,620,655 11.67% 11.57% 6 0.00% 0.00% Associates 6,265,675 12.49% 10,680,874 21.29% 11,098,968 15.03% 14.90% 19,829,617 26.85% 26.62% SUB-TOTAL 10,625,877 21.18% 10,680,877 21.29% 19,719,623 26.70% 26.48% 19,829,623 26.85% 26.62% VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT 17,902 0.04% 17,902 0.04% 35,804 0.05% 0.05% 35,804 0.05% 0.05% Associates 9,110,214 18.16% 9,842,214 19.62% 18,086,605 24.49% 24.28% 19,550,605 26.47% 26.25% SUB-TOTAL 9,128,116 18.19% 9,860,116 19.65% 18,122,409 24.54% 24.33% 19,586,409 26.52% 26.30% FOUNDER GROUP 19,753,993 39.37% 20,540,993 40.94% 37,842,032 51.24% 50.81% 39,416,032 53.37% 52.92% FSP 2,633,876 5.25% 2,633,876 5.25% 2,633,876 3.57% 3.54% 2,633,876 3.57% 3.54% FFP Invest 2,521,522 5.03% 2,521,522 5.03% 5,043,044 6.83% 6.77% 5,043,044 6.83% 6.77% Employees 1,851,530 3.69% 1,851,530 3.69% 2,877,877 3.90% 3.86% 2,877,877 3.90% 3.86% French investors 5,420,681 10.80% 4,633,681 9.24% 7,007,456 9.49% 9.41% 5,433,456 7.36% 7.30% Foreign shareholders 15,086,206 30.07% 15,087,136 30.07% 15,290,252 20.70% 20.53% 15,292,111 20.70% 20.53% Individual shareholders 2,279,131 4.54% 2,278,202 4.54% 3,165,129 4.29% 4.25% 3,163,270 4.28% 4.25% Treasury shares 622,110 1.24% 622,110 1.24% TOTAL 50,169,049 50,169,049 73,859,666 74,481,776 73,859,666 74,481,776 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 271 7 Information concerning the company and its share capital Information on share capital Share capital Voting rights OGM EGM OGM EGM 31/12/2015 Shares % Shares % Votes % Effective % Theoretical Votes % Effective % Theoretical FÉDÉRACTIVE 5,929,938 11.82% 3 0.00% 11,754,363 16.47% 16.22% 6 0.00% 0.00% Associates 4,751,921 9.47% 10,736,856 21.40% 8,350,058 11.70% 11.53% 20,214,415 28.32% 27.90% SUB-TOTAL 10,681,859 21.29% 10,736,859 21.40% 20,104,421 28.17% 27.75% 20,214,421 28.32% 27.90% VENELLE INVESTISSEMENT 17,902 0.04% 17,902 0.04% 35,804 0.05% 0.05% 35,804 0.05% 0.05% Associates 9,215,372 18.37% 9,947,372 19.83% 18,255,787 25.58% 25.20% 19,719,787 27.63% 27.22% SUB-TOTAL 9,233,274 18.40% 9,965,274 19.86% 18,291,591 25.63% 25.25% 19,755,591 27.68% 27.27% FOUNDER GROUP 19,915,133 39.70% 20,702,133 41.26% 38,396,012 53.80% 53.00% 39,970,012 56.00% 55.17% FSP 2,633,876 5.25% 2,633,876 5.25% 2,633,876 3.69% 3.64% 2,633,876 3.69% 3.64% FFP Invest 2,521,522 5.03% 2,521,522 5.03% 2,521,522 3.53% 3.48% 2,521,522 3.53% 3.48% Employees 1,652,695 3.29% 1,652,695 3.29% 2,730,128 3.83% 3.77% 2,730,128 3.83% 3.77% French investors 6,135,174 12.23% 5,348,174 10.66% 7,832,506 10.97% 10.81% 6,258,506 8.77% 8.64% Foreign shareholders 13,914,926 27.74% 13,915,855 27.74% 14,055,425 19.69% 19.40% 14,057,284 19.70% 19.40% Individual shareholders 2,321,270 4.63% 2,320,341 4.63% 3,203,300 4.49% 4.42% 3,201,441 4.49% 4.42% Treasury shares 1,074,453 2.14% 1,074,453 2.14% TOTAL 50,169,049 50,169,049 71,372,769 72,447,222 71,372,769 72,447,222 At 31 December 2017, nearly 6,600 shareholders owned registered PURE REGISTERED SEB S.A. SHARES USED AS SEB shares and 15,500 shareholders held SEB bearer shares (request COLLATERAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 for information about the identity of bearer shareholders dated 31 December 2017). During the year, 14 individual shareholders used pure registered SEB shares as collateral for loans for the benefit of their financial Not including the shareholders mentioned in the tables above, and to intermediaries. This concerned a total of 164,262 shares, or 0.33% the best of the company’s knowledge, there are no other shareholders of the share capital. that directly or indirectly hold more than 5% of the share capital or voting rights at 31 December 2017. OppenheimerFunds, Inc., acting on behalf of the funds that it manages, declared on 20 October 2017 that it had fallen below a threshold, stating that it held 2,422,612 shares, or 4.83% of the share capital and 3.26% of the theoretical voting rights at 31 December 2017. CHANGES IN THE SHARE CAPITAL OVER THE LAST FIVE YEARS Changes Subsequent in number Issue premium capital amounts Year Nature of the capital increase of shares Par value (in €) (in €) (in €) 2013 No change to share capital 50,169,049 2014 No change to share capital 50,169,049 2015 No change to share capital 50,169,049 2016 No change to share capital 50,169,049 2017 No change to share capital 50,169,049 272 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Information concerning the company and its share capital Information on share capital POTENTIAL SHARE CAPITAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 On 17 November 2016, as part of the financing of the WMF acquisition, to be hit, the only equity securities to be provided to holders of these the company issued €150 million in ORNAE bonds (bonds with ORNAE would be existing company shares. The conversion would optional reimbursement in cash and/or existing shares). In accordance thus not be dilutive for shareholders. with the provisions of the issue contract, were the conversion price CHANGES IN THE SHARE CAPITAL AND VOTING RIGHTS BREAKDOWN OVER THE LAST THREE YEARS In 2015: ■ two reclassifications of shares with double voting rights impacted the voting rights held by FÉDÉRACTIVE associates for an amount ■ part of the temporary grant of the usufruct of shares to FÉDÉRACTIVE of 180,199 shares in November and 30,000 shares in December; ended on 1 July and was not renewed; FÉDÉRACTIVE also acquired and transferred the usufruct of the shares of some of its associates. ■ the voting rights attached to the shares held by FFP Invest, These transactions did not alter the overall stake of FÉDÉRACTIVE amounting to 5.03% of the share capital, were doubled after being and its associates; held in registered form for five years, which had a slight dilutive effect on the other shareholders’ voting rights. ■ in September, a reclassification of 340,250 shares with double voting rights impacted the voting rights held by FÉDÉRACTIVE In 2017: associates. ■ part of the temporary grant of the usufruct of shares to FÉDÉRACTIVE In 2016: ended on 1 July and was not renewed; FÉDÉRACTIVE also acquired and transferred the usufruct of the shares of some of its associates. ■ part of the temporary grant of the usufruct of shares to FÉDÉRACTIVE These transactions did not alter the overall stake of FÉDÉRACTIVE ended on 1 July and was not renewed; FÉDÉRACTIVE also acquired and its associates. and transferred the usufruct of the shares of some of its associates; These transactions did not alter the overall stake of FÉDÉRACTIVE and its associates; 7 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 273 7 Information concerning the company and its share capital Financial authorizations 7.3. Financial authorizations EXISTING AUTHORIZATIONS IN RELATION TO THE SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE EQUIVALENTS Authorization End of Used at Type of operation Resolution no. date authorization Maximum authorized 31/12/2017 Treasury share purchases in 2017 for no more 5,016,904 shares than €130 per share 11 19/05/2016 10/05/2017 €652,197,637 241,633 shares Treasury share purchases in 2017 for no more 5,016,904 shares than €190 per share 11 11/05/2017 11/07/2018 €953,211,931 205,914 shares Cancellation of treasury shares 12 11/05/2017 11/07/2018 5,016,904 shares Shares: 5 million aggregate par value Issuing of all shares or share equivalents Debt securities: with pre-emptive subscription rights (a) 13 11/05/2017 11/07/2018 €500 million Shares: 5 million aggregate par value Issuing of all shares or share equivalents Debt securities: without pre-emptive subscription rights (a) 14 11/05/2017 11/07/2018 €500 million (a) Blanket ceiling of 2 authorizations to issue €10 million aggregate shares or share equivalents 16 11/05/2017 11/07/2018 par value Capital increase by capitalization of reserves, €10 million aggregate profit or premiums or additional paid-in capital 17 11/05/2017 11/07/2018 par value 0.3907% of the Authorization to award performance shares to share capital Group executive officers and employees 18 11/05/2017 11/07/2018 196,000 shares 193,450 shares AUTHORIZATION FOR THE COMPANY TO TRADE IN ITS OWN SHARES Further to the authorizations conferred upon it by the General In 2017, a total of 313,440 shares were purchased at an average price Meetings of 2016 and 2017 and pursuant to Article 225-209 of the of €147.55, and 314,817 shares were sold at an average price of French Commercial Code, 228,914 shares were acquired in 2017 at €147.23, under the liquidity contract. Transaction costs amounted to an average price of €151.84. €36,000 incl. tax (this includes the annual fee for the liquidity contract, commissions and the Tax on Financial Transactions). In accordance with Article 6.3 (b) of European Commission regulation no. 2273/2003 of 22 December 2003, these 228,914 shares were At 31 December 2017, the company held 534,706 of its own shares acquired through Natixis Corporate Broking, which is responsible for with a par value of €1, and a gross value of €82,585,341.70. These the buyback program. treasury shares represent 1.07% of the company’s share capital, of which 528,784 under the buyback agreement and 5,922 under the 149,866 shares have been sold following the exercising of purchase liquidity contract. options at an average price of €49.55, and 165,075 performance shares under the 2014 plan were permanently vested. The company will renew its request to the Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2018 for authorization to trade in its own shares. In addition, the company concluded a liquidity contract with Natixis Corporate Broking, with effect from 1 September 2013. The contract complies with the Code of Ethics issued by the French association of financial markets (Association française des marchés financiers), which was approved by the AMF on 8 March 2011. 274 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Information concerning the company and its share capital Employee shareholding 7.4. Employee shareholding STAFF MUTUAL INVESTMENT FUND AND DIRECT EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDING At 31 December 2017, employees of Groupe SEB companies held addition of SEB shares held by employees outside the savings 1,216,288 shares, 755,670 of which were owned via an employee scheme, employees held a total of 3.76% of the share capital and mutual investment fund and 460,618 were directly owned, representing 4.05% of the voting rights. 2.42% of the share capital and 2.85% of the voting rights. With the STATUTORY AND DISCRETIONARY EMPLOYEE PROFIT-SHARING To attract and retain competent and motivated employees at all ■ a Group bonus plan agreement, based on a statutory plan, but which levels, Groupe SEB has always combined its dynamic remuneration is discretionary. This Group-level agreement allows a fair distribution and career management policies with an active policy of long-term of the sums from the bonus plan between the employees of the employee shareholding and staff participation in profits, through: various French companies, regardless of their business sector and performance. ■ an exceptional Group profit-sharing agreement, which involves all employees of the French companies in shareholding and profitIn 2017, charges recognized for profit-sharing and bonus plans sharing with significantly more attractive terms than legally required. amounted to €37.6 million. Depending on the year, the exceptional share is between two and four times the legal amount of profit-sharing; Over the past five years, the sums assigned were as follows: (in € millions) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Sum allocated 37.2 33.3 31.4 36.7 37.6 Of which employer’s social tax contribution 6.2 5.3 5.2 6.1 6.3 STOCK OPTION AND PERFORMANCE SHARE ALLOCATION POLICY 7 Groupe SEB operates two types of stock option or performance CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PERFORMANCE shares plans: SHARES AWARDED ■ periodically, an allocation of stock options to members of The Group started issuing performance shares in 2009. management, extended to the Group’s various entities, according to their individual responsibilities, performance and potential; The shares are awarded to recipients following a three-year vesting ■ occasionally, a broader allocation aimed at rallying employees period (two years for plans before 2013), subject to performance and around a specific project. continued employment requirements. Beneficiaries of the shares awarded must retain them for an additional two years, except for the Furthermore, all recipients of stock options and/or performance shares 2017 plan, for which there is no additional lock-up period. receive an internal directive put out each year for the following annual reporting period, defining the blackout periods in accordance with the The performance-based criteria are related to the achievement of recommendations of the AMF in terms of the company’s accounting targets for Sales and Operating Result from Activity over the vesting calendar, and particularly the announcement of earnings. The Stock period. Market Ethics Charter memo also reminds its recipients of the rules regarding the use of information deemed privileged by stock market regulations. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 275 7 Information concerning the company and its share capital Employee shareholding CHARACTERISTICS OF STOCK OPTIONS The stock options last for eight years. They can only be exercised AWARDED four years from their award date. The stock options awarded to the Chief Executive Officer and to The Group awarded stock options until 2012. the other members of the Executive Committee are subject to The exercise price is equal to the average of the last 20 stock market performance-based criteria related to targets for Sales and Operating prices preceding the date of award by the Board. No discount is Result from Activity. Some of these criteria are yearly, while others proposed on this average price. pertain to a four-year period. HISTORY OF STOCK OPTION AWARDS FOR SHARE PURCHASE At 31 December 2017 Purchase plan Purchase plan Purchase plan Meeting date 13/05/2009 12/05/2010 10/05/2012 Number of options authorized by the General Meeting 598,945 649,373 415,000 Duration of the authorization 14 months 14 months 14 months Date of Board of Directors’ Meeting 12/06/2009 18/06/2010 15/06/2012 Number of options granted 371,300 412,592 408,925 of which to the Management Committee 254,250 259,442 175,500 of which to executive officers 71,250 59,942 54,000 of which to employee recipients of the largest number of options 72,900 57,600 49,400 Number of initial recipients 111 144 186 Stock option exercise start date 12/06/2013 18/06/2014 15/06/2016 Expiration date 12/06/2017 18/06/2018 15/06/2020 PURCHASE PRICE (IN €) 28.05 53.86 54.12 Average of last 20 prices prior to Board Meeting (in €) 28.05 53.85 54.11 Number of options exercised 353,484 355,388 291,505 Number of options canceled 17,816 18,513 17,621 BALANCE OF STOCK OPTIONS NOT YET EXERCISED 38,691 99,799 276 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Information concerning the company and its share capital Employee shareholding PERFORMANCE SHARES AWARDED TO STAFF At 31 December 2017 General Meeting date 15/05/2014 12/05/2015 19/05/2016 11/05/2017 Number of shares authorized by the General Meeting 171,325 171,075 171,075 196,000 Duration of the authorization 14 months 14 months 14 months 14 months Date of Board of Directors’ Meeting 22/07/2014 12/05/2015 19/05/2016 11/05/2017 Number of shares granted: 169,175 169,450 168,605 193,450 of which to executive officers 27,000 27,000 27,000 27,000 of which to the Management Committee/Executive Committee (excluding executive officers)(a) 54,825 54,000 47,250 47,250 of which 10 largest amounts awarded to employees (excluding executive officers/Executive Committee/ Management Committee) 20,640 19,500 16,200 22,650 Number of initial recipients: 183 189 199 245 of which to executive officers 2 2 2 2 of which to the Management Committee/Executive Committee (excluding executive officers) (a) 16 15 7 7 of which 10 largest amounts awarded to employees (excluding executive officers/Executive Committee/ Management Committee) 23 22 10 11 Award date 22/07/2014 12/05/2015 19/05/2016 11/05/2017 Vesting date 22/07/2017 12/05/2018 19/05/2019 11/05/2020 Expiry of lock-up period 22/07/2019 12/05/2020 19/05/2021 11/05/2020 Number of shares canceled 4,100 3,425 3,600 0 Number of shares awarded 165,075 0 0 0 BALANCE OF SHARES YET TO BE ALLOCATED 0 166,025 165,005 193,450 (a) The Management Committee was discontinued on 1 September 2015, to simplify operations and ensure faster decision-making. The Group’s Management is now concentrated in one structure, the Executive Committee, which has gained three new members, bringing the total to nine. Stock options granted in 2017 OPTIONS GRANTED TO THE TEN NON-EXECUTIVE OFFICER EMPLOYEES WHOSE NUMBER GRANTED IS THE HIGHEST Total number of options allocated Not applicable Weighted average price NA Plan in question NA 7 Stock options exercised in 2017 OPTIONS EXERCISED BY THE TEN NON-EXECUTIVE OFFICER EMPLOYEES WHOSE NUMBER EXERCISED IS THE HIGHEST Date of the plan 12/06/2009 18/06/2010 15/06/2012 Type of stock options Purchase Purchase Purchase Price of option €28.05 €53.86 €54.12 Quantity of options exercised 22,838 12,055 49,313 Performance shares granted in 2017 PERFORMANCE SHARES GRANTED TO THE TEN NON-EXECUTIVE OFFICER EMPLOYEES WHOSE NUMBER GRANTED IS THE HIGHEST Total number of shares granted 55,900 Performance shares vested in 2017 PERFORMANCE SHARES VESTED IN THE TEN NON-EXECUTIVE OFFICER EMPLOYEES WHOSE NUMBER VESTED IS THE HIGHEST Date of the plan 22/07/2014 Quantity 49,000 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 277 7 Information concerning the company and its share capital Stock market and dividend information 7.5. Stock market and dividend information STOCK MARKET The company’s shares are listed on Paris Euronext, compartment A, under ISIN Code FR0000121709. They are included in the Euronext 3722 Durable Household Products index. STOCK MARKET INFORMATION OVER THREE YEARS 2017 2016 2015 Stock market capitalization at 31 December (in € millions) 7,749 6,459 4,746 Highest price mid-session €169.900 €136.000 €97.450 Lowest price mid-session €115.700 €79.900 €58.010 Closing price on the last trading day €154.450 €128.750 €94.600 Average of the last 30 prices for the year €154.185 €128.135 €93.653 Average of the closing prices for the year €145.896 €109.626 €80.180 Average daily trading volume (number of shares) 53,452 60,252 79,811 TRANSACTIONS IN 2017 ON NYSE EURONEXT Number of Capital traded shares traded (in € thousands) Highest price Lowest price mid-session (in €) mid-session (in €) Daily averages 2017 146.93 144.77 53,452 7,644 January 130.35 115.70 86,623 10,433 February 131.40 116.00 77,655 9,539 March 130.90 122.85 52,384 6,589 April 150.00 128.30 54,342 7,418 May 158.05 146.35 52,059 7,938 June 164.45 155.05 48,741 7,750 July 161.25 149.00 50,850 7,912 August 155.75 147.30 35,228 5,365 September 158.05 149.20 37,788 5,815 October 169.90 155.05 45,777 7,421 November 161.35 151.20 54,090 8,469 December 155.40 148.15 47,483 7,230 278 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Information concerning the company and its share capital Stock market and dividend information DIVIDENDS – DIVIDEND SUPPLEMENT It is SEB S.A.’s policy to ensure that its shareholders are given a fair at least 31 December 2015 and still held on the ex-dividend date of return on the capital they invest in the Group. The Board of Directors 21 May 2018. No single shareholder will be entitled to the dividend aims to ensure regular and continuous growth in dividend payments. supplement on any shares in excess of 0.5% of the company’s share capital. A 10% dividend supplement, rounded down to the nearest even number of euro cents, will be paid in 2018 to long-term shareholders The term of dividend limitation is five years, as from the payment in respect of shares registered in the same shareholder’s name since date. After this time, unclaimed dividends are paid over to the State. Number of Ordinary dividend Years remunerated shares per share (in €) 2013 Dividend 48,234,105 1.32 Dividend supplement 18,759,948 0.132 2014 Dividend 48,621,121 1.39 Dividend supplement 17,434,675 0.139 2015 Dividend 49,237,120 1.44 Dividend supplement 18,902,996 0.144 2016 Dividend 49,283,700 1.54 Dividend supplement 19,067,423 0.154 2017 Dividend 49,619,442 1.72 Dividend supplement 18,816,050 0.172 Based on the 2017 results, a net dividend of €2 per share will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2018. The ex-dividend date will be 21 May and the dividend will be paid on 23 May 2018. 7 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 279 280 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 8 8.1. Agenda for the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 282 Resolutions to be submitted to the Ordinary General Meeting 282 Resolutions to be submitted to the Extraordinary General Meeting 282 8.2. Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 283 Ordinary resolutions 283 Extraordinary resolutions 288 8.3. Statutory auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments Shareholders’ Meeting for the approval 297 Annual General Meeting of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 297 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 281 8 Annual General Meeting Agenda for the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 8.1. Agenda for the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 RESOLUTIONS TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 1. Approval of the separate financial statements for the year ended 7. Approval of the principles and criteria for determining, distributing 31 December 2017. and awarding the components of the remuneration and benefits 2. Approval of the consolidated financial statements for the year in kind awarded to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise, Chairman and ended 31 December 2017. Chief Executive Officer, and to Bertrand Neuschwander, Chief Operating Officer (Sapin 2 law). 3. Allocation of the result for the year ended 31 December 2017 and setting of the dividend. 8. Approval of the fixed and variable components of the total remuneration and benefits in kind due or granted for the 2017 4. Reappointment of Delphine Bertrand as director. financial year to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise, Chairman and Chief 5. Reappointment of FÉDÉRACTIVE, represented by Sarah Executive Officer. Chauleur, as director. 9. Approval of the fixed and variable components of the total 6. Reappointment of Jean-Noël Labroue as director. remuneration and benefits in kind due or granted for the 2017 financial year to Bertrand Neuschwander, Chief Operating Officer. 10. Authorization to be granted to the Board of Directors for the company to buy back its own shares. RESOLUTIONS TO BE SUBMITTED TO THE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING 11. Authorization to be granted to the Board of Directors enabling 15. Blanket ceiling on financial authorizations. the company to cancel its own shares. 16. Delegation of authority to be granted to the Board of Directors 12. Delegation of authority granted to the Board of Directors to to increase the share capital by capitalizing retained earnings, increase the share capital by issuing ordinary shares and/or share profit, premiums or other items that may be capitalized. equivalents and/or debt securities, with pre-emption rights. 17. Authorization to be granted to the Board of Directors to grant 13. Delegation of authority granted to the Board of Directors to issue performance shares. ordinary shares and/or share equivalents and/or debt securities, 18. Authorization to be granted to the Board of Directors to carry out with waiving of pre-emption rights in the course of a public share capital increases restricted to members of a company or offering. group savings scheme with waiving of pre-emption rights. 14. Delegation of authority granted to the Board of Directors to issue 19. Powers to carry out formalities. ordinary shares and/or share equivalents and/or debt securities, with waiving of pre-emption rights as part of an offering governed by Article L. 411-2 II of the French Monetary and Financial Code (private placement). 282 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 8.2. Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 This Chapter presents the Board of Directors’ report on the draft resolutions as well as the full text of the resolutions that will be submitted to the Combined General Meeting of SEB S.A. to be held in Paris on 16 May 2018. ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS RESOLUTIONS 1, 2 AND 3: APPROVAL OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (SEPARATE AND CONSOLIDATED), ALLOCATION OF THE RESULT FOR 2017 AND SETTING OF THE DIVIDEND Board of Directors’ report By voting on resolutions 1 and 2, the Board of Directors invites ■ a net dividend having a nominal value of €1 per ordinary share, shareholders to approve: up 16.3% compared with the 2016 dividend; ■ the separate financial statements for the year ended ■ a supplementary dividend of 10%, amounting to €0.2 per share. 31 December 2017 which show a net profit of €268,762,000, The supplementary dividend will be paid on shares registered prior compared with €45,554,698.03 for 2016; to 31 December 2015 and continuing to be registered in the name ■ the consolidated financial statements for the year ended of the same holder until the ex-dividend date of 21 May 2018. 31 December 2017 which show a net profit attribu table These shares represent 57.30% of the outstanding total. No single to owners of the parent of €375,048,000, compared with shareholder will be entitled to the supplementary dividend on any €258,574,000 for 2016. shares in excess of 0.5% of the company’s share capital. Details of these financial statements appear in the 2017 Annual The ex-dividend date will be 21 May 2018. The dividend will be Financial Report, the main elements of which are contained in the paid as from 23 May 2018. meeting notice relating to the Annual General Meeting of 16 May 2018. The dividend and the supplementary dividend qualify for the The aim of resolution 3 is to invite shareholders to allocate the net exemption referred to in Article 158-3 of the French General Tax profit for 2017 and to set the dividend amount as follows: Code. RESOLUTION 1: APPROVAL OF THE SEPARATE FINANCIAL RESOLUTION 2: APPROVAL OF THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum and majority voting requirements for Ordinary General Meetings, having considered the reports of the Board of Directors, the Chairman 31 DECEMBER 2017 The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum and majority voting requirements for Ordinary General Meetings, 8 and the statutory auditors on the company’s operations and results for having considered the reports of the Board of Directors and the the year ended 31 December 2017, approves the financial statements statutory auditors, approves the consolidated financial statements for as presented, which show net profit of €268,762,000. the year ended 31 December 2017, which show net profit attributable to owners of the parent of €375,048,000. GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 283 8 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 RESOLUTION 3: ALLOCATION OF THE RESULT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 AND SETTING OF THE DIVIDEND The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum and majority voting requirements for Ordinary General Meetings, on the proposal of the Board of Directors, resolves to appropriate the net profit for 2017 of €268,762,000 as follows: Net profit 268,762,000 Retained earnings brought forward from prior year 775,019,816 Dividends on treasury shares credited to retained earnings 792,432 Profit available for distribution 1,044,574,248 Dividend 99,545,666 Dividend supplement 3,741,907 Retained earnings 941,286,675 The amount distributed to share dividend per shareholders represents in the name of the same holder throughout the period between a dividend €2 per share having a nominal value of €1. 31 December 2015 and the ex-dividend date, 21 May 2018. The ex-dividend date will be 21 May 2018 and the dividend will be However, no single shareholder will be entitled to the supplementary paid as from 23 May 2018. dividend on any shares in excess of 0.5% of the company’s capital. Furthermore, as provided for in Article 46 of the company’s bylaws, a The dividend distributed qualifies for the 40% exemption for natural supplementary dividend of 10% of the dividend, amounting to €0.2 per persons who are tax residents of France, as per Article 158.3-2 of the share having a nominal value of €1, will be paid on shares registered French General Tax Code. The Annual General Meeting acknowledges that dividends distributed for the last three years were as follows: Dividend qualifying for 40% abatement Dividend not Dividend per Premium per qualifying for 40% Financial year share share Dividend Premium abatement 2014 1.44 0.144 1.44 0.144 2015 1.54 0.154 1.54 0.154 2016 1.72 0.172 1.72 0.172 RESOLUTIONS 4, 5 AND 6: REAPPOINTMENT OF THREE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors’ report We hereby inform shareholders that the Board of Directors took communication at FÉDÉRACTIVE, as the permanent representative note of the expiry of the terms of office of Delphine Bertrand, of FÉDÉRACTIVE. She co-founded the Fondation Première Pierre FÉDÉRACTIVE, represented by Sarah Chauleur, and Jean-Noël (FPP). Labroue at the end of the Annual General Meeting. Jean-Noël Labroue, aged 70, graduated from an engineering On the recommendation of the Nominations and Remuneration school and holds a Master of Science degree from Northwestern Committee, the purpose of resolutions 4, 5 and 6 is to submit University Chicago. He has spent almost all of his career at the for your approval the reappointment as directors, for four years, Darty Group. of Delphine Bertrand, of FÉDÉRACTIVE, represented by Sarah At its meetings on 27 February 2018, the Board of Directors Chauleur as permanent representative, and Jean-Noël Labroue. deemed Delphine Bertrand, of FÉDÉRACTIVE, represented by Delphine Bertrand, aged 53, has been Communications Officer for Sarah Chauleur, and Jean-Noël Labroue, capable of assuming FÉDÉRACTIVE since 2013. She co-founded Fondation Première the duties of director and of making an effective contribution to Pierre (FPP) and completed the “objectif administratrice” training the work of the Board of Directors. course at the EM Lyon Business School. Please also note that information on directors whose appointment Sarah Chauleur, aged 46, holds a postgraduate degree in or reappointment is proposed can be found in Chapter 2 “Corporate Information Science and Communication and is head of Governance” of the Registration Document 2017. 284 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 RESOLUTION 4: REAPPOINTMENT OF DELPHINE BERTRAND FÉDÉRACTIVE, represented by Sarah Chauleur, as director for a period AS DIRECTOR of four years expiring at the close of the Ordinary General Meeting The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum to be held to approve the financial statements for the year ending and majority voting requirements for Ordinary General Meetings, 31 December 2021. having considered the report of the Board of Directors, reappoints RESOLUTION 6: REAPPOINTMENT OF JEAN-NOËL LABROUE Delphine Bertrand as director for a period of four years expiring at AS DIRECTOR the close of the Ordinary General Meeting to be held to approve the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2021. The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum and majority voting requirements for Ordinary General Meetings, RESOLUTION 5: REAPPOINTMENT OF FÉDÉRACTIVE, having considered the report of the Board of Directors, reappoints REPRESENTED BY SARAH CHAULEUR, AS DIRECTOR Jean-Noël Labroue as director for a period of four years expiring at The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum the close of the Ordinary General Meeting to be held to approve the and majority voting requirements for Ordinary General Meetings, financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2021. having considered the report of the Board of Directors, reappoints RESOLUTION 7: APPROVAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING, DISTRIBUTING AND AWARDING THE COMPONENTS OF THE REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS OF ANY KIND Board of Directors’ report Pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, and Remuneration Committee. Full details of these components resolution 7 invites shareholders to approve the principles and can be found in the report in Chapter 2.5 of the Registration criteria for determining, distributing and awarding the fixed, Document 2017. variable and extraordinary components of the total remuneration Pursuant to Article L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, and benefits in kind awarded to the Chairman and Chief Executive the amounts resulting from the application of these principles Officer and the Chief Operating Officer in consideration for the and criteria will be submitted for shareholder approval at the performance of their duties in 2018 constituting the remuneration Annual General Meeting to be held to approve the 2018 financial policy applying to them. statements. These principles and criteria are determined annually by the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Nominations RESOLUTION 7: APPROVAL OF THE PRINCIPLES AND approves the principles and criteria for determining, distributing and CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING, DISTRIBUTING AND AWARDING awarding the fixed, variable and extraordinary components of the total THE COMPONENTS OF THE REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS remuneration and benefits in kind awarded, as consideration for their IN KIND AWARDED TO THIERRY DE LA TOUR D’ARTAISE, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, AND TO duties, to Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise, Chairman and Chief Executive BERTRAND NEUSCHWANDER, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER Officer, as well as to Bertrand Neuschwander, Chief Operating Officer, as set out in detail in the report accompanying the report referred to in The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum Articles L. 225-100 and L. 225-102 of the French Commercial Code, and majority voting requirements for Ordinary General Meetings, presented in the Registration Document 2017. 8 pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 285 8 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 RESOLUTIONS 8 AND 9: APPROVAL OF THE FIXED AND VARIABLE COMPONENTS OF THE TOTAL REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS OF ALL KINDS PAID OR ALLOCATED TO THIERRY DE LA TOUR D’ARTAISE, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, AND BERTRAND NEUSCHWANDER, CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER, FOR FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 Board of Directors’ report Pursuant to Article L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, as Neuschwander, Chief Operating Officer, must be approved by the amended by the law on transparency, the fight against corruption Annual General Meeting. and the modernization of the economy (Sapin 2 Law), the fixed Details of the various remuneration components are provided in the and variable components of the total remuneration and benefits 2017 Registration Document, Chapter 2 “Corporate governance”, in kind due or granted for the 2017 financial year to Thierry de La section 5 “Say on Pay: Remuneration due or awarded to executive Tour d’Artaise, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Bertrand officers in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017”. RESOLUTION 8: APPROVAL OF THE FIXED AND VARIABLE RESOLUTION 9: APPROVAL OF THE FIXED AND VARIABLE COMPONENTS OF THE TOTAL REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS COMPONENTS OF THE TOTAL REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS OF ALL KINDS PAID OR ALLOCATED FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR OF ALL KINDS PAID OR ALLOCATED FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2017 TO MR. THIERRY DE LA TOUR D’ARTAISE, CHAIRMAN AND 2017 TO MR. BERTRAND NEUSCHWANDER, CHIEF OPERATING CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OFFICER Pursuant to Articles L.225-37-2 and 225-100 of the French Commercial Pursuant to Articles L.225-37-2 and 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, the Annual General Meeting, deliberating in accordance with Code, the Annual General Meeting, deliberating in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for Ordinary General Meetings, the quorum and majority requirements for Ordinary General Meetings, approves the fixed and variable components of the total remuneration approves the fixed and variable components of the total remuneration and benefits of all kinds paid or allocated for the financial year 2017 to and benefits of all kinds paid or allocated for the financial year 2017 Mr. Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to Mr. Bertrand Neuschwander, Chief Operating Officer, as set out in as set out in the « Say on pay Remuneration due or awarded for the « Say on pay Remuneration due or awarded for 2017 » section 2017 » section of Chapter 2 « Corporate governance » of the 2017 of Chapter 2 « Corporate governance » of the 2017 Registration Registration Document. Document. RESOLUTION 10: AUTHORIZATION TO BE GRANTED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR THE COMPANY TO BUY BACK ITS OWN SHARES Board of Directors’ report The Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2017 authorized the Board Directors, for a period of 14 months, to trade in company shares of Directors to trade in the company’s shares. In 2017, under its at a maximum price of €210 per share, excluding trading fees. share buyback program, the company bought back 228,914 shares The authorization would represent a maximum of 10% of the share at an average price of €151.84 and sold 149,866 shares upon capital. the company may buy back its own shares with a view to: exercise of stock options at an average price of €49.55. In addition, a total of 313,440 shares were purchased at an average price of ■ maintaining a liquid market for the company’s shares through an €147.55 and 314,817 shares sold at an average price of €147.23 investment service provider acting on a fully independent basis; under the liquidity contract. ■ allocating shares to eligible employees and officers of the At 31 December 2017, the company held 534,706 treasury shares company; with a par value of €1 and a gross value of €82,585,341.7. These ■ canceling shares in order to increase return on equity and treasury shares represent 1.07% of the company’s share capital, earnings per share or to offset the dilutive impact of any capital including 528,784 under the buyback agreement and 5,922 under increases on existing shareholders’ interests; the liquidity contract. ■ delivering or exchanging shares in connection with any future These transactions are also described in Chapter 7 of the external growth transactions; Registration Document, “Information on the company and its ■ allocating shares on the exercising of rights attached to share capital”. securities. Since the existing authorization is due to expire in July 2018, In accordance with the law, these shares have been stripped of resolution 10 invites shareholders to again authorize the Board of their voting rights. 286 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 RESOLUTION 10: AUTHORIZATION TO BE GRANTED TO THE ■ that the Board of Directors may adjust the above price, in the BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR THE COMPANY TO BUY BACK ITS case of any change in the shares’ par value, by capitalizing OWN SHARES reserves, any stock-split or reverse stock-split, any return of The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum capital or capital reduction, any distribution of reserves or assets, and majority voting requirements for Ordinary General Meetings, or any other corporate action, to take into account the effect having considered the report of the Board of Directors, resolves: thereof on the share price. In this case, the price will be adjusted ■ to terminate the share buyback program authorized by the based on the ratio between the number of shares outstanding Combined General Meeting of 11 May 2017; before and after the corporate action, ■ to adopt the program described below, and accordingly: ■ that the total amount invested in the share buyback program may not exceed €1,053,550,029, ■ to authorize the Board of Directors, or any representative of the Board empowered to act on the Board’s behalf, in accordance ■ that the shares may be bought back by any appropriate with Article L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, method and accordingly that all or part of the program may be to buy back shares of the company representing up to 10% of implemented on the market or through block purchases – and, the share capital, subject to the limits set down by law, if appropriate, through over-the-counter sales – or by means of public buyback or exchange offers, or through the use of options ■ that the shares may be bought back for the following purposes: and derivative instruments, other than written puts. The buybacks i) to maintain a liquid market for SEB’s shares through an may be carried out at any time at the Board’s discretion, subject independent investment service provider under a liquidity to compliance with the applicable securities regulations. The contract that complies with the AMAFI Code of Ethics recognized shares purchased under this authorization may be kept, sold or by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers, transferred by any method, including through block sales, at any ii) for allocation to eligible employees and officers of the company time including while a public tender offer is in progress, or the Group in the form of performance shares governed by ■ to give full powers to the Board of Directors, including the power Article L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, or of delegation, to: in payment of statutory employee profit-shares, or in connection i) carry out the transactions and set the related terms and with an employee stock ownership or stock saving plan, conditions, iii) for cancellation, in order to increase return on equity and earnings ii) place all orders on or off the stock market, per share and/or to offset the dilutive impact of any capital increases on existing shareholders’ interests, provided that such iii) adjust the maximum purchase price of the shares to take into cancellation is authorized by the Extraordinary General Meeting, account the effect on the share price of any of the corporate actions referred to above, iv) for delivery or exchange in connection with any future external growth transactions, up to a limit of 5% of the capital, iv) enter into any and all agreements for the keeping of a register of share purchases and sales or for any other purpose, v) for allocation on the exercising of rights attached to securities that are convertible, exercisable, redeemable or exchangeable v) fulfill any and all reporting obligations with the Autorité des for the assignment of company shares, in accordance with the Marchés Financiers and any other bodies, applicable stock market regulations; vi) carry out any and all formalities; ■ that shares may not be bought back under this authorization for ■ that this authorization is given for a period expiring at the Ordinary more than €210 per share, excluding trading fees, General Meeting to be called to approve the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 or 14 months, whichever is shorter. 8 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 287 8 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 EXTRAORDINARY RESOLUTIONS RESOLUTION 11: AUTHORIZATION TO BE GRANTED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ENABLING THE COMPANY TO CANCEL ITS OWN SHARES Board of Directors’ report The Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2017 authorized the Board Board of Directors to cancel some or all of its shares, under the of Directors to cancel some or all of the shares acquired under the same terms and conditions. share buyback program, provided the number of shares canceled This authorization would be given for a period of 14 months from in any 24-month period does not exceed 10% of the share capital. the date of the Annual General Meeting. As the existing authorization is due to expire in July 2018, resolution 11 invites shareholders to once again authorize the RESOLUTION 11: AUTHORIZATION TO BE GRANTED TO THE paid-in capital and retained earnings, with an amount corresponding BOARD OF DIRECTORS ENABLING THE COMPANY TO CANCEL to 10% of the share capital reduction being deducted from the ITS OWN SHARES legal reserve; The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum ■ authorizes the Board of Directors to place on record the capital and majority voting requirements for Extraordinary Meetings, having reduction(s), amend the bylaws to reflect the new capital and carry considered the report of the Board of Directors and the statutory out any and all formalities, make all declarations to any organizations auditors’ report: and generally undertake whatever is necessary; ■ authorizes the Board of Directors to cancel, on one or more ■ authorizes the Board of Directors to delegate all necessary powers occasions at its discretion, some or all of the shares currently held to permit the implementation of its decisions, subject to compliance or that may be held in the future by the company following share with the laws and regulations in force when this authorization is buybacks carried out pursuant to Article L. 225-209 of the French used; Commercial Code, provided the number of shares canceled in ■ grants this authorization to the Board of Directors for a period of any 24-month period does not exceed 10% of the total shares 14 months and consequently decides that this authorization cancels outstanding. The difference between the purchase price of the all authorizations given previously for the same purpose. canceled shares and their par value will be deducted from additional 288 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 RESOLUTIONS 12, 13, 14 AND 15: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO BE GIVEN TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE SHARE EQUIVALENTS WITH OR WAIVING PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS IN THE COURSE OF PUBLIC OFFERINGS OR PRIVATE PLACEMENTS; AGGREGATE LIMIT OF TRANSACTIONS UNDER THESE DELEGATIONS SET AT A PAR VALUE OF €10 MILLION, REPRESENTING AROUND 20% OF THE SHARE CAPITAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Board of Directors’ report We would ask that shareholders give the Board of Directors the Given the significance of using these delegations, we would point necessary powers to issue share equivalents that give immediate out that the Board of Directors may only use them if the decision or future access to equity in the company or any company in which is approved by a qualified majority of 12/14 of the directors. it directly or indirectly owns more than half of the share capital, in Previously set at 12/15, this majority was adjusted to reflect the order to give the freedom to raise the funds the Group needs to new composition of the Board of Directors. grow, as it sees fit and as market opportunities allow. The maximum par value of the share capital increases that may Shareholders will be asked, by voting on resolution 12, to give be made under these delegations would be set at €5 million, or the Board of Directors the power to decide to carry out one or approximately 10% of the share capital. In addition, the nominal more share capital increases, while maintaining pre-emption rights. value of debt securities that may be issued may not exceed The maximum par value of share capital increases that may be €500 million. All of these delegations of authority would thus be carried out under this delegation would be set at €5 million, or valid for a period of 14 months. approximately 10% of the share capital at 31 December 2017. If and when the authorizations are used, the Board of Directors will In order to readily take any opportunities that may arise, we would prepare an additional report describing the final terms of the issue, ask shareholders to pass resolutions 13 and 14 and thereby including the basis for setting the issue price, the impact of the delegate authority to the Board of Directors to issue ordinary shares issue on the situation of existing shareholders and the estimated and/or share equivalents and/or debt securities, in the course of impact on the share price, as required by law. public offerings or private placements. Pre-emption rights shall be In its previous delegations, the Annual General Meeting of 11 May waived for these issues, although the Board of Directors may grant 2017 had given the Board of Directors the power to increase the shareholders a preferential right to subscribe for such issues, for share capital within the same limits as those stated above. These the period and in the manner of its choosing. authorizations, given for 14 months, were not used. By law, the issue price must be at least equal to the weighted In addition, in resolution 15, we invite shareholders to set at average price over the three trading sessions prior to being set, €10 million the maximum par value of the share capital increases with a maximum possible discount of 5%. that may be carried out by the Board of Directors pursuant solely to the delegations granted in resolutions 12, 13 and 14. RESOLUTION 12: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY GRANTED regulation, to issue, on one or more occasions, company shares TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO INCREASE THE SHARE and securities giving immediate or future access, by any means, CAPITAL BY ISSUING ORDINARY SHARES AND/OR SHARE to equity in the company or any company in which it directly EQUIVALENTS AND/OR DEBT SECURITIES, WITH PREEMPTION RIGHTS or indirectly owns more than half of the share capital or equity securities giving entitlement to debt securities, denominated in The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum euros or in foreign currencies, in France or on the international 8 and majority voting requirements for Extraordinary Meetings, having market, and to determine the timing and amounts of said issues; considered the report of the Board of Directors and the statutory ■ resolves that issues of preference shares or securities convertible auditors’ special report and in accordance with Articles L. 225-129 to L. 225-129-6, L. 225-132, L. 225-133, L. 225-134 and L. 228-91 et by any means, immediately or in the future, into preference shares seq. of the French Commercial Code: are expressly excluded from this delegation of authority; ■ resolves that any shares and securities issued under this delegation ■ gives the Board of Directors the power to decide by a qualified may be subscribed for in cash or by offsetting against outstanding majority of 12 of the 14 members present or represented, with the receivables; power to further delegate in the manner provided for by law and GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 289 8 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 ■ resolves that the amount of share capital increases that shall be the rights attached to the securities to be issued for a period of carried out, immediately and/or in the future, under this delegation no more than three months, to determine the arrangements for may not exceed a par value of €5 million, not including the par value protecting the rights of holders of share equivalents that give future of any additional shares to be issued to protect the rights of holders access to equity, pursuant to applicable laws, regulations and, as of share equivalents in accordance with applicable laws, regulations the case may be, contractual provisions, to write off any and all and, as the case may be, contractual provisions; amounts against the issue premium, including the issuance costs, ■ moreover resolves that the nominal value of debt securities issued and to take all necessary or appropriate measures and enter into pursuant to this delegation may not exceed €500 million or the any and all agreements in connection with the placement of the equivalent of this amount in the case of issues denominated in issues, to place on record the resulting share capital increase(s) foreign currencies; and to amend the bylaws to reflect the new capital. In the case of any issue of debt securities, the Board of Directors shall have ■ resolves that shareholders shall, in the manner provided for by full powers, including the right to delegate such powers under the law, have pre-emption rights to subscribe pro-rata to their existing conditions set by law and regulation, to decide whether to issue interest in the company’s capital. In addition, the Board of Directors subordinated or unsubordinated debt, to set the interest rate, the may grant shareholders a pre-emption right to subscribe any shares life of the securities, the redemption price – which may be fixed or and/or share equivalents not taken up by other shareholders. If the variable and may or may not include a call premium – the terms issue is oversubscribed, such additional pre-emption right shall also of early redemption depending on market conditions and the be exercisable pro-rata to the existing interest in the company’s basis on which the debt securities are convertible, exchangeable, capital of the shareholders concerned. redeemable or otherwise exercisable for shares of the company; If the issue is not taken up in full by shareholders exercising their ■ grants this authorization to the Board of Directors for a period of pre-emption rights as described above, the Board of Directors may 14 months and consequently decides that this authorization cancels take one or other of the following courses of action, in the order all authorizations given previously for the same purpose. of its choice: ■ limit the amount of the issue to the subscriptions received, RESOLUTION 13: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY GRANTED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE ORDINARY SHARES provided at least three-quarters of the issue is taken up, AND/OR SHARE EQUIVALENTS AND/OR DEBT SECURITIES, ■ freely allocate some or all of the unsubscribed securities, WITH WAIVING OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS IN THE COURSE OF A PUBLIC OFFERING ■ offer some or all of the unsubscribed securities to the public; The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum ■ resolves that subscription warrants for the company’s shares may and majority voting requirements for Extraordinary Meetings, having be offered for subscription on the above basis, or allocated among considered the report of the Board of Directors and the statutory holders of existing shares without consideration; auditors’ special report and in accordance with Articles L. 225-129 ■ establishes that this authorization may automatically entail the to L. 225-129-2, L. 225-136 and L. 228-91 et seq. of the French waiver in favor of holders of securities giving future access to equity Commercial Code: in the company that may be issued through conversion, exchange, exercise of a warrant or any other means, by shareholders, of their ■ gives the Board of Directors the power to decide by a qualified pre-emption right to subscribe for the shares issued on the basis majority of 12 of the 14 members present or represented, with of those securities; the power to further delegate in the manner provided for by law and regulation, to issue by way of a public offering, on one or ■ resolves that the amount to be received by the company for each more occasions, company shares and any hybrid securities giving share issued immediately or in the future under this delegation shall immediate or future access by any means to equity in the company not represent less than the par value of the shares, after taking or any company in which it directly or indirectly owns more than account in the case of the issue of stand-alone warrants or other half of the share capital or equity securities giving entitlement to primary securities of the issue price of said warrants or securities; debt securities, denominated in euros or in foreign currencies, in ■ resolves that the Board of Directors shall be fully empowered France or on the international market, and to determine the timing to use this delegation, with the power to further delegate in the and amounts of said issues; manner provided for by law and regulation, to in particular increase ■ resolves that any shares and securities issued under this delegation the share capital and determine the securities to be issued, may be subscribed for in cash or by offsetting against outstanding determine the dates and terms of the issues, as well as the form receivables; and characteristics of the securities to be issued, set the issue price and terms, the amount of each issue, the cum-rights date ■ resolves that the amount of share capital increases that shall be which may be set retrospectively, the terms of settlement of the carried out, immediately or in the future, under this delegation may subscription price of the shares or other securities issued and, not exceed a par value of €5 million, not including the par value of if appropriate, the conditions under which they may be bought any additional shares to be issued to protect the rights of holders back on the open market, the right to suspend the exercise of of share equivalents in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and, as the case may be, contractual provisions; 290 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 ■ resolves that the nominal value of debt securities issued pursuant back, the right to suspend the exercise of the rights attached to the to this delegation may not exceed €500 million or the equivalent of securities to be issued for a period of no more than three months, this amount in the case of issues denominated in foreign currencies; determine the arrangements for protecting the rights of holders ■ resolves that shareholders shall not have a pre-emption right to of share equivalents that give future access to equity, pursuant to subscribe for securities issued under this resolution, but that the applicable laws, regulations and, as the case may be, contractual Board of Directors may grant shareholders a preferential right to provisions, to write off any and all amounts against the issue subscribe for some or all of the issue, for a period and on terms premium, including the issuance costs, and to take all necessary to be decided in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. or appropriate measures and enter into any and all agreements in Said priority right shall not be transferable but the Board of Directors connection with the placement of the issues, to place on record may allow shareholders to subscribe the issue and any securities the resulting share capital increase(s) and to amend the bylaws to not taken up by other shareholders pro-rata to their existing reflect the new capital. shareholdings; The Board of Directors shall be fully empowered, with the power to ■ resolves that if any issue of the aforementioned securities is not further delegate in the manner provided for by law and regulation, taken up in full by existing shareholders and the public, the Board to decide whether to issue subordinated or unsubordinated debt of Directors may limit the amount of the issue to the value of the securities, set the interest rate, maturity, redemption price (which subscriptions received, provided at least three-quarters of the may be fixed or variable and may or may not include a premium), issue is taken up, or freely allocate some or all of the unsubscribed terms of early redemption depending on market conditions and the securities; basis on which these securities give access to company equity; ■ establishes that this authorization may automatically entail the ■ grants this authorization to the Board of Directors for a period of waiver in favor of holders of securities giving future access to equity 14 months and consequently decides that this authorization cancels in the company that may be issued through conversion, exchange, all authorizations given previously for the same purpose. exercise of a warrant or any other means, by shareholders, of their RESOLUTION 14: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY GRANTED TO pre-emption right to subscribe for the shares issued on the basis THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE ORDINARY SHARES of those securities; AND/OR SHARE EQUIVALENTS AND/OR DEBT SECURITIES, WITH WAIVING OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS AS PART OF AN ■ establishes that public offerings of shares and/or securities decided OFFERING GOVERNED BY ARTICLE L. 411-2 II OF THE FRENCH under this delegation of authority may be combined, as part of a MONETARY AND FINANCIAL CODE single issue or multiple issues of shares and/or of securities, with The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum offerings falling within the scope of Article L. 411-2 II of the French and majority voting requirements for Extraordinary Meetings, having Monetary and Financial Code decided pursuant to the delegation considered the report of the Board of Directors and the statutory of authority in resolution 14 of this Annual General Meeting; auditors’ special report and in accordance with Articles L. 225-129 ■ formally records that, pursuant to Article L. 225-136 of the French to L. 225-129-2, L. 225-136 and L. 228-91 et seq. of the French Commercial Code: Commercial Code: ■ the issue price of directly issued shares must be at least equal ■ gives the Board of Directors the power to decide by a qualified to the minimum price permitted under applicable laws and majority of 12 of the 14 members present or represented, with regulations on the date of the issue, the power to further delegate in the manner provided for by law ■ the issue price of securities giving access or potentially giving and regulation, to issue by way of an offering falling within the access to equity in the company must be such that the sum scope of Article 411-2 II of the French Monetary and Financial Code received immediately by the company plus, as the case may (private placement), on one or more occasions, company shares be, any sum it may subsequently receive for each share issued and any hybrid securities giving immediate or future access by as a result of the issue of these securities is at least equal to any means to equity in the company or any company in which it the minimum subscription price defined in the above paragraph; directly or indirectly owns more than half of the share capital or 8 ■ resolves that the Board of Directors shall be fully empowered equity securities giving entitlement to debt securities, denominated to use this delegation, with the power to further delegate in in euros or in foreign currencies, in France or on the international the manner provided for by law and regulation, to in particular market, and to determine the timing and amounts of said issues; determine the dates and terms of the issues, as well as the form ■ resolves that the amount of share capital increases that shall be and characteristics of the securities to be issued, set the issue carried out, immediately or in the future, under this delegation may price and terms, the amount of each issue, the cum-rights date not exceed a par value of €5 million, not including the par value of which may be set retrospectively, the terms of settlement of the any additional shares to be issued to protect the rights of holders subscription price of the shares or other securities issued and, of share equivalents in accordance with applicable laws, regulations if appropriate, the conditions under which they may be bought and, as the case may be, contractual provisions; GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 291 8 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 ■ resolves that any shares and securities issued under this delegation determine the dates and terms of the issues, as well as the form may be subscribed for in cash or by offsetting against outstanding and characteristics of the securities to be issued, set the issue receivables; price and terms, the amount of each issue, the cum-rights date ■ resolves that the nominal value of debt securities issued pursuant which may be set retrospectively, the terms of settlement of the to this delegation may not exceed €500 million or the equivalent of subscription price of the shares or other securities issued and, this amount in the case of issues denominated in foreign currencies; if appropriate, the conditions under which they may be bought back, the right to suspend the exercise of the rights attached to the ■ resolves that shareholders shall not have a pre-emption right to securities to be issued for a period of no more than three months, subscribe for securities to be issued pursuant to this resolution; determine the arrangements for protecting the rights of holders ■ resolves that if any issue of the aforementioned securities is not of share equivalents that give future access to equity, pursuant to taken up in full, the Board of Directors may limit the amount of the applicable laws, regulations and, as the case may be, contractual issue to the value of the subscriptions received, provided at least provisions, to write off any and all amounts against the issue three-quarters of the issue is taken up, or freely allocate some or premium, including the issuance costs, and to take all necessary all of the unsubscribed securities; or appropriate measures and enter into any and all agreements in ■ establishes that this authorization may automatically entail the connection with the placement of the issues, to place on record waiver in favor of holders of securities giving future access to equity the resulting share capital increase(s) and to amend the bylaws to in the company that may be issued through conversion, exchange, reflect the new capital. exercise of a warrant or any other means, by shareholders, of their The Board of Directors shall be fully empowered, with the power to pre-emption right to subscribe for the shares issued on the basis further delegate in the manner provided for by law and regulation, of those securities; to decide whether to issue subordinated or unsubordinated debt ■ establishes that the offerings that fall within the scope of securities, set the interest rate, maturity, redemption price (which Article L. 411-2 II of the French Monetary and Financial Code may be fixed or variable and may or may not include a premium), decided under this resolution may be combined, as part of a terms of early redemption depending on market conditions and the single issue or multiple issues of shares and/or of securities, with basis on which these securities give access to company equity; public offerings decided pursuant to the delegation of authority in ■ grants this authorization to the Board of Directors for a period of resolution 14 of this Annual General Meeting; 14 months and consequently decides that this authorization cancels ■ formally records that, pursuant to Article L. 225-136 of the French all authorizations given previously for the same purpose. Commercial Code: RESOLUTION 15: BLANKET CEILING ON FINANCIAL ■ the issue price of directly issued shares must be at least equal AUTHORIZATIONS to the minimum price permitted under applicable laws and The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum regulations on the date of the issue, and majority voting requirements for Extraordinary Meetings, having ■ the issue price of securities giving access or potentially giving considered the report of the Board of Directors, resolves to set access to equity in the company must be such that the sum at €10 million the maximum par value of immediate and/or future received immediately by the company plus, as the case may share capital increases that may be carried out pursuant to the be, any sum it may subsequently receive for each share issued authorizations in resolutions 12, 13 and 14, not including the par value as a result of the issue of these securities is at least equal to of any additional shares to be issued to protect the rights of existing the minimum subscription price defined in the above paragraph; holders of share equivalents, in accordance with laws, regulations ■ resolves that the Board of Directors shall be fully empowered and, as the case may be, contractual provisions. to use this delegation, with the power to further delegate in Consequently, the value of each issue carried out under any of the the manner provided for by laws and regulations, and by the abovementioned resolutions will be deducted from this ceiling. applicable contractual stipulations if these exist, to in particular 292 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 RESOLUTION 16: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO BE GRANTED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO INCREASE THE SHARE CAPITAL BY CAPITALIZING RETAINED EARNINGS, PROFIT, PREMIUMS OR OTHER ITEMS THAT MAY BE CAPITALIZED Board of Directors’ report The shareholders are asked, by voting on resolution 16, to enable This authorization would enable the Board of Directors to resolve to the Board of Directors to increase the share capital by capitalizing increase the share capital by a maximum of €10 million and would retained earnings, profit, premiums or additional paid-in capital be valid for a period of 14 months. with a view to granting performance shares. RESOLUTION 16: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY GRANTED TO The Annual General Meeting resolves that the Board of Directors shall THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO INCREASE THE SHARE CAPITAL have the power to decide that fractional shares will be non-transferable BY CAPITALIZING RETAINED EARNINGS, PROFIT, PREMIUMS and that the corresponding shares will be sold, with the proceeds of OR OTHER ITEMS THAT MAY BE CAPITALIZED such sale attributed to the rights holders no later than thirty (30) days The Annual General Meeting, meeting as an Extraordinary General following the date on which the whole number of shares allocated to Meeting but voting in accordance with the quorum and majority voting them is recorded in their account. requirements for Ordinary General Meetings, having considered the The Annual General Meeting fully empowers the Board of Directors, report of the Board of Directors, gives the Board the necessary powers with the power to further delegate in the manner provided for by law to carry out one or more share capital increases by successively or and regulation, to determine the timing and terms of the issues, set simultaneously capitalizing some or all of the company’s retained the amounts thereof, take the necessary action to protect the rights earnings, profit or additional paid-in capital or any items that may be of holders of share equivalents that give immediate or future access capitalized under the bylaws or by law, and to issue and award bonus to equity, deduct any sums necessary to top up the legal reserve and shares and/or raise the par value of existing shares or a combination more broadly take all appropriate measures to enable the successful of both. completion and carry out all actions and formalities required to effect The Annual General Meeting resolves that the maximum par value of the capital increase(s) and accordingly amend the bylaws. share capital increases that shall be made under this delegation may The Annual General Meeting sets this authorization granted to the not exceed €10 million, it being noted that this ceiling is independent Board of Directors at a period of 14 months and consequently decides of the ceiling provided for in resolution 15. that this authorization cancels all authorizations given previously for the same purpose. 8 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 293 8 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 RESOLUTION 17: AUTHORIZATION TO BE GRANTED TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR THE GRANTING OF PERFORMANCE SHARES Board of Directors’ report In order to provide an ongoing incentive to key Group employees (0.0179% of the share capital) for Bertrand Neuschwander. We by offering them an opportunity to share in the Group’s growth and would ask shareholders to set the operational performance results, shareholders will be asked, in resolution 17, to authorize measurement period at three years, following which the shares the Board to grant bonus shares representing up to 0.3907% of shall vest for beneficiaries. the company’s share capital or 196,000 shares, comprising existing The Board of Directors feels that assessing performance criteria shares bought back for this purpose by the company. The grants over a sufficiently long period, namely three years, is in accordance would be made to some or all employees of the company and its with the Group’s long-term outlook while remaining a source of subsidiaries, or to certain categories of those employees and/or motivation for beneficiaries. to the senior executives referred to in Article L. 225-197-1 II of the French Commercial Code. The performance shares granted will not be subject to any additional lock-up period for either French or foreign residents. All performance shares will vest only if certain performance targets This is in line with legislation and market practice since 2017. for sales and Operating Result from Activity are met, as set by the Board of Directors each year, based on budgetary objectives We would ask shareholders to fully empower the Board of Directors assigned to the Group. to set the terms and conditions of these grants, including in order to determine the identity of the beneficiaries of the performance The number of shares awarded to the corporate officers is share grants. unchanged and will be limited to 18,000 shares (0.0359% of the share capital) for Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise and to 9,000 shares This authorization would be given for a period of 14 months from the date of the Annual General Meeting. RESOLUTION 17: AUTHORIZATION TO BE GRANTED TO THE The Annual General Meeting resolves to set a vesting period of BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO GRANT PERFORMANCE SHARES three years with effect from the date of grant by the Board of Directors The Annual General Meeting, voting in accordance with the quorum during which period the rights shall not be transferable and at the and majority voting requirements for Extraordinary Meetings, having end of which the rights shall vest to the beneficiaries, provided the considered the report of the Board of Directors and the statutory performance targets for sales and Operating Result from Activity, auditors’ special report: assessed over the three-year vesting period, have been met, in accordance with Article L. 225-197-3 of the French Commercial Code. ■ authorizes the Board of Directors, in accordance with Articles L. 2251971 to L. 225-197-5 of the French Commercial The Annual General Meeting fully empowers the Board of Directors, Code, to award existing bonus shares in the company on one within the limits set out above, to: or more occasions, to employees of the company or certain ■ draw up the list of beneficiaries or decide the category/categories categories of employee and/or to the top management referred of beneficiaries, bearing in mind that no shares may be awarded to in Article L. 225-197-1 II of the French Commercial Code, and to employees or corporate officers who individually hold over 3% to employees and top management of companies or economic of the share capital and that the bonus shares may not have the interest groupings affiliated to the company within the meaning of effect of raising the interest held by any such person to above the Article L. 225197-2 of the French Commercial Code; 3% ceiling; ■ resolves that the total number of shares that may be granted may ■ determine, on one or more occasions, the amounts and timing of not exceed 196,000 or 0.3907% of the company’s share capital the share awards; on the date of this Annual General Meeting, with a maximum ■ set the criteria and any other conditions of eligibility for share of 18,000 shares or 0.0359% of the share capital on the date awards, including but not limited to years of service and continued of this Annual General Meeting for Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise employment by the company throughout the vesting period; and 9,000 shares or 0.0179% of the share capital for Bertrand Neuschwander. ■ set the vesting period, within the limits specified above by the Annual General Meeting; The Annual General Meeting authorizes the Board of Directors to make the stock grants, within the limits set out in the preceding paragraph, ■ if any of the financial transactions governed by Article L. 228-99 I using shares bought back by the company in accordance with of the French Commercial Code are carried out during the vesting Articles L. 225-208 and L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code; period, take any and all appropriate measures to protect and adjust 294 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 the rights of grantees, in accordance with the provisions of said The Annual General Meeting sets this authorization granted to the Article. Board of Directors at a period of 14 months and consequently decides In accordance with Articles L. 225-197-4 and L. 225-197-5 of the that this authorization cancels all authorizations given previously for French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors shall prepare a the same purpose. special report for each Ordinary General Meeting on the transactions carried out under this authorization. RESOLUTION 18: SHARE CAPITAL INCREASES RESTRICTED TO MEMBERS OF A COMPANY OR GROUP SAVINGS SCHEME Board of Directors’ report Pursuant to the provisions of the French Commercial Code, we The issue price of these new shares or share equivalents may ask shareholders, by voting for resolution 18, to empower the not be more than 20% below the average SEB share price on Board of Directors, with the power to further delegate, to resolve the NYSE Euronext Paris regulated market over the 20 trading to carry out one or more share capital increases that are restricted sessions preceding the date on which the decision is taken setting to members of a company or Group savings scheme, with waiving the opening date of the subscription period, it being noted that this of pre-emption rights, up to a maximum of €501,690 (1% of the discount may be raised to 30% for members of a savings scheme, share capital). the rules of which specify a lock-up period of at least ten years. It should be noted that this delegation is not included in the share This delegation would be given for a period of 14 months from capital increase ceiling set in Resolution 15. the date of this Annual General Meeting and would cancel the delegation given in Resolution 19 of the Annual General Meeting of 11 May 2017. RESOLUTION 18: AUTHORIZATION TO BE GRANTED TO to this resolution, this decision including a waiver by shareholders of THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO CARRY OUT SHARE CAPITAL the pre-emption rights to any shares to which the equity securities INCREASES RESTRICTED TO MEMBERS OF A COMPANY OR issued under this delegation may give rise; GROUP SAVINGS SCHEME WITH WAIVING OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS ■ resolves that, pursuant to Articles L. 3332-18 et seq. of the French The Annual General Meeting, having considered the report of the Labor Code, the subscription price may include a 20% discount Board of Directors and the statutory auditors’ special report, as off the average company share price on Euronext Paris over the 20 required by law and in particular Articles L. 225-129 to L. 225-129-6 trading sessions preceding the date on which the decision is taken and L. 225-138-1 of the French Commercial Code and Article L. 33321 setting the opening date of the subscription period, it being noted et seq. of the French Labor Code: that this discount may be raised to 30% for members of a savings scheme, the rules of which specify a lock-up period of at least ten ■ authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power to further delegate years. Nevertheless, the Annual General Meeting authorizes the in the manner provided for by law and regulation, to resolve to carry Board of Directors to replace some or all of the discount with a out one or more share capital increases as and when it sees fit, by grant of bonus shares or equity securities giving access to future issuing ordinary shares (other than preference shares) or equity company shares, to reduce or not grant this discount, to the extent 8 securities giving access to future company shares, restricted to permitted by law and regulation; members of a company or Group savings scheme: eligible corporate ■ resolves that the Board of Directors may, within the limits set by officers, employees and former employees of the companies and Article L. 3332-21 of the French Labor Code, make matching of French and foreign companies affiliated to it within the meaning payments in the form of grants of new or existing bonus shares or of Article L. 225-180 of the French Commercial Code and Article equity securities giving access to future company shares, where L. 3344-1 of the French Labor Code; necessary by capitalizing retained earnings, profit or additional ■ resolves to set at €501,690 the maximum par value of the share paid-in capital; capital increases that may be carried out through the issue of ■ sets the period of validity of this authorization at 14 months from shares, it being noted that the ceiling is independent of the ceiling the date hereof and cancels the previous delegation with the same provided for in Resolution 15; purpose; ■ accordingly resolves to waive pre-emption rights in favor of these ■ fully empowers the Board of Directors, with the power to delegate members of a company or Group savings scheme, to the shares in the manner provided for by law and regulation, to determine all and equity securities giving access to shares to be issued pursuant the terms and conditions for the various operations and in particular: GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 295 8 Annual General Meeting Draft resolutions and Board of Directors’ report to the Combined General Meeting of 16 May 2018 ■ exclude companies eligible for the company or Group savings ■ as it sees fit, following each capital increase, set the costs of the scheme from the scope of the offering, share capital increases against the related premiums and deduct ■ set the terms and conditions of the issues to be carried out under therefrom the sums necessary to raise the legal reserve to one this delegation of authority, in particular deciding the subscription tenth of the new share capital, amounts, and setting the issue prices, dates, deadlines, terms ■ carry out all actions and formalities required to effect the capital and conditions regarding subscription, paying up, settlement and increase(s) carried out under this authorization, and in particular enjoyment of the shares or equity securities giving access to amend the bylaws accordingly and, more generally, do whatever future shares in the company, is necessary. RESOLUTION 19: POWERS TO CARRY OUT FORMALITIES Board of Directors’ report Resolution 19 is a customary resolution whose purpose is to submit for shareholder approval the powers given in order to carry out any public announcements and legal formalities that result from the decisions of the meeting. RESOLUTION 19: POWERS TO CARRY OUT FORMALITIES The Annual General Meeting gives full powers to the bearer of an original, extract or copy of the minutes of this meeting to carry out any and all formalities required by law. 296 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Annual General Meeting Statutory auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments 8.3. Statutory auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING FOR THE APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on regulated agreements and commitments issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the shareholders, AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS PREVIOUSLY In our capacity as your company’s statutory auditors, we hereby report APPROVED BY THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING. to you on regulated agreements and commitments. In accordance with Article R. 225-30 of the French Commercial Code, It is our responsibility to report to shareholders, based on the we have been informed of the following agreements and commitments information provided to us, on the main terms, conditions and reasons approved in prior years and which remained current during the last underlying company’s interest of agreements and commitments that year. have been disclosed to us or that we may have identified as part of our engagement, without commenting on their relevance or substance WITH THE COMPANY ZHEJIANG SUPOR CO. LTD or identifying any undisclosed agreements or commitments. Under Nature and purpose: “Master Joint Research and Development the provisions of Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code, Agreement” aimed at conducting joint research and development it is the responsibility of the shareholders to determine whether projects on products and technologies of interest to both SEB S.A. the agreements and commitments are appropriate and should be and Zhejiang Supor Co. Ltd, so as to pool the experience and knowapproved. how of both parties with respect to cookware and electrical cooking Where applicable, it is also our responsibility to provide shareholders appliances. with the information required by Article R. 225-31 of the French Terms and conditions: The “Master Joint Research and Development Commercial Code in relation to the implementation during the year of Agreement” covers reciprocal exclusivities in relation with projects agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders’ jointly developed. Industrial property rights that may be registered Meeting. will be jointly managed and registered by Zhejiang Supor Co. Ltd and We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in SEB S.A. in their respective territories. For its manufacturing needs, accordance with the guidance issued by the French Institute of SEB S.A. will nevertheless be granted a free and permanent license Statutory auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux for rights registered in Zhejiang Supor Co. Ltd territories. comptes) for this type of engagement. These procedures consisted This agreement was authorised by the Board of Directors on 13 April in verifying that the information given to us is consistent with the 8 2012 and concerns Mr Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise, Chairman and underlying documents. Chief Executive Officer of your company and member of the Board of Directors of Zhejiang Supor Co. Ltd. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS SUBMITTED In 2017, the cooperation agreement resulted only in the sharing of TO THE APPROVAL OF THE SHAREHOLDERS’ employees and resources, as in 2016, for two projects concerning MEETING. developments on rice cookers and six projects concerning innovation on cookware articles. Agreements and commitments authorized WITH MR BERTRAND NEUSCHWANDER during the last year 1. Nature: Termination benefits in the event of the revocation of the We have been informed of no agreements and commitments mandate. authorized during the last year and requiring the approval of the Terms and conditions: In the event the mandate is withdrawn, Shareholders’ Meeting by virtue of Article L. 225-38 of the French Mr Bertrand Neuschwander shall receive a severance payment Commercial Code. equivalent to two years’ compensation (fixed and variable) less any amounts due in respect of a non-competition clause and any termination benefits relating to his employment contract (it being said that this contract does not provide for any departure or nonGROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 297 8 Annual General Meeting Statutory auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments compete compensation). Payment of this indemnity is subject as the basis for calculating the retirement benefits, is limited to to the performance criteria described in the agreement below. 36 times the French Social Security ceiling prevailing at the date 2. Nature: Determination of the performance criteria governing the of the calculation. Payment is subject to the following conditions: payment of termination benefits to the Deputy CEO in the event ■ the executive officer must be at least 60 years of age, having of the revocation of his mandate. definitively stopped working and having settled the basic Terms and conditions: The termination benefit, equivalent to two retirement entitlements of the supplementary and mandatory years’ earned compensation is adjusted for the percentage of AGIRC and ARCCO plans; objectives achieved over the four previous year-ends: ■ the executive officer shall only receive the guaranteed rate upon ■ if the average percentage is below 50%, no termination benefits leaving the Group to claim his retirement benefits. However, shall be paid; he shall be entitled to benefits in the event his employment contract be terminated after he is 55, if he subsequently ceases ■ if the average percentage achieved is between 50% and 100%, to exercise a professional activity; termination benefits shall range from 75% to 100% of the base used for calculation, determined on a straight-line basis; ■ the executive officer must have sat on the Executive or the Management Committee for eight years. The maximum duration ■ if the average percentage achieved is higher than 100%, of the vesting period is 20 years. termination benefits shall equal 100% of the base used for the calculation. WITH MR THIERRY DE LA TOUR D’ARTAISE If the revocation arises during the first four years of the 1. Nature: Termination benefits and maintenance of stock options appointment as Deputy CEO, the objectives to be taken into stipulated in the employment contract of Mr Thierry de La Tour consideration are, for the duration of his appointment to date, d’Artaise, Chairman of SEB S.A.. those determined for this mandate and, for the remaining time, Terms and conditions: those determined in connection with the salaried activities ■ in the event the employment contract is terminated at the performed prior to the appointment. employer’s initiative, except on grounds of serious misconduct 3. Nature: Non-compete compensation in the event of revocation or gross negligence, or due to forced departure as a result of or dismissal. a change in the control of Groupe SEB, his overall termination Terms and conditions: In the event of the interruption of his benefits shall be equivalent to two years’ compensation, payable mandate, by revocation or dismissal, Mr Bertrand Neuschwander, subject to the performance criteria described in the agreement Deputy CEO, agrees to refrain from any form of professional below; activity for a Groupe SEB competitor engaged in the development, ■ in the event Mr Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise’s employment manufacture or commercialization of products which have, are or contract is terminated, except for serious misconduct or gross shall be developed, manufactured or commercialized by Groupe negligence, he will be entitled to all the share purchase or SEB in the future. In return for the fulfillment of this obligation, subscription options granted to him under the same exercise and for the period for which it is applicable (one year renewable terms and conditions that would have applied had he remained once), Mr Neuschwander will receive a monthly amount of nonin office. This provision shall also apply in the event Mr Thierry de compete compensation from the company equivalent to 50% of La Tour d’Artaise’s employment contract is terminated pursuant the average monthly salary (fix and variable) paid to him over the to a decision from the Group, were such decision to arise from a last twelve months of his presence within the Group. change in the control of the Group. However, he shall forfeit the The Board of Directors can release Mr Neuschwander from this options that would have been granted to him over the 18 months obligation by waivering the non-competition clause. prior to the termination of his term of office as corporate officer 4. Nature: Individual life insurance plan for Mr Bertrand should he resign at his own initiative. Neuschwander, Deputy CEO of Groupe SEB. 2. Nature: Determination of the performance criteria governing the Terms and conditions: In addition to the Group death, disability payment of termination benefits to the Chairman, as stipulated and related benefit insurance plan, Mr Bertrand Neuschwander in his employment contract. is the beneficiary of an individual death-in-service policy with a Terms and conditions: The Chairman’s termination benefits, capital totalling € 942,581. The expense recorded for the year equivalent to two years’ earned compensation plus bonuses, ended 31 December 2017 totals € 3,318. are adjusted for the percentage of objectives achieved over the 5. Nature: Supplementary and top-up retirement plan. four previous year-ends: Terms and conditions: As a corporate officer Mr Bertrand ■ if the average percentage achieved is below 50%, no termination Neuschwander will continue to be entitled to the Group benefits shall be paid; supplementary pension scheme on the basis of the seniority ■ if the average percentage achieved is between 50% and 100%, acquired prior to his nomination as Deputy CEO and in termination benefits shall range from 75% to 100% of the base accordance with the same rules as those applicable for senior used for calculation, determined on a straight-line basis; management and the provisions of the Group death, disability ■ if the average percentage achieved is higher than 100%, and related benefit insurance plan. termination benefits shall equal 100% of the base used for This plan guarantees annuities equivalent to a 41% maximum calculation. compensation replacement rate, including the benefits of The Board of Directors retains the right to reduce such termination statutory retirement plans. The reference salary, which is used benefits, by half at most, if the previous year-end presents a net 298 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Annual General Meeting Statutory auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments loss, without such benefits falling below the fixed compensation compensation replacement rate, including the benefits of plus bonuses of the previous year-end, should application of the statutory retirement plans. The reference salary, which is used performance criteria based on the achievement of objectives as the basis for calculating the retirement benefits, is limited to entitle the payment of termination benefits. 36 times the French Social Security ceiling prevailing at the date 3. Nature and purpose: Individual life insurance plan for Mr Thierry of calculation. Payment is subject to the following conditions: de La Tour d’Artaise, Chairman of SEB S.A. ■ the executive officer must be at least 60 years of age, having Terms and conditions: In addition to senior management’s Group definitively stopped working and having settled the basic death, disability and related benefit insurance plan, Mr Thierry de retirement entitlements of the supplementary and mandatory La Tour d’Artaise is the beneficiary of an individual life insurance AGIRC and ARCCO plans; policy with a capital totalling €3,652,134. The expense recorded ■ the executive officer shall only receive the guaranteed rate upon for the year ended 31 December 2017 totals €69,588. leaving the Group to claim his retirement benefits. However, 4. Nature and purpose: Supplementary and top-up retirement plan. he shall be entitled to benefits in the event his employment contract be terminated after he is 55, if he subsequently ceases Terms and conditions: As with all other members of the to exercise a professional activity; Executive and Management Committees, Mr Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise is entitled to a supplementary and top-up retirement ■ the executive officer must have sat on the Executive or the plan guaranteeing annuities equivalent to a 41% maximum Management Committee for eight years. The maximum duration of the vesting period is 20 years. Lyon and Courbevoie, March 26th, 2018 The statutory auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars Nicolas BRUNETAUD Thierry COLIN 8 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 299 300 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 9.1. Glossary 302 9 9.2. Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document containing the annual report 303 9.3. Statutory auditors and audit fees 304 Statutory auditors 304 Substitute Statutory auditors 304 Fees paid to Statutory auditors 305 9.4. Cross-reference table for the Annual Financial Report, Management Report and Corporate Governance Report 306 9.5. Cross-reference table for the Registration Document 308 Additional 9.6. Cross-reference table, Grenelle II, GRI and global compact 311 information GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 301 9 Additional information Glossary 9.1. Glossary On a like-for-like basis (LFL) – Organic Adjusted EBITDA The amounts and growth rates at constant exchange rates and Adjusted EBITDA is equal to Operating Result from Activity minus consolidation scope in each year compared with the previous year discretionary and non-discretionary profit-sharing, to which are added are calculated: operating depreciation and amortization. ■ using the average exchange rates of the previous year for the period Net debt – Net indebtedness in consideration (year, half-year, quarter); This term refers to all recurring and non-recurring financial debt minus ■ based on the scope of consolidation of the previous year. cash and cash equivalents as well as derivative instruments linked This calculation is made primarily for sales and Operating Result from to Group financing having a maturity of under one year and easily Activity. disposed of. Net debt may also include short-term investments with no risk of a substantial change in value but with maturities of over Operating Result from Activity (ORfA) three months. Operating Result from Activity (ORfA) is Groupe SEB’s main Operating cash ﬂow performance indicator. It corresponds to sales minus operating costs, i.e. the cost of sales, innovation expenditure (R&D, strategic marketing Operating cash flow corresponds to the “net cash from operating and design), advertising, operational marketing as well as commercial activities/net cash used by operating activities” item in the consolidated and administrative costs. ORfA does not include discretionary and cash flow table, restated from non-recurring transactions with an non-discretionary profit-sharing or other non-recurring operating impact on the Group’s net debt (for example, cash outflows related income and expense. to restructuring) and after taking account of recurring investments (CAPEX). 302 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Additional information Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document containing the annual report 9.2. Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document containing the annual report I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case, the information contained in this Registration Document is, to the best of my knowledge, consistent with the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I hereby declare that, to my knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with relevant accounting standards and provide a true and fair view of the assets, financial situation and performance of the company and of all companies included under the Consolidated Financial Statements. I furthermore declare that the management report referenced in the cross-reference table in section 9.4 provides a true and fair picture of changes in the business, performance and financial situation of the company and all companies included under the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as a description of the main risks and uncertainties they face. I obtained a statement from the Statutory auditors at the end of their engagement affirming that they have read the entire Registration Document and verified the information regarding the financial situation and the financial statements contained therein. 29 March 2018 Chairman and CEO Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise 9 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 303 9 Additional information Statutory auditors and audit fees 9.3. Statutory auditors and audit fees STATUTORY AUDITORS ■ PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, represented by: ■ Mazars, represented by: Nicolas Brunetaud Thierry Colin 63, rue de Villiers — 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, France, 61, rue Henri Regnault — 92075 Paris La Défense Cedex, France, appointed by the Ordinary General Meeting of 12 May 2015. appointed by the Ordinary General Meeting of 12 May 2015. Term: Ordinary General Meeting of 2021. Term: Ordinary General Meeting of 2021. Each of these Statutory auditors is a member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes de Versailles. SUBSTITUTE STATUTORY AUDITORS ■ For PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit: ■ For Mazars: Jean-Christophe Georghiou Gilles Rainaut 63, rue de Villiers — 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, France, 61, rue Henri Regnault — 92075 Paris La Défense Cedex, France, appointed by the Ordinary General Meeting of 12 May 2015. appointed by the Ordinary General Meeting of 12 May 2015. Term: Ordinary General Meeting of 2021. Term: Ordinary General Meeting of 2021. 304 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Additional information Statutory auditors and audit fees FEES PAID TO STATUTORY AUDITORS The breakdown of fees paid to Statutory auditors and members of their networks is as follows: PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mazars Amount (excluding tax) In % Amount (excluding tax) In % (in € thousands) 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 AUDIT Statutory auditor, certiﬁcation, review of individual and consolidated ﬁnancial statements SEB S.A., issuer coordination and consolidation 270 180 178 196 Fully integrated subsidiaries 1,306 1,501 1,444 1,338 SUB-TOTAL 1,576 1,681 87% 95% 1,622 1,534 80% 68% Other services performed by the networks for fully integrated subsidiaries SEB S.A., issuer coordination and consolidation 77 67 361 709 Fully integrated subsidiaries 159 29 54 7 SUB-TOTAL 236 97 13% 5% 415 716 20% 32% TOTAL 1,812 1,778 100% 100% 2,037 2,249 100% 100% 9 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 305 9 Additional information Cross-reference table for the Annual Financial Report, Management Report and Corporate Governance Report 9.4. Cross-reference table for the Annual Financial Report, Management Report and Corporate Governance Report Annual Financial Management Page numbers Report report Commentary on the ﬁnancial year Objective and exhaustive analysis of developments in the company’s and Group’s business, performance and ﬁnancial position 147-162 X X Key non-ﬁnancial performance indicators relevant to the company’s speciﬁc business activity 91-143 X Signiﬁcant stakes acquired during the ﬁnancial year in companies headquartered in France 159 X X Signiﬁcant events that occurred between the ﬁnancial year-end and the date on which the report was drawn up Foreseeable developments regarding the position of the company and the Group 161 X X Dividends distributed over the three preceding ﬁnancial years and amount of income distributed for these years 279 X Presentation of the Group Description of the main risks and uncertainties faced by the company 28-36 X X The company’s use of ﬁnancial instruments: objectives and policy in relation to ﬁnancial risk management 212-222 X X Company’s exposure to price, credit, liquidity or cash ﬂow risks 218-222 X X Social and environmental consequences of business (including “Seveso” facilities) 91-143 X Research and development activities 13-15 X X Information on the company and its share capital Rules applicable to the appointment and replacement of members of the Board of Directors or Management Board, as well as to changes in the Company’s bylaws 41, 60-66 X Powers of the Board of Directors or Management Board, in particular concerning the issue or buyback of shares 274 X X Purchases and sales of treasury stock during the ﬁnancial year 274 X X Adjustments for share equivalents in the event of share buybacks or ﬁnancial transactions Structure of and changes to the company’s share capital 269-273 X X Statutory limitations on the exercise of voting rights and transfer of shares or clauses in agreements brought to the attention of the company 267-270 X X Direct or indirect shareholdings in the company of which the company is aware 269-273 X X Employee shareholding in the company’s share capital on the last day of the ﬁnancial year and portion of the share capital represented by the shares held by employees under the company savings scheme and by the employees and former employees under employee mutual investment funds 275-277 X Holders of any securities conferring special control rights and a description of those rights Control mechanisms within any employee shareholding system, where control rights are not exercised by the employees Agreements between shareholders of which the company is aware and which may give rise to restrictions on share transfers and voting rights 269-270 X X Agreements entered into by the company that are amended or terminated in the event of a change in control, with the exception of those agreements whose disclosure would seriously harm its interests Agreements providing for indemnities payable to employees or members of the Board of Directors or Management Board if they resign or are dismissed without real or serious cause or if their employment contract is terminated as a result of a public 69, 74, 77, 85, tender offer 227, 256, 257 X 306 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Additional information Cross-reference table for the Annual Financial Report, Management Report and Corporate Governance Report Annual Financial Management Page numbers Report report Injunctions or ﬁnes as a result of anti-competitive practices Financial statements Changes in the presentation of the ﬁnancial statements or in the valuation methods used 169 X Proﬁt over the last ﬁve ﬁnancial years 259 X Consolidated ﬁnancial statements 163-232 X Company ﬁnancial statements 241-258 X 233-236 Statutory auditors’ reports on the company and Consolidated Financial Statements 260-264 X Fees paid to the Statutory auditors 305 X Corporate governance report X Information on the composition, operation and powers of the Board of Directors: • Reference to a Corporate Governance Code 40 • Composition of the Board of Directors and conditions governing the preparation and organization of meetings 41-66 • Principle of gender balance 41 • List of the offices and positions of each director 43-56 • Agreements signed between a director or a shareholder holding more than 10% of the voting rights and a subsidiary 58 • Table summarizing the outstanding delegations granted by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders to the Board of Directors to increase the share capital, showing the use made of these delegations during the financial year • Conditions governing the exercise of executive powers 40 • Conditions governing shareholder participation in Annual General Meetings 65 Information on the remuneration of executive ofﬁcers: 69-90 • Remuneration policy (ex-ante say on pay) • Total compensation and benefits of any kind paid to each executive officer during the financial year, and reference to the resolutions voted for through an ex-ante vote • Stock options granted, subscribed or purchased during the financial year by the executive officers and the ten highest-earning non-executive employees of the company, and stock options granted to all eligible employees, by category • Conditions for the exercise and retention of stock options by executive officers • Conditions for the retention of performance shares awarded to executive officers • Transactions by senior managers and associated persons involving the company’s shares • Commitments of any kind made by the company for the benefit of its executive officers, such as remuneration, compensation or benefits due or likely to become due when, or after, they assume, cease or change positions Information on factors which could affect a takeover bid 268 Statutory auditors’ report on the Corporate governance report 262 X X Report by one of the statutory auditors on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report 144-146 X X Statutory auditors’ report on regulated agreements and commitments 297-299 X Declaration by the person responsible for the Annual Financial Report 303 X 9 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 307 9 Additional information Cross-reference table for the Registration Document 9.5. Cross-reference table for the Registration Document Sections required under Annex 1 to Commission regulation (EC) no. 809/2004 Pages 1 – PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 303 2 – STATUTORY AUDITORS 304 3 – SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3.1 Historical information 238-239 3.2 Information for interim periods N/A 4 – RISK FACTORS 28-38, 218-222 5 – INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER 5.1 History and development of the company 10 5.1.1. Legal and commercial name 169 5.1.2. Place of registration and registration number 169 5.1.3. Date of incorporation 169 5.1.4. Domicile and legal form 169 5.1.5. Important events in the development of the business 147-160 5.2 Investments 158, 184-185, 5.2.1. Principal investments made 195-197 5.2.2. Principal investments in progress 150, 195-197 5.2.3. Principal future investments for which firm commitments have already been made 223-224, 227 6 – BUSINESS OVERVIEW 6.1 Principal activities 4, 13-20, 152-156, 182-184 6.1.1. Main products 4, 11, 153 6.1.2. Principal activities 4, 152-156 6.2 Principal markets 11-12, 182-184 6.3 Exceptional factors 224 6.4 Dependence on patents or licenses, industrial, commercial or financial contracts or new processes 31-35 6.5 Basis for any statements made by the issuer regarding its competitive position 1, 4, 11-12 7 – ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE 7.1 Brief description 21 7.2 List of significant subsidiaries 228-232 8 – PROPERTY, PLANTS AND EQUIPMENT 8.1 Existing or planned material tangible fixed assets 195-197 8.2 Environmental issues that may affect the issuer’s utilization of the tangible fixed assets 223 9 – OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 9.1 Financial condition 148-158 9.2 Operating results 157 9.2.1. Significant factors affecting income from operations N/A 9.2.2. Discussion of material changes in sales or revenues 152-156 9.2.3. Factors that could materially affect the issuer’s operations 28-38, 148-149 10 – CAPITAL RESOURCES 10.1 The issuer’s capital resources 157, 167, 200-202 10.2 Source and amounts of the cash flows 166 10.3 Borrowing requirements and funding structure 212-214 10.4 Information regarding any restrictions on the use of capital resources that have materially affected, or could materially affect, the issuer’s operations 212-214, 218-222 10.5 Anticipated sources of funds 212-214 308 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Additional information Cross-reference table for the Registration Document Sections required under Annex 1 to Commission regulation (EC) no. 809/2004 Pages 11 – RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES 13-14, 199 12 – TREND INFORMATION 161 13 – PROFIT FORECASTS OR ESTIMATES N/A 14 – ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 Administrative and management bodies 41-67 14.2 Conflicts of interest within administrative and management bodies 59 15 – REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 Amount of remuneration paid and benefits in kind 68-89 15.2 Total amounts set aside or accrued to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits 225-226 16 – PRACTICES OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT BODIES 16.1 Date of expiry of current terms of office 57 16.2 Service contracts binding the members of the administrative bodies 58 16.3 Information about the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee 62-64 16.4 Corporate governance 39-90 17 – EMPLOYEES 17.1 Number of employees 108, 186, 238 17.2 Shareholdings and stock options 275-277 17.3 Arrangements for involving the employees in the capital of the issuer 201, 275-277 18 – MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 18.1 Shareholders owning more than 5% of the capital and voting rights 269-272 18.2 Existence of different voting rights 267 18.3 Control over the issuer 269-270 18.4 Arrangements, known to the issuer, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the issuer 269-270 19 – RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 225-227 20 – FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES 20.1 Historical financial information 238-239 20.2 Proforma financial information 178-180 20.3 Financial statements 164-167, 242-243 20.4 Auditing of historical annual financial information 20.4.1. Report by the Statutory auditors 233-236, 260-264 20.4.2. Other information audited by the Auditors 144-146 20.4.3. Source of data not audited by the Auditors N/A 20.5 Age of latest financial information 163-232 20.6 Interim and other financial information N/A 20.6.1. Interim information published N/A 20.6.2. Interim information not yet published N/A 20.7 Dividend policy 279 20.8 Legal and arbitration proceedings 224 20.9 Significant change in the issuer’s financial or trading position N/A 21 – ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21.1 Share capital 21.1.1. Amount of issued capital and number of shares 21.1.2. Shares not representing capital 267-273 267 N/A 9 21.1.3. Treasury shares 269-272, 274 21.1.4. Convertible securities, exchangeable securities or securities with warrants 273 21.1.5. Terms governing unissued capital N/A 21.1.6. Capital under option N/A 21.1.7. History of changes to share capital 269-273 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 309 9 Additional information Cross-reference table for the Registration Document Sections required under Annex 1 to Commission regulation (EC) no. 809/2004 Pages 21.2 Memorandum and bylaws 266 21.2.1. Corporate objects and purposes 266 21.2.2. Provisions regarding the administrative and management bodies 40 21.2.3. Classes of shares 266-267 21.2.4. Changes to shareholder rights N/A 21.2.5. Manner in which Annual General Meetings are called and held 266 21.2.6. Provisions that would have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control 267-268 21.2.7. Thresholds above which shareholder ownership must be disclosed 267 21.2.8. Provisions governing changes in the capital 274 22 – MATERIAL CONTRACTS N/A 23 – THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, STATEMENTS BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS OF ANY INTEREST N/A 24 – DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY 266 25 – INFORMATION ON HOLDINGS 228-232, 258 The following information is incorporated by reference in this ■ The Registration Document for the 2015 financial year was filed with Registration Document: the French Financial Markets Authority on 31 March 2016, under number D. 16-0236. The Consolidated Financial Statements appear ■ The Registration Document for the 2016 financial year was filed on pages 135 to 199 and the corresponding audit report appears with the French Financial Markets Authority on 20 April 2017, under on pages 200 and 201 of this document. number D. 17-0400. The Consolidated Financial Statements appear on pages 153 to 222 and the corresponding audit report appears on pages 223 and 224 of this document. 310 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Additional information Cross-reference table, Grenelle II, GRI and global compact 9.6. Cross-reference table, Grenelle II, GRI and global compact References Website sustainable Grenelle 2 − Registration development Indicators Article 225 GRI 3.1 Global Compact Document section SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Employment Total employees 1.a-1 LA1 page 108 Key figures Breakdown of employees by gender 1.a-1 LA1/LA13 page 113 Breakdown of employees by age group 1.a-1 LA13 page 112 Breakdown of employees by geographical region 1.a-1 LA1 page 108 Breakdown of employees by type of work LA1 page 113 Breakdown of employees by employment contract type LA1 page 111 Hires 1.a-2 LA2 page 109 Redundancies 1.a-2 LA2 page 109 Social, diversity Remuneration 1.a-3 LA3/LA14 page 119 and fairness Change in remuneration over time 1.a-3 LA3 page 119 Organization of work pages 111 Organization of working hours 1.b-1 and 123 Absenteeism 1.b-2 LA7 page 122 Labor relations Organization of employee-management dialog 1.c-1 LA4/LA5 3 page 114 Social, Dialog Collective bargaining agreements 1.c-2 LA4/LA5 page 114 Social, Dialog Health and safety Social, Health/ Workplace health and safety conditions 1.d-1 LA6/LA8 4-5 pages 115-118 Safety Agreements signed with trade unions in relation to workplace health and safety 1.d-2 LA9 page 114 Frequency and severity of workplace accidents 1.d-3 LA7 page 117 Social, Health/ Work-related illness 1.d-3 LA7 pages 116-118 Safety Training Social, Policies in place with regard to training 1.e-1 LA11 pages 119-121 Expertise 9 Total number of training hours 1.e-2 LA10 page 120 Number of employees receiving regular Social, performance and career development reviews LA11 page 107-119 Expertise Equal opportunity Social, Diversity Measures taken to promote gender equality 1.f-1 LA14 page 113 and fairness Measures taken to promote employment opportunities for and integration of disabled people 1.f-2 LA13 page 114 Social, Diversity Anti-discrimination policy 1.f-3 LA13 pages 112-114 and fairness GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 311 9 Additional information Cross-reference table, Grenelle II, GRI and global compact References Website sustainable Grenelle 2 − Registration development Indicators Article 225 GRI 3.1 Global Compact Document section Governance Composition of corporate governance bodies LA13 chapter 2 Governance Promotion of and adherence to the ILO’s fundamental conventions Respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 1.g-1 HR5/LA4/LA5 3 page 114 Social, Dialog Elimination of discrimination in employment pages 112-114 Social, diversity and occupation 1.g-2 HR4/LA13/LA14 6 and 120 and fairness Commitments and Elimination of forced or compulsory labor 1.g-3 HR6/HR7 pages 103-106 management Commitments and Effective abolition of child labor 1.g-4 HR6 4-5 pages 103-106 management Other actions taken to promote Human Rights 3.e Investment and procurement practices Percentage of major suppliers and contractors Ethics, verified as compliant with Human Rights; responsible measures taken HR2 pages 104-106 purchasing Total number of training hours for employees on policies and procedures regarding Human Rights relevant to their job; percentage of employees trained HR3 pages 103-106 Evaluation Percentage or number of activities for which the organization has conducted Human Rights reviews or impact assessments HR10 1 and 2 pages 103-106 Social, respect Corrective action Number of Human Rights grievances filed, handled and resolved according to a Human Rights grievance management procedure HR11 1 and 2 page 103 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS General policy toward the environment Company organization to address environmental issues. Environmental evaluation or certification procedures, where applicable 2.a-1 pages 134-143 Environment Employee training and education initiatives taken with regard to safeguarding the environment 2.a-2 page 93 Resources allocated to prevent environmental risks and pollution 2.a-3 EN30 pages 134-143 Eco-production Provisions and guarantees for environmental risks (unless this information could be detrimental to the company) 2.a-4 EN28/EC2 7 to 9 page 223 Pollution Measures to prevent, reduce or remedy emissions into the air, water or soil that EN22/EN23/ seriously affect the environment 2.b-1 EN24 pages 134-143 Eco-production Measures to prevent noise pollution and any other form of pollution stemming from operations 2.b-3 EN25 page 140 Eco-production Total discharge into water EN21 7 to 9 page 140 Circular Economy 312 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Additional information Cross-reference table, Grenelle II, GRI and global compact References Website sustainable Grenelle 2 − Registration development Indicators Article 225 GRI 3.1 Global Compact Document section Prevention and waste management Eco-production; Measures to prevent recycle, reuse, other End of product ways of waste recovery and dispose of waste 2.b-2 EN27 pages 137-140 life Total waste produced EN22/EN24 page 140 Measures against food waste page 131 Consumers Sustainable use of resources Water consumption and supply according to local constraints 2.c-1 EN8/EN9/EN21 page 139 Eco-production Consumption of raw materials 2.c-2 EN1 page 139 Eco-production Consumption of recycled materials EN2 page 137 Eco-design Measures taken to improve the efficient use Eco-design; of raw materials 2.c-2 EN10 pages 136-137 Eco-production Eco-design; Energy consumption 2.c-4 EN1/EN3/EN4 page 139 Eco-production Measures taken to improve energy efficiency and use of renewable energy 2.c-4 EN5/EN6/EN7 pages 136-139 Eco-design Land use 2.c-3 7 to 9 page 140 Climate change Significant sources of greenhouse gas emissions generated by Company activities, as well as by the use of the goods and EN16/EN17/ Eco-production; services produced by the Company 2.d-1 EN19/EN20 pages 134-135 Eco-logistics Adaptation to the consequences of climate change 2.d-2 EN18/EC2 7 to 9 pages 134-143 Biodiversity protection Measures taken to preserve or promote EN11 to EN15/ biodiversity 2.e-1 EN25 7 to 9 page 141 Eco-production Products and services Initiatives to reduce the environmental impact Eco-design; of products and services; scope of these pages 130-131 Products endinitiatives EN26 7 to 9 and 136-137 of-life Transport Significant environmental impacts stemming from the transport of products, other goods and materials used by the organization in the course of its operations and the transport of staff members EN29 7 to 9 pages 141-143 Eco-logistics INFORMATION ON CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP COMMITMENTS TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Regional, economic and social impact of the company’s operations With regard to employment and regional development 3.a-1 EC8/EC9 page 124-126 Communities EC1/EC6/SO1/ On neighboring or local populations 3.a-2 SO9/SO10 page 124-126 Communities Relations with individuals or organizations that have a stake in the company’s operations 9 Conditions for dialog with these individuals or organizations 3.b-1 page 95 Communities Communities; Fonds Groupe Corporate partnership or philanthropy actions 3.b-2 EC1 pages 124-126 SEB GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 313 9 Additional information Cross-reference table, Grenelle II, GRI and global compact References Website sustainable Grenelle 2 − Registration development Indicators Article 225 GRI 3.1 Global Compact Document section Contractors and suppliers Ethics, Inclusion of social and environmental criteria EC6/HR2/ Responsible in the procurement policy 3.c-1 HR 5 to 7 pages 104-106 purchasing Extent of sub-contracting and consideration Ethics, of CSR factors in relations with suppliers Responsible and contractors 3.c-2 1 and 2 pages 104-106 purchasing Fair business practices Commitments SO2 to SO4/ SO7/ and Actions taken to prevent corruption 3.d-1 SO8 10 page 106 management Measures taken to promote consumer health and safety 3.d-2 PR1/PR2 pages 127-128 Consumers Anti-competitive practices Total number of legal proceedings for anti-competitive practices, violation of anti-trust laws and monopolistic practices and outcomes of these proceedings SO7 314 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 315 316 GROUPE SEB REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2017 Financial agenda 26 APRIL 2018, AFTER MARKET CLOSING 2017 First-quarter Sales and Financial Data 16 MAY 2018, AT 2:30 PM Annual General Meeting 25 JULY 2018, BEFORE TRADING 2017 First-half Results 25 OCTOBER 2018, AFTER MARKET CLOSING Nine-month 2017 Sales and Financial Data. Photos credits: Photothèque Groupe SEB, Philippe SCHULLER, Jean-François DEROUBAIX, Pierre ORSSAUD This document is printed in compliance with ISO 14001.2004 for an environmental management system. Groupe SEB Campus SEB – 112 chemin du Moulin Carron 69130 Ecully – France Tel.: +33 (0)4 72 18 18 18 www.groupeseb.com
