Sustainability Report 2017 Contents 4 CEO Statement 7 About this report 10 This is Höganäs 22 Höganäs and sustainability 29 Governance 35 A great and meaningful place to work 43 Building communities and responsible partnerships 50 Sustainable offerings and long-term profitability 60 Future-proof business 68 Climate neutral operations 77 Climbing Mount Sustainability in the years to come 82 Appendix: Höganäs GRI index sustainability report 2017 Höganäs 2017 at a glance 1 completed acquisition of the business of Metasphere Technology 1,500 products in the Höganäs 24.5hours of training product portfolio on average for co-workers 16% 1,888 of our total workforce engaged co-workers 7.1% reduction in energy use 34% reduction of lost time injury are women in 29 countries per produced tonne of metal frequency since 2014 powder within direct operations since 2010 1,435development talks 2,500customers served in 77%of all process-related 16 is the average number of times between our co-workers and 79 countries residual materials were that the water recirculated before managers, correspondsing to reused or found new use it left the process and became 76 percent of all employees discharge Making a difference with metal powders Making a difference with metal powders Fredrik Emilson President and CEO At Höganäs, we are firm believers in the potential of the individual. We know that every one of our employees has the ability to contribute to improving not only our company, but also society. Our tool is metal powder technology, and our method is close cooperation with customers and stakeholders are our customers, employees, owners and society, partners. and we have defined a value for each of them. Our prosperity is linked to that of our stakeholders, so we strive to benefit all four WE AT HÖGANÄS are proud of our metal powder solutions and stakeholders equally in every decision we make. know-how. We believe that the inherent power of metal During 2017 we continued the implementation of More Höganäs powders can be utilized in industry to a much larger extent than it is via trainings and other activities around the world. All employees today. Metal powders not only enable our customers to reduce their received the More Höganäs handbook in their own language. A More material and energy consumption, but they also help them make Höganäs office, with two dedicated employees, was established their final products more efficient while reducing lifecycle costs. With to support the organization with workshops, standards, tools and sustainability at the heart of our research and development, and our methods. customer relationships, we will break new ground. That is why our vision is “Inspire industry to make more with less”. HÖGANÄS’ SUSTAINABILITY WORK continued with deeper integration With this know-how, and with our strong position in the market, of sustainability as an aspect of the business strategy and planning comes a great responsibility: it is our obligation to strive to change process. Increasingly sustainability is seen as a natural part of the industry and the society for the better. This is why we have discussions and development projects throughout the company. made a deep commitment to sustainability. Mount Sustainability continues to serve as our foundation and our More Höganäs, our management philosophy, outlines our vision, guidance for how we visualize and concretize the challenging paths values and principles for how we lead and how we work. Our key we have ahead. Our main focus areas are to reduce our climate and CEO STATEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 5 environmental impact; responsible sourcing and use of materials for Other noteworthy actions during 2017: production; and offering a safe and meaningful workplace. We do ºº We joined the UN Global Compact as a participant. The UN this by responsibly producing resource-efficient products that benefit Global Compact’s Ten Principles are an important foundation in both our customers and society. our materiality analysis and our forthcoming work. Safety is a top priority for us at Höganäs. The very nature of ºº We initiated a global climate roadmap to move from fossil fuels to our business – working with steel – means safety challenges that renewable energy. must be taken seriously and addressed in a planned and thorough ºº Höganäs employees participated in an e-learning covering fashion. I am pleased that the number of incidents and accidents general sustainability knowledge and our own sustainability work. has decreased for the third consecutive year, but I am still not ºº We implemented a tool for reporting group-wide sustainability satisfied, we need to do better. No one should be injured carrying data and key performance indicators (KPIs). out their work, and this is why we work systematically to create ºº We conducted a pilot project for a supplier evaluation tool. a Zero Accidents culture. During 2017 we have implemented an incident reporting system globally and new targets for our We will continue to work with sustainability at a high pace during occupational health and safety work, in addition to trainings and 2018. We plan to update our Code of Conduct, launch the supplier physical improvements at the production sites. evaluation tool for our suppliers of direct material, continue work on the climate roadmap, and establish a partnership with Plan SAFETY IS ONE of the group-wide initiatives that Höganäs has International concerning water purification technology in countries in been working on for many years; others are minimizing waste and great need of support. improving energy efficiency. These are long-term commitments It is clear that we have a strong vision of what characterizes where we are investing considerable resources. Höganäs as a sustainable business, and what positive impact we In late 2017 we took an important step away from fossil fuels and our customers can have in society. Our employees are ready and towards renewable energy. In Höganäs, Sweden, we broke to take on this task. The next step is to set challenging, yet realistic ground for a plant for production of renewable energy gas and green goals to guide us in our future work. coke. The goal is to transform biomass into renewable energy, and prove the technology so it can be used widely in the iron and steel industry. With this investment alone, carbon dioxide emissions could decrease by around 10,000 tonnes per year for Höganäs. In this Best regards, project, called Probiostål, we collaborate with Cortus Energy AB, Fredrik Emilson academia and other companies in the Swedish steel industry. President and CEO CEO STATEMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 6 About this report About this report emissions, energy, waste and water were calculated with information provided by Höganäs’ environmental management systems, based on data from control, measuring, or indirect methods. Some values have not been fully verified and have been marked as estimated, with other caveats explained. THIS REPORT PROVIDES information about Höganäs’ Data that, by proxy, cannot change the level, strength or sustainability performance throughout 2017. It presents our otherwise impact reported facts or statements by more than take on the wider context of sustainability, where our most relevant ±5 percent, may have been excluded. material topics have been pinpointed to serve as a disclosure for This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI GRI core level. These topics have been identified through Standards Core option and in accordance with Swedish regulation stakeholder engagement from 2015 to 2017, which resulted in a (Årsredovisningslag) regarding disclosure of non-financial sustainability strategy called ‘Mount Sustainability’. This strategy, information. An additional GRI content index can be found at the which guides the structure of the report, is presented according to end of the report1. This report has been approved by Höganäs the following sections that correspond to our long-term vision: Board of Directors. ºº A great and meaningful place to work ºº Building communities and responsible partnerships Omissions ºº Sustainable offerings and long-term profitability We have made omissions for the following indicators: ºº Future-proof business ºº GRI 303-1 and 303-3: use of water is based on our largest ºº Climate neutral operations production units, where our largest impact occurs. ºº GRI 403-2: Rates of injuries are not divided into gender This report is our first public sustainability report that will, henceforth, be produced on an annual basis. It presents Höganäs’ most With two exceptions, this report covers all entities included in substantial areas of impact on the economy, environment and Höganäs consolidated financial statement: society, and serves as a benchmark for our continuous improvement ºº As the operational responsibility for the Höganäs Group is work. delegated to Höganäs AB’s Board of Directors, the sustainability This report refers to the period from January 1, 2017 to report focuses on Höganäs AB and its subsidiaries. The owners December 31, 2017. of the Höganäs Group are represented in Höganäs AB’s Board of The people data were compiled using a headcount, and were Directors. collected from the company’s human resources systems. Data on 1 This report has not been verified by GRI Standards. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 8 ºº As Höganäs acquired the business of Metasphere Technology in November, it was too late for data from operations in Luleå, Sweden, to be included in the report. Internal assurance The Höganäs Sustainability Report has been verified by our internal auditors to ensure legislative compliance. No external assurance for the report outside the COSO framework for internal control has been performed.  For any questions regarding the report, you are welcome to address them to: Senior Vice President Sustainability Nicklas Lång at nicklas.lang@hoganas.com or Sustainability Manager Anders Bergman at anders.bergman@hoganas.com. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 9 This is Höganäs This is Höganäs sustainability. That is why our vision is to “Inspire industry to make more with less”. The particle is the answer Despite their minute size, metal powders have astounding powers. AT HÖGANÄS, WE are convinced that metal powders provide Particle shape, particle size distribution and chemical composition endless opportunities, starting with – but also far beyond – can be adapted to fit a wide range of different needs. For example, their traditional use in powder metallurgy (PM) for automotive press-ready mixes that easily flow and fill cavities in the mould, components. Metal powders can help our customers (and their enabling pressing of intricate components, or powder-based customers) to reduce their material and energy consumption, or to cleaning media with huge surface area, which allow for efficient prolong the lifetime of their products. Metal powder can also enable reaction with contaminants in air, water and soil. new and better technologies that make final products more efficient All of this is Höganäs’ home turf. We have developed metal and with lower lifecycle impact. Indeed, we believe that metal powders and adapted their properties to various customers and powders can be an important tool towards improved industrial markets since the 1950s. Applications we serve Powder metallurgy Additive Electromagnetic Surface coating Brazing Water treatment (PM) manufacturing applications THIS IS HÖGANÄS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 11 A solutions provider ºº Selection of the right material and processing for a given Today, our product portfolio contains more than 1,500 products, application and we serve about 2,500 customers in 79 countries. Our metal ºº Improvements in their supply chain, working environment and powders are used in a wide spectrum of applications, ranging from material utilization by offering press-ready mixes or ready-to-use sintered components, electromagnetic applications, surface coating, brazing pastes in lean packaging, for example brazing, filters, friction components and welding to chemical ºº Development, testing and prototyping of new designs and and metallurgical processes, food fortification and water and soil concepts in cooperation with one of our tech centres treatment. Lately, metal powders have also gained importance for ºº Design of materials with specific properties emerging technologies such as additive manufacturing. ºº Troubleshooting – identifying root causes for application failures So, when a customer turns to us, they don’t just get access to and indicating corrections to processes and material choice for our metal powders. They can also tap into our vast expertise both robust manufacturing in metal powders and their subsequent treatment in our customers’ ºº Schools and onsite training. processes, and on the design of a broad range of metal powderbased applications. We can help our customers with: Besides being a world-leading supplier of powder materials, Höganäs R AW M ATER IAL S PROCESS POWDER PRODUCTS production S P ON GE I R ON P OW DE R S C O KE IRO N O RE R E D U C TI O N GRINDING SCREENING ANNEALING AT OM I Z E D I R ON AND STEEL ST EEL P OW DE R S SC RAP AL L O YIN G S M E LTI N G WATE R D RY I N G SCREENING ANNEALING EL EMEN T S ATO M I ZATI O N IRO N AT OM I Z E D M E TA L P OW DE R S N IC KEL C O BALT S M E LTI N G G A S ATO M I ZATI O N SCREENING THIS IS HÖGANÄS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 12 Pulververket Höganäs is also a strong partner offering logistics solutions, the Stockholm stock exchange in 2013. We have maintained our technical support and application development capabilities. headquarters in Höganäs, Sweden, where we also have our largest production facilities and main R&D function. However, Höganäs has 200 years of innovation for many years had a global presence, and has today 15 production Höganäs’ origins date back to 1797, when coal mining started in the units in nine countries on four continents, seven globally distributed fishing village of Hyggenäs in southwestern Sweden. Coal mining tech centres, and sales representatives in more than 30 countries. 28+31+41 and bricks, as well as industrial and household ceramics, have played important parts in the company’s history, but today Höganäs The markets we serve focuses solely on metal powders. Today, our metal powders are used Lindéngruppen and FAM each control 50 percent of the shares in a wide range of industries and Europe in Höganäs and have done so since they bought the company off applications. To meet needs in society Asia 28% and utilize our resources in the best 41% possible way, we serve the market Americas Historical milestones via three business areas: Automotive, 31% 1797: Höganäs AB was founded as a coal-mining company Industrial and Environmental. All three 1910: Sponge iron works was built act globally, but focus on different Markets 1946: Factory for production of iron powder was built customer groups and their particular 1950: Establishment of Höganäs in USA needs. 1980s–1990s: Expansion in Asia, sales organisation grows in Europe and new plants are opened up in India, Brazil and UK. Business Area Automotive 2000: A sales office is set up as the first step for the new North Automotive is the business area where Höganäs has the longest American operation. A steel plant in Stony Creek (First Miss and deepest experience. Here you find our ‘traditional’ powder Steel) and an iron powder plant in Niagara Falls (Pyron) are metallurgy solutions for sintered automotive components utilising our acquired. Two years later, Höganäs acquires SCM Metals in pure iron powders, our alloyed powder like Astaloy® and Distaloy® Johnstown for production of high alloys. and our press-ready mixes like Intralube®, Starmix® and Densmix®. 2015: Acquisition of Abril Industrial Waxes Ltd in UK. Typical automotive parts benefitting from the use of metal powders 2017: New headquarter for business area Environmental was are components for variable valve timing (VVT), planetary carriers for set up in USA, Cary. automatic transmissions, cam lobes, connecting rods, main crank bearing caps, shock-absorber components, pulleys and sprockets. THIS IS HÖGANÄS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 13 The world of Höganäs Sweden United Kingdom Belgium South Korea USA Japan China India Brazil Headoffice (Höganäs Sweden) Production Tech Centres Sales THIS IS HÖGANÄS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 14 Business Area Industrial This business area was created to efficiently serve, and add value to, different industries with a wide range of needs. Our industrial surface coating team, with our brands like Surfit® and Rockit®, serves among others agriculture, mining, oil and gas, pulp and paper industries, plastics, glass and steel industries. We supply powders for many different deposition techniques, such as laser cladding, plasma transferred arc (PTA) surfacing, flame spraying and powder welding. And we support our customers with application development and validation, material and process Höganäs demonstration car with powder metal transmission gear recommendations, analysis and training through our tech centres technology around the world. Industrial powder metallurgy (PM) applications can be found in mass-produced, cost-saving mechanical components used in air Pulse transformers for ignition systems and fast-switching conditioners, refrigerators, power tools and lawn mowers. Powder actuators for fuel injection can benefit from our metal powders for metallurgy is also used in smaller series applications adding high electromagnetic applications. Our offer for the automotive sector value by unique features such as wearand corrosion resistance, also includes our soft magnetic composites Somaloy® for innovative thermal properties or filtration capability. Within Industrial, we have solutions for electric traction and auxiliary motors, and inductive also gathered electromagnetic applications within heating, ventilation components for drive systems. and air conditioning (HVAC), power tools, lawn and garden, and white Our brazing pastes and our BrazeLet® brazing filler metals, goods industries. Of course, our industrial customers also benefit which combine low brazing temperatures with high corrosionand from our vast experience gained from automotive applications, and oxidation resistance, perfectly fit the needs of applications like this collective knowledge is directly accessible via our tech centres. exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) coolers and catalytic converters. Typical brazing applications are found within, for example, Engine valves benefit from our surface coating powders and industrial and domestic heat exchangers. Our offer includes brazing knowledge. pastes, filler metals and brazing related services for all common In addition, emerging technologies such as additive paste application techniques as dispensing, roller coating and manufacturing for the automotive sector are supported by our screen printing. Automotive team. THIS IS HÖGANÄS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 15 The start-up Metasphere Technology, founded 2009 in Luleå, Sweden, has developed a new technology for atomizing metals, carbides and ceramics at very high temperatures in a new and ground-breaking reactor. With this new technology, perfectly spherical, highly dense and pure powders free of satellites can be achieved. Additions to Höganäs portfolio of high-performance powders for surface coating and additive manufacturing include, among others, tungsten carbides. Current customers are supplied with products from the pilot reactor; work is ongoing to finalize the production reactor, which will be started during the third quarter of 2018. STC is a leading global manufacturer of surface technology, ceramic and additive manufacturing powders for a wide variety of end-market applications. STC produces a broad range of highly customized metallic and ceramic powders, which target niche A typical industrial application benefiting from Höganäs surface applications in a diversified set of end-markets including industrial coating powders. gas turbines, aviation, oil & gas, welding, medical, various industrial applications, thermal management & clean energy and additive Also, additive manufacturing is gaining more and more manufacturing. STC operates two production facilities in Germany importance within the manufacturing industry, enabling entirely new and has a workforce of approximately 360 employees. In 2016, the design capabilities. We develop powders and services for all types company reported revenues slightly above EUR 100m, of which of additive manufacturing such as powder bed, powder deposition about half was generated from Europe. The company operates as a and blown-powder techniques. legally separate stand-alone division within the H.C. Starck Group. During 2017, Höganäs announced two expansions vital to STC’s broad product portfolio and strong trademarks will expand Business Areas Industrial: the acquisition of the business of Höganäs’ existing product portfolio, and add significant product Metasphere Technology took place early November 2017; and in late development capabilities and knowhow to Höganäs. The transaction December Höganäs signed an agreement to acquire H.C. Starck has been subject to the approval of relevant authorities and has Group’s Surface Technology & Ceramic Powders division, STC. been closed at the end of February 2018. THIS IS HÖGANÄS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 16 Business Area Environmental The newly formed Business Area Environmental develops products and processes for key environmental applications. Our Cleanit® solutions cover drinking water, industrial wastewater, soil and groundwater remediation segments in the global market. Our Cleanit product range is based on high-purity iron media with very high surface area, high internal porosity and significant reactivity. When needed, we also add proprietary functional additives to the base irons for customer/site specific needs. The Cleanit media is highly reductive and adsorptive when used in decontamination of drinking water. Its reactivity can be sustained long-term or can be fast as demanded by site conditions. Cleanit is capable of removing multiple contaminants such as hexavalent chromium, arsenic and other heavy metals from groundwater in a Höganäs water treatment pilot, available for site testing to fine tune simple, one step pump and treat process. Our solutions can easily process and demonstrate performance to customers. be retrofitted into existing water treatment systems. The media in water treatment is approved according to the North American standard for drinking water system components NSF61/ANSI 61. site remediation time. We offer engineered media (Zero Valent Iron) Our portfolio also includes Industrial wastewater treatment for all soil remediation treatment techniques, such as soil Injection, using electrodes in an electrocoagulation process. The electrodes permeable reactive barrier (PRB) and soil blending. have very high surface area and porosity to allow faster reaction In 2017, Höganäs set up Business Area headquarter in Cary, and dissolution. The electrodes can be customized to target a North Carolina, USA, with Research & Development, Sales, project specific contaminant and site needs. Our solutions remove a broad design and logistics functions. Water and soil treatment are new range of contaminants including heavy metals, metalloids, organic technology areas for us, and therefore we are in the lighthouse substances, ammonia, nitrates and phosphates. Our designs phase, gathering real-life data and experience together with typically reduce energy consumption significantly and considerably customers. Currently, three drinking water installations and one Zero increase treatment efficiency and we can custom design electrodes Liquid Discharge (ZLD) industrial wastewater plant are showcasing for any application. In soil remediation we primarily target chlorinated our technology in daily use. Several projects are on-going for soil organic compounds, heavy metals and allow substantial reduction in remediation in cooperation with customers. THIS IS HÖGANÄS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 17 Total capitalization, broken down Number of Production: ca. in terms of debt and equity as of employees: 500,000 31 December, 2017 1,888 tonnes of metal powder Equity: Net debt: 8,405 4,167 Net sales, total: More than 700 valid million SEK million SEK 8,223 patents on processes million SEK and products Organization Type of engagement European Powder Metallurgy Association (EPMA) Höganäs holds a position on the governance body Metal Powder Industries Federation (MPIF) Höganäs holds a position on the governance body Japan Powder Metallurgy Association (JPMA) Höganäs participates in projects and committees Powder Metallurgy Association of India (PMAI) Höganäs holds a position on the governance body Korean Powder Metallurgy Institute (KPMI) Höganäs participates in projects and committees China Powder Metallurgy Alliance (CPMA) Höganäs participates in projects and committees American Water Works Association Höganäs participates in projects and committees Jernkontoret (Swedish steel producers' association) Höganäs participates in projects and committees Eurofer (European steel association) Höganäs is represented via Jernkontoret. UN Global Compact Höganäs is participating in the initiative THIS IS HÖGANÄS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 18 The solutions we provide The collaborative approach There are many ways to do business. At Höganäs, we believe in a collaborative approach. Because no matter where in the world we find our customers, the one thing we all have in common is that, by cooperating and sharing best practice, we all achieve more with less. We want to contribute to our industry reaching its full potential, and we think this can only be done by working together. We hope that our tech centres around the world offer places where we can join forces, in close cooperation, to innovate and drive metal powder opportunities forward. Here we have the knowledge and the infrastructure to work with metal powder development, application design and prototyping as well as process optimization – an ideal platform for joint application engineering. Our tech centres provide services that aim to optimize customer Our services range from straightforward prototyping or processes in areas such as pressing and sintering, and postmechanical testing, to complete application development treatment stages like machining and heat treatment. as exemplified by soft magnetic composites, where support encompasses material selection, electromagnetic application design and process solutions. Components like gears can be tested for both tooth root bending fatigue, as well as rolling contact fatigue. Making it easier to select the right powder-based product Advanced testing methods enable “virtual” prototyping and Material characterization and testing has traditionally been one of the generation of reliable application-relevant data to product and the strongest competencies that Höganäs offers. By continuously process designers. Our materials knowledge and microstructure adding new test methods, such as wear testing, to established analysis tools make it possible to design materials with specific competence in areas like fatigue analysis, our tech centres can properties and to select the right material and processing for a given provide a wide range of material and component testing methods. application. Microstructure analysis also has a troubleshooting role, This includes mechanical testing of static and dynamic properties, providing the insight to identify root causes for application failures material analysis like phase transformation and metallographic and the ability to indicate corrections to processes and materials analysis, chemical analysis, rheology and corrosion testing. that will ensure robust manufacturing. We also arrange courses THIS IS HÖGANÄS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 19 on metallography to spread knowledge and understanding of the With state-of-the-art equipment for screen printing, roller potential and behaviour of powder metals. coating and dispensing, we can help our customers to reach high precision, high productivity and low defect rates in all types of Process development brazing applications. We can, for example, provide test series of In the past, Höganäs has developed processes such as warm components with paste applied the same way as in final production, compaction for its customers, and we continue to be involved in in order to make sure the customer’s productivity and quality joint projects to offer new alternatives and improve processing requirements are fulfilled. On-site application development is also performance. New developments in sintering provide opportunities provided to ensure we find the optimum application solution for our for the controlled sintering of high-performance powders such customers’ components. as chromium alloyed materials. Cooperation with press and tool manufacturers on the use of press-ready mixes has improved A multidisciplinary approach the productivity and quality of PM components. Our tech centres Within our tech centres, we can provide the expertise and services provide services that aim to optimize customer processes in needed to reduce time to market for innovative electromagnetic areas such as pressing and sintering, and post-treatment stages application projects. This requires a multidisciplinary approach like machining and heat treatment. However, our tech centres’ focusing on material selection, application design and an efficient capabilities relate not only to powder metallurgy components, but solution for producing pressed and heat-treated components. We also to electromagnetic applications, surface coating, additive offer the knowledge, tools, equipment and services to support a manufacturing, brazing and filter applications. successful project outcome. Our range of capabilities provides Höganäs’ surface-coating hubs have been set up for a very support in areas such as material selection, training, application specific reason: we are committed to supplying the best technical design using FEA analysis production optimization, and prototyping. services achievable to the surface coating industry. Our services We call our largest tech centre at our head office in Sweden PoPcover identification of the best solution to improve component centre, while our tech centres focused on surface coating are called lifetime, selecting the optimum process and materials, prototyping, ArcX-centers. Brochures on the complete infrastructure of our tech sample production, pre-series and first-series production. We centres around the globe can be found on our homepage. can also assist our customers with technical support on process parameters and materials, and provide troubleshooting services for Continuous service development deposition techniques such as laser cladding, plasma transferred During 2017, we expanded our tech centre capabilities with two arc welding and flame spraying. new facilities. The new machining hub in the US aims to support THIS IS HÖGANÄS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 20 customers in the machining of sintered components. By fully utilizing our machining additives in the powder, our competent staff and our new test possibilities, we can realize significant improvements for our customers, such as longer tool life, increased productivity, less cooling and lubricant use, while minimizing the occurrence of defective goods. In China, Höganäs opened a new sintering competence centre to support our customers to improve their sintering and heat treatment processes for optimized product quality, performance, reduced scrap rates and lowest total costs. Also in 2017 AMEXCI was founded, which is a service centre in Sweden for know-how throughout the product lifecycle in the field of additive manufacturing. It is co-owned by Höganäs and Scania, SAAB, Electrolux, Husqvarna Group, Stora Enso, ABB, SKF, Atlas Our materials knowledge and microstructure analysis tools make it Copco, Wärtsilä and our owners FAM. possible to design materials with specific properties and to select the In early 2018, Höganäs acquired the Swiss tooling company right material and processing for a given application. Alvier PM-Technology. While Höganäs will support Alvier’s development and global ambitions so that it remains a strong and independent player, the acquisition will assure and broaden our possibilities to provide excellent support to powder metallurgy customers and industry, allowing innovations to be realized within mechanical as well as electromagnetic applications. THIS IS HÖGANÄS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 21 Höganäs and sustainability Höganäs and sustainability strategy, Mount Sustainability, was set during 2016, and illustrates our climb along five strategic paths leading to the top. sustainability Along the paths are focus areas that support each other. Our strategic priorities are:  A great and meaningful place to work At Höganäs, we believe in the capacity of the individual. Everyone Höganäs is striving to be a catalyst for change and become has the potential to contribute to improving not only our company, a truly sustainable business. We do this by responsibly but also society. producing resource-efficient products that benefit both A good workplace is safe and offers the right physical and our customers and society as a whole. In recent years, we organizational prerequisites for the development of individuals and have raised the bar even further by developing an extensive teams. Competence development and inspiring leadership are sustainability strategy that sets the direction for all our important building blocks of a meaningful and attractive workplace. business activities. The foundation for making Höganäs a great and meaningful place to work is More Höganäs – our management philosophy that sets out HÖGANÄS IS A mature business with well-established our vision, values and principles. relationships with major stakeholders and a long tradition of measuring and prioritizing social contribution, environmental impact  Building communities and responsible partnerships and economic development. With that said, we constantly need to A sustainable company needs to understand its impact on and tackle the complex challenges facing society today and tomorrow. obligations toward society, including which companies and Last year, we took steps to integrate sustainability into our business organizations it chooses to partner with. Höganäs’ engagement planning – but we know this is just the beginning. Without in industry partnerships has global reach, and local commitment considering the environment and the world around us, financial comes from our desire to be a good citizen wherever we strength and success are unattainable and vice versa. This reciprocal operate. approach is the core of sustainable development for Höganäs. Höganäs has throughout its history been committed to high ethical standards in all its business relations – a good tradition Climbing Mount Sustainability that we need to protect carefully, not least through transparency A journey of a thousand miles starts with the first step, and and openness in all our communications. We make extensive Höganäs’ intention is to be an industry leader on this journey. Our efforts with our suppliers, working together to secure and develop HÖGANÄS AND SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 23 Mount Sustainability is used as a focal point that marks transition. Positioning and create pull Climate neutral Take lead to reportfolio think and surpass expectations Opportunity and risk in a more sustainable Use renewable energy, fuels society and reducing agents Everyone’s Meeting the commitment challenges of Value based society More sustainable workplace products and offers Proactive, open and Next-level Strong leadership in clean factories Reduced emissions from transparent dialogue all dimensions transports and materials Social Agreed engagement Sustainability ways Attract & recruit of working partnerships Energy efficiency Prove and exploit Zero Right competence the built-in Waste today and for the future Engagement in sustainability Monitoring of supply chain Zero carbon footprint Accidents High ethical standards in all business relations A great and Highest quality meaningful Sustainable in all we do Climate project processes place to work Future-proof neutral Building communities business operations and responsible Sustainable offerings partnerships and long-term profitability HÖGANÄS AND SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 24 high standards of human rights, labour rights, anti-corruption and  Climate neutral operations environmental protection. We have a vision of becoming a climate neutral operation, although Our aim is to create a culture of individual engagement, where we are aware it is a huge challenge. We must work both with all co-workers feel supported in their personal ambitions toward innovation, new and established methods to minimize our climate building communities. We think that each employee should do footprint, improving energy efficiency, transitioning to renewable whatever he or she can in their daily work to make Höganäs truly energy sources in production and transport, and developing new sustainable. production technology. We have a long-term goal to use only renewable energy, fuels and reduction chemicals. This necessitates  Sustainable offerings and long-term profitability leadership and partnership. Long-term profitability requires sustainability. To remain relevant into the future, our business must produce societal value. Products Footsteps to form the paths from Höganäs should be the first and most sustainable choice The last few years have seen a more concerted call for a change for customers and end users. We understand that this path up of direction away from business as usual. We take the scientific Mount Sustainability is the toughest one for us to climb – and we findings behind the public debate very seriously and realize that will not be able to do it by ourselves. We aim to be the partner that we need to not only adapt, but take the lead in a change process enables sustainability and seeks cooperation with suppliers, end towards a sustainable society. For this reason, we became a users, academia and communities to meet the expectations and signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2017, and we adhere fully requirements of society. to its Ten Principles. This means that we commit to operate in ways that meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights,  Future-proof business labour, environment and anti-corruption. We need to assume our responsibility in a society that is aiming We have an ongoing stakeholder dialogue in order to keep our at sustainability. Future-proofing the business means ensuring sustainability strategy relevant. Höganäs’ major stakeholders are high quality in our products and operations through effective work customers, employees, owners and society. Many aspects comprise methods, responsible use of resources, environmental protection and society in this context, ranging from the environment in which it workplace safety. Our goal is clear: The highest quality in all we do, exists to different facets of the community such as competent Zero Accidents and Zero Waste. These are ambitious goals, but we authorities, non-governmental organizations and neighbours. believe it is possible to reach them. In 2015, we carried out the first stakeholder dialogues in accordance with the GRI principle for stakeholder inclusiveness. A two-day workshop called Future Search Seminar was initiated by HÖGANÄS AND SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 25 Höganäs, where we gathered almost 50 people, representing the that together represent the geographical and organizational width most important internal and external stakeholders, with the ambition of the company. To prepare for the materiality analysis, the sales of setting the future direction of the business. Owners, competent department made an updated summary of findings from our authorities, employees present and future, customers, suppliers, customer contacts. local communities, NGOs and academia all participated. The result Input from the owners is given regularly at board meetings. helped us identify and prioritize the material issues on which we During 2017, Lindéngruppen also hosted a separate workshop on have built our sustainability strategy, Mount Sustainability. sustainability and invited, amongst others, Höganäs’ sustainability In 2016 and 2017, Höganäs joined forces with key stakeholders department and representatives of the management team, including to form a network of Swedish mining and steel industries for the CEO. In addition, we also conducted in-depth interviews with sustainable development. This collaborative network is managed by representatives of FAM to complement the owners’ views and the Swedish Steel Producers’ Association, the Swedish Association expectations. of Mines, Mineral and Metal Producers, and the Swedish Additional input for our updated materiality analysis was based Association of Industrial Employers that work together with the on the SDGs and the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles, which companies. The network has, among other activities, participated in are the most accepted and thorough ones covering the needs a joint project between the Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI), an of society; they also express the expectations placed on an international non-profit research organization, and the Swedish steel international company like Höganäs. producers’ association, Jernkontoret, to explore the potential of In an internal materiality workshop, we used this input to stress Swedish steel industry for increased societal value in relation to the test our sustainability agenda to meet stakeholder expectations UN Sustainable development goals (UN SDG) and targets . Thus, through a materiality analysis. A group-level decision, following a members of the network work to better understand what the UN review of stakeholder input, adopted the necessary changes to the SDG mean for their industry and use Agenda 2030 as an industry priorities set out in the sustainability strategy and cleared the way to benchmark to identify key aspects where we can best contribute to update Höganäs’ business plan accordingly.  the realisation of the SDGs. At the same time, this project shows the importance of considering all seventeen SDG together”. During 2017, we intensified our dialogue with our co-workers, owners and customers. The 2017 People Satisfaction Survey for our employees included a section covering sustainability issues, concerns and expectations. The survey was complemented with a number of in-depth interviews with a selection of employees HÖGANÄS AND SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 26 Materiality matrix Path in strategy Our identified aspects Summary of key topics and concerns raised during the stakeholder A great and 1 Good employer dialogues. All topics are relevant for our entire organization and are meaningful place 2 Active, receptive and present management presented accordingly. No topic corresponds to one single part of the to work organisation only. We will continue the stakeholder dialogue and materiality Building 3 Purpose driven business analysis during 2018. communities 4 High valued supplier and responsible 5 Procurement practices partnerships 6 Human rights 3 7 Local communities 10 12 14 1 8 High etics and conduct 19 very high 9 Transparency Importance to our main stakeholders 16 Sustainable 10 Profitable 6 15 17 offerings and 11 Stable/responsible/professional 11 long-term 5 18 12 Focus on future technologies/market profitability 7 9 13 Market presence (responsible partnerships) 13 14 Overall product and offer performance 20 15 Customer health and safety 4 8 Future-proof 16 Environmental impact business 17 Safe and healthy workplace 2 18 Modern and efficient production plants high Climate neutral 19 Responsible use of raw materials operations 20 Emissions, effuents and waste high very high Influence on Höganäs’ business HÖGANÄS AND SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 27 Implementing sustainability across the organization Both 2016 and 2017 were years of introduction to the principle of sustainability in the organisation. The implementation of our new management philosophy More Höganäs promoted our societal value “We walk the sustainable path” through extensive training. The More Höganäs message is spread by grandfathering to all parts of the organization, supported by information and dialogue among co-workers. The implementation of More Höganäs will continue over the coming years. We also launched a specific sustainability training package, which was made mandatory for all employees. The sustainability training consists of two e-learning modules, the first of which is a general introduction to all aspects of sustainability including human rights, labour rights, anticorruption, the environment and ethical business practices. The second module, which we developed internally, focuses on Höganäs’ role in relation to sustainability issues and introduces our sustainability strategy, Mount Sustainability. Both modules conclude with departmental discussion sessions. Major parts of our global organization completed both training modules during 2017, and the remaining employees will conclude their education in early 2018. The sustainability training has also been included within the mandatory introduction programme for all new employees. HÖGANÄS AND SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 28 Governance Governance “We firmly believe that sustainability can be fully integrated in the entire business.” DURING 2017, HÖGANÄS reorganized how we work with our markets and how we drive development in all areas of our Nicklas Lång, business. These adjustments will help us remain strong and relevant General Counsel and Senior in the face of rapidly changing market demands and societal Vice President Sustainability challenges. We firmly believe that sustainability can be fully integrated in the entire business, and to succeed we need – and we have – full commitment from management, the Board of Directors and our owners. Our support and respect for human rights, labour rights, The new organization mirrors how we view our markets. environment and anti-corruption proclaimed in the UN Global Instead of regions, we implemented business areas with global Compact are implemented and managed by our code of conduct responsibility for market development, customer management and and subsequent policy documents. sales. They are supported in a matrix organization by Operations, The Corporate Sustainability department continued to develop Research & Development and Commercial. Corporate functions – during 2017, with the addition of the position as sustainability Finance, Human Resources (HR), Legal, Intellectual property (IP), coordinator. The sustainability coordinator has mainly been Sustainability and Communications – support the organization. responsible for implementing an online tool for the reporting of sustainability data and key performance indicators (KPIs) to evaluate Sustainability organization compliance and progress regarding human rights, labour rights, Höganäs created its sustainability strategy – Mount Sustainability environment and anti-corruption. – in 2016, and the past year was a period of providing clearer Corporate Sustainability is responsible for the Group-wide directions and plans for creating a sustainable business. Following development of the sustainability strategy and for proposing the five strategic paths of the mountain includes more structured sustainability targets for the Group. Corporate Sustainability sustainability work and the integration of social, economic and also ensures that relevant sustainability issues are brought to environmental aspects within all levels of the company. the attention of Group Management. Each Business Area and GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 30 Competence Centre is responsible for implementation of the executives attend and present reports on individual issues as sustainability strategy, including all five paths in Mount Sustainability, required. in its respective area, supported and advised by Corporate The Board sets the company’s financial goals and strategy, Sustainability. Further responsibilities of Corporate Sustainability appoints and evaluates the President and Chief Executive Officer include follow-up on the implementation of decisions taken, and to (CEO), and ensures that efficient systems are put in place for drive and coordinate sustainability work at Group level. follow-up on, and monitoring of, operations. It also ensures that the company complies with statutory and regulatory requirements. Board of Directors The Board establishes each year its working plan, which The Board of Directors, which is elected for one year at a time, integrates sustainability reporting and risk-management reporting. consists of nine members appointed by the owners at the Annual Risk management includes financial, operational and sustainability General Meeting, and two members appointed by trade union risks. An extensive risk matrix is prepared by group management organizations. The General Counsel and Senior Vice President once a year and reviewed by the Board. On a needs basis, tighter Sustainability is the Board’s Secretary. Höganäs’ Chief Financial follow-up is decided upon for specific risks. The Board receives Officer (CFO) also attends the meetings as part of Group updates on Höganäs’ fulfilment of its sustainability goals at board management. Other members of Group management and other meetings. Consequently, every board meeting includes a review of Höganäs’ operations, including sustainability issues. The owners receive an annual and comprehensive compliance and progress summary on sustainability, according to the Owners Sustainability Framework, a set of minimum requirements and “Sustainability development. They cover issues of environmental protection, must be driven efficiency in operations, occupational health and safety, social by leaders contribution and ethics. In 2017, the Board of Directors held eight meetings, whereof five with great were physical and planned in advance. The other three meetings commitment.” were extraordinary and held by phone. Kristian Sildeby, Human Resources and Remuneration Committee board member The Board of Directors elects a remuneration committee on yearly basis following the Annual General Meeting. The committee consists SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 31 of the Chairman of the Board and two members of the Board. The performance from the Senior Vice President Sustainability. committee can co-opt members of Group management or other key Sustainability issues are on Group Management’s agenda at every functions from the company to the meetings. meeting to ensure close involvement of top management. The committee’s work is laid down in an instruction accepted by the Board. The committee deals with matters concerning Project Council remuneration principles and other terms of employment for Group The Project Council is the highest instance regarding Höganäs management, incentive programs and general profit-sharing Group’s major projects, covering a wide spectrum from programs. The committee also follows up on how remuneration projects about research and development, to investments and principles are applied and the levels of remuneration to Group communication. Sustainability is an important aspect in all projects, management. and in 2017 the council approved an investment in a pilot plant for renewable energy gas and green coke. The council consists of Audit Committee managers from various parts of the business, and they meet four The Board of Directors elects an Audit Committee on yearly basis times a year, including the Senior Vice President Sustainability. following the Annual General Meeting. The committee consists of least three members of the Board. President and CEO of Höganäs, Ethics Committee Höganäs CFO and external auditors participate in the committee During 2017 Group Management introduced an Ethics Committee meetings. with the mission to set a number of focus areas and key principles The committee’s work is laid down in an instruction from the for our long term social engagement. As a start, the committee Board. The committee reviews the company’s financial reporting, launched the initiation of a collaboration with Plan International risk situation and participates in planning of audits and decisions (a humanitarian organization that advances children’s rights and regarding financial policies. The committee also supplies guidelines equality for girls). The committee consists of three members concerning audit services. of group management, including the Senior Vice President Sustainability. During 2018 the Ethics Committee will broaden its Group Management scope to also address and clarify value direction in certain areas. The CEO and the Group Management are responsible for approving For the time being, employees are encouraged to contact their the sustainability strategy and goals each year. Group Management manager, human resources, local union representatives or the receives regular updates on the progress of sustainability General Counsel for advice and concerns about ethics. GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 32 Information Shareholders Annual General Meeting (AGM) Election External Election Election lawyer Board of Directors Auditors Audit financial statements and Human Resources Information administration. Report to the Board and Remuneration Audit Committee and shareholders. Committee Goals, strategy Reports and and controls controls Whistleblower CEO and Group Management function Project Council Ethics Committee Internal governance instruments External governance ºº Code of Conduct – The Group’s fundamental values on ethical issues instruments ºº Finance Policy – Instructions adopted by the Board that formalize for ºº The Swedish Companies Act example the finance function’s framework for finance and currency risks ºº Relevant law and regulation ºº Communication Policy – The Group’s rules for external communication ºº United Nations Global ºº Policies covering environment and energy as well as occupational health Compact´s 10 universal and safety – a set of instructions to secure continuous improvements in principles on human rights, respective areas labour, environment and antiºº Risk Policy – Overall regulations for the Group’s risk management initiatives corruption ºº CEO instructions from the Board GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 33 Whistle-blower function policies governing sustainability. In addition, the Conflict Minerals All Höganäs employees can report grievances via managers, human Policy, the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, and the Anti-Corruption resources functions or union representatives. Anonymous concerns Policy govern the way Höganäs operates. and grievances regarding unethical behaviour and organizational integrity can also be filed via Höganäs’ whistle-blower hotline Control and Management Systems (directly connected to an external lawyer), which can be accessed The foundation for Höganäs’ internal governance instruments is the by all employees via the intranet, ensuring that they are protected management system that includes finance, quality, environment, against any form of potential reprisals. Any grievances filed via energy and occupational health and safety. The management these channels are to be dealt with straight away, primarily by the system covers all operations, and is based on, and followed up General Counsel in consultation with Senior Vice President Human on, Group documents such as policies, directives and procedures Resources, and according to standardized procedures, including the including the precautionary principle. All policies, certifications and reporting to the chairman of the Board and the Audit Committee. legal statements are available on hoganas.com. At year-end 2017, seven grievances relating to five cases about On a local, operational level, further detailed procedures and breaches against the Code of Conduct had been filed. Three cases routines are documented. An internal audit scheme according to have been resolved and two remain open. the principles laid down in the COSO framework (the framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Policies Commission, concerning enterprise risk management, internal More Höganäs, which was launched in 2016, remains the solid control and fraud deterrence) is in place for internal control foundation to which our sustainability strategy and targets are purposes. Large parts of Höganäs’ management system are anchored, and from where they can be further developed. More certified and third-party audited for environment, quality, energy, Höganäs entails our vision, our values and our principles for how we occupational health and safety. A list of management certificates is lead and how we work. It is the foundation for Höganäs’ company available on hoganas.com. culture and it forms the basis for our policies and governing Höganäs’ operations in Sweden are subject to external auditing guidelines. Work is in progress to align these different threads, and verification control according to the regulations of the European taking sustainability into full consideration. Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS). EU ETS is the world’s The Code of Conduct, Occupational Health Policy and the first major carbon market and a tool for reducing greenhouse gas Environmental and Energy Policy are the most important Group emissions and combating climate change.  GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 34 A great and meaningful place to work A great and Vision meaningful place to work Values Our four values Customers – We focus on customer success Leadership Principles Employees – We respect and believe in each other Höganäs intends to set the standard as a great and Owners – We create long-term value meaningful place to work. Creating a safe and supportive Society – We walk the sustainable path workplace where people prosper is the essence of More Höganäs – our management philosophy. This will help us to unleash the full potential of our people. More Höganäs is our management philosophy. It encompasses our vision, our values, our view of leadership Höganäs – a value based workplace and our principles. The philosophy will help us to strive for During 2017, we continued our cultural transformation journey called sustainable business every day, where everyone can grow and More Höganäs. Our purpose is to create a company that connects develop. people and that sees, values and realizes the full potential in each individual. Making more with less, while offering opportunities for our people, will enable us to stay competitive. We are convinced that The survey results reflect a period of confusion that naturally people who feel acknowledged and have the possibility to influence follows times of change. There is much learning and action needed and develop, are the foundation for our progress and performance as in response. The answers show a decrease in net promoting a company. This is the absolute belief that underpins More Höganäs. score from 46% in 2015 to 26% in 2017, which coincides with In late 2017, following a time with many and profound changes, our development journey. The results also show that the majority including a revamped business strategy, a major re-organization, of the five lowest rated statements have to do with leadership the introduction of More Höganäs and changes in management, we and communication with management, while another is “we launched a people satisfaction survey. The survey was based on our work actively to avoid stress”. Apart from the areas connected new philosophy and had a separate leadership module. to group management and stress, our analysis has identified the A GREAT AND MEANINGFUL PLACE TO WORK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 36 following areas in need of improvement: competence development, the own performance and for the development of better ways of sustainability, leadership and efficiency. As this report is being working, as well as being a good colleague, who supports others to finalized, the action planning process based on the survey results is grow and develop. We strongly believe that a prerequisite to leading ongoing in different parts of the organization. others is that you learn to lead yourself. As Zero Accidents is one of our most prioritized goals throughout Höganäs uses appraisals (that is, performance and career the organization1, we are happy to see that the survey shows a development reviews) to plan each co-worker’s competence great commitment to it. Two of the five highest scored statements concern safety at work: “I feel responsible for contributing to a safe Leading Leading Leading and healthy workplace” and “we learn from past accidents”. Further, the results show that goals and achievements were addressed by the development talks. When we asked co-workers if they felt they had the competence needed to perform their work, it was scored self others leaders high. Competence development is important for Höganäs to remain competitive and for co-workers’ job satisfaction. Discussion and How we work goes hand in hand with how we lead. Competence and leadership development is an important part of Our four leadership principles More Höganäs. As we are faced with a lot of changes and new challenges over time, we need to be agile and rely on planning of competence development takes place annually in everyone’s leadership. Being a part of Höganäs means taking responsibility for our own performance and development, Weis thatare all leaders and being a good colleague who supports others to grow and develop. We strongly believe that a prerequisite to lead ºothers º connection with the appraisal and development talk. you need to learn to lead yourself. ºº We all have potential The follow-up process of the survey will be finalized early Leadership Attracting and recruiting competence ºWeºWe are interdependent have identified six leadership capabilities as critical More Höganäs is on a collaboration journey. Our spring 2018, with many dialogue meetings in order to deepen our to Höganäs’ success in the years to come. destination is a future-proof Höganäs a company that ºº We learn and developVision is relevant to customers and partners, current and understanding of the results. ● Leading and developing people and teams future employees, and society at large. As a way to ● Leading business with clear direction and plans attractVkeyisiocompetence n n to Höganäs we have a strong on-n aand have complementedValues local npresence ● Leading and enabling change d in P We the principles with six leadershipe go to e employer, rmany in ciple of our communities we are Strong leadership in all dimensions ● Leading with communication a visible ver y tiab o le an bysmany known ne a welcome ar from early school d p e to take part in capabilities that we need to develop to succeed ● Leading for collaboration ages. We frequently t Hö astudents gan for ply How we work goes hand in hand with how we lead. Competence ● Leading continuous improvements Principles our research and development äs. examination projects. ºº Leading and developing people and teams In some countries we also assist with financing. and leadership development is an important part of More Höganäs. ºº Leading business with clear direction and plans Finally, only in Sweden, we take on about 100 summer As we are faced with a lot of changes and challenges over time, Methods on-the-job workers every year, providing them with necessary We training, for instance fork lift driver training ºº Leading and enabling change andthree ada p t ouMany of these summer workers we need to be more agile and rely on everyone’s leadership. Being spanning s a follodays. r me w up employment tho ºº Leading with communication are offered tisfiepermanent d wit until w ds after the internship. a part of Höganäs means everyone taking responsibility both for Results h th e re e are ºº Leading through collaboration sults . ºº Leading continuous improvement 1 More information is found in chapter “Future-Proof Business”. A GREAT AND MEANINGFUL PLACE TO WORK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 37 development. To match the leadership principles and capabilities of We further encourage co-workers to develop their competence. More Höganäs, we have during 2017 developed and piloted a new We arrange training both in-house and externally. During 2017, for template for development discussions around the world. The new example, we offered training in: template focuses on the capability to lead and develop people with ºº Languages the core purpose of creating an individual development plan. In 2017, ºº Communication 76 percent of our co-workers had a development talk. We have a ºº Powder metallurgy goal that, by 2019, all employees should have had development talks. ºº Leadership ºº Job-rotation Right competence today and in the future ºº Value-based selling We define competence as a combination of knowledge, capability ºº Surface coating and motivation. We strive to equip our employees for the future in the best possible way by offering learning initiatives to develop their We also encourage co-workers to suggest training for themselves. competence. In addition, workers in Sweden can apply for sponsorships and All new operational staff currently undergo training designed for scholarships for various academic courses they choose to take their individual position. In many areas, they are also given a mentor. during their spare time. Office workers must also complete a number of trainings, ranging from leadership development to work environment and labour rights, Hours of employee training just like the operational staff. Mandatory training for all employees Total 46,265 includes Average 24.5 ºº More Höganäs Average, women 23.2 ºº Sustainability (general knowledge and Höganäs specific) Average, men 24.7 ºº Energy management ºº Environmental protection No data were reported for India and USA. An assumption of 24 hours of ºº Workplace safety training per employee has been made. Moreover, all employees considered to be in a high-risk group for exposure to corruption and bribes must undergo an anti-corruption Last year, after a trial period in 2016, we fully introduced the People training.2 and Competence Review process with the aim of connecting the people and competence agenda with business strategy and 2 The last time this was carried out was in 2015. needs. Annually, we evaluate the business needs and define the A GREAT AND MEANINGFUL PLACE TO WORK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 38 implications for people and competence based on those needs. The Composition of governance bodies People and Competence Review of 2017 targeted levels 1, 2 and 3 Age Age Age of management3, as well as some key competences. The outcome Men Women <30 30–50 >50 was a plan for how to build business competence, covering areas such as strengthened leadership (based on our identified leadership Board of Directors 82% 18% 0% 45% 55% capabilities) and sustainability knowledge. This three-year plan forms Level 1 – Group the basis for prioritizing learning initiatives, and it is reviewed every 80% 20% 0% 60% 40% management year. Level 2 – Reports Attract and recruit directly to member 70% 30% 6% 53% 42% Respect, equal treatment and equality are fundamental to our work of Level 1 with More Höganäs. We believe that diversity is a success factor, no matter where in the company you work. Our Committee for Diversity Employees 84% 16% 16% 58% 29% and Equality, which mainly operates and focuses on our sites in In 2017, no women were appointed as new members of Group Sweden, continuously works to highlight these challenging issues in management or the Board. One woman left Group management, while ongoing dialogues with labour union representatives and other key none left the Board. For other employees, see previous figures. stakeholders. Our internal diversity policy is currently only applicable in Sweden, but dialogue about such a policy across our global We acknowledge that we must improve on gender equality and operations has been initiated. During 2017, we started sending out thus add more dynamics to the organization. We are not happy a directive to always strive for 50/50 men and women in the longlist about having only 16% women in our total workforce; we believe we of candidates in any recruitment process. This needs to be more can do better. We also see that we have an opportunity to develop clearly followed up in 2018, and explicit goals must be set. and recruit more women to leadership positions (although, the proportion of women among managers is higher than the proportion of women in our total workforce). The low number of women in leadership positions is partly also reflected in the salary ratios of men to women, for example in Brazil (see figure on the following page). Another reason for the unbalanced gender salary ratio is that we have very few women with the key competencies and specialist 3 Level 1 = Group management, Level 2 = Managers direct reporting to a Level 1 manager, and so on. assignments that often allow higher salaries. Hence, to change this A GREAT AND MEANINGFUL PLACE TO WORK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 39 Salary ratio, women to men We strongly believe that everyone working at Höganäs contributes with their competence, personal leadership, and 92+64 +42 887977 93 100 91 White-collar Blue-collar commitment to develop their assignments, as well as to perform and deliver. As a responsible employer, we aim to offer a great and meaningful place to work, where individuals and teams can fulfil their potential and ambitions, have a healthy and sustainable lifestyle, and be rewarded in a fair and adequate way based on performance and competence.  92% 64% 42% 88% 79% 77% 93% 111% 91% 73% Höganäs AB Höganäs Belgium Höganäs Brasil Ltda. Höganäs Sweden AB North American North American Höganäs Sweden A Höganäs (China) Co., Höganäs Brasil Ltda. of Höganäs’ employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Höganäs, Inc S.A. Ltd Höganäs High Alloy LLC “Respect, equal treatment and equality are Definition of significant location: production/operation with greater capability/impact in relation to other plants within the company, and fundamental for number of employees exceeding 50. Locations with less than five female how we work.” employees are excluded. Ann-Sofie Räftegård, Senior Vice President situation, we need to encourage more women into key competence Human Resources areas such as material, automation and process engineering. Salary mappings are conducted on a yearly basis to identify gender pay gaps and provide a clear picture of how we can improve to reach equal remuneration. A GREAT AND MEANINGFUL PLACE TO WORK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 40 Höganäs Group: Total number of employees 1,888 (head count) 16+84 16+84 17+83 98+2 Gender  Women: 307 (16%)  Men: 1,581 (84%) Permanent contract  Women: 295 (16%) Europe: 176 Temporary contract  Women: 12 (17%) Europe: 9 Full-time vs. part-time  Full-time: 1,851 (98%) Women: 289 South America: 18 South America: – Men: 1,562 North America: 47 North America: –  Part-time: 37 (2%) Asia: 54 Asia: 3 Women: 18  Men: 1,523 (84%)  Men: 58 (83%) Men: 19 Europe: 822 Europe: 46 South America: 146 South America: – North America: 349 North America: – Asia: 206 Asia: 12 A GREAT AND MEANINGFUL PLACE TO WORK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 41 Growing with China Renata sees the big picture The first spade of sand was added to the foundations of a new In June, Renata Alvim said goodbye to her colleagues at mixing station in Höganäs China. The current quality control Höganäs in Brazil for a three-month exchange in Höganäs, laboratory needed to be improved to match the growth of the Sweden. “It was very exciting to start a new job that was Chinese market. With this new laboratory, we believe that we totally different from what I do here in Brazil, where I am in will be an even more attractive company to work for. purchasing. In Sweden, I was in customer service, so now I know both sides,” says Renata. On a roll in Taiwan A marathon effort in Sweden Höganäs Taiwan has started its Sustainability Journey by Two hours and fifty-five minutes is the new Höganäs office record combining training with team-building activities and discussions for running a marathon, when around sixty employees participated about how to reach our goal of sustainable development. in the first marathon arranged in the town of Höganäs. Building communities and responsible partnerships SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 43 Building communities “We have a and responsible responsibility to maintain an active partnerships and transparent dialogue with the local community.” Ulrika Rask-Lindholm, Senior As a local metal powder producer with a global business, Vice President Communications we have a responsibility and an opportunity to build communities and responsible partnerships. Our business perspective is straightforward: we thrive when the community thrives. WE THINK THAT the products we supply are of benefit to and what they want us to do better. #1 2018 #1 2018 society, but building communities entails more than that. Dialogue, transparency and partnership will ETT NYHETSBREV FÖR DIG SOM BOR I HÖGANÄS ETT NYHETSBREV FÖR FRÅN HÖGANÄS AB DIG SOM BOR I HALMSTAD FRÅN HÖGANÄS AB Responsible partnerships, where we work together to champion direct Höganäs’ focus when we interact with KRÖNIKA GodKRÖNIKA jul och gott human and labour rights, anti-corruption, the environment and the the societies in which we do business. nyttFrån jobb Halmstad till världen VI NÄRMAR OSS julen med stormsteg och hösten är som vanligt en OM DU HAR en bil är sannolikheten fullspäckad tid på Höganäs AB. stor att den innehåller metallpulver Projekt och aktiviteter går på högtillverkat här i Halmstad, i vårt Atovarv, många med förändringar som tema, ochmiseringsverk. Vi är förstås stolta kundernas efterfrågan på över att vara en del av många metallpulver mänär god. highest business ethics, are of equal importance. As individuals, we Our large operations in Höganäs niskors vardag, över hela världen, Här i Höganäs visar sig detta även om vår produkt sällan syns bland annat i att vi behöver bli med blotta ögat. fler. Under hösten har vi sökt juniora teknikerdet Men finns också fler sätt som och ingenjörer vi bidrar till den ”stora”till vår forskning världen på. och utveckling på Inom Höganäs AB är vi del av en Ny påi sände jobbet Bruksgatan. Under några år får de Ett korn jobba med grupp med andra stålverk. Vi har olika teknikområden r systeranläggningar i USA, Brasilien för att längre fram specialisera sig, och kanske och Indien, som alla tillverkar mepröva vingarna på ett depend on many community services and, as a company, we and Halmstad in Sweden require a tallpulver med samma Höganäskontor teknik och i något annat land. Vi har ocksåmetoder som vi. varit på jakt efter Det är ett värdefulltmer Kvalitetskontrollen är nålsögat som erfarna ingenjörer inom automanätverk. Vi varje träffas regelbundet för att diskution – en ytterst viktig yrkesgrupp läge för något nytt”, ”Det var Höganäsproduk säger t måste Peter Andersson, ett av flera passera. tera hur vi bäst löser frågor kring när vi utvecklar processerna i våra nytillskott SIDORNApå Atomiseringsverket. 4–5 fabriker. arbetsmiljö, säkerhet, kvalitet och produktivitet. Det vi lär oss här kan Men vi är SIDORNA 4-5 inte det enda företag som rekryterar i Skåne. Konkurnytta av. vi och våra kollegor dra rensen är hård. Ett exempel på en sådan lärdom För att hitta de är de säkerhetsförbättringar vi encourage personal engagement. We believe partnership and constant awareness of local needs and bästa medarbetarna har vi därför gjort efter incidenten i våras med satsat lite extra på att berätta om en slaggpotta. Tack och lov kom vår arbetsplats. Om du följer oss på Facebook ingen till skada, och nu har vi ineller LinkedIn har säkert sett enfört nya rutiner somdu minskar risken och annan Höganäsnuna i flödet. för liknande incidenter. Läs mer Vi hoppas förstås om detta på sidan 6.att det ger en intressant inblick i vad ortens störstaMellan utgivningarna av det här privata arbetsgivare nyhetsbrevet berättar vi om vår har att erbjuda. verksamhet på Facebook. Så varför transparency are essential to building communities, and we hope demands. As the second largest employer Trevlig läsning! inte gilla oss på facebook.com/ Ulrika Rask-Lindholm hoganas? Metallpulvervärlden är Kommunikationsdirektör, garanterat spännande! Miljöansökan godkänd Höganäskoncernen Trevlig läsning! Höganäs flyttar in i Luleå – efter 8 år Charlie Wedell Atomiseringsverket Färre risker med ny teknik Platschef, Atomiseringsverket vann miljöprisSIDAN 2-3 SIDORNA 6 SIDAN 2 SIDAN 6 that this report will inspire stakeholder interchange. in Höganäs municipality, we have a responsibility to maintain an active and transparent dialogue with Local dialogue the local community. We inform the community about our activities We actively seek out and listen to input from stakeholders – not and invite people to dialogue through our newsletter Insikt, which least in our local communities – but this is an area where we need to is published and updated online continuously. It is also printed and improve. We want to talk to our neighbours about their expectations distributed in the local community two to three times a year. BUILDING COMMUNITIES AND RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSHIPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 44 At our production sites in other countries, we engage in substantial donations are given to support children’s development community dialogues on a needs basis, and this we need to in underprivileged areas, local fire departments and youth sports. improve. A particular challenge here is to work more systematically Lately, we have started a partnership with Plan International – a and find the ‘Höganäs way’ for stakeholder dialogue at all our humanitarian organization that advances children’s rights and sites, drawing inspiration from the good examples in Höganäs and equality for girls. During 2017, this initiative made it possible for Halmstad. Höganäs employees to donate a Christmas gift from the company to Plan International’s different projects. The partnership with Plan Building communities International will be expanded to projects relating to water access An open and transparent dialogue with local communities naturally over the coming year. leads to local community building projects. One example is a project In line with our global commitment, we are currently in the initiated in 2016 to redesign our harbour area in Höganäs, Sweden, process of developing a Group policy for community engagement to improve bicycle and pedestrian lanes along the shoreline. and donations. The work is still at the planning stage, together with Höganäs municipality. During 2018, the inhabitants of Höganäs municipality Bringing young talents onboard will be invited to give their input on the plans. Höganäs has a tradition of working on projects with universities and research institutes. Our experience is that the projects Put residual heat to use broaden competence and bring added knowledge and value to Use of residual heat from our production sites in Sweden has, all the involved organizations and wider society. For this reason, throughout 2017, provided enough heating and hot water for 3,000 we regularly sponsor postgraduate studies and offer students homes . We are also exploring further use of residual heat for the opportunities to work on thesis projects. Moreover, each year we benefit of local farmers. This work will continue during 2018, with the employ about 100 students during summer time at our Swedish aim of bringing new job opportunities and contributing to locally and sites, offering them valuable insights and often a start to their sustainably produced food1. professional career. Support to local organizations Consolidating the supply chain At all our locations around the globe, we have a long history of Höganäs is a materials producer, and our supply of raw materials, supporting the local communities in which we operate. Our most energy and transports is where we must focus when consolidating the supply chain. Höganäs is a hub for local business – more than 1 See also chapter “Climate Neutral Operations” half of our raw materials are sourced locally within the country of BUILDING COMMUNITIES AND RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSHIPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 45 Supply of direct materials by spend Höganäs sources about 50% of its direct materials 50+37+13 locally in the country of operation. Purchased 13% from outside continent 50% Purchased Purchased 37% in country in continent of operation We have long relations with many of our strategic suppliers. In 2017, of operation we celebrated 100 years of continuous business relations with the Swedish mining company LKAB. operation. Moreover, we source maintenance, consultancy and ºº Management systems entrepreneur services within the country of operation, with only a few ºº Environment exceptions. ºº Social performance Our suppliers and subcontractors play a vital role in our business, ºº Quality so we expect them to demonstrate high standards. However, our As we believe in the power of collaboration, we wish to work commitment to take the lead in creating a sustainable business has together with our upstream partners to support them in their given us new perspectives on our supplier relations, and we need to development towards social, economic and environmental strengthen our supply chain management accordingly. Therefore, we sustainability. During 2017, ten trusted suppliers agreed to test the have updated our expectations and enhanced our communication function and relevance of the improvements we made. The results with the supply chain through our new Code of Conduct for Suppliers and feedback were reassuring, and we are now ready to launch the – a new model for supply-risk identification and a tool for supplier initiative. The updated Code of Conduct for Suppliers sends a clear evaluation. Besides the Code of Conduct, our suppliers are required message and will serve as a starting point for a refocused supplier to fill out a standardized questionnaire covering the following areas: dialogue when it is introduced this year. BUILDING COMMUNITIES AND RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSHIPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 46 On-site audits All new suppliers are approved following an evaluation process that Conflict minerals are minerals mined in conditions of armed conflict and human rights abuses, and which are includes compliance to Höganäs Code of Conduct for suppliers. sold or traded by armed groups. Conflict minerals are During 2017, no major changes in the supplier base were made. For cassiterite, columbite-tantalite, gold and wolframite. existing suppliers, we perform frequent audits whenever required. In 2017, we carried out 25 on-site audits among our raw material suppliers – none of which required further action. Guidelines and Artisanal mining in the Democratic Republic of Congo policies regarding on-site audits will continue to be sharpened, We have adopted a deeper approach towards human rights in the and audits will be performed with consistent regularity. We will artisanal mining of concentrates in Congo. Höganäs is in close also put stricter requirements on performed due diligence among dialogue with its suppliers to make sure that sourcing of Cobalt our suppliers and will take active measures to better cover all originates from artisanal-free concentrates. No evidence of artisanal sustainability areas in our supply chain management. mining practices was identified during 2017. Conflict materials The term artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) Last year, Höganäs implemented a revised system for ‘conflict refers to mining practised by individuals, groups or communities often informally and/or illegally. The minerals’ management and control. Our Code of Conduct for practice occurs predominantly in developing nations. A suppliers and official documents published by the Responsible common definition for this sector has not been adopted, Minerals Initiative serve as the basis of our work. as its legal status, defining criteria, and local definitions Our Conflict Minerals Compliance Policy requires all direct vary from country to country. material suppliers to submit a Supplier Certification Form. All suppliers are encouraged to develop compliance policies that are compatible with the OECD’s Conflict Minerals Guidelines. Suppliers of transport services High-risk suppliers must conduct sufficient due diligence to allow With customers and suppliers all over the world, we depend on them to verify that any minerals used or supplied are conflict-free. efficient transportation and suppliers of transports. The transport In one case last year, we deepened the compliance assessment suppliers are contracted on annual basis, or sometimes longer after by asking the supplier for detailed reassurances; the case was an approval process where commercial, environmental and safety successfully sorted out with the supplier. aspects are considered. BUILDING COMMUNITIES AND RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSHIPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 47 An annual evaluation is performed on all suppliers of transport 3 questions about corruption services where their performance, reported changes, updated to Fredrik Vinnerborg, Sales Director, Eastern Europe certificates and commercial issues are considered. When a contract expires, a new qualification and selection of a supplier is made. How widespread is corruption in the countries you work with? In addition to these systematic evaluations, Höganäs performs “There is without a doubt a widespread culture of corruption in spot-checks on vehicles arriving to our sites. Quality aspects many of them. For the most part it isn’t an open, obvious kind of such as abrasion, tyre quality and sufficient space to secure the corruption, but you can sense it and pick up goods are typical issues when we talk to the drivers. We think that on the signals. That’s why it is important for us presence and attention send strong messages to our suppliers to be vigilant for those kinds of signals.” and their employees. In 2017, only minor issues regarding delivery Could there be business benefits for performance were reported, and all were resolved together with the Höganäs in engaging in corrupt activities? supplier. “Quite the opposite. Besides the fact that Höganäs is constantly reviewing ways of improving transport corruption as such is disgraceful, we know efficiency by offering vendor-managed inventory (VMI), using trains that if we were always competing on equal for transportation and switching from land to sea transport. Read terms, then we would always be among the more about this work in the chapter Climate Neutral Operations.  Fredrik Vinnerborg top alternatives. Therefore we have everything to gain from trying to stamp out corruption.” How important is Höganäs’ anti-corruption policy for your work? “It is an important and useful tool to have behind us. We have to speak clearly and show that Höganäs, being active in the global marketplace, is a company with high ethical values and a zerotolerance approach to corruption.” BUILDING COMMUNITIES AND RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSHIPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 48 Zero tolerance for child labour Making sure that suppliers and subcontractors adhere to Höganäs’ code of conduct requires constant vigilance. In some parts of the world, this is a more pressing issue than in others. AS VARIOUS FORMS of corruption and unacceptable practices, such On two occasions, senior team members from Höganäs as child labour, are a reality in his country, Kumar Iyer, Head of India visited the supplier and spent a full day going through the Operations and Technology at Höganäs India, says he and his team company’s various processes and discussing the matter with the are always on the lookout for signs that the code of conduct is being management there. violated. Kumar says that during the audit it became clear that no children Kumar tells the story of how a supplier was audited because, were involved in any of the suppliers’ activities and that the children during a routine visit, he had noticed children on the premises. he had seen during his routine visit had probably just accompanied “I thought about the possible connection and later, after their parents to the facility. Even so, as a precaution and safety discussing it during the More Höganäs conference, we decided measure, the supplier was instructed not to allow children inside the to conduct an audit of the supplier. The definition of child labour factory premises at all. in Indian law is very convoluted, yet any form is, of course, “Our code of conduct for suppliers strongly reflects our values unacceptable for us at Höganäs. In this case, we had to make an and principles,” says Kumar. ”It shows our respect for all human informed decision about whether we could continue working with beings and is a barometer for what is acceptable. Some suppliers this supplier.” grudgingly accept our requirements, only to realize later that they are benefitting from living up to our requirements.” BUILDING COMMUNITIES AND RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSHIPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 49 Sustainable offerings and long-term profitability Sustainable offerings “We believe that sustainable and long-term offerings are a prerequisite profitability for long-term profitability.” Raissa Kruse, As one of the globally leading providers of metal powder Sustainability Manager solutions, we feel a duty to initiate and lead the sustainable – Economic & Social transition necessary to meet future challenges and rapidly changing market demands. The power of metal powder We are convinced that metal powders can contribute to sustainable with unique value-adding features, such as wearand corrosion development and thereby solve many of society’s pressing resistance, thermal properties and filtration capability. challenges, such as resource scarcity, shortage of clean water and conversion to renewable energy use. Metal powder technology Electromagnetic applications provides opportunities in many of those areas: Rotating and linear machines, sensors, fast-switching solenoids and inductive components can be optimized by using metal powders Powder metallurgy components such as soft magnetic composites (SMC). The uniformity of the The design of structural components as pressed and sintered powder’s electromagnetic properties in all three dimensions enables powder metal parts has many inherent advantages over competing maximized utilization of the active materials, thereby minimizing the metalworking technologies. Using powder metallurgy, complex parts amount of copper windings and permanent magnets needed. that are close to net-shape, and with good part-to-part uniformity, can efficiently be mass-produced with few production steps. Surface coating This leads to high material utilization, low energy consumption The primary aim of thermal surfacing techniques, such as laser and reduced waste. PM components can also be engineered cladding and plasma transferred arc welding (PTA), is to improve a SUSTAINABLE OFFERINGS AND LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 51 component’s resistance to, for example, wear or corrosion, and thus Making more with less increase its lifetime. This is done in a cost-effective and sustainable We are convinced that our products benefit society – not only way, as the component itself can be made in a low-alloyed material, today but also in the future. However, we are not stopping and only the surfaces exposed to wear and/or corrosion are coated there, but investing into product sustainability within the different with a high-alloyed material. Our metal powders can beneficially be application areas of metal powders. As we worked with energy and used for the production and reconditioning of working parts within a resource efficiency and waste reduction for a long time before we broad range of industries, such as automotive, agriculture, mining, consolidated them into our sustainability strategy, we can proudly oil and gas, pulp and paper, plastics, glass or steel. present a couple of successful initiatives now. ºº Within powder metallurgy, we have developed a resource-efficient Environmental solution for the popular iron-copper-carbon powder mixes, and As water shortage has become an urgent matter in many places driven an industry-wide initiative to prove weight-savings for metal across the world, we are happy to offer metal powder-based powder-based gears. solutions for drinking water purification that can improve the lives ºº SMC-based traction motors and motors for auxiliary automotive of millions of people worldwide. Our portfolio also includes a systems, such as water pumps, demonstrate the material process for industrial wastewater treatment, and media for soil and utilization advantages of using metal powders. groundwater remediation. ºº Within surface coating, we offer iron-based solutions to replace hard chrome plating. In close cooperation between a customer Additive manufacturing and our tech centre, we have also developed and evaluated Even though an immature technology, we believe that additive an iron-based coating specially designed for continuous caster manufacturing has sustainability benefits. Potential advantages are rollers. improved resource efficiency in both the production and use phases, ºº Our iron-based media for the removal of hexavalent chromium due to the added design freedom, plus extended product life – not from drinking water is not only technology accepted by the least because of the stronger person-product affinity of customized California State Water Resources Control Board, but is also goods. Industry can influence at least some of the possibilities within a perfect example of a closed material loop combined with this emerging area, such as the optimization of both materials and renewable energy use. processes for maximized resource utilization. ºº Our brazing team has, among other things, developed filler metals specially adapted to the health requirements for tap water heat exchangers. (More details can be found on pages 56–59.) SUSTAINABLE OFFERINGS AND LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 52 Data and decisions optimization of our own processing, our customers’ production, Not withstanding the previously mentioned successes, we believe distribution and use phase, and the design of closed material that a more thorough quantification of the environmental and loops. Therefore, we have started an internal project with the aim social footprints of products is necessary to channel industrial of strengthening our development processes and clarifying our activities towards sustainable development. In 2017, therefore, we products’ sustainability goals. We would also welcome any industrystarted two initiatives with the goal of mapping metal powders’ wide or cross-industry initiatives providing additional input. environmental performance. Internally, we kicked off systematic work with life cycle Small steps to closing the loop assessments (LCA), so far with a focus on cradle-to-gate analysis A more obvious aspect of closed covering the parts of our products’ life cycle, which we can directly material loops is to productize sideinfluence. Obviously, these data give useful input for qualified stream materials. In most of our decisions concerning internal changes and improvements in manufacturing processes for metal production or supply, as well as new product developments. powders, different kinds of byHowever, we are not publishing any LCA data yet, as it is currently products are generated. Depending unclear how best the data should be presented and used. on the properties of these materials, Moreover, we have started and are driving an industry-wide they can be used in various initiative on life cycle assessments within the European Powder applications, often unrelated to how Stone wool is one example Metallurgy Association (EPMA), starting with a lighthouse project to our main products are employed. of a product made from side quantify the complete life cycle impact of a specific powder metal The bulk of our side-stream products stream material. part. are processed from different slags; A common challenge for companies at the top of the supply examples of usage for these materials are as construction materials chain is to predict or drive coming market trends; the same is true in roads or as raw material for the manufacturing of stone wool of life cycle requirements and life cycle data. We are convinced (insulation material). Other side-streams include zinc recovery from that detailed, reliable and transparent data for all stages of the life melting furnace dust and recovery of iron from other dusts1. cycle – raw materials processing, production and distribution, use At the Ocean Conference – held in June 2017 at UN phase and end of product life – are needed for sustainable industrial headquarters in New York – Höganäs signed a voluntary development. However, despite our extensive knowledge on metal commitment on the use of by-products from the steel industry powders and their application, we are today lacking experience of industrial ecology and the much-needed balance between 1 More information is found in the chapter Future-Proof Business SUSTAINABLE OFFERINGS AND LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 53 for water purification. We are now engaged in a partnership of working on projects with our customers, universities, research research project in Sweden (Minrent) to explore the possibilities institutes, and other industry partners. The projects’ scopes of purifying water of phosphorus by using tailored filter materials often include both our and our customers’ technology areas at all made from slags. Lab and pilot-scale studies have shown that technical readiness levels. In most cases, projects are funded by close to 100% of phosphorus can be removed from water by using governmental authorities, with Höganäs as a co-funding partner, slag. Phosphorous is present in many anthropogenic waters, and together with other companies with similar interests. Besides these causes eutrophication in lakes and oceans, The fact that large projects, Höganäs is also active in several centres of excellence and and important agricultural areas are often close to the sea, poses competence, focusing on, for example, materials science and raw a potential conflict between the need to keep the farmlands fertile materials. The table on the next page gives some examples.  and the possible phosphorus leakage into the sea from these areas. Small, privately owned sewage facilities are another major sector causing leaks of phosphorous into lakes and oceans. When using our by-products for water purification, it will contribute to decreased eutrophication. At the end of their life, the saturated filter materials can find use as either a fertilizer and soil enricher, or as a slag former in steel and metal production. We participate regularly in cooperation projects on side-stream products, such as the recently finished project ‘Slagphalt’, which was a cooperation between the steel industry, asphalt industry, research institutes and authorities. The project has shown some major benefits with slag asphalt, such as higher shear strength (important in, for example, roundabouts), higher friction and significant noise reduction. These results have created a higher demand for slag asphalt and opened up new usage areas for steel slag. Sustainable development needs partnerships In general, we believe that sustainable development needs partnerships and knowledge sharing. Höganäs has a long tradition SUSTAINABLE OFFERINGS AND LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 54 Cooperation projects ERMAT: Efficient use of residual materials INNOKOMP, Innovative powder-based component technology Creation of a platform for increased usage of residual materials This project’s aim is to exploit metal powder technologies’ as a complement to virgin raw materials within Europe, with resource efficiency by developing new product solutions for the aim of reaching zero deposits. Network project within EIT end users based on a combination of different metal powder RawMaterials*, 2016–2018. (Footnote: EIT RawMaterials, technologies, and thereby increase the rate of development and initiated by the EIT (European Institute of Innovation and competitiveness of advanced powder components. University Technology) and funded by the European Commission, is the and industry partners, 2017–2019. largest and strongest consortium in the raw materials sector ReLed-3D: resource-efficient and flexible production in the worldwide. Its vision is a European Union where raw materials automotive industry through additive metal manufacturing are a major strength. Its mission is to boost competitiveness, This project addresses the entire value chain from design and growth and attractiveness of the European raw materials sector design optimization to quality aspects. The main objective is via radical innovation and guided entrepreneurship.) to develop design and manufacturing methods for a resourceMin-PET: Mineral products from Petrit-T side-stream technology efficient additive manufacturing of components in the automotive The use of a mineral side-stream, Petrit-T, as a raw material for industry. University and industry partners, 2017–2020. geopolymer products. This will divert 20,000 tonnes per year NESS: Nanotechnology Enhanced Sintered Steel Processing of material from being landfilled, as well as offering a new raw This research project aims to match the needs of future material for cement and acoustic panels. Network project within sustainable manufacturing of complex components with the EIT RawMaterials*, 2016–2018. capabilities of powder metallurgy. It comprises the development Minrent: water filtration with mineral-based by-products as a of generic methods and models for the analysis of manufacturing sustainable treatment technology economics and sustainability. University and industry partners, The project aims to explore the specific industry mineral residues 2016–2020. that can assist in the separation of substances that we do not want to get into the environment, such as phosphorus into the Baltic Sea or metals into groundwater. University and crossindustry project, 2016–2018. SUSTAINABLE OFFERINGS AND LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 55 Inspiring industry to make more with less ‘High-precision toolbox’ for iron-copper-carbon mixes for powder Powder metallurgy gears metallurgy: In a cooperative development effort initiated and driven by Höganäs’ new high-precision toolbox for customizing Fe+Cu+C Höganäs, twelve industry-leading part manufacturers, technology mixes is proof of our constant search for solutions that will take and engineering partners have successfully proven the technical powder metallurgy to the next level. Providing benefits such as concept, and design for the manufacture of powder metal gears significantly improved copper distribution and dimensional stability, for a popular European manual six-speed transmission. Through it enables production with extremely tight tolerances, the highest bench testing according to a typical European OEM test standard possible raw material utilization, and a reduced need for machining and test-driving, we have shown that powder metal gears can and minimized scrap levels. Nearly 100% of the starting materials be designed lighter (1.7kg less for the complete assembly) than reach the finished product. As yields of both green and sintered wrought steel gears in currently practiced manufacturing processes. components are increased, energy use per kilogram of finished parts Due to the near-net-shape benefit of powder metal gear technology, is minimized. Due to perfectly tailored powder compositions, we the manufacturing process chain is shortened considerably. The can meet the physical and mechanical demands of our customers’ results are substantial savings in machining steps, waste and metal specific applications. Moreover, the lubricants used in this new chip formation. The disposal of machining fluids and coolants is also generation of Fe+Cu+C mixes are free of metallic stearates, which reduced drastically. Thus, environmental benefits could be shown leads to less furnace depositions and in turn reduces the need for both for the production and the use phases of the gear. maintenance. Our toolbox also fully eliminates zinc emissions to the atmosphere. SUSTAINABLE OFFERINGS AND LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 56 YASA concept Water pump motor The so-called ‘Yokeless A robust axial flux rushless And Segmented Armature’ direct current (BLDC) motor (designed by our motor for integration with customer Yasa Limited) the impeller of an electric takes full advantage of the water pump for automotive additional design freedom applications can be from powder-based soft beneficially designed using magnetic parts instead soft magnetic composites. of laminates. The motor Simplicity in manufacturing Impeller and stator of an electric is optimized for traction and application integration water pump. applications and reaches has been key for this a power density of more technical concept, which our than five kW/kg. Moreover, the amount of permanent magnets and tech centre in Sweden has developed and tested for demonstration copper windings required is drastically reduced. purposes. The stator is a single tool component and the sealing surface between the dry and the wet parts of the pump is flat. Moreover, this machine outclasses conventional radial flux BLDC motors regarding mass and volume. 30 Conventional YASA Concept radial flux 25 Axial flux motor Radial flux conventional BLDC SMC 20 Weight (kg) BLDC 15 10 5 Volume +72% +72% +43% +65% Ref 0 Mass +101% +76% +36% +26% Ref  Permanent Magnets  Soft magnetic material  Winding  Total SUSTAINABLE OFFERINGS AND LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 57 Replacing hard chrome plating Laser cladding of Roof support cylinders used in coal continuous caster rollers mining, like many other hydraulic Following a customer request, our tech cylinders, require a smooth centre in Shanghai evaluated different surface with wear and/or corrosion surface-coating powders for the resistance and are conventionally protection of steel rollers for continuous treated by hard chrome plating. slab casting lines. The final solution – an As hexavalent chromium itself iron-based powder customized for these is carcinogenic, and the plating specific needs – proved to have both Shining surface without method also produces several corrosion after 5,000 hours of technical and environmental advantages. rest products that are considered salt spray testing. Lower heat input, lower dilution, less material waste and the hazardous waste, industries are elimination of a post-welding annealing step were all realized without looking for viable alternatives. In close cooperation with a customer, compromising productivity. our tech centre in Shanghai has shown that laser cladding with our iron-based surface coating powders offers superior properties compared to conventional hard chrome plating, as well as extended service life for the cylinders. SUSTAINABLE OFFERINGS AND LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 58 Drinking water treatment media: closing the loop Stainless steel joints without nickel or copper Our business area Environmental offers Cleanit®, an iron-based The environmental standards applying to drinking water applications media for the purification of drinking water of carcinogenic set stringent requirements on nickel and copper content released hexavalent chromium. This water treatment media is produced into drinking water. However, copper and nickel-based braze from steel scrap using locally available hydropower. The powder joints are traditionally used for heat exchangers. For this reason, particles are engineered for high porosity, large surface area and we collaborated with a brazing customer and produced a solution high reactivity, leading to improved contaminant absorption and based on our iron-based filler metals. The solution enabled a heat longer media life. No hazardous by-products are released during exchanger made entirely of stainless steel, joined without using any the production process, and only an absolute minimum of wellnickel or copper braze. The heat exchanger has been installed in a established chemical additives is needed for the water treatment. solar energy solution, which will be used for tap water heating. Spent media is taken back and recycled into valuable products at our facilities, e.g., stainless steel powders for automotive powder metal parts. Recently, our powders gained technology acceptance from the Californian State Water Resources Control Board and the Californian Environmental Protection Agency. Re-use for steel products Steel Manuproduct Clean facturing water Raw Use Water Cleanit materials treatment media Re-use Steel Contaminated scrap water Re-use for water treatment SUSTAINABLE OFFERINGS AND LONG-TERM PROFITABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 59 Future-proof business Zero Accidents – a vision and a culture Future-proof We are operating in an advanced technical industry – the production of metal powders – where safety always come first. Zero Accidents business is our vision of a safety culture where dialogue and risk-elimination are key and where we never compromise safety. We call it ‘Safety First’. We have set a target to be the benchmark in the steel industry by the end of 2019. However, our track record shows that we still With our operations come responsibilities toward our have a long way to go and that Safety First needs customers, co-workers, owners and society. Running a to remain our priority. The majority of work safe, clean, efficient and long-term sustainable production safety incidents occur in production, where is what we aim to do. The best sign of a future-proof operators are exposed to elevated risk. business is that we, every day, gain our stakeholders’ Our most common incidents and accidents renewed trust. are trips and burns. A limited number of employees are exposed to thermosetting WE AIM TO achieve the highest possible quality in everything resins; to prevent incidents, they undergo special we do. An operational focus on quality reduces loss of training, and their exposure is monitored. material and energy, and reduces interruptions that can lead to In total, 32 (34) lost time injuries among employees and 6 (5) failure of machines and equipment. Our focus on quality also leads accidents among contractors were reported in 2017 (2016 figures in to more reliable and stable processes, for example less need for brackets). unexpected repairs, and thus less exposure to risks. A consistent For the third consecutive year, the LTI-frequency is decreasing, and reliable level of quality also has a positive impact on the but not at the expected rate. Last year, we introduced the Plant sustainability of our customers’ processes, providing them with the Risk Reduction Number as a key performance indicator (KPI) for the best prerequisites for the most efficient use of our products. The preventive work carried out. The risk reduction target was met at all More Höganäs philosophy, with its agreed and documented ways of sites in 2017. working, forms the basis of continuous improvement and knowledge In 2017, we also implemented a global incident and risk reporting exchange. No matter how rigorous the routines and regulations, system (MIA). This tool is used by all co-workers to report risk quality can always be improved and we constantly work to meet observations, near misses, incidents and accidents. MIA also and surpass expectations. supports problem-solving, investigation reports and actions all FUTURE-PROOF BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 61 18 70 regular basis and conduct safety rounds four times a year at all 16 60 operations sites, and once a year in office environments. Risk observation frequency 14 All sites have, since 2017, a targeted leading indicator to reduce 50 12 the risk level in all workplaces. This metric is called the ‘risk reduction LTI frequency 10 40 number’ and is based on the reduction of risk points after the 8 30 implementation of corrective action. We set a target of reducing risk 6 by 1.5 risk points per person, and achieved a 3.2 score during 2017. 20 4 We promote a leading self approach of safety by involving all 2 10 parties in the identification and mitigation of risks, thus creating a Zero Accidents culture that provides safe and healthy workplaces 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 for everyone. In 2017, several areas of improvement have been Total Target Risk observation frequency implemented by acting with a Safety First mindset. Some of the improvements at our global production sites are listed below: Summary of accident rates in the Höganäs Group. Left axis: Lost Time ºº In Brazil, a project was undertaken to build an outside ladder Injury Frequency [LTI/106 working hours] and targeted 2017 <8, 2018 <5 with a platform that facilitated the access to the cranes for the and 2019 <3. Right axis: Risk Observation Reporting Frequency [number of maintenance team. To minimize the risk of burn injuries in the reported risk observations by the organization/lost time injury] and targeted atomization process, protective shields have also been installed. 2017 ff >50. ºº To focus on the high risks in our melt shops, a Best Practice Group was formed last year with participants from all the meltshops in the company. A first meeting, held in Johnstown in one place; this promotes the sharing of and learning from in September, enabled participants to share experiences experiences, and gives a uniform process for incident and accident and implement best practice at all our meltshops. The Best reporting. Practice Group is now established and the work will continue in Our safety work is supported by a company-wide Occupational workgroups and physical meetings to follow up progress and Health and Safety Policy and Directive (OH&S), which states the continuously share best practices. direction and minimum requirements of the company. At all of our ºº In North America, Safety Hazard mapping has been a successful sites, a systematic OH&S is in place. At all large operational sites, way to identify risks and is a way to actively engage staff in there is also an organization with appointed safety engineers to analyzing potential safety risks in the workplace. Potential support the organizations. We carry out risk assessments on a hazards are identified and prioritized for mitigation, and the staff FUTURE-PROOF BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 62 participate in the mitigation process. All co-workers at the North American operations underwent training to support the process. ºº In India, the local work environment committees (safety committees) have different focus areas every month regarding potential safety risks. The observed risks are then reported in MIA and an action plan is set up to tackle them. This has helped get a clearer focus and engagement within the team. ºº In the mixing station in Japan, new safety rails and floor were built to prevent falling from a station when opening the valve of the bin. ºº In Korea, a special working table was built to facilitate the sieve The Safety & Environment Week in Brazil is an annual event and part cleaning and improve working conditions. The improvement also of a regulatory requirement outlined in current Safety Standards in made it possible to connect the vacuum cleaner to the table Brazil. It aims to increase awareness about health and safety and to so that dust emissions during cleaning were minimized. A new prevent accidents at work. workstation with safety rails was built for operators tying flexbags after packaging to prevent operators from falling. ºº In Tonbridge, United Kingdom, there was a project to review all job introduction. All necessary personal protection equipment is process instructions on the shop floor and to retrain staff with a provided by Höganäs to all employees. focus on safety precautions for each operation. We work consistently toward establishing state-of-the-art ºº In Höganäs, Sweden, risk assessment models have been revised, workplaces through: standardized and implemented into MIA. Risk assessments were ºº Annual emergency exit drills. conducted for all operations during the year. Another project ºº Identifying high-risk workplaces and eliminating risks there. during 2017 was taking an inventory of all older machinery at ºº All accidents, incidents and risk observations being reported, the site to ensure the necessary safety standards. Action plans investigated and mitigated with the highest priority in MIA. are in place to replace or upgrade machinery that does not fulfill ºº All risk assessments being reported in MIA using the same risk standards. In Halmstad, a project was started to clarify rules, management model by 2018. standards and markings in high-risk areas around the furnace. ºº Continuing to target risk reduction as an operational KPI at all sites. All new hires in 2017, including all temporary hires, received ºº Creating an uncompromising safety culture characterized by safety training, including local safety procedures, as part of their active involvement by all parties. FUTURE-PROOF BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 63 Next-level clean factories During 2017, Höganäs continued its proactive work to, as far as possible, eliminate exposure to dust and hazardous substances in the workplace – far beyond current regulations. The need for the usage of personal protection equipment should be reduced to a minimum, and we have set ambitious target levels for two indicator1 elements, cobalt and nickel, to be reached by 2020 at all our workplaces. All sites are fulfilling local national requirements, though not the tougher company requirements at all places. Local action plans are being developed after measurements were made in 2017 at all sites, and continuous evaluation is part of the process. An extensive programme to identify sources of dust release was carried out during 2017, and improvements are now underway. All production sites have identified special areas for improvement, At the atomizing plant in Halmstad, the side-stream material gets a where dust emissions can be reduced. Mitigation of exposure new life as products. The slag from the atomization plant becomes a includes improving ways of working and training, but also technical product with excellent characteristics for the construction of roads. improvements such as new dust filters and vacuum cleaners, and “Petrit® E has a higher abrasion resistance than the natural rocks more enclosed and automated operations where powder can used in traditional asphalt,” says Björn Haase. be released. This precautionary approach will be completed and maintained at the target levels. further by setting a long-term goal for Zero Waste and targeted the Reusing, recycling and eliminating waste reduction rate. With an annual production of about 500,000 tonnes of metal All our waste and by-products have the potential to be reused powder and about 150,000 tonnes side-stream material, we are and transformed into products. In 2017, 77 percent of all our committed to minimizing waste in our operations. We develop process-related side-streams and 70 percent of all our non-process solutions for waste minimization, and we have now gone even related waste2 was put to new use. 0,6 percent of the side-stream materials were sent to safe destruction or landfill as hazardous 1 Cobalt at max 0.02 mg/m3 inhalable fraction (TWA1) and nickel (metallic), at a maximum of 0.005 mg/m3 respiratory fraction (TWA) to be reached by 2020 at all workplaces in 2 Non-process related waste amounts to 1.6 percent of the sum of all waste and bythe Höganäs Group.) products. FUTURE-PROOF BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 64 waste (Classified according to local waste regulation in respective Leftover side-stream material after recovery is considered waste and country of operation). Part of our side-stream materials, such as is sent to landfill at approved sites. classified fractions of slag, can be directly recycled as raw materials During 2017, several actions and projects were started to reach or as consumables in our own production. the goal of Zero Waste. Some of these projects are listed below: We have developed a range of products from side-stream materials, such as fillers in asphalt, construction materials and raw ºº In Brazil, big bags in good condition are sold for reuse and big material for the production of stone wool, just to mention a few. We bags with labels or damaged bags are used in the production are also currently exploring the possibility of using mineral-based of new bags. Also, used lubricating oil is collected and sold by-products as filter media for water treatment purposes, and to to companies that refine it. Slags are processed by magnetic produce lime additive products used in agriculture, which improves separation to reuse the metal fractions, while the rest of the the quality of the soil for agriculture. Two of our most useful product material is used in asphalt and concrete. Baghouse filter dust is developments are Petrit® E and Petrit® T, which are both made out sold instead of being discarded. of slag. Petrit® E can be used to replace gravel in road construction ºº In Japan, plastic reusable pallets have been introduced to handle and Petrit® T functions as a lime replacement. flexbags in-house. As far as possible, non-process specific waste is sorted on-site, ºº At our operation sites in India, ladle refractories are reused and before being transported to local waste handling, such as material cyclone dust is processed in a magnetic separator, so that iron reclaim, reuse or landfill. Examples of non-process specific wastes particles can go back into the process (re-melting). This results in are used oils, electrical cables, spent batteries and broken pallets. 10 percent less dust going to landfill. Turning landfills into local gems In the community of Höganäs, Sweden, we have an on-site Zero Waste landfill that is expected to be in use up until 2030. There, we store 2026 2026: More than 95 percent of all our processprocess-related material of the lowest risk class, such as slag and 2020 related side-stream materials to be put to use. a moderate amount of filter dust containing pure iron. We section 2017 2020: More than 85 percent of all our processthe landfill, only keeping small areas open, and regularly water it to related side-stream materials to be put to use. prevent dusting. Closed parts of the landfill are successively being restored and opened to the public for recreational purposes. The Result 2017: 77 percent of all our process-related area now also attracts wildlife and has become an important resting side-stream materials were put to new use. place for migrating birds. FUTURE-PROOF BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 65 During Höganäs’ more than 200 years of history, we have used other landfills. Closed landfills in Ale (Bohuslän) and Rögla (Skåne) have deliberately been prepared to support bio-diversity. At Rögla, the rare red-necked grebe is now nesting, and the site is also included in the local community “landscape preservation plan” (Naturvårdsplan). Höganäs applies and follows the REACH (2007) and ROHS (2011) restrictions on the use of hazardous substances and chemicals. Höganäs has started to work in new ways due to the scarcity of water in the municipality of Halmstad. “We are testing the use of seawater to cool rest products and to reduce dust,” says Charlie Responsible use of water Wedell, manager at Höganäs plant in Halmstad. Water is used in our operations in a number of ways, such as for cooling metallurgical processes by heat exchange, by circulating it over a cooling tower or a secondary heat exchanger. In Sweden Group summary generation of residual products and waste (Halmstad and Höganäs sites), the heat exchange is used to Process related produce district heating.3 We use 1.7 million m3 of water to cover a Landfilled at total process need of close to 28 million m3 of water yearly. We do Total reclaim Total reclaim this by recirculation and on average water is used 16 times. Minor Total (tonnes) landfill or sent for and reuse and reruse losses of water in cooling towers and in bleed flows are replaced. safe destruction The percentage of recirculation is 90–99 percent in these systems, 151,255 117,203 34,052 77% rendering a water reuse rate of 10–100 times.4 Following an Non-Proces related exceptionally dry period, ground water levels in the Halmstad region Landfilled at in Sweden fell to the point where the community needed to ration Total reclaim Total reclaim Total (tonnes) landfill or sent for and reuse and reruse 3 More about this in the chapter “Climate neutral operations”. safe destruction 4 The only exception is at the Stony Creek site, where the (non-contact) cooling water is 2,406 1,677 729 70% pumped from and returned to the same creek without any recirculation. The only effect on the creek is a very local (a few metres) temperature effect. FUTURE-PROOF BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 66 water use. Our co-workers took on the challenge to find savings Group summary of total water consumption and average recirculation grade. in tap water use. There are savings to be made by exchanging tap Flows are marked as in the figure below. water with sea water in parts of the operation. This is now under Total process use (included recirculated water) evaluation. 29.3 million (B+C+D) Total consumption (A) 1.8 million Responsible use of water For non-contact cooling purposes 1.0 million In Belgium, installation of motion detectors in bathrooms and showers have reduced water consumption by 1.1 million For atomising 0.7 million litres per year. For hygiene and other non-process use 0.1 million A upcoming project in 2018 to replace open cooling towers Average re-circulation of water 16 times with a central cooling system will potentially reduce water Illustration of main water use at melting and annealing operations. ’A’ is total consumption regardless of source, ’B’ is internal consumption by approximately 7 million litres per year. process recirculation, ’C’ is non-process related use of water, ’D’ is water tapped into process systems, ’E’ is discharge from site and ’F’ illustrates losses to air as vapour, mainly through water cooling towers. Water is also used in the atomizing process, where molten steel F is atomized into the desired particle sizes. The water is treated, y ou ndar te mb S ys cooled and largely recycled in the atomizing process again. Some Municipal water water is lost in the cooling towers as vapour, and a small amount D+B is also exchanged in order to maintain the water quality, rendering Well water including an average of about 90–96 percent recirculation grade in these on-site wells Production D systems. Water for hygiene and consumption (e.g., dust binding and Surface water Offices and auxilliary B operations A slag quenching) is also needed. These waters are treated on-site or, Rainwater C E alternatively, sent off to external water treatment plants.  catchment including on-site Garden Water treatment also De-dusting, Etc. including using city catchments treatment plant Illustration of main water use at melting and annealing operations. ’A’ is total consumption regardless of source, ’B’ is internal process recirculation, ’C’ is non-process related use of water, ’D’ is water tapped into process systems, ’E’ is discharge from site and ’F’ illustrates losses to air as vapour, mainly through water cooling towers. FUTURE-PROOF BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 67 Climate neutral operations Climate neutral Monitoring the carbon footprint operations By monitoring our emissions of carbon dioxide, we know where they originate in the value chain. This information enables us to set an efficient long-term strategy. Direct company emissions from production (Scope 1) As a producer of iron and metal powders, Höganäs emits Höganäs monitors its direct emissions of carbon dioxide within all greenhouse gases and thus contributes to climate change. production units. Production in Sweden is subject to the EU-ETS1 We at Höganäs continuously strive to reduce our climate cap and trade scheme, which aims to cap European climate gas footprint with the long-term vision of becoming climate emissions and progressively reduce the cap to mitigate climate neutral. The aim is for Höganäs’ products to be the first impact. Höganäs handed in 222,806 European Emission Units choice for customers and end users with consideration to under the cap to compensate for its direct emissions during 2017. climate impact. 1 European Union – Emissions Trading System according to Directive 2003/87/EC HÖGANÄS’ VISION ENTAILS considering the climate impact of 33+33+1 everything we do in our direct and indirect business activities. Our vision regarding climate neutral operation implies a responsible, energy-efficient and fossil carbon-minimizing production, which includes everything from the import of raw materials to the final delivery of our products. This will strengthen our ability to serve our customers with solutions that will reduce their climate impact. This means careful monitoring of emissions, efficient use of energy and raw materials, choosing efficient transports, and gradually changing to renewable resources. We do this with a 837 + 10 Swedish operations: 222,806 US operations: 27,851 Great Britain operations: 112 India operations: 6,068 Höganäs Group’s total direct emission of carbon dioxide from Brazil operations: 7,367 Belgium operations: 5,292 focus on both climate and business. During 2017, Höganäs started production was 269,496 tonnes during 2017. The figure shows the mapping risks and opportunities to drive toward a climate neutral emissions distributed by country of production (internal transports operation, and we will continue in 2018 to formulate goals and excluded). actions in a comprehensive climate strategy. CLIMATE NEUTRAL OPERATIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 69 Main transport routes and markets CLIMATE NEUTRAL OPERATIONS Emissions from international sea transports 74 +127534 Emissions from other transports SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 70 Höganäs transports contributed to an estimated 34,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide during 2016. A new calculation of the emissions Supply Höganäs Höganäs Customer will be made during 2018. International sea transport is the main internal transports transports contributor. transports to after point at customers of agreed production dispatch Indirect emissions deriving from purchased energy carriers (Scope 2) and Indirect emissions come from our purchase of electricity for distribution operations. The indirect total emissions of carbon dioxide from Boundry for the transport emisson model electricity purchased for the group totalled an estimated 103,000 tonnes for 2017. Keeping an eye on transport emissions Höganäs’ operations at Niagara Falls run exclusively on hydroelectricity. Swedish operations are supplied with a mix, Höganäs’ direct transport emissions are calculated using a mainly of hydropower and nuclear power. Despite being the distance-based method with default emission factors from largest consumer of electricity in the group, the indirect emissions public and recognized databases. For those areas where generated from Swedish operations only account for 10 tonnes local emission factors are missing, proxy data has been used, taking the emission factor from other areas or an internationally available factor. 60+30+532 The model works according to the following principles: every South american APAC operations customer dispatch recorded in the business system triggers a operations calculation based on the combination of product dispatched, European operations customer identity, and the internal transports pattern (type of transport, distance and coupled WTW*-emission factors) to Indian operations US operations the point of delivery, i.e., the route. Emission factors and route information are updated and emissions are recalculated every second year in the model. The model generates an estimated value of total direct carbon emissions from transports. Distribution of Scope 2 emissions of carbon dioxide, totalling an *WTW or wheel-to-wheel data includes emissions caused by the estimated 103,000 tonnes, between Swedish, US and Belgian production of the fuels used for transport. operations. CLIMATE NEUTRAL OPERATIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 71 of carbon dioxide. The Brazilian operations are supplied over an Energy Consumption Höganäs Group electricity grid powered mainly by hydroelectricity. Höganäs aims to refine the Scope 2 reporting, as more reliable 0% grid data are made available. –2 % Value chain emissions (Scope 3) –4 % During 2017, we mapped a selection of our products using a Life –6 % –7.1% Cycle Analysis (LCA) approach. The results indicate that significant –8 % emissions in the value chain are from supplied materials. This year, –10 % we will look to gather and report upstream data as far as possible. –12 % Our target is to be able to also start reporting Scope 3 emissions 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 from 2020. Actual Forecast Target Energy efficiency and energy conservation Höganäs Group’s energy conservation. Reduction of specific energy The best way of minimizing cost and climate impact is to avoid consumption (energy per tonne of produced product) compared to unnecessary use of energy. Höganäs has a long and successful base year 2010. Actual saving at end of 2017 was a 7.1% reduction. history of reducing the use of energy per unit produced. Our present energy efficiency initiative, the ‘Energy Challenge’, has the goal of a 10 percent reduction in energy use per produced ton of metal powder between 2010 and 2020, which is a challenging goal. By the end of 2017, we achieved 7,1 percent as a result of again, the total use of energy can be significantly reduced. Höganäs ways of working, continuous improvements, installation of modern continues to search for new possibilities to expand the use of technology and process development. residual heat, both internally and with external partners. Operations in Sweden have certified their energy management Höganäs’ operations in Sweden use residual energy for low systems since 2006, and we have set a target that, by 2021, temperature processes and for heating of buildings and tap all major production shall follow suit and certify their energy water. For a number of years, we have also exported residual management according to ISO 50 001. heat to local community district heating networks. During 2017, Processing metals at high temperatures results in residual energy Höganäs exported 53,000 Megawatt hours to the local district that can be useful for other purposes. By using the same energy heating systems in Höganäs and Halmstad. The exported heat CLIMATE NEUTRAL OPERATIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 72 was equivalent to heating and providing hot water to approximately developer, to develop new regenerative industrial infrastructure 3,000 homes2 in the colder Swedish climate. projects. Warming and possibly supplying carbon dioxide to In 2017, we took another step in this direction, when Höganäs greenhouses is one potentially interesting win-win idea. The intention made an agreement with an energy system consultant and is to find a commercial solution during 2018. Long-term, Höganäs aims to find a viable use for residual energy 2 Calculated on an average of 17 Megawatt hours used per household for heating and hot at all its production facilities. water. Renewable energy and raw materials Air pressure and energy consumption Höganäs’ direct emissions from production are dominated by the reduced at additive plant use of fossil carbon, mainly at: The air pressure at the Additives Production Plant in Sweden ºº The reduction of magnetite and in the processing of scrap in the has been reduced by 45 percent. The improvement means electric arc furnace a reduction of 1.5 percent of Höganäs’ entire electricity ºº The use of natural gas and LPG3 as fuel consumption at the Höganäs site, which corresponds to the ºº The use of raw materials like scrap, containing carbon energy required to heat 50–60 homes. ºº Internal transports Certified Energy Manager with the mission to save energy Hence, finding commercially feasible renewable alternatives for carbon sources and fuel is necessary to make important steps Jacob Maruschok, at Höganäs North America, has passed toward carbon neutral operations. the Certified Energy Manager (CEM) credential, which is an internationally 54 percent of all raw material comes from recycled or recognized certification developed by renewable materials. The total amount of raw materials the Association of Energy Engineers. used is 600,000 tonnes. “I will utilize my knowledge of energy systems, along with my The Probiostål project understanding of our processes, In 2017, the Probiostål construction of a pilot plant based on the to achieve energy savings within all Woodroll® process commenced at the Höganäs site in Sweden. departments of Höganäs in North America,” says Jacob. Jacob Maruschok 3 Liquefied Propane Gas CLIMATE NEUTRAL OPERATIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 73 Once operational, Höganäs will prove the technology for the future supply of renewable fuel gas and reduction coal (i.e., bio-coke). Probiostål is a joint research and development project between the Swedish steel industry, Cortus Energy AB, various universities and the Swedish authorities Swedish Energy Agency and Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. There are currently few realistic alternatives to fossil fuels for Höganäs, due to the need for precise control, high temperature and purity – but this project has the potential to change that. The ultimate plan is for this technique to be made available for use by the entire iron and steel industry. The Woodroll® plant can eventually revolutionize the industry’s efforts in phasing out fossil fuels. A number of lab studies were performed in the early stages of the project, demonstrating the possibility of gasification of biomass In November, we broke new ground in Höganäs by starting to synthesise gas, hydrogen and biochar. The process is called construction on the world’s first plant for renewable energy gas and Woodroll®. To verify the results and economical aspects, tests on an bio-coke. industrial scale over a longer period are necessary. Among the project participants, Höganäs is the only industrial user of both natural gas, hydrogen and coal. The pilot-scale project in Höganäs provides a unique opportunity to evaluate process coal pipe distribution networks, which is an advantage when assessing from various raw materials, to learn how to use renewable fuel/ the possible future sourcing of biogas. syngas, and to make an evaluation of the new technology on-site. The Woodroll® plant will be inaugurated during 2018 and run as a Electricity pilot for about a year. Höganäs is dependent on large amounts of electricity for production purposes – some of which is produced using fossil fuels. Höganäs Biogas is addressing these indirect (Scope 2) carbon dioxide emissions with In parallel, Höganäs monitors the market for commercially available the aim of increasing the supply of commercially viable alternatives. biogas. Our European and US sites are connected to natural gas It is Höganäs’ strategy to use current market options for purchasing CLIMATE NEUTRAL OPERATIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 74 A climate-effective win-win Since 2012, Höganäs Sweden has had a partnership with the local wastewater treatment plant. In exchange for residual energy delivered from Höganäs to the wastewater plant to heat its biotreatment step, Höganäs receives approximately 2 GWh biogas. This is a win-win, where both parties reduce their climate impact. Reduced emissions from transports With customers and suppliers all over the world, the supply chain inevitably means extensive transportation of goods and materials, which means emission of greenhouse gases. We export our products to customers all over the world, so we depend on efficient transportation. Höganäs supplies the markets mainly using “returning” These new solar panels at Höganäs in India will generate around international sea transports on the Asia-Europe and Asia-US routes. 80 percent of the annual requirement for electricity at our office in International sea transports are globally interconnected and this Pune, India, and about 3 percent of the total plant requirement in is an area where Höganäs has only a small potential make its own Ahmednagar. More investments in renewable energy will come. improvements. For sea transports arriving to Höganäs harbour, however, we set requirements regarding the age of ships and the fuels they use. carbon dioxide-efficient electricity from renewable production at commercially sound prices. Other examples of ongoing activities are: The technology for producing renewable electricity, especially ºº Trains instead of trucks in the photovoltaic area, is evolving and we foresee that this will Another focus is to use train transports instead of trucks create interesting new opportunities in the energy market over time. wherever possible. In 2016, possibilities opened to access the Solar cell installations are becoming more affordable and reliable. In Iberian market with train transports. This has led to us now using 2017, Höganäs invested in an installation at the Indian site. The local trains between Sweden and France, which alone takes about 800 engineering team also saw an opportunity to use the solar panels to tonnes of goods off European roads. This was possible only after harvest the annual rains for internal use, replacing a large part of the bringing both suppliers and customers on board to shape this water that today is drawn from the city water main. innovative logistics solution. CLIMATE NEUTRAL OPERATIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 75 would halve the number of transports needed. The initial results from the 2017 data are promising: we exceeded the target level of 25 percent savings in fuel and recorded a 34 percent saving. We are now looking to get permanent permission for the HCT transports before investing in replacing the rest of our current carriages.  We are looking to get permanent permission for the HCT transports since, fully implemented, it would halve the number of transports needed. ºº Shorter pallets The finished goods are transported in shipping containers. In 2014 and 2015, Höganäs introduced a shorter pallet that allows about a 10 percent increase in fill ratio in each shipping container. The results are positive: Höganäs has reduced the number of containers it needs and also the volume allocation on feeders and overseas transport vessels. The shorter pallet is now the new standard. ºº High-Capacity Transports In 2016, Höganäs started testing High-Capacity Transports (HCT) on the Höganäs-Helsingborg route. HCT transport vehicles can carry two freight containers instead of one. Fully implemented, it CLIMATE NEUTRAL OPERATIONS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 76 Climbing Mount Sustainability in the years to come Climbing Mount Sustainability in “We do not the years to come compromise on safety and have set a target to be the benchmark in the We at Höganäs bring opportunities to the market through steel industry by our metal powder solutions and our knowledge. We believe the end of 2019.” that the inherent properties and endless applications of Anders Bergman, metal powders means they will be utilized in industry and Sustainability Manager society to a much larger extent than they are today. Metal – Environment & Safety powders do not only enable our customers to develop smarter solutions and new application areas; they also reduce material and energy consumption while making better and more cost-efficient products. OUR GOAL IS to be a sustainability leader, and our tool to emphasis in the coming years will be on enhancing our stakeholder achieve this is our strategy, ‘Mount Sustainability’, which is dialogue, systematically identifying threats and opportunities, tightly connected to our vision Inspire industry to make more with regularly updating our materiality analysis and continuously fineless. The most important step for us to reach our goal is to continue tuning our sustainability strategy and to have it integrated into to embed sustainability into our business plans and daily work. This our business plan and daily work. Major stakeholders in our value final section of the report details Mount Sustainability’s most chain communicate a strong commitment to sustainability, with immediate targets and our main plans for the years to come. topics ranging from decoupling business and earnings from CO2 Höganäs embarked on a journey and we understand that emissions, to the origin and end of life of materials, to supplier there are challenges ahead that we have yet to discover. Our demand for transparency on environmental and social impact. CLIMBING MOUNT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 78  A great and meaningful place to work  Building communities and responsible partnerships Making Höganäs a great and meaningful place to work implies Engagement in the supply chain will remain one of Höganäs’ focus that what we do is relevant and appreciated. The More Höganäs areas in the years to come. Following up on last year’s successful philosophy, which we launched in 2016 as our principal test, in 2018 we will continue the introduction of our updated Code management tool, is the perfect enabler, turning passion, of Conduct for Suppliers, which puts more explicit demands on competence and leadership capability into results. We will continue suppliers concerning healthy workplaces, healthy ecosystems and to integrate our vision, values and principles as the backbone business ethics. We will also commence the transition to our new of necessary change. Training is still ongoing, and progress is tool for supplier evaluation. The re-evaluation of all direct material continuously followed up within different parts of the organization. suppliers will be finished before the end of 2019. To continue on our path up Mount Sustainability, we need to It is of great importance that all co-workers understand what define our vision of a great and meaningful place to work in terms is expected of them, concerning business standards and daily of goals and targets. First, then, we can set plans on how to practices. The Höganäs Group Code of achieve them. For example, gender equality and equal remuneration During 2018, Höganäs Conduct was adopted years ago to set based on competence and performance will remain high on the will launch an updated out the principles by which we conduct internal Code of agenda. The directive to strive for equal gender distribution among Conduct to clarify our relations with business partners, our ambitions and candidates in a recruitment processes is a clear signal, but needs to provide more explicit shareholders, employees and the guidelines. be further specified and followed up. Regarding equal remuneration, community. Our main focus is on business further analysis of the root causes is needed in order to formulate a ethics, anti-corruption, social ethics and strategy. We have access to data to work with and analyze, which human rights, as well as the environment and confidentiality. During may give additional valuable information. 2018, Höganäs will launch an updated internal Code of Conduct to As mentioned in earlier sections, the follow-up process of the clarify our ambitions and provide more explicit guidelines. people satisfaction survey is ongoing. A deeper analysis of the To systemize and streamline reporting of sustainability data, the results is necessary before action planning, but we already know implementation of a digital data-collecting tool was begun last year, that focus areas must be: focusing on several prioritized aspects. This work will continue ºº Leadership and communication with management in 2018 with additional aspects. Also, there will be continuous ºº How to avoid and handle stress improvements, with automation of data collecting as an important ºº Continued competence development, including sustainability, goal. From 2018, data will be collected quartlerly in order to facilitate leadership, and efficiency in ways of working follow-up on progress and enable proactive and transparent dialogues and measures. CLIMBING MOUNT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 79 To facilitate activities in community projects, internal guidelines for societal value in a future community based on a circular economy. social engagement have been prepared and will be launched and Within this context, many challenging questions arise, especially implemented this year. Local engagement in the communities where around industrial ecology and closing material loops. We will we operate will remain high on the agenda. In addition, Höganäs definitely continue our ongoing projects concerning relevant use of has initiated a co-operation together with Plan International to focus our side-stream products and expand our focus the year to come. on access to clean drinking water in underdeveloped areas. In addition, we would welcome any initiatives with industry partners and academia that provide additional input on the valuation of  Sustainable offerings and long-term profitability different lifecycle aspects, such as energy use during production We believe that sustainable offerings are a pre-requisite for longand use phase, versus recyclability. term profitability. To reach a complete portfolio of sustainable products and offerings, efficient development tools are needed.  Future-proof business First of all, clear product-related sustainability goals need to be Our co-workers are our most valued assets, so we have set defined. For this reason, this year, we will run an internal project to ambitious goals for occupational health and safety. Our long term systematically map and analyse our products’ generic sustainability committment to Zero Accidents is supported by boosted activities impacts over their complete lifecycle. This will help us to identify and like: prioritize existing gaps, and set well-defined development goals in ºº Promoting a Zero Accidents culture with focus on developing our project processes. clear expectations and monitoring of safety leadership To facilitate fact-based decision-making, we will also intensify our ºº Continuous risk reduction including investment plans to reduce work with lifecycle assessment (LCA) and increase our resources workplace risks for this work. The plan for 2018 includes both continuing systematic ºº Training and detailed cradle-to-gate analysis of our metal powders and ºº Global sharing of best practice, such as melt shop safety driving industry-wide activities. We have, therefore, started an LCA workshops with participant from all our sites. initiative within the European Powder Metallurgy Association (EPMA) and we are also in discussions with other industry associations. By 2019, our goal is to reach a lost time injury (LTI) frequency of less We believe that the transition to industrial sustainability requires than three. To support this ambition, we work with preventive safety cooperation, so our strategy includes establishing partnerships measures and have set a goal to reach an average risk reduction of within our value chains and with other industry partners, universities at least 1.5 points per employee and year for this proactive work. and research institutes. The goal is to extend our knowledge base Another important goal is to eliminate exposure to dust and and explore how we, together with our partners, can contribute hazardous substances in the workplace. The need for the usage of CLIMBING MOUNT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 80 personal protection equipment in our factories should be reduced to permanently with our operations and replace about 50 gigawatt a minimum. For this reason, we have set ambitious reduction targets hours of our energy per year from 2019. for two indicator elements – cobalt and nickel – to be reached by Reducing our overall energy requirement will also remain in 2020 at all workplaces in Höganäs Group. focus. Our Energy Challenge is targeted at decreasing our energy Last year, 77 percent of all our process-related side-streams were consumption by ten percent per tonne by the end of 2020, reused or recycled. Our vision of Zero Waste is complemented by compared to the base year 2010. sub-targets. By 2020, we aim to put more than 85 percent of our side-stream materials to use, and more than 95 percent by 2026. Moving upward Another challenge regarding resource efficiency is to manage our In summary, we realize that we are at the very beginning of our water consumption – especially in regions with limited water supply. journey up Mount Sustainability and, to accelerate our move Our factory in India is situated in Ahmednagar, which is an area that upwards, we need to support our ambitions with more explicit periodically experiences water shortage. We have set the ambitious targets and goals. With many good initiatives and engaged cotarget of replacing more than 50 percent of our process water workers, however, we have a stable base upon which to build. requirement there with rainwater harvested on-site by 2020. We consider metal powders as sustainable assets in themselves, and we believe that we are well equipped to continue to develop  Climate neutral operations sustainable offers and to inspire industry to make more with less. Climate neutral operations are our most ambitious vision, as well as one of our most challenging. We do not know if it is reachable but we know that we are dependent on others and we need to depend on technology advancements. To get closer, cooperation with industry partners, academia and society’s various actors is necessary. Our next step is to prepare a group-wide climate strategy, including targets and a timeline during 2018. One specific activity helping to reduce our climate impact is the Probiostål project, which aims to replace fossil fuels. With the pilot-scale plant, which currently is under construction at our site in Höganäs, Sweden, we plan to verify the Woodroll® technology commercially by 2020. If successful, the plant will be integrated CLIMBING MOUNT SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 | HÖGANÄS AB 81 Appendix Appendix: Höganäs GRI index sustainability report 2017 UN Global Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Principles Chapter Completion GRI 101: Foundation (GRI 101 does not include any disclosures) GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization This is Höganäs Fulfilled 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services This is Höganäs Fulfilled 102-3 This is Höganäs Fulfilled Location of headquarters 102-4 This is Höganäs Fulfilled Location of operations 102-5 This is Höganäs Fulfilled Ownership and legal form 102-6 This is Höganäs Fulfilled Markets served 102-7 Scale of the organization This is Höganäs Fulfilled 102-8 Principle 6 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled Information on employees and other workers 102-9 Building communities and responsible Fulfilled Supply chain partnerships 102-10 This is Höganäs, Building communities Fulfilled Significant changes to the organization and its supply and responsible partnerships, Sustainable chain offerings 102-11 Principle 7 Climate neutral operations, Governance Fulfilled Precautionary Principle or approach UN Global Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Principles Chapter Completion 102-12 This is Höganäs, Sustainable offerings and Fulfilled External initiatives long-term profitability 102-13 This is Höganäs Fulfilled Membership of associations Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker CEO Statement Fulfilled 102-15 This is Höganäs, Governance, Future-proof Fulfilled Key impacts, risks, and opportunities business, Climate neutral operations, A great and meaningful place to work, Climbing Mount Sustainability in the years to come Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Principle 10 Governance, CEO statement Fulfilled Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 102-17 Governance Fulfilled Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Governance 102-18 Governance Fulfilled Governance structure Stakeholder engagement 102-40 Höganäs and sustainability Fulfilled List of stakeholder groups 102-41 Principle 3 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled Collective bargaining agreements 102-42 Höganäs and sustainability Fulfilled Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-43 Höganäs and sustainability Fulfilled Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-44 Höganäs and sustainability Fulfilled Key topics and concerns raised UN Global Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Principles Chapter Completion Reporting practice 102-45 About this report Fulfilled Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 102-46 Höganäs and sustainability Fulfilled Defining report content and topic Boundaries 102-47 Höganäs and sustainability Fulfilled List of material topics 102-48 Not applicable Restatements of information 102-49 Not applicable Changes in reporting 102-50 About this report Fulfilled Reporting period 102-51 About this report Fulfilled Date of most recent report 102-52 About this report Fulfilled Reporting cycle 102-53 About this report Fulfilled Contact point for questions regarding the report 102-54 About this report Fulfilled Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 Höganäs GRI index sustainability report Fulfilled GRI content index 2017 102-56 About this report Fulfilled External assurance UN Global Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Principles Chapter Completion Material topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Governance, Building communities Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 A great and meaningful place to work, Fulfilled The management approach and its components Governance 103-3 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled Evaluation of the management approach 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Principle 10 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled policies and procedures Energy GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Climate neutral operations Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 Climate neutral operations, Governance Fulfilled The management approach and its components 103-3 Climate neutral operations Fulfilled Evaluation of the management approach 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Principle 8, Climate neutral operations Fulfilled Principle 9 Water GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Future-proof business Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 Governance (Environmental management Fulfilled The management approach and its components system) 103-3 Future-proof business Fulfilled Evaluation of the management approach GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Principle 7 Future-proof business Partially fulfilled 303-3 Water recycled and reused Future-proof business Partially fulfilled UN Global Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Principles Chapter Completion Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Climate neutral operations Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 Climate neutral operations, Governance Fulfilled The management approach and its components 103-3 Climate neutral operations Fulfilled Evaluation of the management approach GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Principle 7, Climate neutral operations Fulfilled Principle 8 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Principle 7, Climate neutral operations Fullfilled Principle 8 Effluents and Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Future-proof business Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 Future-proof business, Governance Fulfilled The management approach and its components 103-3 Future-proof business Fulfilled Evaluation of the management approach 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Principle 8 Future-proof business Fulfilled Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Principle 2 Building communities and responsible Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary partnerships 103-2 Principle 2 Building communities and responsible Fulfilled The management approach and its components partnerships, Governance 103-3 Principle 2 Building communities and responsible Fulfilled Evaluation of the management approach partnerships GRI 308: Supplier Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Principle 8 Building communities and responsible Fulfilled Assessment environmental criteria partnerships UN Global Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Principles Chapter Completion Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Future-proof business Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 Future-proof business, Governance Fulfilled The management approach and its components 103-3 Future-proof business Fulfilled Evaluation of the management approach 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Future-proof business Partially fulfilled diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Training and Education GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Höganäs and sustainability Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 Governance, A great and meaningful place Fulfilled The management approach and its components to work 103-3 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled Evaluation of the management approach GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Principle 6 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Principle 6 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103-2 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled The management approach and its components 103-3 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled Evaluation of the management approach GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Principle 6 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled Opportunity UN Global Compact GRI Standard Disclosure Principles Chapter Completion Human Rights Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Principle 1 Building communities and responsible Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary partnerships 103-2 Principle 1 Building communities and responsible Fulfilled The management approach and its components partnerships 103-3 Principle 1 Building communities and responsible Fulfilled Evaluation of the management approach partnerships 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Pirnciple 1 A great and meaningful place to work Fulfilled procedures Local Communities GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Building communities and responsible Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary partnerships GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Building communities and responsible Fulfilled impact assessments, and development programs partnerships, Climate neutral operations Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 Building communities and responsible Fulfilled Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary partnerships 103-2 Principle 4, Building communities and responsible Fulfilled The management approach and its components Principle 5 partnerships 103-3 Building communities and responsible Fulfilled Evaluation of the management approach partnerships GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social Building communities and responsible Fulfilled criteria partnerships
