Greenhouse Gas and Energy Inventory Process Updated July 2018 Methodology The GE Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory follows the World Resources Institute/World Our Climate Progress Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition (the “Protocol”). GE reports under the “control” approach for emissions in Scopes 1 and 2, as defined in the Protocol, from sources over which it has operational control. Selected Scope 3 emissions are reported. Inventory Scope -1.42 M tons CO2 e The GHG Inventory includes data from individual facilities (primarily manufacturing facilities), additional rooftops (primarily offices, warehouses and small service shops), and the vehicle and air fleets that GE operates for its own use. The inventory scope is adjusted annually as a result of divestiture, closure or consolidation with Since 2011, GE has reduced other facilities, acquisitions, newly established facilities or when facilities meet the reporting criteria for the first time. operational greenhouse gas emissions by nearly 1.42 GE’s worldwide GHG emissions are the total of three categories: • Energy use and emissions data from the largest facilities in the Company million metric ton • Emissions estimates for small facilities CO2 -equivalents. • Mobile source emissions from centrally managed vehicle fleets and aircraft Emission Factors and Global Warming Potentials GE uses emission factors primarily from the U.S. EPA Mandatory GHG Reporting Rule www.ge.com/sustainability (40 CFR part 98) to calculate CO2 emissions for combustion of fuel. The 100-year global warming potential (GWP) for CH4, N2O, HFCs, SF6 and PFCs are also taken from sustainability@ge.com the U.S. EPA Mandatory GHG Reporting Rule (40 CFR part 98). Emissions of CH4 and N2O from the combustion of fuels are calculated using emissions factors obtained from EPA Climate Leaders program documents. Other direct emission factors are obtained from WRI and IPCC documents when U.S. EPA factors are not available. GE uses U.S. EPA eGRID sub-regional average emission factors to calculate indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of electricity in the United States. Indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of electricity outside of the U.S. are calculated using countrywide average factors obtained from the International Energy Agency (IEA). Electricity emissions for the 2011 baseline year were calculated using EPA eGRID factors for 2010 and IEA factors for 2011. Electricity emissions for the current reporting year are calculated using the most recent grid emissions factors available from the EPA and IEA as of the month of January following the reporting year. Greenhouse Gas and Energy Inventory Process Whenever readily available, GE uses from third-party cogeneration plants in comparison to the relative significance the market-based emission factor for or district heating plants. Each of these of the emissions in GE’s overall inventory. Scope 2 calculations. These emission sites determined the quantity and type The sites that fall into this category factors are typically for specific, traceable of fuel needed by the third-party plant are primarily small office facilities, but purchases of renewable energy from to generate the steam or hot water include all locations that do not meet the our operations. purchased by the site. This quantity of criteria defined above for “large sites.” fuel is then multiplied by the appropriate Large Sites emission factor to determine the indirect Emissions for these small facilities are GE maintains a GHG Inventory emissions from steam or hot water calculated based on the “COMMERCIAL database in a cloud-based purchases. A default thermal efficiency BUILDINGS ENERGY CONSUMPTION environmental management system to of 80% is used to calculate the quantity SURVEY (CBECS)”, published by the U.S collect the necessary detailed inventory of fuel needed to generate the steam or Energy Information Administration. data from the following types of hot water that was purchased based on Using this tool, GE determines the facilities: guidance provided in the WRI/WBCSD expected electricity and natural gas • All manufacturing, power generation Emission Calculation Tool. Most of the usage for a facility based on the type, and engine/turbine test facilities plants use the default thermal efficiency. location and square footage of the • All service and distribution facilities facility. GHG emissions are calculated with greater than 50 employees Emissions of other GHGs (direct-process using this estimate of energy usage • All major business headquarters emissions of CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, and the appropriate emission factor as • All major stand-alone data centers SF6 and PFCs) are entered directly as described above for Large Sites. The GHG Inventory database allows each kilograms or metric tons and converted site to enter the quantity of electricity to metric tons of CO2 equivalents using Mobile Sources and fuel used by fuel type and the unit the EPA’s published 100-year GWP GE calculates emissions from motor of measure based on its own electricity coefficients. Generally, emissions are vehicles centrally managed by third and fuel purchase and/or combustion based on purchase records and the party contractors in the U.S., Canada, records as well as data on emissions assumption that all used material was Europe, Japan, Australia, New Zealand of other GHGs. The software system emitted. For certain processes, however, and Mexico; motor vehicles leased or calculates the emissions, in metric tons site-specific knowledge of the process rented from Penske Truck Leasing and of CO2 equivalents, for each emission and/or emissions factors are used to Ryder Logistics in the U.S.; and motor category as well as a total for all determine actual emissions. vehicles owned by GE businesses in emission categories. the U.S. In addition, GE calculates GE quantifies biomass-related emissions emissions from GE-owned corporate The software system calculates directas allowed by the WRI Protocol. GE aircraft including the flying test bed (a combustion emissions by multiplying subtracts a certain amount of metric large airliner used for flight-testing jet a given quantity of fuel by an emission tons of CO2 from its GHG inventory as engines). Mobile source emissions are factor and calculates indirect emissions those emissions are attributed to the use calculated by obtaining fuel use and/ for electricity that was purchased by of biomass as allowed by the Protocol. or vehicle-miles-traveled records and multiplying a given quantity of electricity applying appropriate emission factors by an emission factor. Direct emissions Because a subset of “large sites” are obtained from the U.S. EPA Climate resulting from the generation of responsible for about 80% of the Leaders guidance documents. Methane electricity for export off-site are included emissions in this category, GE collects and nitrous oxide emissions for mobile within direct emissions. The Protocol all data from that group of facilities sources are also calculated using recommends this approach and instructs annually. Data for the smaller sites is emission factors obtained from the U.S. companies to report emissions from collected less frequently and prorated in i EPA Climate Leaders program guidance interim years based on historical data. n exported electricity, heat or steam documents. In addition, GE includes under supporting information and not emissions from GE-controlled motor to deduct those emissions from Small Sites vehicles that are refueled on-site at GE company emissions. GE does not collect detailed emissions Large Sites. The emissions from these data from worldwide “small” locations vehicles are included in the combustionThe Inventory includes sites in Europe due to the difficulty and expense that of-fuels calculations for Large Sites and Asia that import steam or hot water would be associated with such an effort discussed above. Greenhouse Gas and Energy Inventory Process Scope 3 Sources: Power commitments. Baseline-year GHGnecessary. Generation Investments emissions data are adjusted to reflect the changes in GE structure and determine As described in this document, most GE invests in thermal and renewable the real change in emissions and energy of the emissions total is based on energy projects through equity, lease and use of the current portfolio of operations actual fuel usage and energy purchase debt. GE reports GHG emissions from during a given period. Prior interim years, data (about 70%) or extrapolated in investments in which GE holds an equity such as 2014, are not adjusted. time based on prior usage data (about interest based upon the business unit’s 15%). The remaining 15% of the total percentage of equity ownership. All “large sites” as defined above are is estimated using other attributes baseline adjusted per the GHG Protocol, (such as the size and location of rented Sources Not Included with acquired sites added and divested small office space, or distance driven GHG emission sources not included in sites removed. Individual small sites, of by some vehicle categories). Due to this the Inventory because GE does not have which the largest is less than 0.1% of the combination of actual and estimated operational control over them include total company GHG emissions, are not data, the overall uncertainty of the Scope the following: baseline adjusted. However, when an 1 and Scope 2 totals is estimated to be • Minority-owned joint ventures entire GE business is divested or acquired, less than 5%. • Energy-generation facilities where GE the small sites from that business are has a service relationship, but where baseline adjusted. Mobile sources are not Independent Verification GE does not have operational control baseline adjusted. of the 2004 and 2008 GE • Aircraft, motor vehicles, railroad locomotives, etc., owned by GE, but For the 2015 inventory, significant GHG Inventories leased to and controlled by others adjustments were made to account for GE periodically may retain an • Most WRI/WBCSD Scope 3 sources. the acquisition of Alstom. Other smaller independent consultant to review the Equity investments in power adjustments were made to account for Inventory and process. Cameron-Cole, generation facilities are included as LLC, was retained in 2005 and again in the divestiture and acquisition of various indicated above 2009 for independent verification of the GE subsidiaries. GHG methodology. Cameron-Cole issued The following operational emission Quality Assurance verification statements in March 2006 sources are not included in GE’s and December 2009, respectively, stating GE is continuing to work toward GHG Inventory due to very small that it found nothing to indicate any increasing the accuracy of its GHG contributions: material errors or omissions or anything Inventory. It has modified its GHG • Motor vehicles controlled by GE that would indicate that GE’s Inventory Inventory collection database to simplify but not centrally managed through was not complete. Cameron-Cole also it and to eliminate issues that have Element, Arval, Penske Truck found that GE’s Inventory generally tended to introduce errors in the past. Leasing, or Ryder Logistics conformed to the accounting principles In addition, GE has developed numerous • Motor vehicles owned by GE in the Protocol. In addition, Cameronguidance documents and an internal businesses outside the United States Cole stated that it believed that GE had guidance website, and has provided and Canada that are not refueled at met its 2008 GHG-intensity-reduction extensive training on the Inventory GE properties commitment. and on the use of the management • Leakage of hydrofluorocarbons system. As an added measure, GE from GE-owned and -operated periodically performs data-quality Analysis of Cumulative air conditioning, refrigeration and reviews on the GHG Inventories, GHG and Energy chilling systems including side-by-side comparisons Efficiency Projects • Remedial activities operationally of GHG emissions across years, to GE is focused on generating value controlled by GE identify and understand the reasons and outcomes for our customers, the for significant differences (changes Company, people and the planet. One way Baseline Adjustment in production, fuel, manufacturing to measure that value is to track energy GE has established 2011 as a baseline processes, etc.). When data-quality efficiency and GHG reduction projects. year for measuring progress toward issues are identified, research is initiated GE does this in a cloud-based achieving its GHG-emissions-reduction to analyze and correct gaps where management system. Each project Greenhouse Gas and Energy Inventory Process logged includes descriptive information, interventions. This process is repeated 2011. GE also may report progress projected costs, and estimated GHG and for subsequent years and compounded against a baseline year of 2004. Since it cost savings. Two cumulative measures annually. Prior years are not adjusted is not practical to adjust baselines over of those projects are tracked over time: for business transformations, changes in such long periods where sufficient data total GHG emissions reduced and total grid factors or other changes. may not be available, a hybrid approach cost savings. is used. The 2004 baseline was adjusted To estimate total GHG emissions reduced GE has not purchased project-based for the 2011 reporting year data. Current and costs saved, GE analyzes all projects carbon credits to offset GHG emissions progress from the 2004 baseline is in the database covering the given from our operations. calculated by taking the performance from 2004 to 2011 as a fixed value period logged as being completed. The sum of estimated GHG reduction for all Calculation of (29% absolute reduction) and further matching projects is captured as Long-term Progress reducing that result by the additional reduction between 2011 and the estimated annual GHG and cost As described above in “Baseline current reporting year. reduction due to Adjustment,” current progress toward the 2020 GHG goal was baselined in © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33631 7/2018 Water Inventory Methodology Updated July 2018 Methodology GE’s water-use inventory process follows the principles articulated by the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WRI/ WBCSD) in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, revised addition. For the operational inventory, GE follows follow the “control” approach and includes freshwater use from “criteria sites” over -2.27 Billion which the company has operational control. Inventory Scope GE collects water-usage data from the top water-consuming sites, called “criteria Since 2011, GE has reduced sites”. Criteria sites are those that have used 15 million gallons or more of water per freshwater use by about 2.27 billion year between the baseline and current year. This approach captures approximately gallons of freshwater per year. 90% of GE’s total freshwater consumption. Water usage captured includes potable, process, and sanitary water, as well as onceGE collects water-usage through cooling water from freshwater sources. Sites that withdraw salt/brackish data from our top water for once-through cooling purposes are not included in the water-reduction goal. Instead, GE focuses on freshwater sources, based on the rationale that those water-consuming sites sources pose a greater environmental impact than salt/brackish water use. on an annual basis. The inventory scope is adjusted annually as a result of divestiture, closure or consolidation with other facilities, acquisitions, newly established facilities or when facilities meet the reporting criteria for the first time. www.ge.com/sustainability Management sustainability@ge.com To collect the necessary water-use-inventory data, GE maintains a greenhouse gas (GHG) and water inventory database. The database is integrated with GE’s greenhouse gas and energy inventory processes. GE facilities use the database to enter quantities of water withdrawn from each of the following source categories: • Public/commercial • On-site groundwater well • Fresh surface water • Brackish surface water or seawater • Rainwater Water Inventory Water withdrawn for the purpose of adjust baselines over long periods where internal guidance website, and extensive once-through cooling is entered into a sufficient data may not be available, training related to the water inventory separate category in the database so a hybrid approach is used. The 2006 and the use of the tool. Finally, GE that these cooling water sources may be baseline was adjusted for the 2011 performs data-quality reviews on the tracked. The system also splits waterreporting year data. Current progress from water-use inventory, including side-byuse data from the database into source a 2006 baseline is calculated by taking side comparisons of water-use data to category, business unit, site, country, the performance from 2006 to 2011 as identify and understand the reasons for and region. a fixed value (35% absolute reduction) significant differences (such as changes and further reducing that result by the in production, changes in processes, Baseline Adjustment additional reduction between 2011 and water-use-reduction projects, or other Current progress toward the 2020 the current reporting year. factors). Data anomalies are identified, water goal was baselined in 2011, with analyzed and corrected where necessary the baseline data adjusted to reflect Quality Assurance through this process. If significant changes to GE’s portfolio as outlined in To further increase the accuracy of deviation in water use emerges in a the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. GE also the water-use inventory, GE has given year, a third-party environmental reports progress since the start of the simplified the database to reduce engineering consulting firm may be water program, with a baseline year the opportunity for error. In addition, engaged to validate restated waterof 2006. Because it is not practical to GE provides guidance documents, an use values. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33640 7/2018 Voluntary Waste Inventory Methodology Updated September 2018 Methodology Each year, GE collects waste generation data from larger industrial facilities for the purpose of voluntarily reporting total hazardous and nonhazardous waste volumes. GE conducts an accounting As part of GE’s environmental inventory, the waste inventory process follows the of global hazardous and principles articulated by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WRI/WBCSD) in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol: non-hazardous waste A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, revised edition. For the operational generated by its facilities. inventory, GE follows the “operational” approach and includes total volumes data from the most relevant sites over which we have operational control. Inventory Scope www.ge.com/sustainability Sites in scope for voluntary waste reporting are those that have generated or will sustainability@ge.com continue to exceed 500 metric tons per year of total nonhazardous or 100 metric tons of hazardous waste per year. However, GE collects primary data only from sites exceeding 3000 metric tons per year of total nonhazardous or 200 metric tons of hazardous waste per year. Waste generated by sites in scope, but not meeting primary data requirements, is collected less frequently and prorated in interim years based on historical data. Data from “small” locations (such as offices) and non-fixed facilities (such as on-site customer projects and investments in energy projects) is not collected. Thresholds are based on a historical analysis of GE’s waste generation data for a significant coverage of the full GE operational waste footprint. Reported hazardous waste volumes cover all industrial waste with hazardous characteristics and/or toxic constituents that is regulated at country level. Nonhazardous waste includes all industrial waste that does not meet the definition of hazardous waste and that needs to be segregated. Reported nonhazardous waste streams are limited to wastes and recyclable materials generated from industrial activities such as production, assembly, manufacturing, field sales and service, maintenance, laboratories, cleaning, demolition, renovation, remediation, packaging, and equipment taken out of service. Nonhazardous waste does not include food waste, office waste, wastewater and one-time, rarely generated waste. 1 For the 2017 inventory, two major GE acquisitions (Baker Hughes, a GE company, and LM Wind Power) continued to separately conduct independent waste inventory processes and are not covered by the general GE approach. Data provided by these entities is directly used for estimating and reporting on total GE volumes. Voluntary Waste Inventory Methodology Inventory Management inventory data from sites. GE facilities training for the waste inventory process enter waste quantities mainly from two and use of the online tool. Finally, The inventory scope is adjusted annually data sources: GE performs data quality reviews, as a result of divestiture, closure or • A waste generation database including site-level comparisons of consolidation with other facilities, integrated into the GE’s EHS data reported volumes over the last years to acquisitions, newly established facilities management system identify and understand the reasons for or when facilities meet the reporting • Waste generation data provided by significant changes (such as changes criteria for the first time. Also, disclosed third party waste vendors in production, changes in reporting 2016 data is adjusted accordingly. The Reported site-level data is aggregated scope or other factors such as one-time correction factors used to estimate total and analyzed by business unit, country, effects). Data anomalies are identified, volumes (of large and very-large sites) and region. analyzed with reporting site managers out of reported data are reestablished and corrected when necessary. The based on the most recent data from veryQuality Assurance inventory process as well as the large sites and total volume data from gathered data and estimated total previous years. The list of sites required to report primary data is reviewed and validated volumes are internally reviewed. Areas by a team of regional corporate EHS for further improvement are identified GE uses a cloud-based and discussed with involved parties at managers to ensure key business environmental management system corporate and business levels. changes are captured. Each year, GE to collect the necessary detailed updates guidance documents and © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33911 7/2018 Minimizing Impact Updated July 2018 Energy and climate represent two of the most important challenges of this century. Energy—its generation, use, and transmission—is critical to both the global economy and individual advancement. Finding ways to help economies meet rising demand for energy while reducing environmental impact and improving lives is essential for economic and human development. At GE, we are committed to reducing the 27% environmental impact of our own operations,while enabling our customers and partners globally to do the same through our products and solutions. CO2 GE plays an important role in the energy sector by providing its customers with more energy-efficient, cleaner and more cost-effective solutions and Reduced our greenhouse gas technologies to meet rising energy demand. For example, GE recently launched emissions by 27% and freshwater the GE Reservoir, a flexible, compact energy storage platform for the grid. As clean use by 25% through 2017, from the but variable power sources like wind and solar start to become a larger part of the 2011 baseline energy matrix, energy storage can help keep the grid in balance and increase power availability. The fundamental building block for the platform is the 1.2 megawatt, 4 megawatt-hour Reservoir storage unit, which enables up to 15% longer battery www.ge.com/sustainability lifecycle than previous systems and holds enough energy to provide power to a sustainability@ge.com community of 120 homes for an entire day. Additionally, GE’s Haliade-X 12-megawatt turbine will be capable of powering 16,000 homes and producing 67 gigawatt-hours per year, based on wind conditions of a typical German North Sea site. That represents 45% more energy than any other offshore wind turbine available today. At the same time we are working in our operations and value chains to increase resource efficiency. We measure progress through our 2020 commitments to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and freshwater use by 20%, from the 2011 baseline. Within our own operations, we have reduced our GHG emissions by 27% and freshwater use by 25% through 2017, from the 2011 baseline. Greenhouse Gas Progress In 2017, GHG emissions from GE operations were 3.8 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO 2e), a reduction of 27% from our adjusted 2011 baseline. This was due to better control of key gases, such as sulfur hexafluoride in manufacturing processes, energy-efficiency projects, changes in business structure, and changes in overall grid emission factors. Our current progress is in addition to significant reductions in absolute GHG emissions from 2004 through 2011. Overall, by 2017 we have reduced GHG emissions at GE by 48% from the onset of our program in 2004. For more information on how we calculate our GHG emissions, please see our GHG Methodology on the GE Reports Hub. Minimizing Impact Water Progress Energy Efficiency GE Solutions Powering GE has long believed that it is important Optimizing energy use is a key pillar in Progress to manage our water footprint. In 2017, achieving our 2020 goals. GE facilities A focus in driving progress toward our our overall freshwater use at criteria have several tools available 2020 goals is to leverage our own expert sites was 6.7 billion gallons, a reduction to identify opportunities and manage technology, which can increase energy of 25% from our adjusted 2011 baseline. energy consumption; among them are efficiency and generate operational This also represents a 51% reduction Energy Treasure Hunts, GE’s Brilliant savings. Leveraging the GE Store for from our 2006 water usage. For more Factory initiative, and energy use solutions such as renewable energy, information on how we calculate our analytics. We continue to use the Energy energy efficiency, and digital solutions are freshwater use, please see our Water Treasure Hunt process, leveraged effective levers for our continued progress. Inventory Methodology on the GE from Toyota, to identify projects that We know our work is not done. We Reports Hub. drive efficiency in our operations. GE employees in a variety of operational continue to innovate, develop, and roles lead Treasure Hunts, and we’ve implement technologies to further shared this approach with our customers reduce GE’s emissions and energy and suppliers. In 2017, energy-reduction use. assessments were completed at 23 sites. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33725 7/2018 LRQA Assurance Statement 2017 ISO 14001 Attestation Statement for GE Terms of Engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (“LRQA”) was engaged by GE to review GE’s enterprisewide environmental management system (“the EMS”) against the requirements of the 1 international standard for environmental management systems, ISO 14001:2015. The objectives of the review were: • To confirm that the design of the EMS was aligned with ISO 14001 and had incorporated all of the individual management system elements; • To confirm that the EMS, established at the GE Corporate Level, was the primary mechanism used to manage the environmental aspects of operations at all levels and operating locations in the GE organizational hierarchy 2; and • To confirm that implementation of the EMS had contributed to reported improvements in environmental performance. Management Responsibility GE’s management was responsible for designing and maintaining the EMS. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the EMS in accordance with our contract with GE. Ultimately, the EMS and its implementation remain the sole responsibility of GE. LRQA’s Approach The review of GE’s EMS was undertaken between March 2017 and July 2017 using a team of LRQA’s certified ISO 14001 lead assessors. In order to form our conclusions, the assurance was carried out as a sampling exercise and covered the following activities: • A review of the high level environmental system documentation to confirm that all requirements of ISO 14001 had been addressed; • Interviews with leaders at the corporate level , responsible for key environmental functional areas within GE’s OneEHS organizational structure. These areas included the EHS Leadership Team including the VP EHS, Business EHS leadership, Enterprise Standards, EHS Regional Operations, Resource Strategies including the Product Lifecycle Center of Excellence, and EHS Legal; • A review of environmental records maintained on the GE enterprise-wide data management system supporting implementation of internal audit, corrective action, training, performance improvement and other programs; and • Site visits to review local EMS implementation at three operating sites, selected to provide a representative sample based on size and complexity, geography, GE businessarea and ISO 14001 certification status. 1 GE’s proprietary EMS, consisting of Framework 2.0 and supporting management system programs, is established at the GE corporate level for deployment throughout GE’s global operations. Implementation across the GE enterprise is intended to follow a risk-based approach whereby application of the Framework at the various organizational levels dictates the specific programs within the EMS that are required at each individual operational unit. 2 Alstom, recently acquired by GE, was excluded from the scope of the engagement. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach, it is our opinion that: • The design of the EMS was aligned with ISO 14001:2015. No elements of the standard were identified which had not been addressed as documented requirements of the EMS; • At the sites sampled, environmental management systems had been established based on requirements of the EMS; • Based on a review of records maintained on the enterprise-wide data management system, no evidence was identified to indicate sites were implementing environmental management systems other than those established through implementation of the EMS; and • Programs and initiatives linked to implementation of the EMS were contributing to reported improvements in environmental performance. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance. Consistent with this level of assurance, and the approach described above, the assurance is not intended to replace or otherwise be considered equivalent to ISO 14001 certification, as provided under established accreditation programs. LRQA’s Recommendations Observations, including areas for potential improvement, were provided in a report to GE’s management. These observations do not affect the opinions expressed in this assurance statement. Signed: Dated: October 2017 Michael Wardell Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 1330 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, TX 77077, USA LRQA Reference Number UQA4002133 Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the 'Lloyd’s Register Group'. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. LRQA Assurance Statement 2018 ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007 Attestation Statement for GE Terms of Engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. (“LRQA”) was engaged by GE to review GE’s enterprise-wide 1 EHS management system (“the EHS System”) against the requirements of the international standards for environmental management systems, ISO 14001:2015, and health and safety management systems, OHSAS 18001:2007 The objectives of the review were:  To confirm that the design of the EHS System was aligned with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 and had incorporated all of the individual management system elements;  To confirm that the EHS System established at the GE Corporate Level, was the primary mechanism used to manage occupational health and safety and the environmental aspects of operations at all levels and operating locations in the GE organizational hierarchy; and  To confirm that implementation of the EHS System had contributed to reported improvements in health, safety and environmental performance. Management Responsibility GE’s management was responsible for designing and maintaining the EHS System. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the EHS System in accordance with our contract with GE. Ultimately, the EHS System and its implementation remain the sole responsibility of GE. LRQA’s Approach The review of GE’s EHS System was undertaken between April 2018 and August 2018 using a team of LRQA’s certified ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 lead assessors. In order to form our conclusions, the assurance was carried out as a sampling exercise and covered the following activities:  A review of the high level EHS System documentation to confirm that all requirements of ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 had been addressed;  Interviews with leaders at the corporate level responsible for key EHS functional areas within GE’s OneEHS organizational structure. These areas included the EHS Leadership Team, including the General Manager EHS, Business EHS leadership, Enterprise Standards, EHS Regional Operations, Sustainability & ESG Operations and EHS Legal; 1 GE’s proprietary EHS System, consisting of Framework 2.0 and supporting management system programs, is established at the GE corporate level for deployment throughout GE’s global operations. Implementation across the GE enterprise is intended to follow a risk-based approach whereby application of the Framework at the various organizational levels dictates the specific programs within the EHS System that are required at each individual operational unit. Only GE organizations adhering to the central EHS management system are included in this attestation.  A review of environmental, health and safety records maintained on the GE enterprise-wide data management system supporting implementation of internal audit, corrective action, training, performance improvement and other programs; and  Site visits to review local EHS System implementation at eleven operating sites, selected to provide a representative sample based on size and complexity, geography, GE business-area and ISO 14001 and/or OHSAS 18001certification status. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach, it is our opinion that:  The design of the EHS System was aligned with ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007. No elements of the standards were identified which had not been addressed as documented requirements of the EHS System;  At the sites sampled, an EHS Management System had been established based on requirements of the GE EHS System;  Based on a review of records maintained on the enterprise-wide data management system, no evidence was identified to indicate sites were implementing EHS management systems other than those established through implementation of the GE EHS System; and  Programs and initiatives linked to implementation of the EHS System were contributing to reported improvements in environmental, health and safety performance. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance. Consistent with this level of assurance, and the approach described above, the assurance is not intended to replace or otherwise be considered equivalent to ISO 14001 and/or OHSAS 18001 certification, as provided under established accreditation programs. LRQA’s Recommendations Observations, including areas for potential improvement, were provided in a report to GE’s management. These observations do not affect the opinions expressed in this assurance statement. Signed: Dated: August 2018 Michael Wardell Lead Verifier On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance, Inc. 1330 Enclave Parkway, Suite 200, Houston, TX 77077, USA LRQA Reference Number UQA4002133 Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the 'Lloyd’s Register Group'. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. Indicator Baseline 2015 2016 2017 Discussion Workforce Total (thousands) -332 295 313 Workforce changes reflect the transformation of our business portfolio to focus on our core infrastructure businesses. Philanthropy GE Company Contributions via GE Businesses and to the Foundation Employee and ($M) Retiree Contributions matched by GE -140.1 119.4 93.6 GE Foundation, the philanthropic organization of GE, is committed to Foundation ($M) -61.0 52.1 47.3 transforming our communities and shaping the diverse workforce of Total GE Family Giving ($M) -201.1 171.5 140.9 tomorrow by leveraging the power of GE. Contributions have fallen as a reflection of GE business performance. Total Contributions as a Percentage of GE Net Income ($M) (a) --2.10% -Governance (b) Ombudsperson Concerns by Area (reports per policy) -Fair Employment Practices -879 957 1,028 In today’s environment, GE employees remain the Company’s first and best Conflicts of Interest -396 451 417 line of defense in the early detection of potential compliance issues. GE has International Trade Compliance -147 132 146 approximately 620 ombudspersons around the globe to encourage the Securing GE Operations Globally -155 166 181 reporting of concerns without fear of retaliation. Regulatory Excellence -202 175 204 Business Records (T&L, Time & Attendance) -293 295 377 Environment, Health & Safety -240 264 232 Routines, Documentation, Internal Measurements -243 335 296 Supplier Relationships -265 436 415 Improper Payments -91 130 104 Cybersecurity/Privacy -252 265 241 Controllership (Accounting, Financial Reporting, Billing) -165 219 224 Intellectual Property -196 252 217 Theft -52 76 90 Working with Governments -38 47 46 Competition Law -48 84 86 Violation of Law -38 43 22 Other Integrity Concerns (c) -144 144 115 Total Concerns Reported (d) -3,844 4,481 4,441 Disciplinary Actions (e) -1,095 1,376 1,423 Investigations Conducted, U.S. and Canada (% Total) -39% 33% 33% Investigations Conducted, EMEA (% Total) -30% 33% 31% Investigations Conducted, Asia (% Total) -17% 18% 20% Investigations Conducted, Latin America (% Total) -13% 17% 17% EHS Programs (f) Injury & Illness Total Recordable Rate (g) -1.01 0.77 0.63 We are committed to EHS excellence to protect our people, our Days Away From Work Incident Rate (h) -0.41 0.32 0.27 communities and the GE brand. Our site, project and service managers are Environmental Excellence Certifications (i) --68 63 accountable for the EHS performance of the operations, employees, and ISO 14001 sites -148 326 332 contractors they supervise, and we monitor this performance through Global Penalties Paid (in $ thousands) -44 2,317 120 indicators such as injury rates and global greenhouse gas emissions. Spills & Releases (Count) -63 56 45 Overall, we had a strong year with fewer total injuries and fewer significant Air Exceedances, (Count) -4 9 0 events. Waste results reflect GE acquisitions of Baker Hughes and LM Wind Wastewater Exceedances, Count -18 22 18 businesses; without these acquisitions and adjusted for other business changes, hazardous waste increased 5% and non-hazardous waste Hazardous Waste (metric tons) (j) -47,986 52,063 66,058 decreased 24% year over year. 2016 data is updated to include new Nonhazardous Waste (metric tons) (j) -229,252 311,646 1,262,351 information from the Alstom acquisition. Energy and Climate (k) Through 2017, GE has reduced greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our GE Operational GHG Emissions (million metric tons of CO2 operations by 27% from our adjusted 2011 baseline. With these results, GE equivalent) (market based) 5.2 4.53 3.83 3.78 has surpassed our 20% by 2020 GHG goal. GE's GHG emissions have Scope 1 Emissions (million metric tons of CO2 equivalent) -1.96 1.62 1.67 decreased due in part to better control of key gases, such as Scope 2 Emissions (million metric tons of CO2 equivalent) hydrofluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride in manufacturing; energy(market based) -2.57 2.21 2.11 efficiency projects; business changes such as acquisitions and divestitures; Scope 3 Emissions (million metric tons of CO2 equivalent) (l) -and changes in overall grid emission factors. 11.5 7.96 2.79 GE Operational Energy Use (million MMBtu) 52.6 46.5 40.5 41.0 GE’s Scope 3 GHG emissions are from investment in nine thermal power projects in which GE held an equity interest during 2017, where emissions Direct SF6 Emissions (thousand metric tons CO2 equivalent) -217 178 163 reductions were primarily driven by projects exiting the portfolio and lower Total Electricity (MWh) -5,490,000 4,920,000 4,620,000 power production. During 2017, such investments also yielded Renewable Energy Used (MWh) -40,500 30,400 58,600 approximately 12.8 million metric tons of avoided emissions in offsets from renewable energy projects. Water (k) Total Water Use (Billions of Gallons) 8.93 8.11 6.73 6.66 Through 2017, our overall freshwater use was reduced 25% from our adjusted 2011 baseline, versus our 2020 goal of 20% reduction from 2011 Once-Through Cooling Water (Billions of Gallons) -4.62 3.57 2.52 levels. Supply Chain Number of Global Audits -2,783 2,880 2,564 Suppliers are critical partners in GE’s value chain. As a global company, our Total Findings -20,116 18,292 23,537 supply chain includes locations where environmental, health, safety, labor, human rights and other practices can be challenging. We expect our Average Category Findings Per Global Audit suppliers to comply with standards that require fair treatment of workers, a Health & Safety -2.60 2.38 2.68 safe and healthy work environment and environmental protection. Our Environment -2.11 2.11 2.94 Supplier Integrity Guide governs all facets of our relationships with suppliers Emergency Preparedness -1.59 1.57 1.92 and includes specific prohibitions against forced, prison or indentured labor Labor -0.76 0.97 1.52 and against subjecting workers to any form of compulsion, coercion or Dormitory -0.17 0.06 0.02 human trafficking. Global audits focus on areas where there is high risk. Conflict Minerals -0.10 0.15 0.27 Suppliers in certain regions, such as North America, are included in audits but have insufficient audit numbers for relevant average calculation. At GE, Average Findings Per Regional Audit we drive better outcomes through our collaboration and partnership with China -8.81 7.86 8.73 suppliers and other stakeholders. 2015 and 2016 data updated for Latin America -5.85 5.76 8.38 accuracy. © 2018 General Electric Company — All rights reserved | August 2018 Suppliers are critical partners in GE’s value chain. As a global company, our supply chain includes locations where environmental, health, safety, labor, human rights and other practices can be challenging. We expect our suppliers to comply with standards that require fair treatment of workers, a safe and healthy work environment and environmental protection. Our Supplier Integrity Guide governs all facets of our relationships with suppliers and includes specific prohibitions against forced, prison or indentured labor and against subjecting workers to any form of compulsion, coercion or human trafficking. Global audits focus on areas where there is high risk. Suppliers in certain regions, such as North America, are included in audits but have insufficient audit numbers for relevant average calculation. At GE, we drive better outcomes through our collaboration and partnership with Indicator Baseline 2015 2016 2017 suppliers and other stakeholders.Discussion 2015 and 2016 data updated for accuracy. India -6.68 9.49 11.8 Europe, Middle East & Africa -5.33 5.19 7.57 Rest of Asia -6.85 5.97 7.24 Uncategorized Countries (m) -17.0 5.96 7.00 Notes (a) Due to negative net income in 2015 and 2017, this ratio is not indicative of our philanthropic contributions in those years. (b) 2017 data as of March 2018 (c) Other Integrity Concerns includes AML (2014=11, 2015=4, 2016=4) (d) 2016 Total Concerns Reported updated based on cases closed as of March 3, 2018 (e) 2016 Disciplinary Actions in response to closed matters through February 2018; actions correspond to year in which concern was reported, not necessarily year action was taken. (f) Due to the changing nature of GE's enterprise business structure, figures are periodically updated to reflect changes in scope. For instance, acquired businesses may not have aligned data for the same time periods. (g) Number of OSHA recordable injury and illness cases per risk population YTD, based on 100 employees working 200,000 hours annually. (h) Days Away From Work Incident Rate uses the OSHA calculation for days-away-from-work cases (transfer or restricted cases are excluded), based on 100 employees working 200,000 hours annually. (i) Excellence Certifications began tracking in 2016. 2015 data is not available. (j) Values are reported as estimate company-wide totals based on a subset of reporting sites. (k) For GHG, energy-related and water metrics, each year GE adjusts its 2011 baseline inventory to account for divestments and acquisitions. Interim years are not adjusted. (l) GE reports Scope 3 emissions from the U.S. and international thermal power and offsets from U.S. renewable energy projects in which GE has an equity interest. (m) Turks and Caicos Islands, Tuvalu, Svalbard and Jan Mayen Islands etc. © 2018 General Electric Company — All rights reserved | August 2018 Anticorruption Updated February 2018 GE has long taken a leading role in pushing for transparency and integrity in the global marketplace. Our policy against improper payments in business transactions is a key element of our code of conduct—The Spirit & The Letter— and represents a core As part of the belief in how we do business. compliance program at GE, GE’s approach to compliance in this critical area is multifaceted. Among its key operating with a strong features are: anti-corruption program is • C  orporate policies and procedures that reflect the Company’s approach by a critical component in how prohibiting improper payments in every transaction, whether with a government or we do business. with a private party • Extensive controls, including thorough due diligence, careful screening and training on GE policies for third-party intermediaries such as distributors, service providers, and commercial agents and representatives www.ge.com/sustainability • Heightened attention to key risk areas such as gifts and entertainment, travel and living expenses, donations, and facilitating payments sustainability@ge.com • Prompt investigation and remediation of any concerns • Extensive training of GE employees on improper payments • Robust internal controls and accounting processes designed to detect and prevent violations of Company policy relating to improper payment risks and to ensure accurate books and records relating to transactions • Increased emphasis and enhanced due diligence concerning improper risk associated with mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures • Strategic use of Corporate Audit Staff to identify and assess potential improper payment The Importance of Strong Anticorruption Compliance Greater attention is being paid to the effectiveness of corporate compliance programs in preventing improper payments. The Justice Department and the SEC have issued a resource guide on the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) that endorses a strong compliance program. The UK Bribery Act and the US Sentencing Guidelines similarly highlight the need for a strong program. As part of the compliance program at GE, operating with a strong anti-corruption program is a critical component in how we do business. Anticorruption Never before have the risks been greater. Aggressive enforcement of the FCPA by the SEC and the US Department of Justice remains the norm. Enforcement is not limited to companies; individuals increasingly face prosecution and lengthy terms of imprisonment for breaking the law. Prosecutors continue to broaden their reach across the commercial sector, focusing on healthcare, energy, oil and gas, software, financial services and telecommunications, and across developing and emerging markets such as those in China, India, Russia, Mexico, Brazil, the Middle East, and Africa, where GE’s presence is expanding rapidly. These trends are not limited to the United States. Global enforcement of anticorruption laws is increasing, enforcement actions are increasingly coordinated and interconnected, and sometimes a single transaction can expose a company to prosecution in multiple jurisdictions. GE closely monitors these developments to ensure that our global compliance program and internal controls address these evolving risks and enforcement trends. The Company is firmly committed to ethical behavior in all of our business practices. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33641 2/2018 Ethical Supply Chain Program Updated February 2018 Suppliers are critical partners in GE’s value chain. As GE’s businesses have globalized, so has our supply chain, including in locations where environment, health, safety, labor, human rights and other practices can be problematic. We expect our • Suppliers are critical suppliers to obey the laws that require fair treatment of workers, a safe and healthy work environment, and environmental protection. Our Supplier Integrity Guide partners in GE’s value chain (SIG) governs all facets of our relationships with suppliers, and includes specific prohibitions against forced, prison, or indentured labor, and prohibitions against • At GE, we drive better subjecting workers to any form of compulsion, coercion, or human trafficking. At GE, outcomes through we drive better outcomes through our collaboration and partnership with suppliers and other stakeholders. Working together with governments, business partners and our collaboration and effective academic and non-governmental organizations, we can achieve more than partnership with suppliers any of us can alone. and other stakeholders Program Overview Our supply chain efforts are most effective when we prioritize based on risk and • GE’s supply chain efforts where our involvement can have the most impact. Suppliers are prioritized for are most effective when we detailed, on-site assessments depending upon the country in which they are located, prioritize based on risk and their past performance and whether they are producing parts or components that will be incorporated into GE products. We also prioritize labor suppliers in situations where our involvement can where GE is working on behalf of a customer, either alone or as a consortium partner, have the most impact in construction and commissioning work in parts of the world where acceptable labor standards may not align with GE’s SIG. The on-site assessments cover environmental, health, safety, labor, human rights and security issues using a global protocol that reflects GE’s Supplier Expectations. The assessments take place prior to placing initial www.ge.com/sustainability orders with new suppliers, and periodically thereafter, on a oneto five -year time frame, depending on our experience with the supplier. sustainability@ge.com Supplier Assessments Almost all of our on-site assessments are conducted in developing countries, and use more than 1,000 local, trained GE employees or trained and qualified partners that can both inspect conditions and coach for improvement. All GE personnel who interact with supplier facilities, regardless of their role or expertise, are expected to participate in awareness training on GE’s supplier expectations, human rights issues and on-site due diligence requirements. Sourcing personnel who visit supplier locations are required to take a hazard-recognition class, to have their “eyes always open” and to report any potentially problematic activity to our team of assessment professionals. GE records all assessment findings from on-site inspections in an automated assessment tracking tool. Each finding is monitored until the supplier provides evidence that the defect is corrected, and then it is closed. We also supplement onsite efforts with information from regional databases such as that Ethical Supply Chain Program of the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs’ (IPE) China pollution maps, plus periodic spot checks and anonymous desk-side reviews of GE audit records by inspectors from other business units or from our EHS experts. Typically, findings must be closed within 60 days. Purchase orders are suspended if findings remain open beyond this time frame, unless GE agrees that a closure requires more time, interim progress has been demonstrated and/or the delay has been approved by the compliance team. Labor-related findings, such as the presence of child labor or forced labor, ordinarily result in immediate cessation of business relationships. GE puts a great deal of emphasis on confirming closure of findings, which we track in a Gensuite® software system. Closure requirements for findings are linked either to compliance with local laws or, for some issues, to higher GE expectations. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33731 2/2018 Supplier Initiatives Updated February 2018 GE partners with suppliers, governments, business partners, and academic and non-governmental organizations to promote environmental, health and safety (EHS) standards and drive resource-initiatives within our supplier community. • GE partnerships promote For example, on August 8-9, 2017, GE successfully hosted the First China Green environmental, health and Supplier Management Conference with the National Center for International safety (EHS) standards and Cooperation in Work Safety (NCICS) of China’s State Administration of Work Safety (SAWS) and AVIC Trust Co. LTD. Over 200 multinational companies and drive resource-initiatives Chinese national and local agencies participated in the two-day summit to identify within our supplier mechanisms to drive sustained EHS performance and reduced environmental footprint into supply chains in China. At this event, China’s Ministry of Industry and community. Information Technology (MIIT) recognized GE’s supply chain management practice as the foremost demonstration of supply chain management among applicants for a • In 2017 GE was recognized Chinese Green Supply Chain award. with the “Star of Green The Green Supplier Initiative (GSI), launched in 2014 with Ernst & Young (EY) and the Supply Chain” award. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL), is aimed at advancing the Energy Performance Contracting (EPC) market by bringing energy service companies (ESCOs), suppliers and financiers together with industrial facilities to provide those facilities with integrated retrofit solutions. Through this partnership, industry and www.ge.com/sustainability governments in China and the U.S. collaborate on opportunities to improve resource efficiency in supplier operations by leveraging the GE store, using GE technologies, sustainability@ge.com analytics capabilities, and financing solutions to help China’s government achieve its energy and environmental targets. The initiative also opens and expands markets that improve supplier business and environmental performance to enable corporations to realize their sustainability and growth goals simultaneously. In one pilot with Yeong Guan Energy Technology Group, the GE-led team implemented an energy management system, efficient lighting, water savings, distributed rooftop solar power generation and digital MES solutions on Yeong Guan Energy Technology Group, Ltd’s property. This pilot achieved, on average, 28% savings across affected systems, yielding a net reduction of 4,456 tons of coal equivalent in annual energy use. Yeong Guan Energy Technology Group’s Vice Chairman, Andy Tsai commented, “China’s government is taking steps to reform regulation and strengthen controls during this economic transition, and China’s whole society recognizes the need to cut pollution, increase energy efficiency, and protect the environment. Thanks to GE for launching GSI in our company.” Supplier Initiatives In other partnerships with Jiangsu Huajiang Science and Technology Co., Ltd, and Liling Huaxin Insulator Technology Co., Ltd., the GSI team expects energy savings of 31.5% and 21.37%, respectively. So far, there has been a total investment of 7.16M USD, most from third-party financial investors, and 2.43M USD revenue for GE Digital and Current. When these pilot projects are completed, this model can be replicated with other suppliers both inside and outside of China. At the 8th U.S.-China Energy Efficiency Forum (EEF), in Denver, Colorado, China’s National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) recognized the project between General Electric and Liling Huaxin Insulator Technology Co., Ltd. This project is part of GE’s Green Supplier Initiative (GSI), which aims to help suppliers reduce energy consumption through collaboration with leading technology companies, financiers, and energy service companies. This project is expected to save 21% of energy consumption, totaling 2,852 metric tons of coal equivalent (TCE) reduced per year. Read the press release from the U.S. Department of Energy here. In early 2017, after a rigorous selection process involving over 70 candidates and spanning eight months, GE was recognized with the “Star of Green Supply Chain” award. The award was a feature of the 2016 Shanghai 100+ Enterprises in Green Supply Chain Program, launched jointly by China’s Ministry of Environmental Protection (MEP) and the ASEAN Environmental Cooperation Center, Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau, Shanghai Commission of Commerce, Shanghai Environmental Science & Technology Institute, Shanghai Foreign Investment Association, and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Working with suppliers enables us to identify projects with both operational and environmental benefits while building stronger relationships and reducing our supply chain costs. Efforts like GSI as well as government partnerships provide compelling insights into the opportunities and challenges of engaging with our suppliers. Most importantly, given the size and complexity of GE’s supply chain, these programs help us prioritize our actions and enable meaningful partnerships. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33730 2/2018 Statement of Principles on Conflict Minerals Updated February 2018 GE condemns the ongoing conflict and resulting humanitarian harm in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), which is fueled, in part, by financing from trade in the ores from which tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold are derived. These GE condemns the ongoing four minerals are now known as “conflict minerals” — when they originate in mines operated or taxed by the warring factions, they can be referred to as “conflict conflict and resulting minerals from conflict mines.” humanitarian harm in the Tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold are common constituents of many of GE’s Democratic Republic of the products, ranging from light bulbs to aircraft engines. Because the minerals Congo (DRC) in these products typically enter supply chains many layers removed from manufacturers like GE, it is difficult to determine where the minerals originated and whether their extraction supports armed conflict. At the same time, millions of Congolese workers rely on mining of the minerals for their livelihood. Avoiding GE is committed to purchase of all conflict minerals from the DRC region would cause severe hardship for the workers and their dependents. work to eliminate from our products all conflict As part of our commitment to Principles on Human Rights, GE is committed to work to eliminate from our products all conflict minerals that support armed minerals that support groups in the DRC or in the surrounding countries, while at the same time armed groups in the DRC minimizing unintended consequences for legitimate miners and their dependents. GE will: • Continue to work toward the elimination, over time, of all conflict minerals from conflict mines in our products, and endeavor to improve, year-over-year, our www.ge.com/sustainability ability to track conflict minerals in our supply chain, report on their origin, and sustainability@ge.com eliminate those that originate in conflict mines. • Comply with the requirements of Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, which requires companies to inquire into the origin of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold in their supply chains, and report on the reasonable inquiry or due diligence the companies conduct to determine whether purchases of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold supported armed groups in the DRC. • Support industry-wide initiatives to verify smelters and refiners that are conflict-free. • Support initiatives to track conflict mineral ores from mines of origin in the DRC to smelters or refiners, so that conflict-free mining and transportation routes can be verified. This will allow responsible smelters and refiners to continue to source ores from legitimate mines in the DRC region and be certified as conflict-free, thereby minimizing the unintended consequence of encouraging a “Congo-free” policy. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33693 2/2018 General Electric Company 2017 Conflict Minerals Report Introduction General Electric Company (“GE” or the “Company”) has prepared this Conflict Minerals Report (“Report”) for the year ended December 31, 2017, as provided for in Rule 13p-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Form SD (collectively, the “Conflict Minerals Rule”). GE manufactures a wide range of products that contain tin, tantalum, tungsten or gold (“3TG”) but GE does not purchase ore or unrefined 3TG from mines and generally is many steps removed in the supply chain from the mining of these minerals. We purchase materials from a wide network of suppliers and rely on them to assist with our reasonable country of origin inquiry regarding the 3TG that are necessary to the functionality or production of products we manufacture. After performing our reasonable country of origin inquiry and due diligence for 2017, we have determined that some of the 3TG contained in our products originated from a Covered Country, and we are therefore submitting this Report, which describes the due diligence we have performed pursuant to the Conflict Minerals Rule and our related processes and procedures. This Report describes: • the due diligence we performed for 2017, including the steps we took to mitigate the risk that 3TG in our products benefit armed groups; • the products that we have reason to believe might contain 3TG originating from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country (collectively, the “Covered Countries”); and • information about the processing facilities and countries of origin of 3TG used in those products. Due Diligence 1. Design of GE’s due diligence measures GE has adopted Conflict Minerals Guidelines (the “Guidelines”) that lay out the design of our 3TG due diligence process. The Guidelines describe procedures that each GE business is expected to use to perform due diligence on the source and origin of 3TG contained in products we manufacture. GE management designed our due diligence measures to conform in material respects to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas including, the Supplement on Tin, Tantalum, and Tungsten and the Supplement on Gold (collectively, the “OECD Guidance”). 2. Description of GE’s due diligence measures for 2017 This description of due diligence measures refers to measures performed at the GE corporate level and by the following GE businesses: Power, Renewable Energy, Oil & Gas (prior to its combination with Baker Hughes Incorporated (“BHI”) in July 2017; for information regarding the legacy BHI business, please refer to the Form SD filing by Baker Hughes, a GE company (“BHGE”)), Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation and Lighting. This description is presented pursuant to the organizational structure of the Five-Step Framework for RiskBased Due Diligence in the Mineral Supply Chain contained in the OECD Guidance. Step 1: Establish strong company management systems A. Adopt and commit to a supply chain policy for minerals originating from conflict-affected and high-risk areas The Guidelines contain the operative provisions of GE’s Statement on Conflict Minerals, which can be found on GE’s website, as well as the process for ensuring that risks are adequately managed. GE Corporate created and disseminated the Guidelines to each GE business for execution of GE’s 3TG due diligence process. Additional GE policies that relate to the due diligence measures contained in the OECD Guidance are incorporated into GE’s policy document The Spirit & The Letter, which can be found on GE’s website (for each of these materials, see “Where You Can Find Additional Information” below). B. Structure internal management systems to support supply chain due diligence GE Corporate. GE’s Global Law & Policy organization has oversight responsibility for GE’s Statement on Conflict Minerals, including the establishment of processes and procedures to carry out this statement. GE businesses. Each GE business has: • established a system to support performance of due diligence on its supply chain; • documented that system in a written business program; and • assigned responsibility for the execution of the business program to specific personnel. Internal reporting. For 2017, GE Corporate used the following 3TG due diligence reporting mechanisms: • Reporting within GE businesses: Each GE business conducted one or more reviews of its 3TG due diligence program with senior management in its sourcing organization covering measurements relating to efforts to achieve supply chain transparency; • Communicating across GE businesses: Representatives of GE businesses and others responsible for executing 3TG due diligence held regularly scheduled meetings to discuss design and modification of the due diligence process, share best practices among the businesses, and monitor progress of the due diligence process; and • Reporting to GE sourcing leaders: Sourcing leaders at each GE business periodically receive reports and review the 3TG program. C. Establish a system of controls and transparency over the 3TG supply chain Identifying suppliers. Each GE business identified: • Relevant Suppliers: suppliers that provide inputs to GE products that are known or are likely to contain 3TG through a process that is based on an examination of internal records such as bills of material or other product specifications, a qualitative review of sourcing records, or information provided by the supplier; and 2 • Significant Suppliers: those suppliers within the universe of Relevant Suppliers that are most significant to GE’s 3TG program, using criteria developed by the business, such as the amount of sourcing spend with the supplier. Identifying smelters and refiners in the supply chain. Each GE business identified all smelters and refiners of 3TG that are first-tier suppliers to GE and used its best efforts to identify additional smelters and refiners by surveying Significant Suppliers, either directly or indirectly through an independent third-party supply chain expert, based on the Responsible Minerals Initiative’s (“RMI”) Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (“CMRT”). The survey tools are designed to collect, manage and archive (for at least five years) supplier information relevant for 3TG due diligence including, among other things, the identity of smelters and refiners of 3TG in the supplier’s supply chain. We apply criteria based on the CMRT across GE businesses for assessing the acceptability of survey responses. Conducting a reasonable country of origin inquiry. For upstream due diligence to identify countries of origin and other relevant information about the conflict status of metals produced by the smelters and refiners identified as potentially in GE’s supply chain, GE relies on the information made available through the Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (“RMAP”) administered by RMI, as well as information from an independent thirdparty supply chain expert. GE relied on this information to identify (1) the status of smelters and refiners potentially in GE’s supply chain; and (2) the countries of origin of ores that are potentially in the supply chains of these smelters and refiners. Where the data showed that ores utilized by one or more of these smelters or refiners originated in one or more of the Covered Countries, GE concluded that there is reason to believe that 3TG from the Covered Countries may be present in the products of the business for which such smelters or refiners were reported as potentially in the supply chain. Due to business confidentiality and other competitive concerns, as recognized by the OECD Guidance, the RMI does not publish detailed information on specific mine and location of origin of ores that supply the smelters and refiners subject to verification reviews. Consequently, no such information is provided in this Report. RMI’s efforts to determine such information is described on the RMI website (see “Where You Can Find Additional Information” below). D. Strengthen company engagement with suppliers Regular communications. GE regularly communicates its expectations on responsible supply chains of 3TG by transmitting surveys and other communications from the sourcing organizations of the GE businesses to Significant Suppliers and other Relevant Suppliers. In addition, the sourcing organizations of GE’s businesses make training available to their suppliers on GE’s 3TG program. Contractual obligations. Each GE business contractually obligates Relevant Suppliers to (1) adopt policies and establish systems to use best efforts to procure 3TG from sources that have been verified as conflict free; (2) provide supporting data on their 3TG supply chains to GE when requested; and (3) provide GE with audit rights and the right to terminate the contract in the event of material non-compliance. These obligations are reflected in GE’s Integrity Guide for Suppliers, Contractors and Consultants (“Integrity Guide”), which can be found on GE’s website (see “Where You Can Find Additional Information” below). Purchase order and contract terms and conditions in use by GE businesses require suppliers to conform their behavior to the Integrity Guide. E. Establish a company-level grievance mechanism Integrity Guide. The Integrity Guide provides multiple methods for suppliers and supplier personnel to raise concerns about matters that are subject to the Integrity Guide, including GE’s expectations of suppliers regarding 3TG. Open reporting system. Each GE business also has an open reporting system through which employees and third parties may report concerns about policy violations, including concerns related to our 3TG policies. Concerns can be reported anonymously or for attribution through several channels, including any compliance resource (e.g. GE legal counsel or auditor), by calling the GE integrity helpline at (800) 227-5003, or by emailing the GE Ombudsman at ombudsperson@corporate.ge.com. 3 No retaliation. Both the Integrity Guide and the open reporting system forbid retaliation against any person reporting an integrity concern. Step 2: Identify and assess supply chain risks A. Use best efforts to identify the smelters and refiners in the supply chain During 2017, using the processes described above under “Establish a system of controls and transparency over the 3TG supply chain,” GE businesses identified 18,208 Relevant Suppliers (up from 7,289 in 2016), including 5,931 Significant Suppliers (up from 2,668 in 2016). These year-over-year increases are primarily the result of acquisitions and improvements in our due diligence efforts. Our Significant Suppliers identified 316 smelters and refiners of 3TG that were potentially in their supply chains (versus 318 in 2016). See Table A below for a list of these smelters and refiners and a summary of their validation status under the RMAP. B. Identify the scope of the risk assessment of the 3TG supply chain Engaging with suppliers. GE’s 3TG supplier survey asks suppliers to identify smelters or refiners of 3TG in their supply chains. We seek to engage all Significant Suppliers to encourage the smelters and refiners in their supply chains to become validated as conformant by the RMAP or a similar program. Engaging with smelters and refiners. In addition to engaging with smelters and refiners through the RMAP, GE’s businesses that buy tungsten-bearing products directly from tungsten smelters (“first-tier tungsten smelters”) engaged these first-tier tungsten smelters to encourage them to participate in the smelter validation process of the RMAP. See “Devise and adopt a risk management plan” below for additional information on our engagement efforts. C. Assess whether the suppliers have carried out all elements of due diligence for responsible supply chains of 3TG from conflict-affected and high-risk areas Each GE business conducts due diligence to determine the degree of its suppliers’ compliance with the contractual obligations laid out in the Guidelines. Measures may include reviewing supplier responses for completeness, accuracy and credibility, confirming smelter status by checking against the Smelter Look-up tab list of the RMI’s CMRT and the RMI’s Conformant Smelter list. D. Where necessary, carry out joint spot checks at the mineral smelter or refiner’s own facilities (including through participation in industry-driven programs) First-tier suppliers. Each GE business is responsible for confirming that each of its first-tier suppliers that are smelters and refiners (if any): • has a policy and procedures to eliminate sourcing of conflict-supporting 3TG; • has been subject to an audit of the origin of their 3TG supplies conducted in accordance with OECD Guidance or has made a firm commitment to undergo such an audit as soon as it can be scheduled; and • passes the audit as being conflict-free or, having failed the audit, has established and put into place a plan to correct process deficiencies. Lower-tier (upstream) suppliers. In accordance with OECD Guidance, including its audit recommendations for downstream companies, GE implements upstream audits by participating in and cooperating with industry organizations. GE is a member of RMI (member code GECO) and has, periodically, supported RMI and RMAP through membership on various committees and working groups and providing financial assistance and in-kind assistance with RMAP smelter validation. As such, GE relied on the RMAP to conduct risk assessment at the upstream level. For each smelter identified in its supply chain at the first or lower tiers, each GE business assessed the information available from the RMAP and an independent third-party supply chain expert to determine 4 whether there were any “red flags” (as defined in OECD Guidance) and, if needed, develop a corrective action plan. We encourage removing any high-risk smelters from our supply chain. Step 3: Design and implement a strategy to respond to identified risks A. Report findings to designated senior management See “Structure internal management systems to support supply chain due diligence” above for a description of GE’s 3TG due diligence internal reporting processes. B. Devise and adopt a risk management plan Across GE. Each GE business periodically compiles a report of 3TG risks identified in its supply chain for review by the GE business executive-level program owner to determine appropriate steps to take in mitigating any risks identified in the reports. In 2017, these steps focused on reducing risk by (1) engaging Significant Suppliers to encourage the smelters and refiners in their supply chains to become validated as conformant by the RMAP, and (2) encouraging Significant Suppliers who identified high-risk smelters and refiners to remove them from their supply chains. A high-risk smelter or refiner is one for which there are credible reports that such smelter or refiner sources materials in a manner that directly or indirectly finances armed conflict. For Significant Suppliers who identified high-risk smelters and suppliers, the relevant GE business sent such supplier a letter requesting: (1) that that supplier confirm whether these smelters are in fact in their supply chain, and if so, whether such materials are used in GE products, (2) that the supplier encourage these smelters to participate in the RMAP and (3) that if a smelter refuses to participate in the RMAP, such supplier should develop a plan to remove the smelter from its supply chain. In addition, in 2017, the Aerospace Industries Association, of which GE is a member, sent a letter to a number of smelters in the aerospace industry supply chain urging them to participate in the RMAP. Step 4: Carry out independent 3rd-party audit of smelters/refiners’ due diligence practices See “Where necessary, carry out joint spot checks at the mineral smelter or refiner’s own facilities (including through participation in industry-driven programs)” above for a discussion of how GE conducted risk assessment at the upstream level. Step 5: Report annually on supply chain due diligence We file this Report annually, and a copy of it is available at https://www.ge.com/sustainability/reports-hub. 3. Continuous improvement 2017 progress. For 2017, GE continued to focus on: • conducting due diligence and a reasonable country of origin inquiry to improve the transparency in our 3TG supply chain; and • engaging with suppliers to reduce 3TG supply chain risk, increasing the number of smelters and refiners in our supply chain that have been verified as conformant by 3% to 245 in 2017. As a result, more than 79% of the smelters and refiners identified by our Significant Suppliers have been verified as conformant (up from 35% in 2013, when we started our 3TG due diligence program). 2018 actions to improve due diligence and supplier engagement. GE intends to take the following steps in 2018 to improve due diligence and thereby mitigate the risk that 3TG contained in in-scope GE products may benefit armed groups: 5 • continue communication with suppliers and spread best practices learned during execution of the due diligence process in 2017 across the GE businesses to continue to work to improve the percentage of Significant Suppliers responding to GE’s supply chain surveys and the quality of their responses; • continue the identification of and communication with smelters and refiners in GE’s supply chain, both directly and indirectly through GE’s Significant Suppliers, in order to continue to increase the number of smelters and refiners that participate in the RMAP; and • as new Significant Suppliers are added, work with these suppliers to help ensure that they understand our compliance requirements, the requirements of the Conflict Minerals Rule and the OECD Guidance. Information Known to GE about 3TG in GE products GE manufactures a wide range of products that contain 3TG. For a description of the products manufactured by GE in 2017, see the products description for each of our industrial businesses—Power, Renewable Energy, Oil & Gas, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation and Lighting – on pages 28–53 of our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which are incorporated into this Report by reference and which you can find at https://www.ge.com/investor-relations/events-reports. GE purchases materials from a wide network of suppliers so we necessarily rely on them to assist with our reasonable country of origin inquiry. After performing a reasonable country of origin inquiry and due diligence for 2017, we have determined that although none of the 3TG sourced from our first-tier tungsten smelters originated from a Covered Country, some of the 3TG contained in our products did originate from a Covered Country. We are unaware and have no knowledge that any of the necessary 3TG contained in our in-scope products directly or indirectly financed or benefitted armed groups in a Covered Country, but make no assertion that any of our products are “DRC conflict free.” Smelters and Refiners Used to Process 3TG in GE Products GE obtained information about the smelters and refiners used to process 3TG in GE products through the due diligence activities described in this Report. Table A below contains a list of the first-tier tungsten smelters as well as smelters and refiners that GE’s Significant Suppliers identified as potentially being present in their supply chains and that GE believes may have processed 3TG contained in in-scope GE products. Countries of Origin of 3TG in GE Products GE obtained information about the country of origin and mine or location of origin of 3TG in GE products through reliance on the RMI’s upstream audits of smelters and refiners in GE’s supply chain and using information provided by an independent third-party supply chain expert, as described in this Report. Table B below contains a list of known countries of origin of 3TG used by smelters and refiners that GE suppliers identified as potentially being present in their supply chains. 6 Table B (as of May 23, 2018) Gold Tantalum Tin Tungsten Australia Australia Argentina Australia Benin Bolivia Australia Austria Bolivia Brazil Bolivia Bolivia Brazil Burundi Brazil Brazil Burkina Faso China Burundi Burundi Burundi Colombia China Cambodia Canada Democratic Republic of the Colombia Canada Congo Central African Republic Ethiopia Democratic Republic of the China Congo Chile France Germany Colombia China Guinea Indonesia Democratic Republic of the Congo Colombia Guyana Laos Japan Democratic Republic of the India Malaysia Mexico Congo Ecuador Kazakhstan Mongolia Mongolia Eritrea Madagascar Myanmar Nigeria Finland Malaysia Nigeria Portugal Ghana Mozambique Peru Russian Federation Guatemala Namibia Portugal Rwanda Guinea Nigeria Russian Federation Spain Guyana Russian Federation Rwanda United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland Honduras Rwanda Thailand United States of America India Sierra Leone Uganda Uzbekistan Indonesia Thailand United Kingdom of Great Britain Viet Nam and Northern Ireland Kazakhstan United States of America Viet Nam Recycled Kyrgyzstan Zimbabwe Zimbabwe Laos Recycled Recycled Mali Mexico Mongolia New Zealand Nicaragua Panama Peru Poland Russian Federation Senegal South Africa South Sudan Sudan Sweden Tajikistan Tanzania Togo Turkey Uganda United States of America Uzbekistan Zambia Zimbabwe Recycled 15 Helpful Resources Acronyms Used in This Report 3TG Tin, Tantalum, Tungsten or Gold CMRT Conflict Minerals Reporting Template DRC Democratic Republic of the Congo OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development RMAP Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (formerly the Conflict-Free Smelter Program) RMI Responsible Minerals Initiative (formerly the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative) SEC U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Forward-Looking Statements This Report contains forward-looking statements – that is, statements related to future events that by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. For details on the uncertainties that may cause our actual future results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements, see http://www.ge.com/investor-relations/disclaimer-caution-concerning-forward-looking-statements as well as our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. We do not undertake to update our forwardlooking statements. Where You Can Find Additional Information* GE’s Statement on Conflict Minerals https://www.ge.com/sustainability/reports-hub GE’s Integrity Guide for Suppliers, Contractors and Consultants www.gesupplier.com/html/SuppliersIntegrityGuide.htm GE’s Code of Conduct: The Spirit & The Letter https://www.ge.com/sustainability/reports-hub Responsible Minerals Initiative http://www.responsiblemineralsinitiative.org OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and HighRisk Areas www.oecd.org/daf/inv/mne/OECD-Due-Diligence-Guidance-Minerals-Edition3.pdf GE’s 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K https://www.ge.com/investor-relations/events-reports *These web links are provided for convenience only, and the content on the referenced websites does not constitute a part of this Report. GE and the GE logo are trademarks and service marks of General Electric Company. Other marks used throughout are trademarks and service marks of their respective owners. 16 2017 GE Foundation Contributions Above $10,000 Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount GE Foundation Education/Skills Council of Chief State School Officers 868,910 GE Foundation Education/Skills Haywood County Schools Foundation 100,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills Milwaukee Public Schools 4,158,392 GE Foundation Education/Skills National Science Teachers Association 650,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills Student Achievement Partners 500,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills Boston Educational Development Foundation, Inc 764,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills Boston Private Industry Council 60,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills Center For Strategic Research And Communication 757,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills College For Every Student, Inc. 950,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills Jobs For America's Graduates, Inc. 350,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills John Fitzgerald Kennedy Library Foundation 121,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills Project Lead the Way 110,000 GE Foundation Education/Skills The Fab Foundation 1,214,198 Developing GE Foundation Assist International, Inc. 7,045,870 Health Globally Developing GE Foundation FHI 360 600,000 Health Globally Developing GE Foundation Jhpiego Corporation 2,075,903 Health Globally Developing GE Foundation President And Fellows of Harvard College 1,322,920 Health Globally Developing GE Foundation Vanderbilt University 135,307 Health Globally Developing GE Foundation Health Globally Boston Medical Center 150,000 U.S. Developing GE Foundation Health Globally Health Resources In Action, Inc. 600,000 U.S. Developing GE Foundation Health Globally Massachusetts General Hospital 200,000 U.S. Developing GE Foundation Health Globally Massachusetts League of Community Health Centers, Inc. 519,523 U.S. Developing GE Foundation Health Globally National Medical Fellowships, Inc. 413,600 U.S. Developing GE Foundation Health Globally RIZE Massachusetts 250,000 U.S. Developing GE Foundation Health Globally Trustees of Tufts College 88,869 U.S. Developing GE Foundation Health Globally University of New Mexico Contract & Grants HSC 1,750,000 U.S. GE Foundation Disaster Relief American National Red Cross 1,250,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Amy Seiwerts Imagery 11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Animal Protective Foundation of Schenectady Inc 26,297 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ann Arbor Art Association 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Appalachia Service Project, Inc. 25,217 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Arkansas State University Foundation Inc 11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Arthritis Foundation Inc New York Chapter 12,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Arts Center And Theater of Schenectady Inc Dba Proctor's 102,316 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Asbury Theological Seminary 19,709 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Asbury University 11,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Association For the Bladder Exstrophy Community 14,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Association of Graduates of the United States Military Academy 23,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Atlanta Union Mission Corporation 16,898 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Atlas Ministry Inc 17,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Auburn University Foundation 49,952 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Augustana College 32,645 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Autism Speaks Inc 24,561 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Avon Breast Cancer Crusade LLC 10,271 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ayn Rand Institute the Center For the Advancement of Objectivism 48,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Azusa Pacific University 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Babson College 13,675 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Back 2 Back Ministries Inc Community Service 38,912 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bainbridge Island Rowing Club 10,659 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Baker University 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Baldwin Wallace University 13,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Baps Charities Inc 108,783 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Barrier Island Group For the Arts, Inc 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Barrington Stage Co Inc 20,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Barton College 12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bay Path University 11,932 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bellarmine University 36,654 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Beloit College 26,900 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Benedictine Sisters-Community Programs 12,026 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Berkshire Theatre Festival, Inc. 44,070 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Berlin & Coos County Historical Society 12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bernardine Franciscan Sisters 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Best Buddies International Inc 10,445 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Best Friends Animal Society 24,515 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bethesda House of Schenectady Inc 14,545 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bigelow Laboratory For Ocean Sciences 12,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bluefield College 18,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bnai Brith Youth Organization, Inc 28,532 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boston College 87,517 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boston Symphony Orchestra Inc 12,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boston University 52,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bowling Green State University Foundation Inc. 35,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boy Scouts of America 26,271 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boys & Girls Club of Erie Inc 50,396 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Iowa State University Foundation $63,860 GE Foundation Matching Gifts IPTAY $96,793 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Islamic Relief USA $134,342 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Island Nursing Home Inc $21,519 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ispace Inc $12,697 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Israel America Foundation Inc $18,295 GE Foundation Matching Gifts IV-Charis $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Jewish Family And Childrens Service $11,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Jills House, Inc. $23,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Jingles O'Brien Scholarship Fund, Inc. $12,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Jobs For Kentuckys Graduates, Inc. $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts John F Kennedy Center For the Performing Arts $30,310 GE Foundation Matching Gifts John F Kennedy Memorial Foundation $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Johns Hopkins University $96,491 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Judicial Watch, Inc. $11,665 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Junior Achievement of Northeastern New York $12,390 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation $26,452 GE Foundation Matching Gifts KairosPDX $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Kansas City Symphony $11,459 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Kansas State University Foundation $51,442 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Keen Group, Inc. $11,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Kendal At Oberlin $28,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Kenyon College $56,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Kidsenses, Inc. $16,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Kidz 2 Leaders, Inc. $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts King School Incorporated $23,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lahey Clinic Foundation, Inc. $10,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lake George Opera Festival Association, Inc. $18,460 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lake Sunapee Protective Association $25,268 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Langston Foundation, Inc. $10,790 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Laurens Academy $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lees-Mcrae College, Inc. $27,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lehigh University $54,157 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Leukemia & Lymphoma Society, Inc. $17,310 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Leukemia And Lymphoma Society Upstate New York/Vermont $26,710 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Liberty Bible Academy Association, Inc. $21,570 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lifebridge Community Services, Inc. $12,590 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Light the World, Inc. $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lindsey Wilson College $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Little Flower Catholic High Sc $13,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Livermore Valley Performing Arts Center $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Longwood University Foundation, Inc. $16,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Loomis Institute $12,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lost Tree Village Charitable Foundation, Inc. $10,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Louisville Collegiate School $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lutheran Camping Corporation of Central Pennsylvania $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lutheran University Association $10,132 GE Foundation Disaster Relief Americares Foundation, Inc. 900,000 GE Foundation Disaster Relief United Way of Greater Houston 250,000 GE STAR GE Foundation Institute of International Education, Inc. $1,090,000 AWARDS GE Foundation Matching Gifts A Better Chance, Inc. 35,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts A Childs Hope International, Inc. 17,164 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Academy of Our Lady of Mercy 20,920 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Academy of Our Lady of Mercy, Lauralton Hall 16,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Adams County Community Foundation, Inc. 20,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Adams-Friendship Future Farmers of America Alumni Association 10,235 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Adirondack Medical Center Foundation 18,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Adirondack Mountain Club, Inc. 26,315 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Aga Khan Foundation USA 15,485 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Airlink, Inc. 10,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Albany Medical Center Foundation, Inc. 11,925 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Albany Symphony Orchestra, Inc. (The) 13,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Albert Einstein Medical Center 14,562 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Al-Falah Academy, Inc. 21,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Al-Furqan Academy 27,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Algonquin Arts A New Jersey NonProfit Corporation 11,009 GE Foundation Matching Gifts All India Movement (Aim) For Seva, Inc. 17,252 GE Foundation Matching Gifts All Saints School 15,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Allegheny College 35,373 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Als Therapy Development Institute 14,239 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Alverno College 28,380 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Alzheimer's Association Greater Cincinnati Chapter 51,005 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Alzheimers Disease And Related Disorders Association 24,627 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Amal Foundation, Inc. 12,106 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Amelia Island Chamber Music Festival 13,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Amerian Society of Mechanical Engineers Dc 12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Cancer Society 75,417 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Cancer Society, Inc. 53,344 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Cancer Society, Inc. Southern New England Region-Norwalk 15,610 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Civil Liberties Union Foundation, Inc. 25,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Diabetes Association, Inc. National Service Center 45,988 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Foundation For Suicide Prevention 10,131 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Friends of Magen David Adom 25,393 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Friends of the Donmar Theatre, Inc. 20,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Heart Association 81,138 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Heart Association, Inc 22,295 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American National Red Cross 310,879 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Philosophical Society 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Society For the Prevention of Cruelty To Animals 30,712 GE Foundation Matching Gifts American Theatre Works Inc 20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Americans For Oxford 10,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Americares Foundation, Inc. 71,348 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Amnesty International USA Inc 11,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boys & Girls Clubs of Schenectady 20,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boys And Girls Club of Greater Salem Inc 25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boys And Girls Clubs of Fort Wayne, Inc. 15,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Boys Hope Girls Hope of California, Inc. 13,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bread For the World Institute Inc 12,510 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Breastcancer Org 25,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Brick Childrens Community Theatre 10,101 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bridgeport Diocesan Schools Corps 37,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bridgeport Hospital Foundation Inc 15,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bridgeport Rescue Mission Inc 16,735 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bridgewater State College Foundation 20,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Brightfocus Foundation 11,446 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Brookline Community Mental Health Center Inc 10,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Brown County Christian Academy 10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Brown University 41,918 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Brunswick School 11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bryn Mawr College 14,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Bucknell University $20,927 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Buildon $458,952 GE Foundation Matching Gifts California Institute of Technology $62,858 GE Foundation Matching Gifts California Institute of the Arts $11,258 GE Foundation Matching Gifts California State University, Fresno Foundation $32,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Calvary Day School Winston-Salem, Nc $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Calvin College $12,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cambridge In America $26,220 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cancer Free Kids Pediatric Cancer Research Alliance $11,808 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cape Fear Community College Foundation, Inc. $25,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Capital City Rescue Mission Inc $16,292 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cardinal Hayes High School $14,791 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Carleton College $32,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Carmel Academy $13,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Carnatica Archival Center For Music $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Carnegie Mellon University $69,969 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Case Western Reserve University $12,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cathedral Preparatory School $10,710 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Charities Corporation $16,357 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Charities North $11,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Charities of Diocese of Albany $24,449 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Charities of Fairfield County Inc $74,635 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Charities of Louisville $36,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Charities of Southwestern Ohio $17,578 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Charities USA $13,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Community Foundation For the Archdiocese of Cincinnati Inc $280,182 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Education Foundation Inc $10,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Catholic Relief Services $99,362 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cato Institute $14,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Center For Equine And Youth Rehabilitation $30,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Center In the SquareWestern Virginia Foundation For the Arts And Sciences $27,825 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Center Theatre Group of Los Angeles $13,930 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Central Park Conservancy $10,455 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Champlain Valley Christian School Association Inc $16,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Chapel Haven Endowment Inc $45,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Charleston Urban Squash Inc $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Chicago Symphony Orchestra $26,112 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Child Guidance Center of Southern Connecticut, Inc. $68,645 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Child Wellness Fair Inc $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Childfund International $19,171 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Childrens Healthcare of Atlanta Foundation $22,244 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Childrens Hospital Corporation $11,675 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Childrens Hospital Medical Center $18,546 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Christian Brothers Academy $22,325 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Christian Study Center of Gainesville Inc $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Church Community Services Inc $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cincinnati Center For Autism $15,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cincinnati Hills Christian Academy $19,792 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cincinnati Institute of Fine Arts Dba Artswave $211,342 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cincinnati Public Radio, Inc. $24,689 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra $28,436 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cincinnati Zoo Foundation Inc $37,784 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Citizens For Social Change And Rehabilitation Inc $18,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts City Gospel Mission/City Cure/City Ministries $67,059 GE Foundation Matching Gifts City Mission of Schenectady $258,359 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Clarkson University $75,782 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Clemson University Foundation $108,630 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cleveland Clinic Foundation $11,301 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cleveland Play House $12,820 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cleveland State University Foundation $37,897 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Coastal Maine Botanical Gardens Inc $38,814 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Colby College $10,625 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Colgate University $27,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts College Foundation of the University of Virginia $10,710 GE Foundation Matching Gifts College of Our Lady of the Elms $11,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts College of Saint Rose $12,856 GE Foundation Matching Gifts College of the Holy Cross $22,284 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Colonial Williamsburg Foundation $24,874 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Common Heart Inc. $14,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Community Foundation For the Greater Capital Region Inc $42,661 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Community Foundation of Greater Greenville Inc $26,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Community Foundation of Henderson County Inc $18,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Community Foundation of Herkimer And Oneida Counties Inc $30,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Community Hospice Foundation Inc $18,395 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Community Pregnancy Clinics Inc $15,540 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Compassion International Incorporated $45,459 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Concord Land Conservation Trust $23,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Concordia University Wisconsin Foundation Inc $10,498 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Connecticut Food Bank $26,814 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cooper Union For the Advancement of Science And Art $14,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cooperative For Assistance And Relief Everywhere Inc Care $24,792 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cornell University $137,209 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Council On American-Islamic Relations Cair Seattle Chapter $12,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Covenant House $25,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Covenant House New York $10,310 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Crohn's And Colitis Foundation of America $13,011 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cross International Catholic Outreach Inc $31,411 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Culver-Stockton College $22,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cumberland College $11,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Curators of the University of Missouri $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cystic Fibrosis Foundation $24,246 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Cystic Fibrosis Foundation (Cff) $29,527 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dana Farber Cancer Institute $72,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dare To Care Food Bank Inc $26,247 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dartmouth College $95,425 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health $12,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Davis And Elkins College $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Denver Rescue Mission $21,002 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Depauw University $36,900 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Dexter Southfield Inc $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Disabled American Veterans Charitable Service Trust $14,195 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Domus Kids, Inc. $19,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Donorschoose Org $18,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Double H Ranch $26,947 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Duke University $45,570 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Eagle Hill-Southport School Inc $27,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts East Kentwood High School $12,212 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Edison Tech Center $25,260 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Egyptian Cancer Network 57357 And Afnci Inc $15,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ekal Vidyalay Foundation of USA $21,865 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Elca Domestic And International Disaster Response $10,925 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ellis Hospital Foundation Inc $239,534 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Emmaus Ministries, Inc. Community Services $28,035 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Environmental Defense Fund $17,257 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Envision Children $12,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Episcopal Relief And Development $34,570 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Erie Area Rabbit Society & Rescue Ears Inc $20,435 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Erie City Mission $58,621 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Erie Day School Inc $13,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Evans Scholars Foundation $45,385 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Exchange Club of Kiawah-Seabrook Foundation $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Fairfield College Preparatory School $18,233 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Fairfield University $100,205 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Family & Childrens Service of Ithaca $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Family Promise Metrowest Inc $26,882 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Father Flanagans Boys Home $47,382 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Feed My Starving Children $21,441 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Feed the Children Inc $12,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Feeding America $13,345 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Feeding America Southwest Virginia $38,620 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Fenwick High School $13,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Fireborn Institute Inc $29,976 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Firelands Catholic Education Development Office Inc $10,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Florida Institute of Technology $23,655 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Florida State University Foundation $25,959 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Folds of Honor Foundation $23,299 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Food Bank For Larimer County $13,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Food For the Poor Inc Community Services $125,133 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Fordham University $19,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Foundation Fighting Blindness Inc $78,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Foundation of Compassionate American Samaritans FOCAS $33,114 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Foundations In Education Inc $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Francis House, Inc. $12,790 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Franklin & Marshall College $13,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Free Clinic of Central VA, Inc. $12,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Freestore Foodbank Inc $50,586 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Friends of Public Radio Inc $12,982 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Friends of Saugus Senior Center $25,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Friends of the Saugus Public Library $11,411 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Fund For Sustainable Empowered Development $10,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Furman University $54,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Galway Public Library $10,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Gannon University $26,219 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Gary Sinise Charitable Foundation $26,970 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Georgetown University $63,430 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Georgia Institute of Technology $28,878 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Give Hope Pancreatic Cancer Research And Awareness Alliance $17,430 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Global Impact $59,803 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Global Organization For Divinity $17,281 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Gonzaga College High School $10,950 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Goochland Pet Lovers $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Greens Farms Academy $30,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Greenville Humane Society $12,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Guiding Eyes For the Blind Inc $11,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Habitat For Humanity International $45,385 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Habitat For Humanity International Inc $36,265 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Habitat For Humanity of Coastal Fairfield County $13,083 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Habitat For Humanity of Lee County Inc $47,915 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Habitat For Humanity of Owensboro-Daviess $13,345 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Habitat For Humanity of Schenectady County, Inc. $16,130 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Habitat For Humanityof Evansville Inc $15,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Half-Way Home Animal Rescue $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Handsmith Inc $11,758 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Harmony Foundation Inc $13,880 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Harmony Youth Center Inc $11,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Harvesters The Community Food Network $13,925 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hastings College Foundation $15,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Healthcare 2000 Community Clinic Inc $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hearts And Hope $19,777 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Heavenly C Ministries For the World $32,145 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Heifer Internatl Foundation $13,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Heifer Project International Inc $31,901 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Heights Foundation Inc $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Helping Hand For Relief & Development Inc $47,879 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hernando-Pasco Hospice Inc $10,900 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hht Foundation International Inc $15,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Highland Support Project $16,640 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hillsdale College $19,015 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hispanic Scholarship Fund $29,463 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Holy Cross Catholic School $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Holy Name Catholic School $20,310 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Home Aide Service of Eastern New York Inc $14,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Homeless Animal Rescue Team of Cincinnati $18,085 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hope 4 (Rugby) Ltd $12,416 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hope College $103,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hope International $10,585 GE Foundation Matching Gifts House of Charity (The) $11,325 GE Foundation Matching Gifts House of Peace Community Services $10,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Houston Grand Opera Association, Inc. $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Houston Symphony Society $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hudson Valley Community College Foundation $15,045 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Humane Society of the United States $13,645 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Hunger Outreach-Council of Churches $12,159 GE Foundation Matching Gifts I Love Music Tour Inc $17,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ideastream $14,157 GE Foundation Matching Gifts IIT Bombay Heritage Fund, Inc. $18,875 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Illinois State University Foundation $21,137 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Impact Mission Relief $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts India Cultural Center of Greenwich $10,104 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Indian River Hospital Foundation Inc $14,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Indiana University Foundation $65,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Injured Marine Semper Fi Fund $10,956 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Institute For Sustainable Communities $16,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts International Accelerated Missions Inc $22,312 GE Foundation Matching Gifts International Justice Mission $11,125 GE Foundation Matching Gifts International Rescue Committee, Inc $36,258 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Iona College $15,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Lutheran World Relief, Inc. $18,673 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Madison Community Foundation $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Magic Bus USA $12,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Maine Center For Coastal Fisheries $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Maine State Music Theatre $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Makindu Childrens Program $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Manchester University, Inc. $20,040 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Manhattan College $11,975 GE Foundation Matching Gifts March of Dimes $63,109 GE Foundation Matching Gifts March of Dimes Miami Valley Division $21,096 GE Foundation Matching Gifts March of Dimes Birth Defects National Foundation $59,821 GE Foundation Matching Gifts March of Dimes Foundation $86,906 GE Foundation Matching Gifts March of Dimes Foundation Northwest Pa Division $12,684 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Marian University $17,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Marquette University $34,024 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mary Martha Outreach, Inc. $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Maryhurst, Inc. $17,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Marywood University $14,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Masonic Charity Foundation of New Jersey $17,367 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Massachusetts General Hospital $18,495 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Massachusetts Institute of Technology $89,279 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Matthew 25 Ministries, Inc. Community Services $47,739 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mayo Clinic $10,280 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mcgivney Community Center, Inc. $11,399 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mclean County Historical And Genealogical Museum $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mel Trotter Ministries Community Services $11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Melharmony Foundation $13,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Memorial Lutheran Preschool $13,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center $36,518 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mercury One $12,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mercy Learning Center $13,253 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Metropolitan Lutheran Ministry $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Miami University Foundation, Inc. $54,645 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Michigan State University $35,800 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Michigan Tech Fund $67,548 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mid Coast Geriatric Services Corp $10,085 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Middlebury College $57,002 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mill Mountain Zoo, Inc. $25,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Milwaukee Rescue Mission $22,648 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Milwaukee School of Engineering $53,330 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra, Inc.. $22,696 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ministry In Mission $12,603 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mission Empower $14,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mitchell College $10,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Moeller High School $23,450 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mohawk & Hudson River Humane Society $24,271 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mother Teresa Catholic Elementary School $12,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mount Notre Dame High School $14,013 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Mountain Top Music Center $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation $19,206 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Muscular Dystrophy Association $18,874 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Museum of Wisconsinart, Inc. $18,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Muslim Community Center $19,110 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Muslim Community Support Services Incorporated (MCSS) $12,539 GE Foundation Matching Gifts My Brothers Table, Inc. $10,005 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Nantucket Cottage Hospital $11,180 GE Foundation Matching Gifts National Multiple Sclerosis Society $117,510 GE Foundation Matching Gifts National Multiple Sclerosis Society-Lone Star Chapter $25,282 GE Foundation Matching Gifts National Park Foundation $12,815 GE Foundation Matching Gifts National Parks Conservation Association $10,385 GE Foundation Matching Gifts National Partnership For Women And Families $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc. $42,578 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Nazareth Academy $16,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts New Hampshire Catholic Charities, Inc. $11,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts New York Theatre Workshop, Inc. $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts New York University $46,263 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Newman Central Catholic High School $15,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts North America Telugu Society, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts North Carolina A&T University Foundation $23,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts North Carolina State University Foundation $37,888 GE Foundation Matching Gifts North Shore Medical Center $22,436 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northeast Health Foundation $15,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northeastern University $51,270 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northern California Womens Music Festival $11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northern Rivers Family Services, Inc. $15,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northfield Mount Hermon School $24,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northwestern Memorial Foundation $13,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Northwestern University $68,840 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Norwalk Hospital Foundation $20,495 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Norwich University $12,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Notre Dame Bishop Gibbons School $22,980 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Notre Dame Catholic High Sch $10,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Notre Dame High School $11,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Nyu Langone Medical Center & School of Medicine $27,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ohio Hound Rescue, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ohio State University Foundation $149,342 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ohio Wesleyan University $34,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Oklahoma City Boathouse Foundation $24,777 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Olivet Nazarene University $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Opera San Jose Incorporated $18,900 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Operation Blessing International Relief & Development Corp $15,681 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Operation Hope of Fairfield, Inc. $17,130 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ophelia J Berry Fund, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Orphan Relief And Rescue, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Osage Arts Community, Inc. $70,070 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Oswego College Foundation, Inc. $15,430 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Our Savior's Lutheran School $11,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Outside the Bowl $13,760 GE Foundation Matching Gifts P L A N of Southwest Ohio, Inc. $17,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Pace Academy $13,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Palestine Childrens Relief Fund $27,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Palm Beach Opera, Inc. $25,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Pan Massachusetts Challenge Trust $76,380 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Partners In Health A Nonprofit Corporation $10,603 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Peace Center For the Performing Arts $10,025 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Peace Gospel Ministries International, Inc. $18,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Penn State University $142,658 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Petfix Northeast Ohio, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Philharmonic Symphony Society of New York $10,040 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Phoenix Gospel Mission Dba Phoenix Rescue Mission $20,180 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Pi Kappa Alpha Foundation $15,470 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Place of Hope In Haiti, Inc. $31,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc. $58,847 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Planned Parenthood Mohawk Hudson, Inc. $48,577 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Planned Parenthood of Central And Western New York $20,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Planned Parenthood of Greater Ohio $26,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Point Park University $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Potters House Association Internationl, Inc. $13,809 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Pregnancycare of Cincinnati, Inc. $19,980 GE Foundation Matching Gifts President And Fellows of Harvard College $96,040 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Princeton University Class of 1969 Community Service Fund, Inc. $10,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Pro Bono Partnership, Inc. $11,875 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Proctor Academy $15,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Project Learn The Council of Churches of Greater Bridgeport, Inc. $10,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Project Orbis International, Inc. $22,833 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Providence College $29,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Public Broadcasting of Northwest Pennsylvania, Inc. $19,161 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Purdue Foundation, Inc. $91,271 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Purdue University $22,593 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Purpose For Life Foundation $40,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Queens University of Charlotte $14,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rape Victim Advocates $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ravenscroft School, Inc. $45,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rd 1 Werner Road Ltd $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Reformed Presbyterian Woman's Association $11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Regents of the University of Michigan $22,491 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Regina Caeli, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Regional Animal Shelter And Resource Center $10,295 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Regional Food Bank of N E NY, Inc. $51,303 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute $95,594 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rescue Mission Alliance of Syracuse, NY $18,926 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rescue Mission of Roanoke, Inc. (The) $13,068 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rice University $24,855 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rider University $30,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ridgefield Academy, Inc. $18,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Riekes Center For Human Enhancement $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ripon College $10,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rochester Institute of Technology $26,570 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ronald Mcdonald House Charities, Inc. $27,630 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ronald Mcdonald House Charities of Greater Cincinnati $23,832 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology $33,880 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rutland Area Christian School $14,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Rutland County Humane Society, Inc. $10,630 GE Foundation Matching Gifts S O M E, Inc. $14,685 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Sacred Heart Catholic School $40,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Sacred Heart University $14,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Safe Haven Farms, Inc. $10,576 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Safe Networks $10,654 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saint Anselm College $31,225 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saint Gregorys School $11,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saint Johns Communities, Inc. $31,005 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saint John's High School of Worcester County $15,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saint Joseph's University $33,525 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saint Kateri Tekakwitha Parish School $23,365 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saint Mary's College $13,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Salesian Missions, Inc. Community Services $19,307 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Salvation Army $22,860 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Salvation Army Community Services $123,958 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Salvation Army Southwest Ohio & Northeast Kentucky Community Services $19,205 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Samaritans Purse $151,788 GE Foundation Matching Gifts San Juan Island Community Foundation $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Sarasota Opera Association, Inc. $30,835 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saratoga P L A N, Inc. $14,680 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Saratoga Springs Performing Arts Center, Inc. $32,364 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Savannah Jewish Council, Inc. $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Save the Children Federation, Inc. $30,195 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Schenectady County Community College Foundation, Inc. $13,205 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Schenectady Inner City Ministry $44,137 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Schenectady Museum Association $10,795 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Schoodic Arts For All $11,030 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Seagle Music Colony, Inc. $30,606 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Search & Rescue Dogs of Colordao $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Seattle Opera Association $23,130 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Seattle Repertory Theatre $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Second Harvest Food Bank of Northwest Pennsylvania $36,022 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Second Harvest Food Bank of Santa Clara And San Mateo Counties $14,340 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Second Harvest Gleaners Food Bank Dba Feeding America West Michigan $15,975 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Sector67, Inc. $15,053 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Seminole Boosters, Inc. $25,586 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Set Free Alliance $20,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Seton Hill University $30,386 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Seven Hills School $37,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Shady Side Academy $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Shatterproof A Nonprofit Corp $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Shepherds, Inc. $11,687 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Shriners Hospitals For Children $31,106 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Siena College $49,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Silver Bay Association For Christian Conference And Training $12,736 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Skidmore College $33,499 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Small Steps For Compassion $14,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Smile Train, Inc. $22,948 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Smithsonian Institution $32,022 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Society of Saint Vincent Depaul District Council of Cincinnati $17,495 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Society of St. Vincent De Paul Community Services $22,165 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Society of the Sisters of St Joseph Community Services $10,125 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Society of Women Engineers (Swe) $16,875 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Solomon Schechter Day School of Greater Monmouth County, Inc. $17,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts South Brevard Sharing Center, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts South Dakota School of Mines And Technology Foundation $13,914 GE Foundation Matching Gifts South Florida State College Foundation, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Southeastern Guide Dogs, Inc. $10,275 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Southern Baptist Theological Seminary $18,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Southern Poverty Law Center, Inc. $23,551 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Southern Virginia University $48,585 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Southwestern Diabetic Foundation, Inc. $15,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Special Olympics Connecticut, Inc. $27,617 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Special Olympics Massachusetts, Inc. $12,551 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Aloysius Elementary School $28,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Anselm Elementary School $10,130 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Anselms Abbey School $10,055 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Bernard Elementary School $33,807 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Boniface Elementary School $25,215 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Boniface Haiti Foundation, Inc. Community Services $33,226 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Charles Elementary School $37,195 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Edward's University $20,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Gabriel School $13,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Joseph Elementary School $38,350 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Jude Childrens Research Hospital, Inc. $88,446 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Lawrence University $72,479 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Louis University High School $25,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Lukes School $36,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Margaret of York Elem Sch $16,385 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Marys High School, Inc. $22,520 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Matthew Elementary School $14,495 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Ursula Academy $17,906 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St Xavier High School $51,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Anthony School $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Antoninus Elementary School $10,315 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Baldrick's Foundation $20,312 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Catherine University $10,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. John's College $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Joseph Catholic Orphan Society, Inc. $13,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Jude Childrens Research Hospital, Inc. $180,252 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Lawrence Power & Equipment Museum $23,865 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Margaret Mary School $10,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Olaf College $25,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Rita School For the Deaf $27,620 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St. Simons Land Trust $11,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts St.vincent Hospital Foundation, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Stamford Hospital $51,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Stanford University $38,768 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Stark Mountain Foundation, Inc. $30,092 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Stevens Institute of Technology $31,370 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Sunnyview Hospital And Rehabilitation Center Foundation $34,757 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Suny Maritime College $17,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Susan G Komen Breast Cancer Foundation $14,684 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Susan G. Komen 3-Day $26,559 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Syracuse University $120,512 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Syrian American Club, Inc. $14,975 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Tamassee Dar School $16,550 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Tanzanian Childrens Fund, Inc. $12,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Telangana American Telugu Association, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Texas A & M University 12Th Man Foundation $16,286 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Texas A&M University $13,449 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Berkshire Taconic Community Foundation, Inc. $20,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Carter Center, Inc. $13,563 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Citizens Foundation USA $17,950 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The College of New Rochelle $20,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Columbus Academy $29,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Community Foundation of Louisville, Inc. $16,245 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Healing Center $21,820 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Hill School $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Independence Fund, Inc. $17,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Institute For the Advacement of Education In Jaffa, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The John Carroll School $10,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Juilliard School $25,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society $98,926 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Masters School $38,900 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Medical University of South Carolina Foundation $10,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Millbrook School $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Nature Conservancy $101,091 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Nature Conservancy $25,200 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The New Haven Diaper Bank, Inc. $18,709 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The New York Opportunity Network, Inc. $13,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The President And Trustees of Bates College $14,050 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Rotary Foundation of Rotary International $17,370 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Salvation Army $60,791 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Salvation Army Community Services $18,079 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Salvation Army A Georgia Corporation Community Services $11,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Salvation Army, A Georgia Corporation $25,245 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The SASB Foundation $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Smile Train $11,560 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Thomas Merton Center $11,600 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Trustees of Eureka College $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The Trustees of the Smith College $24,709 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The UCLA Foundation $19,095 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The University of North Carolina At Chapel Hill $25,620 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The University of Tennessee $46,261 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center $13,355 GE Foundation Matching Gifts The University of Vermont & State Agricultural College $22,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Top Hat Productions, Inc. $12,281 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Tougaloo College $12,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trinity College $30,300 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Columbia University In the City of New York $37,320 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Hamilton College $37,175 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Princeton University $156,744 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of the Berkshire Museum $16,460 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania $104,205 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Tufts College $26,206 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Trustees of Union College $66,316 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Tug Hill Tomorrow Land Trust $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Two State Young Mens Christian Association $15,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UMASS Memorial Foundation, Inc. $45,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Unbound $64,740 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Unconfined Life Institute $10,650 GE Foundation Matching Gifts United Jewish Federation of Northeastern NY, Inc. $49,458 GE Foundation Matching Gifts United Methodist Committee On Relief $32,585 GE Foundation Matching Gifts United Service Organizations, Inc. $28,803 GE Foundation Matching Gifts United States Association For UNHCR $11,245 GE Foundation Matching Gifts United States Merchant Marine Academy Alumni Foundation, Inc. $38,204 GE Foundation Matching Gifts United States Naval Academy Foundation $16,118 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Arizona Foundation $53,375 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Arkansas Foundation, Inc. $57,536 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of California Berkeley Foundation $45,865 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Chicago $27,196 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Cincinnati Foundation $142,186 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Connecticut Foundation, Inc. $21,011 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Dayton $23,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Denver $11,512 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Florida Foundaton, Inc. $17,238 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Georgia Foundation $21,502 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Idaho Foundation, Inc. $13,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Illinois Foundation Central Administration $107,576 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Kentucky $43,809 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Louisville Athletic Association, Inc. $12,840 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Louisville Foundation, Inc. $71,327 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Maryland College Park Foundation, Inc. $11,070 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Massachusetts Amherst Foundation, Inc. $73,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Michigan $58,252 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Minnesota Foundation $55,465 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Mississippi Foundation $14,134 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Missouri $10,486 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Nebraska Foundation $18,125 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of New Hampshire Foundation Incorporated $26,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of North Carolina At Wilmington $38,125 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of North Texas Foundation, Inc $21,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Notre Dame Du Lac $103,248 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Rhode Island $61,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Richmond $14,822 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Rochester $11,700 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of South Carolina Educational Foundation $13,112 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Southern California $37,320 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Texas At Austin $49,001 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Texas Foundation $26,990 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Toledo Foundation $25,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Utah $10,925 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Virginia Alumni Association $10,875 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Virginia Darden School Foundation $20,900 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Virginia Fund $34,873 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Virginia Law School Foundation $14,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts University of Wisconsin Foundation $63,685 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Upper Palmetto YMCA $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ursuline Academy of Cincinnati $11,666 GE Foundation Matching Gifts US Fund for UNICEF $81,660 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Ushers New Look, Inc. $20,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Utica College $22,525 GE Foundation Matching Gifts UWM Foundation, Inc. $28,019 GE Foundation Matching Gifts V M I Foundation Incorporated $13,075 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Vail Valley Foundation, Inc. $17,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Vassar College $11,361 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Vermont Law School $15,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Vermont Natural Resources Council $19,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Villanova University $50,725 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Virginia Mason Foundation $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Virginia Tech Foundation, Inc.. $156,499 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Viterbo University $19,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Volunteers In Medicine Clinic $26,525 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wagner College $37,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WAMC $36,727 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Warren County Foundation $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Washington and Lee University $25,309 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Washington University $33,535 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Water of Life $11,380 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Water To Thrive $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Waterside School, Inc. $10,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wellesley College, Office For Resources $30,234 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wesley Homes Foundation A Supporting Organization $25,250 GE Foundation Matching Gifts West Virginia Univ Foundation, Inc. $56,842 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Western Kentucky University Foundation $10,735 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Western Michigan University Foundation $13,850 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Westminster School $22,750 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Westport Country Playhouse, Inc. $27,575 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Westtown School $18,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WGBH Educational Foundation $14,354 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wheaton College $25,150 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WHYY, Inc. $17,703 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wildflower Camp Foundation, Inc. $10,370 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Williams College $14,125 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wilton YMCA, Inc. $10,500 GE Foundation Matching Gifts WMHT Educational Telecommunications, Inc./Rise Program $54,647 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wooster School $13,923 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Worcester Polytechnic Institute $87,418 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Worcester Polytechnic Institute Alumni Association $55,445 GE Foundation Matching Gifts World Help $17,400 GE Foundation Matching Gifts World Renew $12,156 GE Foundation Matching Gifts World Series Park Committee $13,640 GE Foundation Matching Gifts World Vision International $108,342 GE Foundation Matching Gifts World Wildlife Fund, Inc. $28,716 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wounded Warrior Project National Headquarters $76,948 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Wycliffe Bible Translators, Inc. Community Services $15,515 GE Foundation Matching Gifts X Count, Inc. $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Xavier University $85,645 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Yale New Haven Hospital $26,475 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Yale University $105,394 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Young Life Community Services $29,902 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Young Men's Christian Association of New Canaan Community $25,000 GE Foundation Matching Gifts Youth Dynamics $18,100 GE Foundation Matching Gifts YWCA of Schenectady $11,131 GE Foundation U.S. Education Jackie Robinson Foundation, Inc. 150,000 GE Foundation United Way Barrington Area United Way 15,606 GE Foundation United Way Fondos Unidos De Puerto Rico, Inc. 14,937 GE Foundation United Way Foothills United Way 20,634 GE Foundation United Way Greater Twin Cities United Way 16,286 GE Foundation United Way Heart of West Michigan United Way 35,839 GE Foundation United Way Henderson County United Way, Inc. 36,081 GE Foundation United Way Metro United Way, Inc. 52,130 GE Foundation United Way The United Way of the Greater Dayton Area $20,840 GE Foundation United Way United Way For Southeastern Michigan $35,105 GE Foundation United Way United Way Hungary $10,000 GE Foundation United Way United Way, Inc. $22,618 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Angelina County $16,346 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Brevard County $15,951 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Bucks County $55,485 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Central Maryland, Inc. $10,957 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Central Oklahoma, Inc. $14,693 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Coastal Fairfield County $209,619 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Dane County, Inc.. $16,057 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Eastern Maine $20,431 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Erie County $230,193 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Florence County, Inc. $13,449 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Atlanta $199,672 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Cincinnati $1,848,675 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Cleveland $91,658 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Houston $78,533 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Kansas City $26,270 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Milwaukee & Waukesha County $402,562 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater Richmond & Petersburg $13,183 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greater St. Louis, Inc. $11,373 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greenville County Incorporated $325,734 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Greenwich $12,500 GE Foundation United Way United Way of King County $31,329 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Massachusetts Bay, Inc. $170,099 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Metropolitan Chicago $53,928 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Metropolitan Dallas, Inc. $17,956 GE Foundation United Way United Way of New York City $17,927 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Northeast Florida, Inc. $28,430 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Northern Nevada And the Sierra $41,869 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Northwest Vermont, Inc. $16,918 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Peel Region $183,296 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Roanoke Valley Inc $11,105 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Rutland County, Inc. $27,740 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Salt Lake $27,590 GE Foundation United Way United Way of San Diego County $11,529 GE Foundation United Way United Way of South Texas $17,110 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Tarrant County $13,104 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the Bay Area $25,641 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the Cape Fear Area $130,181 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the Coalfield, Inc. $17,620 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the Greater Capital Region, Inc. $345,667 GE Foundation United Way United Way of the National Capital Area $29,452 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Tri-County, Inc. $18,838 GE Foundation United Way United Way of West Central Connecticut $15,492 GE Foundation United Way United Way of Western Connecticut (Stamford) $68,759 GE Foundation United Way United Way-Thomas Jefferson Area $11,211 © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33850 4/2018 2017 GE Company Contributions above $10,000 Source Category Organization Name Contribution Amount General Electric Company Contribution A Better Chance of Westport, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ace Hardware Foundation 100,000 General Electric Company Contribution Agastya International Foundation 11,197 General Electric Company Contribution Airlangga University 12,333 General Electric Company Contribution Airlink, Inc. 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Alliance To Save Energy 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Alzheimers Association of Greater Cincinnati 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution AmCham 12,502 General Electric Company Contribution American Cancer Society 20,700 General Electric Company Contribution American Diabetes Association, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution American Football Coaches Foundation 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution American Heart Association 105,300 General Electric Company Contribution American National Red Cross 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution American University of Beirut 60,000 General Electric Company Contribution Angel Flight 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ansara Family Foundations, Inc. 13,538 General Electric Company Contribution Answer Als 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Arab Air Carriers Organization 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution Are You Dense, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Assist International 1,112,291 General Electric Company Contribution Associacao Pestalozzi De Niteroi 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Auburn University Foundation 243,100 General Electric Company Contribution Austin's House 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Autism Speaks 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Big Brothers Big Sisters of Metropolitan Chicago 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Big Brothers Big Sisters of Metropolitan Milwaukee 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Boston Childrens Museum 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Boulder Crest Retreat Foundation 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Boy Scouts of America 25,500 General Electric Company Contribution Boys & Girls Clubs of Boston 13,125 General Electric Company Contribution Boys And Girls Club of Western Nevada 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Bridgeport Rescue Mission 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Bright Kids Foundation 346,153 General Electric Company Contribution Buildon, Inc. 226,400 General Electric Company Contribution C D Howe Institute 39,202 General Electric Company Contribution Camp Harborview Foundation, Inc. 35,000 General Electric Company Contribution Cardinal Cushing Centers, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Caritas Diocesana De Lleida 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Carnegie Endowment For International Peace 150,000 General Electric Company Contribution Carver Foundation of Norwalk, Inc. 98,000 General Electric Company Contribution Case Western Reserve University 181,439 General Electric Company Contribution Catholic Charities of Fairfield County, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Catholic Schools Foundation, Inc. 100,000 General Electric Company Contribution Centro Comunitario Santa Fe 41,882 General Electric Company Contribution Chattanooga Goodwill Industries, Inc. 104,613 General Electric Company Contribution Child Guidance Center of Southern Connecticut 45,000 General Electric Company Contribution Children S Home Chambliss Shelter 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Children's Trust, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Cincinnati Center City Development Corporation 200,000 General Electric Company Contribution Cincinnati City School District 200,000 General Electric Company Contribution Cincinnati Institute of Fine Arts 100,000 General Electric Company Contribution City of Norwalk 40,000 General Electric Company Contribution Cleveland Clinic Foundation 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Cleveland State University 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Columbia University 24,000 General Electric Company Contribution Commonwealth Care Alliance, Inc. 14,000 General Electric Company Contribution Community Foundation of Lorain County 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Council On Competitiveness 46,093 General Electric Company Contribution Covenant House Texas 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Crayons To Computers, Inc. 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Cuyahoga Community College Foundation 16,333 General Electric Company Contribution Cystic Fibrosis Foundation 14,000 General Electric Company Contribution Denver Health And Hospital Foundation 12,000 General Electric Company Contribution Dimock Community Foundation, Inc. 20,200 General Electric Company Contribution Divine Child Seva Kendra 16,164 General Electric Company Contribution Domestic Security Partnership 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Domus Foundation 35,000 General Electric Company Contribution Downtown Cleveland Alliance 18,500 General Electric Company Contribution Dr Gertrude A Barber Foundation, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Edison Universe 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Erie City Mission 42,500 General Electric Company Contribution Erie Community Foundation 100,000 General Electric Company Contribution European Brain Council 21,285 General Electric Company Contribution Facing History And Ourselves National Foundation 35,000 General Electric Company Contribution Fairfield University 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Family Centers, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution FERF 12,000 General Electric Company Contribution First 20,400 General Electric Company Contribution Florida State University Panama City 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Fondation Paristech 25,568 General Electric Company Contribution Fondation Partenariale Grenoble Inp 141,199 General Electric Company Contribution Food Bank of Lower Fairfield County 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution For Inspiration And Recognition of Science And Technology First 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Foundation Fighting Blindness 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Foundation For Educational Development, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Foundation For Smfm 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Foundation of Leadership And Educational Development 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution FRC First Robotics 19,800 General Electric Company Contribution Friends of MC2STEM High School 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Friends of the American School In Dubai 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Fundación Gil Gayarre 72,247 General Electric Company Contribution Fundacion Mi Parque 25,716 General Electric Company Contribution Furniture Bank of Central Ohio 176,192 General Electric Company Contribution Gary Sinise Charitable Foundation 35,876 General Electric Company Contribution Geisinger Health System 12,000 General Electric Company Contribution Genesys Works 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Girls Incorporated of the Greater Capital District 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Girls Who Code, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Gorail 35,000 General Electric Company Contribution Grameen America, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Great Barrier Reef Foundation 12,239 General Electric Company Contribution Greater Houston Healthconnect 80,000 General Electric Company Contribution Greenville Tech Foundation, Inc. 100,000 General Electric Company Contribution Habitat For Humanity of Coastal Fairfield County 41,000 General Electric Company Contribution Hartley House 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Heart To Heart International Childrens Medical Alliance 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution HelpAge India 31,966 General Electric Company Contribution Henry Ford Hospital 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Hispanic Professionals Greater Milwaukee 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Hispanic Scholarship Fund 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Hope For Haiti, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Independence Bowl Foundation 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution India Cultural Center of Greenwich, Inc. 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Inspirica, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution International Fetal Medicine And Surgery Society Foundation 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution Iowa State University Foundation 243,100 General Electric Company Contribution JA Europe 14,521 General Electric Company Contribution Jackie Robinson Foundation, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution James D St Clair Court Education Public Education Project 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution JDRF International 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Jobs For America's Graduates 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution John F Kennedy Center For the Performaing Arts 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution John F. Kennedy Library Foundation 250,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement 45,120 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement Argentina 16,666 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement of Southwest Connecticut 11,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement of OKI Partners, Inc. 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement of Southwest Connecticut 44,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement of the Chisholm Trail, Inc. 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Junior Achievement of the Upper Midwest 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Kaunas Radiologist Association 12,927 General Electric Company Contribution Kilowatts For Humanity 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals 231,977 General Electric Company Contribution L Association Heure Joyeuse 20,265 General Electric Company Contribution La Comunidad Hispana 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Lakeland College Foundation, Inc. 11,850 General Electric Company Contribution Legal Aid Society of Cincinnati 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Legal Prep Charter Academies 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution LeguoVillage Committee 17,977 General Electric Company Contribution Let There Be Mom, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution LGBT Youth Out Loud 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Lithuania Radiologist Association 10,381 General Electric Company Contribution Lourenco Amadeu Orphanage 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution Make A Wish Foundation of Ct, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Make A Wish Foundation of Wisconsin, Inc. 10,500 General Electric Company Contribution Makobo Plataforma 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution March of Dimes 81,500 General Electric Company Contribution March of Dimes Foundation 52,922 General Electric Company Contribution Massachusetts Institute of Technology 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Massachusetts League of Community Health Centers, Inc. 47,721 General Electric Company Contribution Metropolitan Chicago Breast Cancer Task Force 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Milwaukee Institute of Art And Design 26,000 General Electric Company Contribution Milwaukee Urban League, Inc. 21,000 General Electric Company Contribution Minorities In Mathematics, Science And Engineering 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution More Than Words, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Muscular Dystrophy Association 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Museum of Science 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Music Haven Concert Series 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Academy Foundation 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Academy of Sciences 110,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Center For APEC 150,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Council On U.S.-Arab Relation, Arab Forum For Envir And Dev Afed 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Multiple Sclerosis Society 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Organisation For Disorders of the Corpus 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Park Foundation 69,670 General Electric Company Contribution National School of Energy, Water And Environment 128,200 General Electric Company Contribution National University of Laos 70,000 General Electric Company Contribution National Women's Law Center 75,000 General Electric Company Contribution NEHI, Inc. 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution New York Law School 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution North Carolina State University Foundation, Inc. 243,100 General Electric Company Contribution Northeastern University 47,600 General Electric Company Contribution Norwalk Community College Foundation 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution Norwalk Education Foundation 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Norwalk Grassroots Tennis, Inc. 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Norwalk Housing Foundation 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Önkéntes Központ Alapítvány 17,789 General Electric Company Contribution Orphan Welfare Society 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Our Family Foundation, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Partnership With Children, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Person To Person 25,500 General Electric Company Contribution Pratham Education Foundation 71,732 General Electric Company Contribution President-Board of Trustees of Santa Clara College 300,000 General Electric Company Contribution Prime Ministers National Relief Fund 155,193 General Electric Company Contribution Pro Bono Partnership of Ohio 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Protec 51,592 General Electric Company Contribution Protec Programme For Technologicl Careers 57,497 General Electric Company Contribution Randstad Foundation 74,801 General Electric Company Contribution Regional Food Bank of NENY 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 55,061 General Electric Company Contribution Right To Dream 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Rite Aid Foundation 26,972 General Electric Company Contribution Robert W Woodruff Arts Center, Inc. 65,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ronald Mcdonald House of New York, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation 1,000,000 General Electric Company Contribution Save the Children Federation, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Schenectady City School District Educational Foundation, Inc. 250,000 General Electric Company Contribution Schenectady Museum Association 14,666 General Electric Company Contribution Scholar Athletes, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Second Harvest Foodbank of Southern Wisconsin 22,500 General Electric Company Contribution Service Year , Inc. 291,000 General Electric Company Contribution Sfr Société Française De Radiologie 71,557 General Electric Company Contribution Shanghai Adream Foundation 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Shannon Community Development 94,602 General Electric Company Contribution Shelterbox Trust 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Shining Hope For Communities 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Smithsonian Institute 1,072,000 General Electric Company Contribution Somerset Community College Foundation 15,550 General Electric Company Contribution South End Community Health Center 22,600 General Electric Company Contribution Special Olympics Connecticut, Inc. 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution St Joseph Mercy Oakland Foundation 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stamford Hospital Foundation, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stanford University 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stardust Non-Profit Building Supplies, Inc. 107,305 General Electric Company Contribution Stem Forward, Inc. 20,250 General Electric Company Contribution Stepping Stones Museum For Children, Inc. 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution Stop Hunger Now 14,532 General Electric Company Contribution Susan G Komen Breast Cancer Foundation 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution Swayam Shikshan Prayog 29,393 General Electric Company Contribution Tabitha Usa, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Teach For America 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution Team Neo Foundation 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Team Rubicon Global 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Texas Medical Center 42,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Advertising Council, Inc. 650,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Akshaya Patra Foundation 31,187 General Electric Company Contribution The Aspen Institute 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Boston Foundation 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Breast Cancer Research Foundation 75,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Center Serving Persons With Mental Retardation 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Home Depot Foundation 65,500 General Electric Company Contribution The Lady Fatemah Charitable Trust 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society 11,175 General Electric Company Contribution The Ohio State University Foundation 243,100 General Electric Company Contribution The Partnership For New York City, Inc. 30,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Peoples Kitchen 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution The Queen Elizabeth II September 11th Garden, Inc. 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution The United For Kids Foundation 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution The Women's Home 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Town of Newtown Connecticut 2,275,000 General Electric Company Contribution Tri State Warbird Museum 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Trustees of Boston University 243,100 General Electric Company Contribution Trustees of the Public Library of the City of Boston 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution UC San Diego Foundation 12,500 General Electric Company Contribution UJA Federation of New York, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Um Teto Para Meu Pais 25,843 General Electric Company Contribution Union of Concerned Scientists 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Nations Foundation 75,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Negro College Fund 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way 37,906 General Electric Company Contribution United Way of Bengaluru 545,416 General Electric Company Contribution United Way of Erie County 60,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way of Greater Cincinnati 435,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way of Greater Milwaukee 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way of Metropolitan Chicago 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution United Way of Palm Beach County, Inc. 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Universidade Eduardo Mondlane 131,533 General Electric Company Contribution University of Alabama At Birmingham 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of California San Francisco 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Cincinnati Foundation 243,100 General Electric Company Contribution University of New South Wales 243,100 General Electric Company Contribution University of North Florida 20,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Utah 12,000 General Electric Company Contribution University of Washington 14,419 General Electric Company Contribution US Chamber of Commerce Foundation 182,500 General Electric Company Contribution US Foundation For Inspiration And Recognition of Science & Technology 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution US Naval Academy Foundation 243,100 General Electric Company Contribution Usagainstalzheimer's 100,000 General Electric Company Contribution US-ASEAN Business Council, Inc. 50,000 General Electric Company Contribution Usher's New Look 60,318 General Electric Company Contribution Vibha 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Vief 270111Planete Urgence 23,149 General Electric Company Contribution Wakeman Memorial Association 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Wellesley College 25,000 General Electric Company Contribution Wentworth Institute of Technology 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution West Michigan Aviation Academy 27,162 General Electric Company Contribution William Marsh Rice University 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution World Affairs Council of Houston 15,000 General Electric Company Contribution World Business Chicago 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Xavier University 505,000 General Electric Company Contribution Yangmuzhazi Village (Manchu Autonomous County, Chende City) 24,654 General Electric Company Contribution YMCA-Stamford 10,000 General Electric Company Contribution Zoo Atlanta 10,000 © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33849 4/2018 Matching Gifts Updated February 2018 In 1954, the GE Foundation created the concept of a corporate matching gift program to support employees in their personal philanthropy and charitable giving by providing a one-to-one (1:1) monetary match. Since then, many companies have started similar programs. Today, the GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts Program continues to serve as an 2017 important element of the Foundation’s portfolio, with gifts matched in 2017 totaling more $36M than $36 million. $1 39 74 5,0 73,6 , Visit the GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts website—managed by CyberGrants, Inc.—to learn more. GE Participants Non-Profit Participants (total Employee and GE Foundation matching gifts since inception) GE employees and US retirees: Charitable recipients: Log in to verify gifts Log in with your SSO ID and password and update your contact information. Customer Support to register gifts, view your activity, and For Matching Gifts customer support, search for eligible organizations. Non-profit participants click here to log in. call or email: UK charities click here to log in. T (800) 305-0669 E gesupport@cybergrants.com Click here to log in. Global charities click here to log in. For More Information For more information on the Matching Attention GE Retirees (US) Gifts program, please visit the FAQ’s or If you need to create an online SSO ID and password, go to the GE Benefits website. download the On the Benefits login page, you will see a link for first-time users to set up an full Guidelines. account. Once you have established your account, you can log in as described in the “GE Participants” section above. The GE Foundation uses CyberGrants, Inc., to process matching gifts. Limited www.ge.com/sustainability information is provided to CyberGrants to enable verification of your eligibility to sustainability@ge.com participate in the program. For active employees: GE-provided SSO ID, name, GE business, work email and work location (city/state/country). For US retirees: GE-provided SSO ID, name, and location (city/state/country). © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33663 2/2018 GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts Program Guidelines Updated February 2018 Overview In 1954, the GE Foundation created the concept of a corporate matching gift program Matching Gifts to support employees in their personal philanthropy and charitable giving by providing Through the Matching Gifts Program, a one-to-one (1:1) monetary match. Since then, many companies have started similar the GE Foundation provides one-toprograms. Today, the GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts Program continues to serve as an one matching for personal, charitable important element of the Foundation’s portfolio. donations made by GE employees. GE Participant Eligibility Eligible participants are limited to: • Eligible GE participants can 1. Employees of GE or a majority-owned affiliate on the date(s) the gift was made and match up to USD$5,000 each registered. A valid GE-issued SSO ID is required to register a gift for matching. calendar year. 2. Retirees US who retired directly from GE on or before December 31, 2017. GE retiree status must be current on the date(s) the gift was made and registered. A valid • After making the donation GE-issued SSO ID is required to register a gift. directly, GE donors then may Note: A  surviving spouse of an eligible GE retiree may participate if he or she register the gift at: www. attained such on or before December 31, 2014. A valid GE-issued SSO ID is gefoundation.com/matchinggifts. required to register a gift. 3. Current directors of GE and directors emeriti who retired on or before www.ge.com/sustainability December 31, 2017. sustainability@ge.com Charitable Organization Eligibility Eligible charitable organizations must be one of the following (excluding noted “Ineligible Recipient Organizations”): 1. US Charitable Organizations that are: (a) Recognized by and registered with the United States I.R.S. as a 501(c)(3) charitable organization; or (b) Accredited Public PreK-12 Schools or School Districts in the US to which contributions are tax deductible under the Internal Revenue Code of the United States; or (c) Accredited Public or Non-Profit Colleges and Universities in the US to which contributions are tax deductible under the Internal Revenue Code of the United States. 2. Charitable organizations in countries outside the US that are: (a) Recognized by and registered with the United Kingdom Charity Commission as a charitable organization; or (b) Recognized by Charities Aid Foundation-America as a charitable organization Note: All organizations must be approved by the GE Foundation and must confirm compliance with program criteria in order to participate. GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts Program Guidelines Ineligible recipient organizations 6. Organizations that do not comply 2. Charitable contributions for religious include, but are not limited to, the with the USA Patriot Act (or other purposes or supporting religious following (please note that this list is applicable anti-terrorism rules/laws). activities, commitments, and/or representative of frequent questions and programs (such as “Bishop’s Appeal” may be expanded or amended by the GE Gift Eligibility or equivalent), service attendance/ Foundation): Annual Maximum collection basket, and so on. 1. United Ways (such as United Way Each eligible GE participant has an 3. Contributions, or portions thereof, that of Metropolitan Atlanta, United Way annual matching maximum of USD$5,000 are required and/or are not considered of King County, and so on) or GE (or equivalent) in each calendar year. charitable or tax-deductible (such as employee-led charities (e.g. Good event registration, ticket purchases, Neighbor Fund, Employee Community Eligible Gifts admission fees/“pay to play,” auction Fund, Community Service Fund, and Gifts eligible to be matched by the GE item value, and so on). Note that any so on). These are supported through a Foundation must meet the following non-deductible portion should be separate program. requirements: declared by the GE donor and/or the 2. Political organizations (partisan 1. Gifts must be a tax-deductible, recipient charity during the registration organizations or those supporting charitable contribution of USD$25 and confirmation processes. specific candidates or legislation). (or equivalent) or more. 4. Contributions that directly or indirectly 3. Religious organizations (churches, 2. Gifts must be current contributions benefit the donor, his/her family, or synagogues, mosques and other made directly by the GE donor to other person designated by the donor houses of worship), or other the eligible organization from the GE such as: organizations primarily promoting donor’s own assets. Donors may not (a) Tuition or other student expenses religious purposes. Other faith-based register funds collected from others. (including books, services, fees, T&L community service organizations or 3. Gifts must be made/donated, not for volunteer trips, and so on). schools may be considered eligible if merely pledged. A matching gift cannot (b) Individual, family or group their programs: be used to satisfy a personal pledge membership fees/dues, including (a) are open to all individuals in the (for instance, a pledge of $2,000 alumni dues and subscription fees. community regardless of religious cannot be satisfied by $1,000 from (c) Donations to a university/college belief; the donor and $1,000 from the GE athletic association that allows (b) serve a secular purpose, such as Foundation match). the donor to purchase tickets to a food pantry, homeless shelter, or 4. Gifts may be made via cash, check, sporting event. education; debit/credit card or stock. Gifts may 5. “Group gifts.” Each GE donor must (c) do not require participation in also be made by current payment from register his/her own contribution for prayer, worship, or other religious an entity such as a personal foundation matching (for example, donors cannot activities as a condition of receiving or donor advised fund if that entity has register donations from others and service(s) offered; and been funded solely by the eligible GE claim them as their own). (d) d o not use the individual donation participant (note that gifts made to 6. Charitable contributions supporting or resulting match for religious such an entity cannot be matched). political purposes, influencing purposes. 5. Gifts made within the calendar year legislation, or electing candidates. 4. Donor-advised funds, private must be registered by the donor by 7. Bequests, insurance premiums, or foundations, personal trusts. the following April 15. The recipient contributions made through entities 5. Organizations that do not comply organization must confirm receipt of such as charitable remainder or lead with GE’s non-discrimination policy a gift within 12 months of the donor trusts or charitable gift annuities. (for example, organizations that registering the gift. 8. Real estate, in-kind, or non-monetary discriminate on the basis of a person’s contributions (such as services, race, color, religion, national or ethnic Ineligible Gifts materials, supplies, and so on). origin, sex (including pregnancy), The GE Foundation will not match the sexual orientation, gender identity following: or expression, age, disability, veteran 1. Charitable contributions made as status or other characteristic(s) part of a United Way Giving Campaign protected by law). and/or made via payroll deduction (annual Giving Campaigns are supported separately). GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts Program Guidelines The GE Foundation reserves the right to Gift Confirmation examine and exclude organizations, gifts, The GE Foundation’s gift confirmation Administrative Conditions and participants as it deems appropriate. process is as follows: The GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts 1. The recipient organization must log in Program is not part of the GE employee/ Gift Matching Process and confirm receipt of a gift within 12 retiree benefits program, but rather is Note that the GE donor first should make months of the donor registering the offered as a public service by the GE the donation directly to charity. The gift (the organization may take this Foundation, the charitable foundation Matching Gifts system is for registration and step as soon as the gift is registered). established by GE. This program is not to be reporting only, not for making donations. Confirmation takes places within the construed as creating a balance due from, Matching Gifts website. Note that or legal obligation by, the GE Foundation. If Gift Registration the recipient organization also must any matching activity is found at any time to Register your gift with the GE foundation confirm compliance with eligibility have been generated by or for an ineligible as follows: criteria and program guidelines. person, donation, or organization, the GE 1. After first making your donation directly 2. Once confirmed by the organization Foundation reserves the right to request to the charity, go to the GE Foundation’s and subsequently approved by the GE return of the funds. The GE Foundation Matching Gifts website (www. Foundation, a gift will be recorded as determines all aspects of the program gefoundation.com/matchinggifts) eligible and matched. including participant, gift and recipient (a) Each GE Donor may only register eligibility, and may amend or terminate the his or her personal donations (for Matching Payment Distribution program at any time. instance, no “group registrations”). The GE Foundation makes matching gift Registering donations made by or payments as follows: Questions may be directed to the collected from others is prohibited. 1. Gift checks are sent directly to the Matching Gifts Customer Support Center (b) Gifts made within the calendar recipient organization. at 1-800-305-0669 or by email to year must be registered by the 2. Payments are made on a quarterly gesupport@cybergrants.com. donor by the following April 15. basis unless otherwise noted (the 2. Click “GE Participants” to log in using schedule is available on the Matching your GE-issued SSO I.D. and password. Gifts website). For charities outside You will need to select the appropriate the US.: the match will be paid to recipient organization and enter details the recipient charity through our such as the amount, type, and date of administrative partner, Charities Aid your gift. Foundation (CAF) and therefore may Note: If your donation was made take slightly longer. Also, because for a specific purpose (such there is an additional cost, there is a as a particular program, minimum threshold: payments will department, project, and so be made once a charity has reached on) you may indicate that when a cumulative total of $250 from all you register for matching. employee activity (if the cumulative Please note, however, that payment to a charity is less than $250, the GE Foundation’s matching the payment will be held until that payments are unrestricted. amount is reached). To inquire or ensure how the match is used, you may follow up directly with the charitable organization. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33651 2/2018 GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts FAQs Updated February 2018 What is the Matching Gift Program? The GE Foundation provides a one-to-one (1:1) monetary match for personal, charitable donations made by GE employees. For example, if an employee donates 1 1 $50 to a charity and it is approved for matching, the GE Foundation then provides that charity with an additional $50. The GE Foundation created the concept in -to1954, and since then many companies have begun similar programs. In 2015 the Matching Gifts program expanded to include approved charitable organizations in approximately 75 countries, in addition to the United States and United Kingdom. • The GE Foundation has been How Does the Program Work? matching employee charitable Step 1. Donation: gifts since 1954. GE employees first should make their donation directly to the charity. The Matching Gifts website is for matching registration only. It is not where the donation is made. • Through the Matching Gifts program, the GE Foundation may Step 2. Registration: provide one-to-one matches Once the donation is made, log into the Matching Gifts site at www.gefoundation. for eligible charitable donations com/matchinggifts (in the “GE Participants” section, click to log in using your GEmade by GE employees. assigned SSO ID and password). Once on the website, the charity search will default to the work country that is on record for you in the OracleHR system; however, if you • All GE employees are eligible. gave to a charity in another country you can search for that as well. Once you find Donations can be registered the charity, select it and enter your donation details (such as the date you donated, at: www.gefoundation.com/ the amount donated, and so on). Then review and submit! You may only register matchinggifts. donations that you personally made using your own funds. • Charitable organizations outside Step 3. Confirmation: the US are eligible to participate. Once you have registered for a match, the charity must confirm receipt of your donation before it will be eligible for matching (charities complete this step from the same Matching Gifts website). The GE Foundation periodically will contact charities www.ge.com/sustainability with gifts to confirm as a courtesy, but employees also are encouraged to let the charity know about this requirement. It is better to over-communicate to ensure the sustainability@ge.com best chance of success! Once charities are set up to log in, they can do so at any time and do not need to wait to hear from the GE Foundation. Step 4. Review and Payment: Once confirmed by the charity, the GE Foundation will review the gift and the charity for eligibility. If approved, the match should be included in the subsequent quarterly payment batch (payment dates are available on the Matching Gifts website for both donors and charities). GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts FAQs Employee Guidelines CAN I COLLECT MONEY FROM OTHERS Registration Guidelines AND REGISTER IT FOR MATCHING? WHO IS ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE? No, you may only register donations you HOW DO I REGISTER A DONATION FOR All GE employees are eligible. In addition, personally made using your own funds. You MATCHING? the following are eligible: may not collect money from others and After making your donation directly 1. Retirees (US) who retired directly from register it as your own. Other GE employees to a charity, log in to the Matching GE on or before December 31, 2017. are welcome to register their own donations Gifts website (www.gefoundation.com/ GE retiree status must be current on for matching as well. For example, if you matchinggifts). In the “GE Participants” the date(s) the gift was made and run in a race for a charity and have collected section, click to log in using your GEregistered. donations, you may only register your own issued SSO ID and password. Once on a. A surviving spouse of an eligible donation for matching, not those collected the Matching Gifts site, search for your GE retiree may participate if he or from others. charity and then register the details. she has attained such status as of Remember you can only register what December 31, 2014. IS MY AUCTION PAYMENT, you personally gave (you may not 2. Current directors of GE and directors ATTENDANCE FEE, OR OTHER include donations from others). emeriti who retired on or before SIMILAR FEE ELIGIBLE? December 31, 2017. If your donation was required in order to IS THERE A DEADLINE TO REGISTER participate or enter then it is not eligible. FOR MATCHING? Note: A valid GE-issued ID is required to log Also, if you made a donation and received Yes, donations made in a particular in and register a gift for matching. something in return, the value of that calendar year must be registered by April item is not eligible. You will have the 15 of the following year. CAN MY FRIENDS AND FAMILY opportunity to declare the value when you PARTICIPATE? register for matching. The charity will have Charity Guidelines The Matching Gifts Program is for GE donors the opportunity to do the same when it and Eligibility only. You may register donations you made confirms receipt of your donation. Here are WHICH CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS personally using your own funds, but not some examples: ARE ELIGIBLE TO PARTICIPATE? funds collected from others. You may want – Auction: If you paid $500 for an item There are many choices, including health to suggest that friends and family check worth $300, only the difference ($200) and human service, civic and community, with their own employer(s) to see if there is is considered charitable and eligible for education, and more. You may review a similar program available to them. Other matching. the guidelines at www.gefoundation. GE employees are welcome to register their – College Athletics: If you donated $1,000 to com/matchinggifts. In order to search own donations for matching as well. your college or university for athletics and the Matching Gifts system, you first must receive benefits (such as tickets) you must log in (click the “GE Participants” button). I AM A GE EMPLOYEE LOCATED OUTSIDE declare the value of the benefit or item Once logged in, the search will default THE US; CAN I STILL PARTICIPATE? when registering for matching, because to the work country that is on record for Yes, all GE employees can participate that portion is not eligible. you in the OracleHR system; however, if regardless of location. A valid GE-issued SSO Usually the tax receipt provided by the you gave to a charity in another country ID is required to log in/register for matching. charitable organization will outline you can search for that as well. the difference for you. If you have any Donation Guidelines questions, please contact the charity or your CAN I DONATE TO MY CHURCH, IS THERE A MINIMUM OR MAXIMUM tax advisor. SCHOOL, ETC.? DONATION AMOUNT? Houses of worship are not eligible, but Yes, a donation must be a minimum of ARE ALL CURRENCIES ELIGIBLE some schools may be. Please refer to USD$25 (or equivalent). In addition, each FOR MATCHING? the guidelines for eligibility criteria (www. eligible GE participant has an annual Donations should be made directly to the gefoundation.com/matchinggifts). matching maximum of USD$5,000 (or charity using any currency accepted by equivalent) in each calendar year. the charity. When registering for a match to a non-US charity on the Matching Gifts website, you can indicate what currency was used, and the sytem will convert the amount to US dollars for matching purposes. 2 GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts FAQs HOW DO I KNOW IF MY do not know the ID, contact the charity to Adding/Suggesting CHARITY QUALIFIES? get it or try searching the IRS website (http:// A New Charity First, search for the charity in the Matching www.irs.gov/Charities-&-Non-Profits/ Gifts system; if there is a “select” link next to Exempt-Organizations-Select-Check). If US Charities it, go ahead and register your donation for the organization still does not appear in First search for the charity on the Matching matching. Charities can be selected as long our system, it may not be listed on the IRS Gifts site. When you log in you will see a as they meet some basic tax status criteria. electronic database. You may call the IRS search box on your home page (the site Please note, however, that all organizations Call Center at (877) 829-5500 and request defaults to your work country on record, and gifts are reviewed on an ongoing basis that it be added to and included in the next but if you donated to a charity in another to determine compliance with guidelines update of the electronic database. country you can easily do that as well). and eligibility for matching. In other words, Look for your charity in the search results. inclusion in the system is not necessarily UK Charities If you see a “select” link next to it, click a guarantee of eligibility. All organizations You must enter at least a partial that to begin registering your donation must confirm compliance with program organization name to perform a search for matching. If you see “nominate” next criteria to access the Matching Gifts system (you also have the ability to perform an to it, that means it meets basic IRS tax and participate in the program. Advanced Search if you would like to use qualifications but has never participated in the Charity Commission Number). If you our program. Click the “nominate” link to fill I HAVE HAD PREVIOUS DONATIONS are unable to find a particular charity, you out some brief information; once we add it MATCHED, BUT NOW THE may be entering too much information to the program, you will be notified that it’s ORGANIZATION ISN’T ELIGIBLE. HOW into the search engine or that the search ready for you to register your donation. This IS THAT POSSIBLE? is too specific (for example, if you are using process usually takes just a few days, but Occasionally, an organization may lose its an acronym, try searching using the full we do ask the charity first to acknowledge tax status eligibility due to a penalty, an name). You are basically searching the full it wishes to participate. Until it accepts, we oversight, or an error on the IRS electronic UK Charity Commission database, so the cannot move ahead, so you may want to let database (US) or Charity Commission most accurate way to search for a particular it know to respond quickly to our email. database (UK). The nonprofit should contact organization is to enter the UK Charity the appropriate resource to inquire and Commission ID. If you do not know the ID, UK Charities resolve the situation. Please note that the contact the charity to get it or try searching First search for the charity on the Matching GE Foundation also reviews each gift and the UK Charity Commission website Gifts site. After you log in you will see a charity prior to making a matching payment, (http://www.charity-commission.gov.uk/). search box on your home page (the site so it’s possible the charity is no longer If the organization still does not appear defaults to your work country on record, compliant with the program guidelines. in our system, it may not be listed. You but if you donated to a charity in another may contact the Charity Commission and country you can easily do that as well). Look for your charity in the search results. Charities – How To Search request that it be added to and included in If you see “select” next to it, go ahead and For A Charity In The System the next update of the electronic database. register your donation for matching. If US Charities ALL OTHER COUNTRIES – Charities the organization does not appear in our You must enter at least a partial outside the US or UK system, it may not be listed with the organization name, as well as the state in You must enter at least a partial Charity Commission (http://www.charitywhich it is located (you also have the ability organization name to perform a search commission.gov.uk/). You may contact the to perform an Advanced Search using Tax (the search engine defaults to your work commission and request that it be added ID/EIN, and so on). If you are unable to find country on record in OracleHR, but if you to and included in the next update of the a particular charity, you may be entering too donated to a charity in another country you electronic database. much information into the search engine or can easily search for that as well). If you that the search is too specific (for example, are unable to find a charity, it may not have if you are using an acronym, try searching been reviewed yet (it first must be reviewed using the full name). You are basically by the GE Foundation’s administrative searching the full IRS database, so the most partner, Charities Aid Foundation). If it is not accurate way to search for a particular yet listed, you may suggest that the charity organization is to enter the US Tax ID. If you contact CAF to start this process (see the following section for details). 3 GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts FAQs ALL OTHER COUNTRIES – Charities HOW ARE MATCHING PAYMENTS MADE I AM HAVING TROUBLE WITH MY outside the US or UK TO CHARITIES OUTSIDE THE US? SSO ACCOUNT. CAN THE MATCHING First search for the charity on the Matching The GE Foundation’s match will be paid GIFTS TEAM HELP ME? Gifts site. After you log in you will see a directly to the recipient charity through GE’s SSO accounts are managed by the search box on your home page (the site our administrative partner, Charities Aid Company, so unfortunately the answer is defaults to your work country on record, Foundation (CAF). Payments are made on a no. The GE Foundation’s Matching Gifts but if you donated to a charity in another quarterly basis (please note: because there program simply uses SSO credentials for country you can easily do that as well). is an additional cost to make payments log-in just like any other GE site. For SSO Charities outside the US are managed by outside the United States, there is a account issues, employees should contact our administrative partner, Charities Aid minimum threshold; payments will be made their local help desk or HR manager. US Foundation (CAF); if you don’t see yours once a charity has reached a cumulative retirees may contact Pension Services. listed, you may suggest that the charity total of $250 from all employee activity). Once the account issue is resolved, you contact CAF directly to be reviewed. Simply should have no trouble logging into the refer it to the CAF site for details (www. GE Single Sign-On Matching Gifts site. cafamerica.org/services/foreign-charitable(SSO) Questions organizations/). Please note that the charity WHAT IS SSO? Customer Support may need to pay a fee to be reviewed. Once GE issues Single Sign-On (SSO) IDs as part For Matching Gifts customer support, CAF reviews and approves the charity, it of a companywide security and navigation email gesupport@cybergrants.com or call will soon after be available for selection on feature designed to allow users to securely (800) 305-0669. our Matching Gifts site. In addition, it will sign on and move between GE websites. be eligible to receive donations from other Every GE employee is given an SSO ID. This US donors (individuals or corporations) applies to US retirees as well. who would like to make a tax-deductible Note to US retirees: The easiest way to donation to that charity through CAF. register for an SSO account is to do so from Please keep in mind that these charities will the GE Benefits website. Once you have still need to comply with GE Foundation’s established your SSO ID and password, guidelines, so inclusion in the list is not a please go to the Matching Gifts page to log guarantee of eligibility for our program. in using your newly established SSO ID and password. Matching Payments WHEN WILL THE CHARITY RECEIVE I HAVE AN SSO ID. THE MATCHING PAYMENT? WHY CAN’T I PARTICIPATE? The charity first must confirm receipt of a Not everyone who has an SSO ID is eligible donation on the GE Foundation’s Matching for the program. Please see the participant Gifts system before it can be matched. eligibility criteria for further details. If you Payments are made quarterly, so once are a new employee, it may be that your the charity has confirmed the donation, information has not yet been added to the the match should be included in the next eligible population (the update from Oracle quarterly payment batch (please note that HR runs at least twice a month). all gifts and charities will be reviewed for compliance and eligibility prior to payment). The quarterly schedule is posted on the Matching Gifts website. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33661 2/2018 Developing Health Updated February 2018 Developing Health: 2017 Highlights The GE Foundation’s signature programs, Developing Health Globally™ (DHG) and Developing Health U.S. (DH), aim to increase access to quality healthcare in underserved communities • In 2016, the GE around the world. These programs are funded and managed by the GE Foundation in Foundation announced collaboration with national ministries of health, public and private health facilities, NGOs, and academia. a new $15 million commitment addressing Substance Use Disorder and the Opioid Crisis In 2016, the GE Foundation announced a new $15 million commitment to community health the opioid crisis in in Boston and greater Massachusetts, to expand care in behavioral health and addiction Boston and greater medicine with a focus on the opioid crisis. The Developing Health initiatives in Massachusetts focus on expanding access to evidence based treatment through provider capacity building Massachusetts and reskilling, and on driving awareness and advocacy to combat the stigma associated with • $14 million multi-year the disease of substance use disorder. Learn more here. commitment to support Project Echo the broad replication and Access to specialty health care in rural and medically underserved areas around scale of Project ECHO the world is limited. Project ECHO is an innovative model that builds the capacity of and reskills primary care providers to treat more patients with chronic, complex • $25 million conditions, exponentially expanding access to care. Through a $14 million, multi-year commitment over commitment, the GE Foundation as the largest funder of Project ECHO, is supporting global replication and scale of this innovation. By leveraging technology, primary three years for the Safe care providers are linked with multi-disciplinary teams of specialists who share their Surgery 2020 initiative expertise. As the primary care providers expand their knowledge and skills, they can begin to treat more patients. As a result of GE Foundation’s support, project ECHO globally has grown to over 160 specialty hubs training community providers in 25 countries. Safe Surgery 2020 The GE Foundation is committed to leading a multi-sector effort to improve surgical www.ge.com/sustainability capacity and training with its Safe Surgery 2020 initiative. Access to safe, affordable sustainability@ge.com surgical and anesthetic care is a pressing issue in global health. There are currently 5 billion people across the world who lack access to the safe surgical care they need, 90% of whom are in lowand middle-income countries. The initiative is a $25 million commitment over three years that focuses on transforming the accessibility, quality and safety of surgical care in lowand middleincome countries, leading to reductions in maternal and trauma-related mortality and to stronger health systems. Through this initiative, we are also scaling its skills training and social entrepreneurship programs such as surgical leadership training, biomedical Developing Health training and oxygen delivery under the Safe Surgery 2020 system to ensure that every individual – including mothers and umbrella. children – is able to access the surgical care they need quickly, In 2016, Safe Surgery 2020 launched in Ethiopia and safely, and affordably. subsequently in Tanzania in 2017 in partnership with the You can learn more about the initiative and its impact at Federal Ministry of Health (FMOH) as well as local partners www.safesurgery2020.org. from the Surgical Society, local teaching institutions and district hospitals. Our focus has been to help transform the health © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33683 2/2018 Disaster and Humanitarian Relief Highlights Updated February 2018 General Electric’s Disaster and Humanitarian Relief program responds to major global disasters and humanitarian crises, drawing on GE’s people, technology and other resources to reduce suffering and hasten recovery. In 2017, financial contributions in this area totaled more than $2.4 million. Additionally, the GE $2,400,000 Foundation’s Matching Gifts program enabled employees to contribute to crisis relief efforts in their local communities, doubling their impact by matching their donations 1-to-1. Some examples of our work in 2017 include: • To help support Hurricane Harvey relief efforts in Texas and Louisiana, GE donated a total of $1 million, with GE Foundation contributing $500,000 to the American Financial contributions Red Cross and $250,000 each to Americares and the United Way of Houston. in 2017: $2,400,000 • To help with the recovery efforts of the earthquake in Mexico, as well as Hurricanes Maria and Irma, GE Foundation made a $1.15 million contribution, with $500,000 to the American Red Cross and $650,000 to Americares. GE’s contributions • Beyond cash contributions, GE donated $100,000 of medical equipment to supported response, relief Americares to support their medical relief effort in Puerto Rico. and recovery efforts for • GE Foundation also supported the American Red Cross with a $250,000 gift Hurricanes Harvey, Maria to provide relief to people who were displaced by the devastating wild fires in Northern California in October. and Irma; Mexico City earthquake; and Northern GE continues to collaborate with private-sector partners, government agencies and relevant NGOs to help prepare for future disasters and to work on the initiatives California wildfires within the Global Health Security Agenda. GE remains committed to preparing for and responding to future natural disasters GE donated $100,000 and humanitarian crises, diligently maximizing the impact of our financial, in medical equipment to technological and human resources. support Puerto Rico www.ge.com/sustainability sustainability@ge.com © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33650 2/2018 Education & Skills Updated March 2018 For more than 100 years, the GE Foundation has actively supported efforts to create a high-quality education pipeline for all students. Through its signature education and skills initiatives – Developing Futures™ and Developing Skills™ – the • Through its signature GE Foundation seeks to empower all 14 to 24-year-old students to become globally productive citizens by providing access to learning experiences necessary for the education and skills workforce of tomorrow and addressing the anticipated global shortfall of 45 million initiatives – Developing workers in 20201. Futures™ and In 2005, the GE Foundation launched its signature education initiative, Developing Developing Skills™ – the Futures™, a more than $247 million investment to support the equity and quality GE Foundation seeks in K-12 public education in the U.S. Together with our partners, the GE Foundation was able to give more students a solid educational foundation for both college to empower all 14 to and career and the requisite skills to compete successfully in the global economy. 24-year-old students Developing Futures™ assisted educators in 43 states and six countries, saved districts over $20M, trained 110K teachers, reached over 2000 schools, impacted • In April 2016, the GE 1.3M students, and increased student achievement in every district. This district Foundation brought work was scaled regionally and state-wide. Developing Skills™ to Building upon the success of Developing Futures™, the GE Foundation launched its Boston, MA, launching Developing Skills™ platform in 2014. The program seeks to strengthen the economy by narrowing the gap between skills acquisition and the needs of a changing labor Brilliant Boston market where 65% of the jobs of tomorrow do not currently exist2. Developing Skills™ will help equip individuals with the education, skills and training they need to become employable and meet the demands of a changing global marketplace. www.ge.com/sustainability We are committed to building skills to meet critical needs and fill skills gaps domestically and globally. sustainability@ge.com Developing Skills™ launched with a 2014 grant to Delgado Community College to bridge the education and employment gap in New Orleans and fill critical jobs in the New Orleans Sewage and Water Board. In April 2016, the GE Foundation brought Developing Skills™ to Boston, MA, launching Brilliant Boston, to create a Model of Excellence, by providing opportunities for students to become critical thinkers, innovators, creators, problem solvers and leaders while exploring careers and understanding the skills necessary for future jobs. 1 McKinsey Global Institute, 2016 report 2 U.S. Department of Labor, 2013 report Education & Skills Brilliant Boston is working to bridge to bring age-appropriate, hands-on Collectively, these efforts are preparing the gap between education and STEM experiences to Boston and students with the skills to become the industry, classroom and career, and Massachusetts public middle school critical thinkers, problem solvers, and the economy of the future and the students. This collaborative community innovators of the future. skills of today. Through this effort, the initiative focuses on enhancing access GE Foundation has developed the GE to STEM training to encourage young Finally, this comprehensive education Brilliant Career Lab (BCL) – the firstpeople to become more familiar with initiative brings innovative training of-its-kind interactive experience and the field and better preparing them for programs to middle school and high mobile lab that combines experiential innovative jobs in the future. school students. In addition, it aims learning with career-readiness planning to arm teachers with the skills and in high-demand STEM fields. The mobile Also, in 2017 the GE Foundation joined support they need to empower and and virtual (www.brilliantcareerlab.org) forces with GE Power in Schenectady, prepare students for innovative digital BCLs are bringing students and realNY to launch a GE Brilliant Career Lab industrial jobs of the future. world careers together. The BCL has for the city’s public-school district. Both engaged 12 Boston public high schools new BCLs based on the success of the To date, these efforts have reached to date, reaching more than 3,000 GE Foundation Brilliant Career Lab for more than 4,200 students and more students and more than 300 educators, high school students. than 1,125 educators with STEMwith a schedule of engaging an related experiences in Boston alone. additional nine schools in the remainder The Education and Skills initiatives of the 2017-2018 school year. include partnerships with pilot The GE Foundation is committed to schools and non-profits in Boston unlocking endless possibilities for In 2017, the GE Foundation teamed to create exemplary models at the individuals and key industry sectors to up with the National Basketball middle, high school and community make our world a better place. Association champion Boston Celtics to college level and is offering workplace create a BCL for middle school students. learning experiences such as summer The new state-of-the-art Brilliant Career internships and job shadow days Play mobile STEM Lab is designed to Boston high school students. The Brilliant Career Play Lab, a mobile STEM “The GE Brilliant Career Lab will prepare the “The GE Foundation’s professional lab for middle school students launched by students of Boston with the skills to become development experiences have helped me to the GE Foundation and Boston Celtics. the critical thinkers, problem solvers, and improve as a STEM teacher. I have left my innovators of the future.” – Boston student comfort zone behind and I am experimenting Photo credit: Boston Celtics with new ways to make STEM challenging and engaging. I was not aware of the many STEM careers available, but now I am helping my students see the connection between STEM and careers.” – a New York City educator © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33759 4/2018 GE Foundation Substance Use Disorder and the Opioid Crisis Updated February 2018 As part of the $15M commitment to community health, GE Foundation has already invested in several initiatives, such as: • Mass General Hospital and CAMTech: hosted an opioid hack-a-thon with more • GE Foundation than 220 people to listen, learn and brainstorm new ideas. Three ideas have committed $15M to been accelerated We Are Allies, GEMs Box, Mobile MAT (learn more). the opioid crisis in • Partners Healthcare, Boston Medical Center and the MA League of Community Health Centers: launched the SUSTAIN initiative focused ($2.4M over two Boston and greater years) on expanding care in behavioral health and addiction medicine at Massachusetts community health centers to treat more patients, more effectively (learn more). • GE Foundation • Mass General: supporting an addiction medicine fellowship that will expand capacity and support additional training and mentorship at community health centers. initiatives focus • National Medical Fellowships and the Kraft Center: focused on the next on expanding generation of primary care providers, supporting more women and diversity in treatment the field of primary care (learn more). • RIZE Massachusetts: private-sector effort to battle opioid addiction in and increasing the Commonwealth, to support innovative care designed across the care awareness about the continuum from prevention to recovery (learn more). disease of addiction. • MA Attorney General, Maura Healy: providing substance use prevention education ($1.5M over two years) in MA middle schools to prevent tomorrow’s adults from falling into the vicious cycle of the opioid crisis (learn more). • Kraft Center, Mass General Hospital, Boston Health Care for the Homeless: www.ge.com/sustainability launch of CareZONE, a hack-a-thon idea, to use a mobile health van to better sustainability@ge.com engage individuals struggling with addiction and complex conditions with on-demand services (learn more). © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33708 2/2018 GE Volunteers Updated January 2018 GE Volunteers is a global network that includes GE employees, retirees, Affinity Groups, friends and family—“good people doing great things”—all supported by GE businesses. The mission of GE Volunteers is to facilitate and support volunteering activities that GE’s focus on volunteerism improve life and meet critical needs in the communities where GE people live and work around the world. These activities are carried out through a wide range of projects in dates back to 1981. the areas of health, education, the environment and community-building. The GE family partners with external organizations to help solve some of today’s biggest www.ge.com/sustainability challenges in health, education, the environment and community-building. GE is also proud to encourage and support employee and retiree volunteerism throughout its sustainability@ge.com global population. GE’s focus on volunteerism dates back to 1981, and further evolved in 2005 when GE Volunteers was more strategically positioned to encourage broader participation and to support a more significant contribution to our communities. GE Volunteer Councils are a driving force that keeps the spirit of volunteerism alive around the globe. We mobilize large groups of employees for the greater good for initiatives like Global Community Days—days when all employees in one region or area volunteer in their communities—and through Global Month of Service projects. Each of these projects has had a significant impact on the environment, education, community-building or health. For ten consecutive years, GE has been recognized by Junior Achievement with the U.S. President’s Volunteer Service Award. 2016 GE Volunteer Project Highlights Nature in the City Green spaces in major cities not only add beauty to a busy metropolis, they also provide a place for relaxation and even learning. Nature in the City is San Francisco’s first organization dedicated to eco-literacy, restoration and stewardship of the city’s wild places. On November 10, 2016, GE volunteers worked at one of Nature in the City’s most important sites, the Adah’s Stairwell. Volunteers completed a variety of restoration and environmental tasks such as removing invasive plants, planting, moving cobblestones and helping to make this a beautiful space for the community to enjoy. GE Volunteers Singapore – Bright Vision Hospital deeply, I never had the honor of serving Catholic Charities of Boston Bright Vision Hospital is a 317-bed America through military service. As As one of the largest providers of social community hospital with inpatient a token of my appreciation for those services in Massachusetts, Catholic services for subacute, rehabilitative, men and women who have served, I do Charities of Boston offers nearly 90 palliative and long-term care patients. what I can to show them my respect programs and services in 27 locations The hospital is a sanctuary for and appreciation for their service to our around Eastern Massachusetts. From individuals, including low-income great nation. I enjoy Freedom and Liberty housing and food services to education individuals, in need of healthcare because of our Troops and Veterans. and refugee programs, Catholic services. Many elderly patients call the Sending care packages is the least I can Charities’ programs support over hospital their home for long periods do for them in return.” 200,000 people annually. In three shifts of time but receive few visitors. On on November 16, 2016,GE volunteers November 4, 2016, 30 GE volunteers packaged and distributed Thanksgiving visited with these elderly patients in a meal baskets to 250 families in the one-on-one capacity. Conversations community. The baskets were filled were shared and fun games were played with everything needed to prepare the leaving all those involved feeling uplifted. perfect Thanksgiving side dishes and even included gift cards for turkeys, so the families’ Thanksgiving meals would be complete. Nigeria – Waste Management Crisis Meets the Full Power of Employee Volunteerism On December 22, 2016, we shared the story of GE volunteers in Nigeria who helped combat the growing waste crisis Veterans Network Care Packages in their country by teaching students The GE Veterans Network not only strives in local secondary schools the value of to support those that have previously recycling through a game called Recycle served in the military, but also support and Win. Working with an organization those that are still actively serving. For called Recycle Points, volunteers GE works on things that matter, and our the 2016 Global Month of Service, six GE designed a recycling incentive program. volunteer work outlined here would not Veterans Network locations, led by Chris The children earned points based on be possible without the commitment of Tubesing, once again answered the call the number and type of recyclables they our 295,000 global employees who come to support deployed servicemen and collected; the points could be redeemed to work each day with a shared belief women. When deployed, soldiers are for prizes ranging from basic school that things can be made better—it’s a not only far from friends and family, they supplies to laptop computers. Read the way of thinking about the work we do are also without many of the comforts full story. and the technology we make for our of home including basic necessities. customers and partners, and for the The Veterans Network assembled and communities in which we all work and shipped over 720 care packages that live. included a wide variety of items including toiletries, socks, snacks and notes of Together, we are working to make the appreciation. One volunteer from Peebles, world work better. Ohio shared, “Although I love my country © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33677 1/2018 Human Rights Statement of Principles Updated February 2018 GE promotes respect for fundamental human rights and views them as a key component of responsible corporate citizenship. In addition to supporting the fundamental principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we GE promotes respect have joined with other companies to find practical ways to apply its principles in the business community. for fundamental human rights and support the Our Commitment principles contained in the GE, as a business enterprise, promotes respect for fundamental human rights. We support the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, mindful Universal Declaration of that the Declaration is addressed primarily to nations. GE has joined with other Human Rights. companies to find practical ways of applying within the business community the broad principles established in the Declaration. Our Actions GE endeavors to advance GE endeavors to advance respect for fundamental human rights within the communities respect for fundamental in which our businesses operate. We do this in important part by leading by example — influencing our employees and business partners through actions consistent with human rights by leading policies contained in The Spirit & The Letter. by example in our business capacity, with our direct In Our Management Capacity • RESPECTING the human rights of our employees as established in the International business partners, and in Labour Organization’s (ILO’s) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights the communities where at Work, including nondiscrimination, prohibitions against child and forced labor, freedom of association and the right to engage in collective bargaining we operate. • PROVIDING security consistent with the intent of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, as well as the laws of the countries in which we operate, retaining security services for preventive or defensive purposes with instructions to use force www.ge.com/sustainability only when necessary and to an extent proportional to the threat sustainability@ge.com In Our Business Capacity • DEVELOPING and offering products, including those that meet human needs for power, water and medical care, with due regard for fundamental human rights and a sustainable environment Human Rights Statement (cont’d) With Our Direct Business Partners In the Community • INCORPORATING appropriate • SERVING as a positive influence in principles for The Spirit & The Letter communities in which we operate, into contracts with suppliers, business demonstrating by our actions our partners and distributors belief that human rights violations are • MONITORING adherence by key unacceptable suppliers in emerging markets to • ASSESSING, as appropriate, the impact environmental, health and safety on affected local communities of major standards; prohibitions against forced infrastructure-project financing and child labor, human trafficking and local wage and hour laws • EVALUATING human rights issues involving our direct business partners — particularly in emerging markets — and considering practical responses within the relevant context • ADVANCING application of the ILO Declaration through engagement and collaboration © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33648 02/2018 UK Modern Slavery Act Statement 2018 Updated June 2018 This Statement is made by General Electric Company (“GE” or the “Company”) and pursuant to Section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (the “Act”) on behalf of its affiliates conducting business in the UK and covered by the Act. Introduction GE continues to support efforts to prevent, address, and work to eliminate the global epidemic of forced labor. Since the passage of the UK Modern Slavery Act, we have witnessed and participated in an increasingly sophisticated dialogue among states, companies, and NGOs over how forced labor occurs, where it is most prevalent, and how we can work together to address the problem. Shining a light on this issue has revealed both the challenges that we face in addressing the Since 2005, GE has conducted problem and the opportunities that working together can bring to address current more than 29,000 supplier incidents and prevent future victimization. As discussed below, over the past assessments spanning 100 countries. fiscal year we continued to apply our anti-forced labor policies and practices to our own operations and those of our suppliers, while at the same time focusing on improved awareness training, continued supply chain auditing, and participating GE is committed to in a worker voice pilot in one of our high-risk environments. taking steps to prevent Business & Supply Chain acts of modern slavery GE underwent significant leadership changes in 2017, and in June 2018 the and human trafficking in Company announced it will focus long-term on three key industries: aviation, its business operations power, and renewable energy. This new focus will result in some considerable disposition activity, especially in areas outside the three identified core and supply chains. businesses. But GE will remain a significant global infrastructure company, which currently employs approximately 313,000 employees globally, over half of whom work outside the US. A more detailed description of GE’s business operations can www.ge.com/sustainability be found in the annual report. GE’s supply chain continues to be large and diverse. We source more than sustainability@ge.com $64B annually in raw materials and components that are incorporated into the products and services that GE sells. The largest categories of direct material purchases continue to be castings, forgings, electronics, plastics and machined parts. GE also buys products and services to support its business operations, which are used to develop or create, but are not incorporated into, GE’s products or services. These indirect purchases amount to nearly $17B annually. GE sources from more than 180 countries. 1 UK Modern Slavery Act Statement 2018 Policies & Programs and Human Rights. In the area of forced As discussed below, one area of focus labor, the Guide expressly prohibits for the Company in 2017 was employee The foundation of GE’s human rights any form of compulsion, coercion or awareness training in this space. program is the GE Human Rights human trafficking; lists prohibited Statement of Principles in which GE maintains a multifaceted ethical activities associated with trafficking, supply chain program that has as its GE commits to advance respect for such as withholding passports, charging fundamental human rights and expressly backbone an extensive global audit recruitment fees, and misleading process which includes the use of prohibits forced and child labor in both recruitment; and imposes affirmative Company and partner operations. GE’s ethical/compliance audits. Under this obligations on suppliers in certain program, suppliers are prioritized integrity program, called The Spirit & The circumstances such as reimbursement Letter (“S&L”), applies to all Company for detailed pre-engagement, and of return transportation costs and periodic follow-up, onsite assessments employees globally. GE commits in providing workers with written contracts the S&L to “respect human rights according to country risks (including in a language they understand. The Guide human trafficking risk), supplier past everywhere we work and do business also encourages reports of violations of with others” and again explicitly performance and other factors, such the policy through telephone, email and as media reports or supplier employee prohibits forced and child labor. The Fair in-person channels by employees and Employment Practices policy in the S&L complaints. In 2017, GE assessed ~2,550 third parties. new or existing suppliers, generating lists the types of actions associated with the most common forms of more than 23,500 findings. GE suppliers modern slavery, including the charging Due Diligence are subject to an on-site reassessment of recruitment fees, the withholding GE’s policy commitments, including as on a oneto three-year schedule of immigration documents, and the relate to modern slavery, are translated depending on their performance in use of misleading recruitment tactics. into processes and practices that prior assessments. About 61% of Violations of this policy can result in enable assessments of and responses our total assessments in 2017 were disciplinary action, up to and including to modern slavery risks. With respect re-assessments. Since 2005, GE has termination. to its internal business operations, GE’s conducted more than 29,000 supplier Compliance function—with over 400 assessments spanning 100 countries. At the Corporate level, responsibility employees globally—supports business When on-site assessments are for GE’s human rights strategy rests leadership to create a compliance required, they are typically conducted with its Global Counsel for Labor & culture and implement GE’s Integrity by trained GE personnel using a global Human Rights, in coordination with & Compliance program focused on questionnaire and risk-weighted metrics. GE’s Sustainability Steering Committee. prevention, detection and response. The questionnaire includes specific But human rights compliance is also The 600+ employee GE Ombuds program inquiries focused on forced labor and fundamentally imbedded throughout receives and processes allegations human trafficking, such as questions GE businesses and is a responsibility of of policy violations. In 2017, Ombuds regarding the charging of fees or all employees. received over 4,400 policy concerns deductions from wages, withholding of GE demands the same level of high (nearly 68% outside the US) leading to passports or work documents, and the integrity and respect for human rights over 5,500 corrective actions. provision of return transportations costs from its suppliers as it does from its for migrant workers brought in from The S&L expressly provides that own employees. As a condition of outside the country. GE employees have an obligation doing business with GE, suppliers to promptly raise concerns when GE records all assessment findings from and their subcontractors (including they “see a situation in which our on-site inspections in an automated labor providers) must adhere to the integrity principles or policies are not assessment tracking tool and monitors GE lntegrity Guide for Suppliers, being followed.” Consistent with our each until the assessment finding is Contractors, Consortium Partners and Statement of Principles on Human Rights closed once a supplier provides evidence Consultants. In addition to requiring and in the spirit of “Eyes Always Open,” that relevant defects have been compliance with all applicable local laws employees are expected to report unfair corrected. Typically, findings must be and regulations, the Guide expressly employment practices and human rights closed within 60 days1. Purchase orders requires adherence to GE standards concerns they observe when at GE sites are often suspended if findings remain in areas including Fair Employment or working with direct business partners. open beyond this time frame, unless GE Practices, Environment, Health & Safety, agrees that a closure requires more time, 1 As of January 30, 2018, 94% of the 2017 findings from approved suppliers were closed. 2 UK Modern Slavery Act Statement 2018 interim progress has been demonstrated Third, GE took a number of steps to customer sites. and/or the delay has been scrutinized mitigate forced labor risk at power The Company also conducted a and approved by the compliance team. project sites. Those included developing number of live WebEx forced labor Serious labor-related findings can result a new set of standards for contractors training sessions across the globe in immediate cessation of business who provide workers accommodations that were open to all employees, but relationships. GE publishes an annual to help insure that in such cases the which specifically targeted certain key overview of its supply chain audit results contract workers are provided safe departments including Compliance, on its website. and decent living conditions based on Sourcing, Legal, Power EPC Projects, and In 2017, we took a number of new international and industry standards; Human Resources. The Company created steps to improve its forced labor due conducting forced labor training for an internal human rights “Yammer” diligence. First, GE worked with a vendor project managers; engaging a third party page through which employees can to develop a new prequalification consultant with expertise in the area of receive updates, and participate in program for all GE labor service project recruitment to better understand conversations, concerning human providers – requiring them to provide the risk in the project space and best rights and forced labor subjects. GE also upfront information on worker safety ways to mitigate it; and rolling out a created and distributed to all employees and human rights policies and programs new audit system called PIVOT that will an internal training video discussing as part of a mandatory pre-qualification empower GE compliance professionals a real wage-withholding scenario the assessment. The human rights portion with the knowledge and tools to audit Company confronted with its vendors of this new process focuses significantly GE operations at high risk sites. and using that example to once again on forced labor indicators, such as Finally, GE engaged with the Responsible educate its workforce on issues that wage practices, recruitment efforts, and Business Alliance (formerly the can lead to forced labor. This video, and passport handling. The new program Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition an accompanying training package, was was rolled out in early 2018 and will or EICC) to benchmark against the part of a “Human Rights Month” that was provide GE with a way to both assess organization’s robust Verified Audit overseen by the Company’s Compliance potential suppliers on their human Program in an effort to look for areas in training team and highlighted various rights programs and educate them as to which the Company’s internal program ways that employees could learn more the nature of forced labor and what is could be improved and also consider about human rights and the risk of needed to prevent it. how GE could possibly leverage RBA’s forced labor. Second, GE participated in a worker tools, experience, and audit program in The Company’s training focus was not voice pilot in conjunction with Good its supply chain management system. limited to its own workforce. GE created World Solutions (now owned by The Company is currently preparing to a new supplier compliance video that Elevate). The pilot, which took place participate in RBA pilot audits in Latin included a module explaining GE’s in a community that provides labor to America as part of this best-practice position on human rights, with a more nearby GE suppliers, centered around sharing initiative. in-depth focus on forced labor – what it a survey administered via cell phone is, how extensive the problem is globally, which asked questions regarding worker Training and what suppliers must do or avoid recruitment and treatment tailored to One area that GE focused on in 2017 doing to comply with GE’s forced labor expose potential forced labor risk. GE to improve its forced labor program policy. Suppliers are required to view sees worker voice as having significant was training and employee awareness. the video as part of their commitment potential in the area of supply chain The Company created “fast training” to abide by GE’s lntegrity Guide for management, providing opportunities learning modules on human rights and Suppliers, Contractors, Consortium for real-time feedback into worker forced labor for all GE global employees treatment that could not only expose – providing employees an easy, brief forced labor problems but also help way to understand: the core principles assess risk throughout the Company’s of human rights, the Company’s policies vast supply chain so as to better allocate and programs, the causes and global audit resources and engage suppliers footprint of forced labor, and most with potential issues. importantly how they can serve a role in identifying and reporting possible signs of modern slavery when they are at GE operations, supplier facilities, or 3 UK Modern Slavery Act Statement 2018 Partners and Consultants. organizations to drive positive change Labor Initiative, a multi-industry, in the way that migrant workers are multi-stakeholder initiative focused Facing the recruited, with a focus on eliminating on ensuring that the rights of workers fees being charged to workers to secure vulnerable to forced labor in global Global Challenge employment. supply chains are consistently respected GE continues to believe that collaboration and promoted. The three-fold aim of this initiative is to: is necessary to successfully fight the global scourge of modern slavery. In line 1. Create demand for responsible Conclusion with that belief, the GE Foundation has recruitment by raising awareness about the positive benefits of ethical GE applauds the impact that the funded work by the Institute for Human practices and developing tools to help UK Modern Slavery Act has had on Rights and Business (“IHRB”) on the companies implement the Employer increasing dialogue around, and global global problem of human trafficking— Pays Principle; awareness of, the epidemic of modern specifically, funding the IHRB’s slavery. The UN Guiding Principles Responsible Recruitment initiative—and 2. Increase the supply of ethically provide a constructive roadmap for the the UN Global Compact’s Human Rights sourced labor by creating an enabling roles that States and Corporations have and Business Dilemmas Forum (GE is a environment and supporting the in working to protect and respect human member of the UN Global Compact). In development and implementation of rights, which includes trying to prevent addition, we continue to work closely with systems to identify and use ethical vulnerable workers from becoming peer companies to address the systemic recruitment agencies; and victims of modern slavery. GE is proud roots of modern slavery. GE is a founding 3. advocate for improved protection of the steps it has taken to date in this member of the Global Business Initiative for migrant workers by brokering area, but knows that it must remain on Human Rights, whose mission is to dialogue to promote the effective vigilant in its efforts to do its part in advance human rights in a business regulation and enforcement of the helping bring an end to this scourge. context through cross-industry peer recruitment industry. learning, outreach and capacity building, and informing policy. Finally, last year GE joined the Responsible Business Alliance one of GE is also a recent member of the the preeminent organizations focused Leadership Group for Responsible on supply chain management – which Recruitment, a collaboration between recently launched its own Responsible leading companies and expert This statement was approved by the Board of General Electric Company. Date: June 27, 2018 John Flannery Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer General Electric Company © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33860 7/2018 4 California Transparency in Supply Chains Act Updated February 2018 GE requires its suppliers to adhere to the GE Integrity Guide for Suppliers, Contractors, Consortium Partners and Consultants (the Guide), which governs all + facets of the Company’s relationships with suppliers. The Guide requires suppliers to adhere to the same level of responsible business conduct in the areas of Environment, Health and Safety (EHS), Labor, and Human Rights that it requires of its own operations. In the specific area of forced labor, the Guide prohibits any form of forced, prison or indentured labor as well as the subjection of workers to any form of compulsion, coercion or human trafficking. GE’s Supplier Expectations apply to all GE-consolidated GE affiliates. Implementation for new acquisitions is phased in within three years. GE has trained more than 900 GE team members GE’s supply chain is large and diverse. GE buys raw materials and components that to execute the audits that support are incorporated into the products and services that GE sells (direct materials). The GE’s Supplier Responsibility initiative. largest categories of direct materials purchased are castings, forgings, electronics, plastics and machined parts. GE also buys products and services to support its business operations, which are used to develop or create, but are not incorporated into, GE’s products or services. These indirect purchases range from logistical All suppliers must agree support, tools and supplies to IT, telecom and professional services. GE sources to comply with the from approximately 150 countries. GE Integrity Guide for Below we respond to the five areas listed under the California Transparency in Suppliers, Contractors, Supply Chains Act. Consortium Partners Verification and Consultants, which GE’s Supply Chain monitoring program is multifaceted and risk-based. Suppliers are incorporates GE’s Supplier prioritized for detailed pre-engagement and subsequent periodic on-site assessments based on country risks, the supplier’s past performance and other factors, such as Expectations, as part of whether GE has become aware of any reason to believe that the supplier is not living our contracting process. up to our expectations. Almost all on-site assessments are conducted in developing countries, as part of our overall supplier-management strategy, but we maintain an “eyes always open” policy to be alert to potential violations of our standards in interactions with our suppliers. www.ge.com/sustainability sustainability@ge.com Audits When on-site audits are required by the GE Supplier Responsibility program, they are conducted by GE personnel using a global questionnaire and risk-weighted metrics. GE uses a combination of specially trained internal auditors, sourcing personnel, and a limited number of third-party firms specially instructed in GE standards to perform California Transparency in Supply Chains Act verification and auditing procedures. Audits are repeated on a oneto threeAccountability year basis, depending on factors that GE records all assessment findings from include results of past audits. Audits are on-site inspections in an automated supplemented by periodic spot checks assessment tracking tool and monitors and anonymous desk-side reviews of GE each until the assessment finding is closed, audit records by inspectors from other once a supplier provides evidence that business units or from our corporate EHS the defect has been corrected. Typically, team. While audits are not unannounced, findings must be closed within 60 days.1 they are supplemented by “eyes always Purchase orders are suspended if findings open” reviews when suppliers’ facilities are remain open beyond this time frame, visited by GE sourcing personnel. unless GE agrees that a closure requires more time, that interim progress has been Certification demonstrated, and/or that the delay has Virtually all suppliers (including labor been approved by the compliance team. providers) must agree to comply with Serious labor-related findings, such as the GE Integrity Guide for Suppliers, evidence of child labor or forced labor, can Contractors, Consortium Partners result in immediate cessation of business and Consultants (the Guide) ,which relationships. incorporates GE’s Supplier Expectations, as part of our contracting process. The Guide Training has specific prohibitions against forced, GE has specially trained more than 900 prison or indentured labor as well as GE team members to execute the audits against subjecting workers to any form of that support GE’s Supplier Responsibility compulsion, coercion or human trafficking, initiative. More than 3,600 GE employees and requires our suppliers to hold their who interact with suppliers have undergone own suppliers to equivalent standards. GE’s training in Supplier Expectations, human rights issues and on-site dueIn 2016, the Guide was amended diligence requirements. to be much more specific about the prohibitions that are indicators of human trafficking and it specifically prohibits activities associated with trafficking, such as withholding passports, charging recruitment fees and misleading recruitment; and imposes certain affirmative obligations on suppliers such as reimbursement of return transportation costs and providing workers with written contracts in a language they understand. The Guide encourages reports of violations of the policy through telephone, email and in-person channels. 1 For example, as of February 20, 2017, 95% of the 2016 findings from approved suppliers were closed. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33646 02/2018 Human Rights I Updated October 2018 As a diversified, global company with growth in emerging markets, and as a provider of infrastructure around the world, GE regularly confronts complex human rights challenges. Our approach to those challenges starts with the Company’s Statement GE promotes respect for of Principles on Human Rights, which outlines our commitment to respecting human rights wherever we operate and to demanding the same commitment from our fundamental human rights. business partners. To embed this commitment within our business operations, we have developed human rights “implementing procedures” that help our businesses incorporate human rights considerations in all aspects of their operations. With the adoption by the UN Human Rights Commission of the UN Guiding Principles We demand the same respect on Human Rights and Business in 2012, there was for the first time a broad for human rights from our agreement on a human rights framework: the states’ duty to protect, businesses’ business partners. duty to respect, and the mutual duty to address human rights deprivations. Despite this agreed-upon framework, pressure continues for increased “hard law” in this space, from legislation mandating specific due-diligence measures and regulations requiring transparency and reporting to broad national action plans and even suggestions of a global treaty on human rights. We believe the Guiding Principles provide the fairest and most realistic framework for protecting human rights globally, www.ge.com/sustainability but we recognize that for the Principles to succeed, business entities like GE need to “know and show” that they have robust programs for fulfilling their responsibility to sustainability@ge.com respect human rights. GE’s human rights efforts include working to prevent forced labor through its Ethical Supply Chain program; collaborating with organizations and governments to improve human rights where it operates (see more here on Partnerships & Initiatives); and using its training, and employment opportunities to provide opportunities to those in challenging environments, see Women in the Middle East here and Myanmar here. States must be expected and required to uphold their duty to protect the human rights of those who live and work within their borders. While companies cannot be expected to assume the countries’ duty to protect, we can continue to take steps to respect human rights across the globe both as a means to improve local communities and to be an example for others. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18001 10/2018 Modern Slavery Updated October 2018 Modern slavery, and the associated trafficking of its victims, is currently one of the most challenging human rights issues both in the U.S. and abroad. Forced labor GE has strong policies occurs when individuals work involuntarily as a result of one or more coercive measures such as debt bondage, restriction of movement, threat of harm, fraudulent prohibiting forced or child recruitment, and financial inability to return home. On any given day, it is estimated labor in its operations and in that over 20 million individuals globally, the majority female, are victims of this epidemic. those of its suppliers. There are numerous NGO, UN, and state responses to this problem, many of which GE conducts thousands call on companies to conduct appropriate due diligence in their supply chains to prevent the use of forced or child labor. One of the most recent regulatory of human rights audits of directives—the U.K. Modern Slavery Act (MSA)—requires companies operating in its suppliers in high risk the U.K. to publish a statement outlining their efforts to prevent forced labor in their operations and supply chains. GE published its first MSA statement in May countries annually. 2017, providing a detailed description of our approach to this important challenge. Please see our recent 2018 MSA statement here. Similarly, you can see our current California Transparency in Supply Chain Act disclosure here. In 2017 GE joined the Leadership Group for GE’s efforts to combat forced labor start with strong policies prohibiting activities associated with this scourge, including the charging of recruitment fees, the Responsible Recruitment withholding of passports, and failing to pay wages earned as a means to prevent to help end the charging of job movement. These policies apply to GE’s own operations as well as those of its business partners. With respect to its vast global supply chain, GE conducts recruitment fees. thousands of on-site, in-person audits a year of suppliers in high risk countries to verify that their operations comply with our human rights policies. These suppliers are subject to further on-site reassessments every one to three years depending on their prior audit performance and other risk factors. Any findings from these audits www.ge.com/sustainability are required to be remedied and closed expeditiously, typically within 60 days, see Ethical Supply Chain here. GE believes that in most cases it is better to work with a sustainability@ge.com supplier to correct a human rights issue and improve their workplace going forward than to simply walk away from a supplier if any finding is uncovered. Ultimately, companies need to help build a more compliant global supply chain that is well educated in, and compliant with, basic human rights. Modern Slavery (Cont’d) GE continuously looks to improve on its due diligence in this space. Recently, the Company developed a new pre-qualification program for its contract labor providers – requiring them to provide upfront information on worker safety and human rights before being approved to do work for GE. Also, the Company recently participated in a worker voice pilot in India where workers in communities that provide labor to local GE suppliers were provided opportunities to answer a survey regarding their recruitment and treatment via their smartphones. The responses allow GE to better pinpoint potential forced labor risk and educate its suppliers on issues being raised in their labor markets. Finally, GE published new worker accommodation standards for its contractors when they provide on-site housing for workers on GE projects. These and other examples of due diligence continuous improvement are discussed further in GE’s UK MSA Statement here. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18003 10/2018 Partnerships & Initiatives I Updated February 2018 Collaborating with expert stakeholders locally and globally is integral to our human rights program. For instance, the GE Foundation has funded work by the Institute for GE Foundation collaborates Human Rights and Business on the global problem of human trafficking—specifically, funding the IHRB’s Responsible Recruitment initiative—and the UN Global Compact’s with Institute for Human Rights Human Rights and Business Dilemmas Forum. and Business and the UN Global GE is a founding member of the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights, whose Compact. mission is to advance human rights in a business context through cross-industry peer learning, outreach and capacity building, and informing policy. GE is also a member of the Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment, a collaboration between leading GE is a founding member of companies and expert organizations to drive positive change in the way that migrant the Global Business Initiative workers are recruited, with a focus on eliminating fees being charged to workers to secure employment. The three-fold aim of this initiative is to: (1) create demand for on Human Rights. responsible recruitment by raising awareness about the positive benefits of ethical practices and developing tools to help companies implement the Employer Pays Principle; (2) increase the supply of ethically sourced labor by creating an enabling In 2017 GE joined the environment and supporting the development and implementation of systems Leadership Group for to identify and use ethical recruitment agencies; and (3) advocate for improved protection for migrant workers by brokering dialogue to promote the effective Responsible Recruitment. regulation and enforcement of the recruitment industry. In 2017, GE collaborated with Good World Solutions, now part of Elevate, to participate in a smartphone-enabled worker voice pilot in India sponsored in part by Humanity United. The purpose of the pilot was to survey residents in towns where www.ge.com/sustainability GE suppliers recruit workers to gauge whether they were experiencing any forced labor conditions in their recruitment or employment. GE is looking at this and other sustainability@ge.com ways to enhance worker voice in our supply chain to provide the Company with another way beyond audits to identify and correct worker welfare issues. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18005 10/2018 I Women in the Middle East Updated April 21, 2017 It’s no secret the Middle East is a challenging place for working women. The Arab world is home to eight of 10 countries with the lowest percentage of female workers across the globe, and only 3.5% of Arab women have their own businesses—about one-fourth the rate internationally. 30% of GE’s leadership team in the Middle East, North GE is working to change that. We believe women in the Middle East are a highly educated, energized and untapped talent source, especially in countries like Africa and Turkey are women. Saudi Arabia, where they make up more than half (55%) of the nation’s university graduates, yet comprise just 16% of the Saudi workforce. GE is dedicated to promoting diversity in the workplace, and 30% of GE’s leadership GE recognizes that women in team in the Middle East, North Africa and Turkey are women. Here’s what else we’re doing to promote female leadership: the Middle East are a highly educated, energized and • In 2013, GE (with Tata Consultancy Services and Saudi Aramco) launched Saudi untapped talent resource. Arabia’s first all-female business processing center. Established in Riyadh, the country’s capital and financial hub, this pioneering center opened with 300 female hires. By 2016, that number had expanded to 1,000 — and is growing. The Center supports GE Global Operations in delivering over 20 vital business operations, including Finance and Accounting, Human Resource Outsourcing, www.ge.com/sustainability Supply Chain Management, Information Technology and Enterprise Data Management, in more than 50 GE locations world-wide. sustainability@ge.com • In January 2016, GE and Masdar opened the “Women in Innovation” leadershiptraining program at the GE Ecomagination Innovation Center in Masdar City. The training will focus on nurturing the skills that will help UAE women pursue careers and entrepreneurial opportunities in the renewable energy sector, which may create 24.4 million jobs by 2030. • GE promotes diversity in the Middle East and globally through the Women’s Network; 70,000 member group dedicated to enhancing women’s professional growth industry-wide. Engagement initiatives include STEM day camps for junior high school girls and scholarships for female undergraduate students in fields like engineering, tech and finance. • In accordance with GE’s code of ethics, The Spirit & The Letter requirements, we will work tirelessly to create more opportunities for women all over the world. Learn more about our Diversity efforts here. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18002 10/2018 Myanmar I Updated March 2016 GE re-entered Myanmar in 2013 and opened an office in Yangon in 2014. We have been principally engaged in product sales and leasing in healthcare, electricity and aviation. In addition to our commitment to improving Myanmar’s infrastructure, GE is commitmted to improving improving healthcare and easing the country’s crippling energy shortage, GE has engaged in significant philanthropic and capacity-building activities. The GE Myanmar’s infrastructure, Foundation has undertaken an initiative in conjunction with Myanmar’s Ministry improving healthcare and easing of Health and Jhpiego, an affiliate of Johns Hopkins University, to supply training, technology and equipment to help reduce maternal and infant mortality rates. As of the country’s crippling energy September 30, 2015, GE had delivered more than $500,000 in equipment and the GE shortage. Foundation had funded more than $2.5 million in healthcare training. GE also developed, at the government’s request, a comprehensive electricity plan to evaluate how to best address the country’s needs, as well as a series of energy GE has engaged in significant technical-training programs. Finally, we launched a series of leadership training philanthropic and capacityprograms for Myanmar government officials, both in the U.S. and in Singapore. As of March 2016, nearly 100 officials had completed the training. building activities. GE recently has been awarded contracts for energy upgrades and installations that will help ease the crippling energy shortage suffered by the citizens of Myanmar. We have also leased aircraft to Myanmar Airlines and sold healthcare equipment to hospitals and clinics around the country. While GE Oil & Gas has had very limited involvement in Myanmar to date, the GE Foundation commissioned a human rights impact assessment to guide the Company’s future interaction with Myanmar’s extractive sector. The assessment, www.ge.com/sustainability which was prepared by the Institute on Human Rights and Business, applies the UN Guiding Principles to facilitate sustainable engagement with business partners and sustainability@ge.com civil society in Myanmar. The report was issued in July 2014, and we have made it public to highlight for all in the oil and gas sector the human rights issues that attend extractive industry operations in Myanmar. It is available at Myanmar Oil & Gas Sector Wide Impact Assessment. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18004 10/2018 United Nations Global Compact Updated February 2018 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is both a policy platform and a practical framework for companies that are committed to sustainability and responsible business practices. As a multi-stakeholder leadership initiative, it seeks to align business operations and strategies with 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, G  E has been a UNGC environment and anti-corruption, and to catalyze actions in support of broader signatory since 2008. UN goals. GE became a signatory to the UNGC in 2008. Business signatories to the UNGC are required to annually submit a Communication On Progress (COP) for the UNGC website and to share the COP widely with their stakeholders. GE’s COP can be viewed here. Also, referenced below are links to relevant portions of GE’s Sustainability website that support the corresponding UNGC principles. www.ge.com/sustainability HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 sustainability@ge.com Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Human Rights & Supply Chain Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Human Rights & Supply Chain LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Labor Relations Principle 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. • Human Rights & Supply Chain United Nations Global Compact Principle 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. • Human Rights Statement of Principles • UK Modern Slavery Act Principle 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of emplyment and occupation. • Diversity & Inclusion LABOUR Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Environment, Health & Safety Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Environment, Health & Safety Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Sustainability ANTI-CORRUPTION Prinicple 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Integrity • Sustainability For more information about the UNGC strategic policy initiative, visit the UN Global Compact website www.unglobalcompact.org. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA18006 10/2018 Public Policy Priorities Updated February 2018 Tax reform and competitive economic policy Regulatory reform associated with energy, infrastructure, healthcare and digital policy Effective and modernized defense procurement GE’s 2017 Effective laws and regulations governing the transfer and protection of data Public Policy Priorities Trade policy www.ge.com/sustainability Global energy and environmental policies sustainability@ge.com Government procurement Intellectual property protection Promotion of exports and the free flow of goods Rule of law, globally Policies that facilitate the movement of people consistent with business needs Policies to promote effective economic development in less-developed countries © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33665 2/2018 Setting Public Policy Priorities Updated February 2018 As one of the world’s largest companies, and one active in many sectors of the global economy, GE engages in public policy discussions that impact our Company, our workers, and our communities. We approach public policy through education, GE engages in public engagement, involvement, and thought leadership. We seek to inform discussions by promoting thoughtful civil discourse grounded in strong, reasoned analysis. And we policy discussions that work in partnership with governments, because we believe that tackling the world’s impact our Company, biggest problems will be possible only if governments and industry work together as partners. Each year, GE evaluates public policy priorities for the upcoming year. Our our workers, and our team reviews a number of factors, including the potential reputational effects and communities in areas such risks associated with pursuing or not pursuing a particular priority. as energy, healthcare, Working Globally, Nationally, and Locally international trade and GE works to promote public policy issues in areas such as energy, healthcare, investment, tax, data international trade and investment, tax, data governance, rule of law, and governance, rule of law, and government procurement. We continue to be committed to engaging with governments—globally, nationally, and locally—through constructive dialogue, the government procurement. promotion of innovative public policy ideas, the formation of novel public-private partnerships, and investments in solutions that can help address the fundamental challenges that confront societies. Globally, we support public policies that promote open markets, technology, and innovation. www.ge.com/sustainability sustainability@ge.com Societies with predictable and transparent legal institutions and processes engender confidence, investment, and growth. GE works actively to support stronger rule of law around the world. Key focus areas include anticorruption; legal and administrative transparency and predictability; independent judiciaries; transparency and competitiveness in public procurement; and fair and effective dispute resolution. GE, our employees, and the GE Foundation have supported numerous programs to achieve these goals. Assessing Policy Priorities, Defining Objectives GE’s Board of Directors believes that it is in the best interest of GE’s stakeholders that we promote sound public policies at the international, national, and local levels. To that end, our Government Affairs & Policy team asks the Company’s business teams to provide a semiannual assessment of their legislative and regulatory priorities. Similarly, we conduct surveys of issues and priorities across GE’s regions worldwide. Each business provides a description of its public policy priorities, ties these to a GE objective, and provides input on the significance of the respective issue(s) to the Company. Setting Public Policy Priorities The businesses also provide input on the appropriate advocacy plan or strategy for achieving a successful outcome—including whether or not GE should advocate for a priority directly or through one of its trade associations or industry coalitions. In the latter case, GE can help facilitate coordination with other companies with similar priorities. Once each business has assessed and submitted its priorities, our Government Affairs & Policy team can better determine GE’s overall public policy priorities and allocate resources to them accordingly. In evaluating public policy priorities for an upcoming year, Government Affairs & Policy works with GE’s senior management to review the potential reputational consequences and risks of pursuing or not pursuing a priority. We set commercial priorities to increase shareowner value, mindful that our commercial success depends on progress on broader public policy imperatives. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33642 2/2018 Lobbying Disclosure Policy Updated July 2018 GE employees engage with public officials at all levels of government—local, state and federal. Employees educate officials on our Company’s operations, emerging technologies and markets, as well as on our views on public policy GE conducts lobbying issues. All advocacy done by our employees on pending US legislation is included activities in compliance in our Lobbying Disclosure Act (LDA) filings. with applicable laws GE conducts lobbying activities in compliance with applicable laws and regulations governing such activities. In the United States, certain communications with federal, and regulations state and/or local government officials or government employees may be reportable governing such activities. as lobbying communications included in GE’s LDA reports and/or state or local lobbying disclosure reports. Certain countries outside the United States may also require disclosure of lobbying activities. www.ge.com/sustainability Before engaging in lobbying activities, employees are asked to contact the Vice sustainability@ge.com President, Government Affairs & Policy or his or her designee. GE regularly trains employees on what types of activities and communications constitute reportable lobbying activities. Prior approval from GE’s Vice President, Government Affairs & Policy, is required before GE may retain an outside entity to engage in lobbying activities. Reviewing and Reporting Lobbying Expenses In limited circumstances, when an issue is of particular strategic importance, the Company may use advertisements or other public communications to urge support for specific legislation or public policy. As part of its oversight role in public policy and corporate social responsibility, the Governance and Public Affairs Committee (GPAC) of the Board of Directors receives and semiannually reviews reports on the Company’s lobbying expenses. GE uses the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) method to detail its lobbying expenses in its federal Form LD-2 lobbying report filed each calendar quarter. Under this method, expenses related to state and/or local legislative lobbying in all 50 states are included in GE’s total lobbying expense reported each quarter and reviewed semiannually by GPAC. Grassroots lobbying expenses also are included in our LDA filings. GE’s Federal Lobbying Disclosure Reports are available here. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33662 2/2018 Government Business Updated January 2018 GE does business with a wide spectrum of federal, state and local governments, as well as with government contractors. The breadth of our government-business portfolio has grown in recent years through a series of acquisitions, primarily in GE’s compliance and the aviation and power businesses. While maintaining our focus on private-sector customers, we recognize that our managers and employees also must have a integrity culture places thorough understanding of the special requirements of our government customers. us in an excellent position The government customers who acquire our products and services also serve to pursue and perform to fulfill public policy objectives, and therefore may request unique contract requirements such as domestic preference restrictions, socioeconomic provisions, work compliantly and especially stringent business ethics and compliance obligations. GE employees for governments and recognize that government customers have a variety of means to enforce these unique requirements (both contractual and non-contractual, including civil and government-funded criminal sanctions, and administrative judgments) that go well beyond remedies contractors. available to our commercial customers. GE’s Government Business Center of Excellence GE’s compliance and integrity culture places us in an excellent position to pursue www.ge.com/sustainability and perform work compliantly for governments and government contractors. But we don’t just rely on our culture; we continue to emphasize with our employees sustainability@ge.com and executives on how working with governments is unique. For example, our Company-wide Government Business Center of Excellence (GBCOE) features a well-established Government Business Practice group, whose members represent each GE business. This group meets regularly and serves as a conduit for government business–related communications both to and from GE businesses. Many GE businesses, in turn, have formed business-level GBCOEs to build capability at the local level and elevate issues to the corporate GBCOE level as needed. The GBCOE conducts training on contemporary government-business topics, hosts conferences for more intense training and networking opportunities, and provides in-person training for specific GE businesses upon request. The GBCOE intranet site hosts a wealth of information on government policies and processes, as well as training materials to support GE businesses that work with government customers. The site has been visited thousands of times, with GE’s employees accessing the hundreds of helpful tools residing there. Government Business Meeting Government Business Needs • Holds a Company-wide government• Develops GE-wide implementation GE remains well prepared to meet the business conference for employees policies for many complex new unique demands of our government doing business with US federal, state procurement regulations to help customers and flourishes in this highly and local government agencies. ensure a consistently high-level of regulated environment. To help ensure • Conducts a number of in-person compliance. our readiness, GE: government-business training • Closely monitors both final and • Periodically solicits and compiles sessions at recently acquired proposed changes to government detailed information from our businesses, introducing newly procurement–related legislation, businesses that do business with US acquired personnel to the GBCOE, GE’s policies, and regulations to assist federal, state or local government Government Business Standards, and businesses in understanding new agencies, based on GE’s eight best practices tailored to the needs of requirements and establishing the Government Business Standards. the businesses. appropriate compliance processes in a These self-assessments highlight the • Supports the integration of acquired timely manner. nature and type of government work entities into GE. • Maintains—together with Corporate that GE businesses are performing • Partners with GE’s government Litigation—a process for quickly (including a risk profile); identify compliance counsel to reinforce “pay identifying responsibility matters that best practices and potential areas to play” restrictions in key US states may be reportable to US federal, state for improvement relative to the where GE does business, and provide or local government customers. Standards; and enable GE to better guidance when needed. target future government-business • Dedicates specific attention training curricula. and resources to state and local • Conduct numerous training sessions contracting issues, which for many on key government-business topics GE businesses represent all or each year—reaching employees in substantially all of their governmentevery GE business. business activities. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33644 1/2018 Political Contributions Policy Updated January 2018 GE participates in the political process through contributions from the GE Political Action Committee (GEPAC) and through Company contributions, where legal and appropriate under state and local law. GE and GEPAC make bipartisan GE participates in the contributions to political candidates and initiatives that support strong public policy, promote sustainable growth and robust markets and—at the same time— political process through promote innovation and the interests of the industries in which GE operates. contributions from the GE In making contributions, we naturally evaluate a candidate’s position on issues of Political Action Committee concern to the Company. Our contributions, however, are not based on the personal (GEPAC) and through preferences of individual Company leaders. We base our contribution decisions on Company contributions. the best interests of the Company, on what we believe is sound public policy and, in the United States, on what we believe to be the best interests of the United States. Among the factors that we consider in determining which candidates and initiatives www.ge.com/sustainability to support, GE and GEPAC representatives balance the views promoted by a candidate, the quality and effectiveness of the candidate or organization to which sustainability@ge.com the contribution is made, and the appropriateness of the level of involvement of GE in an election. With respect to particular candidates, the Company considers, among other factors: • The personal characteristics of the candidate (including the candidate’s integrity and effectiveness) • Whether the candidate sits on a committee that addresses legislation affecting GE businesses or the global economy • Whether the candidate represents a state or district within which a GE business operates or is located • The candidate’s committee standing and ranking • The candidate’s elected political leadership position and voting record Oversight As part of its oversight role in public policy and corporate social responsibility, the Governance and Public Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors annually reviews the Company’s policies and practices related to political contributions, contributions to campaigns, and contributions to trade associations and other tax-exempt and similar organizations that may engage in political activity. The committee also receives and reviews, semiannually, reports on the Company’s political spending, including political contributions and contributions to trade associations and other tax-exempt and similar organizations that may engage in political activity. Each year, the committee approves a contributions budget in advance and issues a report on the Company’s political spending. Political Contributions Policy State and Local senior executives and representatives Independent Expenditures Contributions from Government Affairs & Policy, Legal, GE has a long-standing practice against Finance, and other related functions. The US law prohibits companies from relevant state government affairs manager, using corporate resources for the direct contributing to candidates for corporate finance manager, government funding of independent expenditures federal office, but many states allow compliance counsel, and the Vice expressly advocating for or against corporate contributions to state President, Government Affairs & Policy, candidates in elections for public office. and local candidates, committees, review and approve all corporate political political organizations, and ballot-issue contributions. Contributions of more than GEPAC campaigns. As described in GE’s code of $5,000 may not be made without the GEPAC is an independent, nonpartisan, conduct—The Spirit & The Letter—any approval of the Corporate Oversight Board. voluntary fund supported by GE employees contribution of Company funds or other who choose to participate in the political assets for political purposes in the United The recipients of our donations are process by pooling their resources to States must be approved in advance by detailed in our bi-annual political support candidates who share the GE’s Vice President, Government Affairs contributions report. values and goals of the Company and & Policy. Our compliance counsel works our employees. GEPAC raises voluntary to ensure that contributions comply with Associations contributions from eligible GE employees the spirit and letter of applicable laws and and supports candidates for the US Senate regulations. Political contributions made As one of the largest and most diverse companies in the world, GE belongs and House of Representatives, and selected with Company funds outside the United candidates in state elections. In addition, States also must be approved by GE’s Vice to many associations and coalitions in which we work with our industry partners contributions to certain national party President, Government Affairs & Policy. organizations are made when appropriate. GE’s foreign political contributions are and represent our Company’s interests. In some cases, these associations and GEPAC reporting includes contributions to currently limited to Canada. GEPAC Federal, a separate PAC supported coalitions engage in advocacy at the state and federal levels. While we generally exclusively by GE employees who are GE believes it is important for our subject to the US Securities and Exchange employees to be informed about public agree with the positions the associations take on public policy issues, membership Commission (SEC), Municipal Securities policy issues and, consistent with Rulemaking Board (MSRB), and/or other applicable law, will not take any adverse in a particular trade association does not indicate agreement with all of the rules that affect political contributions by employment action against an employee certain financial professionals. The Federal based on his or her personal political association’s views. Occasionally, these associations take positions that differ from Election Commission (FEC) regulates the affiliation or lawful political activity. activities of GEPAC and GEPAC Federal. ours. In those cases, we engage with the associations to express our views. Reports detailing these activities are Our Corporate Oversight Board comprises available on the FEC website at http://www. designated senior executives within the fec.gov. GEPAC also makes contributions Company, including GE’s Senior Vice For each association from which GE receives a notice stating that the to certain state-office candidates, so long President & General Counsel, and GE’s as federal PAC contributions to state-office Senior Vice President & Chief Financial association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE’s payments in a candidates are permitted in accordance Officer. The board meets on a regular with state laws. These states include basis to review Company expenditures fiscal year on nondeductible lobbying and/ or political expenditures under Internal Ohio, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, South and ensure that controls are in place for Carolina, and Texas. A committee made compliance with our political spending Revenue Code Section 162(e), we ask the trade association to identify the portion of up of employees nominated from GE policies, and that the expenditures and businesses and corporate components activities advance GE’s objectives. Our those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or directs contributions. The GEPAC Board political contributions are overseen sets overall budget targets, and day-to-day by a multifunctional team made up of against candidates in elections for public office. Any responses we receive to such decisions are delegated to a subcommittee requests are included in our political of the GEPAC Board. GEPAC retains counsel contributions report. to ensure compliance with the spirit and letter of all applicable laws and regulations. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33643 1/2018 2018 Political Contributions January 1 June 30, 2018 GE Corporate Global Contributions No GE Corporate contributions were made to U.S. or Canadian party committees, candidates, or incumbents during the first half of 2018. GEPAC Contributions The Federal Election Commission (FEC) regulates the activities of GEPAC and GEPAC Federal. Reports detailing these activities are available on the FEC website, http://www.fec.gov. Learn more about GE and GEPAC political contribution policies and processes here. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33705 a 8/2018 2017 Political Contributions GE Corporate Global Contributions GE Global Corporate Political Contributions for 2017 Payee State Party Date Amount Community Leaders of America National REP 01/20/17 $2,500 Republican Attorneys General Association National REP 08/07/17 $15,000 Democratic Governors Association National DEM 08/07/17 $35,000 Republican Governors Association National REP 08/07/17 $35,000 Republican State Leadership Committee National REP 08/07/17 $35,000 Community Leaders of America National REP 08/14/17 $10,000 National Total $132,500 Alabama Senate Republican Conference AL REP 07/27/17 $2,500 AL Total $2,500 Friends of Chris Carr GA REP 01/20/17 $1,000 Georgia Republican Party Inc. GA REP 04/17/17 $1,000 Makris for Senate Inc. GA REP 04/19/17 $500 Committee to re elect Jack Hill GA REP 12/21/17 $250 Friends of Chris Carr GA REP 12/21/17 $2,000 Beskin for Georgia Inc. GA REP 12/22/17 $250 Committee to Elect Butch Miller GA REP 12/22/17 $500 Committee to Elect Matt Dubnik GA REP 12/22/17 $250 David Shafer for Georgia Inc. GA REP 12/22/17 $1,000 Friends of Deborah Silcox GA REP 12/22/17 $250 The Committee to Elect Terry England GA REP 12/22/17 $500 GA Total $7,500 23rd Ward Regular Democratic Organization IL DEM 08/22/17 $1,000 Democratic Party of Illinois IL DEM 08/22/17 $2,500 Friends of John Curran IL REP 08/22/17 $500 Friends of Michael J Madigan IL DEM 08/22/17 $2,000 Republican State Senate Campaign Committee IL REP 08/22/17 $2,500 Citizens for John Cullerton for State Senate IL DEM 09/13/17 $1,000 Citizens for Tom Tunney IL DEM 09/13/17 $500 Friends for Art Turner II IL DEM 09/13/17 $1,000 Committee to Elect Jay C Hoffman IL DEM 09/21/17 $1,000 House Republican Organization IL REP 09/21/17 $2,500 Senate Democratic Victory Fund IL DEM 09/21/17 $2,500 Olsen for Illinois IL REP 10/16/17 $500 IL Total $17,500 U.S. Grand Total $160,000 Non-U.S. Contributions – Canada Total Provincial $5,000 Global Total $165,000 For each association from which GE receives a notice that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a fiscal year on non-deductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. GEPAC Contributions In 2017, the General Electric Political Action Committee (GEPAC) raised just over $1.5 million from more than 3,600 employees. This amount includes nearly $12,000 contributed by 25 employees directly to GEPAC–Federal, a separate PAC supported exclusively by GE employees who are subject to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB) and/or other rules that affect political contributions by certain financial professionals. GEPAC and GEPAC–Federal contributed $1.47 million to candidates and committees in federal elections. GEPAC contributed $100,000 to candidates and committees in state elections in the United States. The Federal Election Commission (FEC) regulates the activities of GEPAC and GEPAC Federal. Reports detailing these activities are available on the FEC website, http://www.fec.gov. Learn more about GE and GEPAC political contribution policies and processes here. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33705 2/2018 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2016 Payee State Party Date Amount REPUBLICAN ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION National REP 03/07/16 50,000 DEMOCRATIC ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION National DEM 05/16/16 10,000 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National DEM 05/16/16 100,000 DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN National DEM 05/16/16 25,000 REPUBLICAN ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION National REP 05/16/16 25,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National REP 05/16/16 100,000 REPUBLICAN STATE LEADERSHIP COMMITTEE National REP 07/18/16 80,000 National Total 390,000 JOSE FELIX DIAZ CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 FRANK ARTILES CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/14/16 1,000 ELIZABETH PORTER CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 CLAY YARBOROUGH CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 CORD BYRD CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 RAMON ALEXANDER CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/14/16 500 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY FL DEM 10/14/16 5,000 BLAISE INGOGLIA CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 GEORGE MORAITIS CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 AMANDA MURPHY POLITICAL CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/14/16 500 KATHLEEN PETERS CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 TOM GOODSON CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 CAMPAIGN ACCOUNT FOR BRAD DRAKE FL REP 10/14/16 500 RANDY FINE CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 AMY MERCADO CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/14/16 500 MEL PONDER CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 DARYL ROUSON CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/14/16 1,000 RICK ROTH CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 BOB CORTES CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 JOE GRUTERS CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 ROSS SPANO CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 CARLOS TRUJILLO FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL REP 10/14/16 1,000 HOLLY RASCHEIN CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 NICK DURAN CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/14/16 500 TOM LEEK CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 CHRIS LATVALA CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA FL REP 10/14/16 5,000 DAVID SANTIAGO FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL REP 10/14/16 500 DAN RAULERSON FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL DEM 10/14/16 500 CHRIS SPROWLS CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 JAY TRUMBULL CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 RENE PLASENCIA CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 ANITERE FLORES CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 1,000 SCOTT PLAKON CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 500 DANA YOUNG CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 1,000 KATHLEEN PASSADOMO CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/14/16 1,000 FLORIDA REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL CAMPA FL REP 10/17/16 5,000 GREG STEUBE CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/17/16 1,000 DENNIS BAXLEY CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/17/16 1,000 LINDA STEWART CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/17/16 1,000 KELLI STARGEL CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/17/16 500 CARLOS GUILLERMO SMITH CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/17/16 500 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY FL DEM 10/17/16 5,000 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2016 Payee State Party Date Amount BEN DIAMOND CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/17/16 500 PATRICK HENRY CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/18/16 500 MICHAEL A LAROSA FL REP 10/18/16 500 FRANK WHITE CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/19/16 500 VICTOR M TORRES JR. FOR FL SD 15 FL DEM 10/24/16 1,000 MIGUEL DIAZ DE LA PORTILLA CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/07/16 1,000 FL Total 48,000 LARRY WALKER FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 01/23/16 500 FRIENDS OF JON BURNS GA REP 05/18/16 1,500 CITIZENS TO ELECT BROOKS COLEMAN GA REP 05/18/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT THOMAS S. DICKSON GA REP 05/18/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT HOWARD MAXWELL GA REP 05/18/16 1,000 MICHAEL A. CHEOKAS CAMPAIGN COMM. GA REP 05/18/16 500 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT TERRY ENGLAND GA REP 05/18/16 1,000 FRIENDS OF BRETT HARRELL GA REP 05/18/16 500 SHARON COOPER FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 05/18/16 500 TOM TAYLOR FOR GA HOUSE GA REP 05/19/16 500 FRIENDS OF FRANK GINN GA REP 05/19/16 750 BEACH FOR SENATE GA REP 05/19/16 750 FRIENDS OF BERT REEVES GA REP 05/19/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT. DAVID RALSTON GA REP 05/19/16 2,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT. JEFF MULLIS GA REP 05/19/16 1,000 FRIENDS OF JESSE STONE GA REP 05/19/16 500 FRIENDS OF SHARON BEASLEY-TEAGUE GA DEM 05/19/16 250 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT TOMMY BENTON GA REP 05/19/16 250 CHANDLER FOR HOUSE GA REP 05/19/16 250 EALUM CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE GA DEM 05/19/16 250 CLAY COX FOR GEORGIA GA REP 05/19/16 500 MILLAR FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 05/19/16 500 COWSERT FOR SENATE GA REP 05/19/16 1,500 BETHEL FOR GEORGIA SENATE GA REP 05/19/16 750 FRIENDS OF STEVE GOOCH GA REP 05/19/16 1,000 COMM TO ELECT GREG MORRIS GA REP 05/19/16 500 ALBERS FOR SENATE GA REP 05/20/16 500 LEE FOR COBB GA REP 05/20/16 1,000 SEN. JOHN WILKINSON-R GA REP 05/20/16 750 HOUSE REPUBLICAN TRUST INC GA REP 05/20/16 1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DEMETRIUS GA DEM 05/20/16 250 FRIENDS OF STACEY EVANS GA DEM 05/20/16 500 WRIGHT MCLEOD FOR HOUSE INC. GA REP 05/20/16 250 FRIENDS TO ELECT MIKE GLANTON GA DEM 05/20/16 250 DERRICK JACKSON FOR DISTRICT 64 GA DEM 05/20/16 250 FRIENDS OF RAHN MAYO GA DEM 05/20/16 250 COMMITTEE TO ELECT KEITH GREENE GA REP 05/24/16 500 FRIENDS OF ED RYNDERS COMMITTEE GA REP 05/24/16 500 FRIENDS OF BLAKE TILLERY GA REP 05/24/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT HOWARD MOSBY GA DEM 05/24/16 250 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MARY MARGARET GA DEM 05/24/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JOHN YATES GA REP 05/24/16 250 FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS OF CURT THOMP GA DEM 06/07/16 250 MATT BRASS FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 06/07/16 500 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2016 Payee State Party Date Amount WOERNER ELECTION COMMITTEE GA REP 06/07/16 500 DEWAYNE HILL FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 06/07/16 250 FRIENDS OF TIM ECHOLS GA REP 06/07/16 1,000 HATCHETT FOR HOUSE GA REP 11/07/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DALE RUTLEDGE GA REP 11/07/16 500 FRIENDS OF CALVIN SMYRE GA DEM 11/07/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT RICHARD H SMITH GA REP 11/07/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JASON SHAW GA REP 11/07/16 500 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT JOHN MEADOWS GA REP 11/07/16 1,000 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT KARLA DRENNER GA DEM 11/07/16 250 COMMITTEE TO ELECT SUSAN DYKES HOLMES GA REP 11/07/16 500 NIMMER FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 11/07/16 500 VOTE FOR TERRY ROGERS GA REP 11/07/16 500 FRIENDS OF STACEY Y ABRAMS GA DEM 11/07/16 750 COMMITTEE TO ELECT AMY CARTER GA REP 11/07/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT LEE HAWKINS GA REP 11/07/16 500 JOHN CARSON FOR GA HOUSE GA REP 11/07/16 500 BESKIN FOR GEORGIA INC. GA REP 11/07/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BRIAN STRICKLAND INC GA REP 11/07/16 500 CHUCK EFSTRATION FOR HOUSE GA REP 11/07/16 500 FRIENDS OF KATIE DEMPSEY GA REP 11/07/16 500 FRIENDS OF JAN JONES GA REP 11/07/16 1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ALLEN PEAKE GA REP 11/07/16 500 WILLIAMSON FOR WALTON GA REP 11/07/16 500 WILLIAMS FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 11/07/16 250 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT GLORIA BUTLER GA DEM 11/07/16 250 TYLER HARPER FOR GEORGIA GA REP 11/07/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT. ED HARBISON GA DEM 11/07/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MATT DUBNIK GA REP 11/07/16 500 FRIENDS OF JUDSON HILL GA REP 11/09/16 500 MARTIN FOR GEORGIA GA REP 11/09/16 500 GEORGIA REPUBLICAN PARTY INC GA REP 11/09/16 5,000 RICK JEFFARES FOR SENATE GA REP 11/09/16 500 FRIENDS TO ELECT BURT JONES GA REP 11/09/16 1,000 SENATE REPUBLICAN TRUST GEORGIA REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL TRUSTGA REP 11/09/16 1,000 POWELL FOR REPRESENTATIVE GA REP 11/09/16 1,000 CHUCK HUFSTETLER FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 11/09/16 500 JOHN F KENNEDY FOR SENATE GA REP 11/09/16 500 SEN MIKE DUGAN R GA REP 11/09/16 500 BEN WATSON FOR SENATE INC. GA REP 11/09/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT FREDDIE POWELL SIMS GA DEM 11/09/16 250 ROBERT DICKEY FOR STATE HOUSE 136 GA REP 11/09/16 500 HUNTER HILL FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 11/09/16 500 CASEY CAGLE FOR LT. GOVERNER GA REP 11/09/16 1,500 FRIENDS OF DEBORAH SILCOX GA REP 11/09/16 500 HENSON FOR SENATE GA DEM 11/09/16 750 FRIENDS OF DON PARSONS GA REP 11/09/16 500 BRIAN KEMP FOR SECRETARY OF STATE GA REP 11/09/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH MILLER GA REP 11/09/16 750 COMMITTEE TO RE ELECT JACK HILL GA REP 11/09/16 1,000 GA Total 60,000 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2016 Payee State Party Date Amount FRIENDS FOR STATE REP ANTHONY DELUCA IL DEM 06/07/16 1,000 BRANDON PHELPS FOR STATE REP IL DEM 06/07/16 1,500 ZALEWSKI FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE IL DEM 06/07/16 1,500 FRIENDS FOR ART TURNER II IL DEM 06/07/16 1,000 CITIZENS FOR CHRISTINE RADOGNO IL REP 06/07/16 1,500 WINGER FOR REP IL REP 09/26/16 500 FRIENDS OF DAVID A WELTER IL REP 09/27/16 750 OLSEN FOR ILLINOIS IL REP 09/27/16 1,000 BISS FOR ILLINOIS IL DEM 10/14/16 500 FRIENDS OF AVERY BOURNE IL REP 10/14/16 500 CITIZENS FOR HAMMOND IL REP 10/14/16 500 23RD WARD REGULAR DEMOCRATIC ORG IL DEM 10/14/16 1,000 FRIENDS OF ANDY SKOOG IL DEM 10/14/16 500 FRIENDS OF SARA WOJCICKI JIMENEZ IL REP 10/14/16 500 CITIZENS FOR KAY IL REP 10/14/16 500 FRIENDS OF KATE CLOONEN IL DEM 10/14/16 750 FRIENDS OF DEBORAH CONROY IL DEM 10/14/16 750 FRIENDS OF SUE REZIN IL REP 10/14/16 750 FRIENDS OF MICHELLE MUSSMAN IL DEM 10/14/16 500 CITIZENS FOR SCHIMPF IL REP 10/14/16 1,000 FRIENDS OF ROBYN GABEL IL DEM 10/14/16 500 DAVE SYVERSON CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE IL REP 10/14/16 500 ELECT DAN MCCONCHIE IL REP 10/14/16 750 CITIZENS FOR PAMELA J. ALTHOFF IL REP 10/14/16 500 CITIZENS FOR JOHN CULLERTON FOR STATE SENATE IL DEM 10/14/16 1,000 CITIZENS FOR MICHAEL P. MCAULIFFE IL REP 10/14/16 750 HOUSE REPUBLICAN ORGANIZATION IL REP 10/14/16 2,500 REPUBLICAN STATE SENATE CAMP. CMTE IL REP 10/14/16 2,500 SENATE DEMOCRATIC VICTORY FUND IL DEM 10/14/16 2,500 FRIENDS OF MICHAEL J MADIGAN IL DEM 10/14/16 2,000 CITIZENS TO ELECT PATTI BELLOCK IL REP 10/14/16 500 FRIENDS OF CAROL SENTE IL DEM 10/14/16 750 FRIENDS OF KWAME RAOUL IL DEM 10/14/16 500 CITIZENS FOR DANIEL BEISER IL DEM 10/14/16 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT SHERI JESIEL IL REP 10/14/16 500 DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF ILLINOIS IL DEM 10/14/16 2,500 CITIZENS FOR TOM TUNNEY IL DEM 10/14/16 500 FRIENDS OF TOM CULLERTON IL DEM 10/14/16 500 CITIZENS FOR LAURA M MURPHY IL DEM 10/14/16 500 JULIE MORRISON FOR STATE SENATE IL DEM 10/14/16 500 GARY FORBY CAMPAIGN FUND IL DEM 10/14/16 500 IL Total 37,750 BILL FRIEND FOR STATE REP CMTE IN REP 09/06/16 250 CMTE TO ELECT BRIAN BOSMA IN REP 09/06/16 500 FRIENDS TO ELECT VANETA BECKER IN REP 09/06/16 300 CMTE TO ELECT HEATH VANNATTER IN REP 09/06/16 500 HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE IN REP 09/06/16 2,000 DAVID LONG FOR STATE SENATE IN REP 09/06/16 500 SENATE MAJORITY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE IN REP 09/06/16 2,000 CITIZENS FOR MERRITT IN REP 09/06/16 300 MATT LEHMAN FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE IN REP 09/14/16 250 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2016 Payee State Party Date Amount HERSHMAN FOR SENATE IN REP 09/21/16 300 INDIANA REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEE INC IN REP 10/18/16 1,000 ROSWARSKI MURRAY TEAM IN DEM 10/18/16 500 ERIC HOLCOMB FOR INDIANA IN REP 10/18/16 2,500 IN Total 10,900 MISSOUR REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEE MO REP 11/07/16 10,000 MO Total 10,000 STECK FOR ASSEMBLY NY DEM 03/22/16 1,250 SANTABARBARA FOR ASSEMBLY NY DEM 03/22/16 1,250 GEORGE AMEDORE FOR SENATE NY REP 03/22/16 1,250 FRIENDS OF FARLEY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY REP 03/22/16 1,250 REPUBLICAN ASSEMBLY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT. NY REP 03/22/16 5,000 SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NY DEM 03/22/16 10,000 NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNTNY DEM 04/17/16 30,000 DACC HOUSEKEEPING ACCT. NY DEM 04/17/16 10,000 NYS SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMM NY REP 04/17/16 30,000 NY Total 90,000 Citizens for a Strong Future OH NA 09/12/16 75,000 OH Total 75,000 JAMES SMITH FOR HOUSE SC DEM 11/07/16 500 DWIGHT LOFTIS FOR SC HOUSE SC REP 11/07/16 500 COMMITTEE TO RE ELECT ALAN CLEMMONS SC REP 11/07/16 500 GILDA COBB HUNTER FOR HOUSE SC DEM 11/07/16 500 BRAD HUTTO FOR SENATE SC DEM 11/07/16 500 TOMMY POPE FOR SC HOUSE SC REP 11/07/16 500 KARL ALLEN FOR SC SENATE SC DEM 11/07/16 500 NIKKI SETZLER FOR SENATE SC DEM 11/07/16 500 RALPH KENNEDY FOR SC HOUSE SC REP 11/07/16 500 GARRY SMITH FOR SC HOUSE SC REP 11/07/16 500 SC HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS SC REP 11/09/16 5,000 PHILLIP D LOWE FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/09/16 500 THE SOUTH CAROLINA REPUBLICAN PARTY SC REP 11/09/16 2,500 SC HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS SC DEM 11/09/16 1,000 SC SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS SC DEM 11/09/16 2,500 SHANE MASSEY FOR SENATE SC REP 11/09/16 1,000 ROSS TURNER FOR SENATE SC REP 11/09/16 500 GAMBRELL FOR SENATE SC REP 11/11/16 500 SC SENATE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS SC REP 11/22/16 5,000 LARRY GROOMS FOR SENATE SC REP 11/22/16 500 SC Total 24,000 TOSCANO FOR HOUSE VA DEM 10/14/16 1,000 VA Total 1,000 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2016 Payee State Party Date Amount U.S. Grand Total 746,650 NON-US CONTRIBUTIONS Total Provinical Canada Contributions 57,700 GLOBAL TOTAL 804,350 For each association from which GE receives a notice that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a fiscal year on non-deductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2015 Payee State Party Date Amount REPUBLICAN STATE LEADERSHIP COMMITTEE National REP 05/08/15 80,000 REPUBLICAN ATTORNEY GENERALS ASSOCIATION National REP 05/21/15 50,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National REP 06/08/15 75,000 COMMUNITY LEADERS OF AMERICA National REP 06/09/15 20,000 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National DEM 06/16/15 75,000 DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN National DEM 07/27/15 35,000 DEMOCRATIC LT. GOVERNERS ASSOCIATION National DEM 10/12/15 5,000 DEMOCRATIC ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION National DEM 11/17/15 10,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National REP 12/05/15 25,000 COMMUNITY LEADERS OF AMERICA National REP 12/05/15 20,000 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National DEM 12/31/15 15,000 National Total 410,000 ALABAMA SENATE REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE AL REP 11/06/15 5,000 ALABAMA SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS AL DEM 11/24/15 2,500 DANNY CRAWFORD CAMPAIGN AL REP 11/06/15 500 AL Total 8,000 AMANDA MURPHY POLITICAL CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 ANITERE FLORES CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 AUDREY GIBSON CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 BARBARA WATSON CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 BLAISE INGOGLIA CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 CARLOS TRUJILLO FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL REP 11/16/15 500 CHRIS SPROWLS CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 CLOVIS WATSON CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 CYNDI STEVENSON CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 CYNTHIA STAFFORD FOR STATE HOUSE FL DEM 11/16/15 500 DANA YOUNG CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 DAVID SANTIAGO FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL REP 11/16/15 500 DOUG HOLDER CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 ED NARAIN CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 ERIC EISNAUGLE CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 ERIK FRESEN CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY FL DEM 11/16/15 5,000 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY FL DEM 11/16/15 2,500 GEORGE MORAITIS CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 HEATHER FITZENHAGEN CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 JAY TRUMBULL CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 JIM BOYD CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 JOSE JAVIER RODRIGUEZ CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 KATIE EDWARDS CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 KEVIN RADER FOR STATE HOUSE FL DEM 11/16/15 500 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2015 Payee State Party Date Amount KIONNE MCGHEE CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 LAUREN BOOK CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 MATT GAETZ FOR STATE SENATE FL REP 11/16/15 500 PAUL M. RENNER CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 RICK STARK CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 RITCH WORKMAN FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL REP 11/16/15 500 ROB BRADLEY SENATE CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 ROSS SPANO CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 SHEVRIN JONES FOR STATE HOUSE FL DEM 11/16/15 500 TOM GOODSON CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 TOM LEE CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 TRAVIS CUMMINGS FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL REP 11/16/15 500 WILTON SIMPSON SENATE CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 DAN RAULERSON FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL REP 11/16/15 500 JAMES WILLIAM GRANT FL REP 11/16/15 500 JOE ABRUZZO SENATE CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 MARIA SACHS CAMPAIGN FL DEM 11/16/15 500 RENE PLASENCIA CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 RICHARD CORCORAN CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 TRAVIS HUTSON CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/16/15 500 BRIAN AVILA CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/18/15 500 JOSE FELIX DIAZ CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/19/15 500 ELIZABETH PORTER CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/25/15 500 JENNIFER SULLIVAN CAMPAIGN FL REP 11/25/15 500 BUILDING A MAJORITY PC FL DEM 12/05/15 2,500 FL GROWN POLITICAL COMMITTEE FL REP 12/05/15 5,000 FL Total 38,500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JEFF MULLIS GA REP 04/27/15 1,000 LARRY WALKER FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 07/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT AMY CARTER GA REP 10/22/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT THOMAS S. DICKSON GA REP 10/22/15 500 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT KARLA DRENNER GA DEM 10/22/15 350 FRIENDS OF KATIE DEMPSEY GA REP 10/22/15 500 FRIENDS OF STACEY Y ABRAMS GA DEM 10/22/15 750 JOHN CARSON FOR GA HOUSE GA REP 10/22/15 500 MICHAEL A. CHEOKAS CAMPAIGN COMM. GA REP 10/22/15 500 NEIGHBORS FOR EARL EHRHART GA REP 10/22/15 500 ROBERT DICKEY FOR STATE HOUSE 136 GA REP 10/22/15 350 THE CMTE TO ELECT TERRY ENGLAND GA REP 10/22/15 1,000 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT VIRGIL FLUDD GA DEM 10/22/15 500 BETHEL FOR GEORGIA SENATE GA REP 10/29/15 500 BRANDON BEACH GA REP 10/29/15 500 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2015 Payee State Party Date Amount BRIAN KEMP FOR SECRETARY OF STATE GA REP 10/29/15 1,000 CASEY CAGLE FOR LT. GOVERNER GA REP 10/29/15 2,000 CHUCK HUFSTETLER FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 10/29/15 500 CMTE TO RE ELECT REP LYNN R SMITH GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMM TO ELECT GREG MORRIS GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ALLEN PEAKE GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ANDY WELCH GA REP 10/29/15 350 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH MILLER GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DALE RUTLEDGE GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT HOWARD MAXWELL GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JASON SHAW GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JOSH MCKOON GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT LEE HAWKINS GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT RENEE UNTERMAN GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT RICHARD H SMITH GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT SUSAN DYKES HOLMES GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT. CARL ROGERS GA REP 10/29/15 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT. DAVID RALSTON GA REP 10/29/15 2,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT. ED HARBISON GA DEM 10/29/15 350 COMMITTEE TO RE ELECT JACK HILL GA REP 10/29/15 1,000 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT GLORIA BUTLER GA DEM 10/29/15 350 COMMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT RON STEPHENS GA REP 10/29/15 500 COWSERT FOR SENATE GA REP 10/29/15 1,500 DAVID KNIGHT FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 10/29/15 500 DAVID SHAFER SENATE COMMITTEE GA REP 10/29/15 1,500 FRAN MILLAR FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS & NEIGHBORS TO ELECT MARGARET KAISER GA DEM 10/29/15 350 FRIENDS OF BERT REEVES GA REP 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS OF BRETT HARRELL GA REP 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS OF CALVIN SMYRE GA DEM 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS OF DON PARSONS GA REP 10/29/15 750 FRIENDS OF FRANK GINN GA REP 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS OF JAN JONES GA REP 10/29/15 1,000 FRIENDS OF JOE WILKINSON GA REP 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS OF JUDSON HILL GA REP 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS OF KEVIN TANNER GA REP 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS OF SAM TEASLEY GA REP 10/29/15 350 FRIENDS OF STEVE GOOCH GA REP 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS OF TOMMIE WILLIAMS GA REP 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS OF WENDELL WILLARD GA REP 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS TO ELECT BURT JONES GA REP 10/29/15 500 GEORGIA REPUBLICAN PARTY INC GA REP 10/29/15 2,500 HATCHETT FOR HOUSE GA REP 10/29/15 350 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2015 Payee State Party Date Amount HENSON FOR SENATE GA DEM 10/29/15 750 HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS DPG GEORGIA LEADERS CAMPAIGN GA DEM 10/29/15 500 HUNTER HILL FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 10/29/15 500 MARTIN FOR GEORGIA GA REP 10/29/15 500 NIMMER FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 10/29/15 350 SAM OLENS FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL GA REP 10/29/15 1,000 SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS DPG SENATE MAJORITY FUND GA DEM 10/29/15 500 SENATE REPUBLICAN TRUST GEORGIA REPUBLICAN SENATORIAL GA TRUST REP 10/29/15 2,000 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT JOHN MEADOWS GA REP 10/29/15 1,500 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT MATT RAMSEY GA REP 10/29/15 500 TOM TAYLOR FOR GA HOUSE GA REP 10/29/15 350 TYLER HARPER FOR GEORGIA GA REP 10/29/15 350 WILLIAMS FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 10/29/15 500 WILLIAMSON FOR WALTON GA REP 10/29/15 500 BEN WATSON FOR SENATE INC. GA REP 11/06/15 350 BESKIN FOR GEORGIA INC. GA REP 11/06/15 500 CHRISTIAN COOMER CAMPAIGN GA REP 11/06/15 500 CHUCK EFSTRATION FOR HOUSE GA REP 11/06/15 350 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BRIAN STRICKLAND INC GA REP 11/06/15 350 COMMITTEE TO ELECT FREDDIE POWELL SIMS GA DEM 11/06/15 300 FRIENDS OF JESSE STONE GA REP 11/06/15 350 FRIENDS OF JON BURNS GA REP 11/06/15 1,500 HOUSE REPUBLICAN TRUST INC GA REP 11/06/15 1,000 JOHN F KENNEDY FOR SENATE GA REP 11/06/15 500 PEOPLE FOR BARRY FLEMING GA REP 11/06/15 500 REP. MIKE DUDGEON GA REP 11/06/15 350 SEN MIKE DUGAN R GA REP 11/06/15 500 SEN. JOHN WILKINSON-R GA REP 11/06/15 500 VOTE FOR TERRY ROGERS GA REP 11/06/15 500 POWELL FOR REPRESENTATIVE GA REP 11/16/15 1,000 THE WILLIAM LIGON CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE GA REP 11/16/15 350 GA Total 57,000 CITIZENS FOR CHRIS NYBO IL REP 01/29/15 500 FRIENDS OF JOHN D. ANTHONY IL REP 01/29/15 1,000 FRIENDS FOR STATE REP ANTHONY DELUCA IL DEM 06/16/15 1,000 BRANDON PHELPS FOR STATE REP IL DEM 08/20/15 1,000 FRIENDS FOR ART TURNER II IL DEM 08/20/15 1,000 FRIENDS OF MICHAEL J MADIGAN IL DEM 08/20/15 1,500 ZALEWSKI FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE IL DEM 08/20/15 1,500 CITIZENS FOR JAY HOFFMAN IL DEM 09/05/15 500 HOUSE REPUBLICAN ORGANIZATION IL REP 09/05/15 2,500 CITIZENS FOR BILL MITCHELL IL REP 10/22/15 500 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2015 Payee State Party Date Amount CITIZENS FOR CHRISTINE RADOGNO IL REP 10/22/15 1,000 CITIZENS FOR CONNELLY IL REP 10/22/15 500 CITIZENS FOR DALE RIGHTER IL REP 10/22/15 500 CITIZENS FOR FRED CRESPO IL DEM 10/22/15 500 CITIZENS TO ELECT PATTI BELLOCK IL REP 10/22/15 500 CITIZENS TO ELECT RON SANDACK IL REP 10/22/15 1,000 FRIENDS OF CAROL SENTE IL DEM 10/22/15 500 FRIENDS OF JEHAN GORDON IL DEM 10/22/15 500 FRIENDS OF JOHN D. ANTHONY IL REP 10/22/15 500 FRIENDS OF LINDA CHAPA LAVIA IL DEM 10/22/15 500 FRIENDS OF MARTIN SANDOVAL IL DEM 10/22/15 500 FRIENDS OF MICHELLE MUSSMAN IL DEM 10/22/15 500 23RD WARD REGULAR DEMOCRATIC ORG IL DEM 10/29/15 1,000 BISS FOR ILLINOIS IL DEM 10/29/15 750 CITIZENS FOR JOHN M CABELLO IL REP 10/29/15 750 COMMITTEE TO ELECT SHERI JESIEL IL REP 10/29/15 750 DAVE SYVERSON FOR SENATE IL REP 10/29/15 1,000 FRIENDS OF AVERY BOURNE IL REP 10/29/15 750 FRIENDS OF KWAME RAOUL IL DEM 10/29/15 500 FRIENDS OF TOI HUTCHINSON IL DEM 10/29/15 500 REPUBLICAN STATE SENATE CAMP. CMTE IL REP 11/06/15 2,500 SENATE DEMOCRATIC VICTORY FUND IL DEM 11/06/15 2,500 IL Total 29,000 BILL FRIEND FOR STATE REP CMTE IN REP 10/22/15 250 CITIZENS FOR MERRITT IN REP 10/22/15 300 CMTE TO ELECT BRIAN BOSMA IN REP 10/22/15 500 CMTE TO ELECT HEATH VANNATTER IN REP 10/22/15 250 DAVID LONG FOR STATE SENATE IN REP 10/22/15 500 FRIENDS TO ELECT VANETA BECKER IN REP 10/22/15 300 HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE IN REP 10/22/15 2,000 MIKE PENCE FOR INDIANA IN REP 10/22/15 2,500 SENATE MAJORITY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE IN REP 10/22/15 2,000 IN Total 8,600 LANDRY FOR LOUISIANA LA REP 12/05/15 3,000 LA Total 3,000 MISSOURIANS FOR PETER KINDER MO REP 12/08/15 1,000 MO Total 1,000 ANGELA COCKERHAM CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/12/15 500 HOB BRYAN CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/12/15 500 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2015 Payee State Party Date Amount WILLIE SIMMONS MS DEM 10/12/15 500 FRIENDS OF TATE REEVES MS REP 10/12/15 1,000 PHIL BRYANT FOR GOVERNOR MS REP 10/12/15 1,000 BRIGGS HOPSON CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 EUGENE S CLARKE CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 HERB FRIERSON CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 JEFF SMITH CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 JIM BECKETT CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 MARK BAKER CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 NOLAN METTETAL CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 TERRY BURTON CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 JOEY FILLINGANE MS REP 10/12/15 500 BOBBY SHOWS CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 250 CHARLES BUSBY CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 DAVID BLOUNT CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/12/15 500 DEAN KIRBY CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 DENNIS DEBAR CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 FRIENDS OF BRAD MAYO MS REP 10/12/15 500 HENRY ZUBER CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 JASON WHITE CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 JOEY HOOD FOR MISSISSIPPI MS REP 10/12/15 500 JOHN MOORE CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 MARK FORMBY CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 PHILIP GUNN CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 1,000 ROBERT JOHNSON CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/12/15 500 SALLY DOTY CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 SAM MIMS CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 SHERRA LANE CAMPAIGN FUND MS DEM 10/12/15 500 TOBY BARKER CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/12/15 500 MS Total 16,750 ADAM LAXALT FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL NV REP 10/29/15 2,000 NV TOTAL 2,000 FRIENDS OF JOHN FLANAGAN NY REP 06/25/15 500 FRIENDS OF CARL HEASTIE NY DEM 06/26/15 500 GEORGE AMEDORE FOR SENATE NY REP 06/26/15 1,000 REPUBLICAN ASSEMBLY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE HOUSEKEEPING NY ACCOUNT REP 06/26/15 4,000 STECK FOR ASSEMBLY NY DEM 06/26/15 1,000 DACC HOUSEKEEPING ACCT. NY DEM 07/13/15 11,000 FRIENDS OF FARLEY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY REP 07/13/15 1,000 NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE HOUSEKEEPING NY ACCOUNT DEM 07/13/15 30,000 NYS SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMM NY REP 07/13/15 30,000 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2015 Payee State Party Date Amount SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NY DEM 07/13/15 10,000 SANTABARBARA FOR ASSEMBLY NY DEM 11/16/15 1,000 NY Total 90,000 SOUTH CAROLINA GENERAL ASSEMBLY WOMENS CAUCUSSC REP 06/08/15 500 BRUCE BANNISTER FOR HOUSE SC REP 10/29/15 1,000 JAY LUCAS FOR HOUSE SC REP 10/29/15 1,000 SC HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS SC REP 11/16/15 5,000 DAN HAMILTON FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/18/15 500 DWIGHT LOFTIS FOR SC HOUSE SC REP 11/16/15 500 JAMES BURNS FOR SC HOUSE SC REP 12/08/15 500 PHILLIS HENDERSON FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/18/15 500 REP BRIAN WHITE FOR SC HOUSE SC REP 11/18/15 1,000 SC SENATE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS SC REP 11/18/15 5,000 WILLIAM E. SANDIFER III SC REP 12/05/15 1,000 SC Total 16,500 DEEDS FOR STATE SENATE VA DEM 10/22/15 500 DONALD MCEACHIN FOR STATE SENATE VA DEM 10/22/15 1,000 EDWARDS FOR VIRGINIA SENATE VA DEM 10/22/15 1,000 SASLAW FOR SENATE VA DEM 10/22/15 1,000 TOSCANO FOR HOUSE VA DEM 10/22/15 1,500 FRIENDS OF TOMMY NORMENT VA REP 10/22/15 1,500 DOMINION LEADERSHIP TRUST PAC VA REP 10/22/15 1,500 FARRELL FOR DELEGATE VA REP 10/22/15 500 FRIENDS OF GREG HABEEB VA REP 10/22/15 1,000 FRIENDS OF KIRK COX VA REP 10/22/15 1,500 FRIENDS OF SIOBHAN DUNNAVANT VA REP 10/22/15 500 MASSIE FOR DELEGATE VA REP 10/22/15 500 MCDOUGLE FOR VIRGINIA VA REP 10/22/15 1,000 O'BANNON FOR HOUSE VA REP 10/22/15 500 FRIENDS OF ROB BELL FOR DELEGATE VA REP 11/06/15 1,000 VA Total 14,500 JAY INSLEE FOR WASHINGTON WA DEM 10/12/15 1,000 WA Total 1,000 U.S. Grand Total 695,850 Non U.S. Contributions Total Provincial 1-1-2015 CANADA Contributions 12-31-2015 25,125 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2015 Payee State Party Date Amount Global Total 720,975 For each association from which GE receives a notice that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a fiscal year on non-deductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. Based on the information GE received in 2015, the National Electrical Manufacturers Association responded that they made a $12,000 contribution to the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee and a $12,000 contribution to the Republican Legislative Campaign GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2014 Payee State Party Date Amount ISSUE 4 IN CLEVELAND METROPOLITAN SCHOOL DISTRICT LEVY (OH) BALLOT NA 10/20/14 $2,500 ISSUE 4 IN CLEVELAND METROPOLITAN SCHOOL DISTRICT LEVY (OH) BALLOT NA 12/24/14 $10,000 Ballot Total $12,500 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National DEM 03/24/14 $25,000 REPUBLICAN STATE LEADERSHIP COMMITTEE National REP 05/09/14 $70,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National REP 06/05/14 $100,000 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National DEM 06/10/14 $75,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National REP 10/23/14 $10,000 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National DEM 10/23/14 $10,000 COMMUNITY LEADERS OF AMERICA National REP 08/18/14 $10,000 National Total $300,000 A. J. MCCAMPBELL CAMPAIGN AL DEM 05/06/14 $500 BILL HIGHTOWER CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/06/14 $1,000 BOBBY SINGLETON CAMPAIGN AL DEM 05/06/14 $1,000 CAM WARD CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/06/14 $1,000 GERALD ALLEN CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/06/14 $1,000 GREG REED CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/06/14 $1,000 HANK SANDERS CAMPAIGN AL DEM 05/06/14 $1,000 JACK WILLIAMS CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/06/14 $500 PAUL BUSSMAN CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/06/14 $1,000 QUINTON ROSS CAMPAIGN AL DEM 05/06/14 $1,000 RICHARD BAUGHN CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/06/14 $500 RODGER SMITHERMAN CAMPAIGN AL DEM 05/06/14 $1,000 WAYNE JOHNSON CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/06/14 $500 BARRY MOORE CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/07/14 $500 BILL ROBERTS CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/07/14 $500 DAN WILLIAMS CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/07/14 $500 HARRY SHIVER CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/07/14 $500 JOHN ROGERS CAMPAIGN AL DEM 05/07/14 $500 JUANDALYNN GIVAN CAMPAIGN AL DEM 05/07/14 $500 KURT WALLACE CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/07/14 $500 LESLEY VANCE CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/07/14 $500 MAC BUTTRAM CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/07/14 $500 MACK BUTLER CAMPAIGN AL REP 05/07/14 $500 RALPH HOWARD CAMPAIGN AL DEM 05/07/14 $500 ROD SCOTT CAMPAIGN AL DEM 05/07/14 $500 CLYDE CHAMBLISS CAMPAIGN AL REP 08/26/14 $1,000 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2014 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2014 Payee State Party Date Amount JIM PATTERSON CAMPAIGN AL REP 08/26/14 $500 KEN JOHNSON CAMPAIGN AL REP 08/26/14 $500 LESLEY VANCE CAMPAIGN AL REP 08/26/14 $500 MAC MCCUTCHEON CAMPAIGN AL REP 08/26/14 $500 STEVE LIVINGSTON CAMPAIGN AL REP 08/26/14 $1,000 TERRI COLLINS CAMPAIGN AL REP 08/26/14 $ 500 TIM MELSON CAMPAIGN AL REP 08/26/14 $1,000 BENTLEY FOR GOVERNOR AL REP 09/05/14 $5,000 STORMING THE STATE HOUSE PAC AL REP 09/05/14 $2,500 AL Total $30,000 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF ARKANSAS AR REP 10/14/14 $10,000 AR Total $10,000 BOB WIECKOWSKI FOR SENATE 2014 CA DEM 03/24/14 $1,500 FIONA MA FOR STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION 2014 CA DEM 03/24/14 $4,000 OLSEN FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA REP 03/24/14 $2,000 JIM FRAZIER FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 03/25/14 $1,500 KEVIN MULLIN FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 03/25/14 $1,000 PEREA FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 03/25/14 $2,000 TAX FIGHTERS FOR ANDERSON SENATE 2014 CA REP 03/25/14 $1,200 HALL FOR SENATE 2016 CA DEM 03/26/14 $4,100 JERRY HILL FOR SENATE CA DEM 03/26/14 $1,500 PADILLA FOR SECRETARY OF STATE 2014 CA DEM 03/27/14 $3,100 BONTA FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 03/31/14 $1,500 RAUL BOCANEGRA FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 03/31/14 $3,000 NEWSOM FOR LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR 2014 CA DEM 04/01/14 $3,500 FRIENDS OF FRANK BIGELOW CA REP 04/03/14 $3,100 GRAY FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 04/03/14 $4,100 KEN COOLEY FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 04/03/14 $2,000 MELISSA MELENDEZ FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA REP 04/03/14 $1,500 TAXPAYERS FOR JIM NIELSEN SENATE 2014 CA REP 04/03/14 $1,500 IAN CALDERON FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 04/04/14 $3,100 TOM DALY FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 04/07/14 $1,500 ANTHONY RENDON FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 04/09/14 $3,100 DR. ED HERNANDEZ DEMOCRAT FOR SENATE CA DEM 04/15/14 $1,500 CANELLA FOR SENATE 2014 CA REP 04/23/14 $3,100 ANTHONY RENDON FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 10/10/14 $1,500 BOB WIECKOWSKI FOR SENATE 2014 CA DEM 10/10/14 $1,500 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2014 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2014 Payee State Party Date Amount BONNIE GARCIA FOR SENATE 2014 CA DEM 10/10/14 $2,000 CANNELLA FOR SENATE 2014 CA DEM 10/10/14 $4,100 ERIC LINDER FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 10/10/14 $2,000 HALL FOR SENATE 2016 CA DEM 10/10/14 $4,100 HERTZBERG FOR SENATE 2014 CA DEM 10/10/14 $4,100 IAN CALDERON FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 10/10/14 $3,100 JIM FRAZIER FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA DEM 10/10/14 $2,000 LACKEY FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA REP 10/10/14 $1,500 MARC STEINORTH FOR ASSEMBLY '14 CA REP 10/10/14 $2,000 NEWSOM FOR LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR 2014 CA REP 10/10/14 $3,500 OLSEN FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA REP 10/10/14 $4,100 PADILLA FOR SECRETARY OF STATE 2014 CA REP 10/10/14 $4,500 ROB MCCOY FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA REP 10/10/14 $2,000 TAXPAYERS FOR GEORGE RUNNER CA REP 10/10/14 $4,900 WALDRON FOR ASSEMBLY 2014 CA REP 10/10/14 $2,000 YOUNG KIM FOR STATE ASSEMBLY CA REP 10/10/14 $1,500 CA Total $104,800 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA FL REP 04/23/14 $50,000 DAN RAULERSON FOR STATE HOUSE FL REP 08/20/14 ($500) KEVIN RADER FOR STATE HOUSE FL DEM 08/12/14 $500 OSCAR BRAYNON SENATE CAMPAIGN FL DEM 08/12/14 $500 DANE EAGLE CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/12/14 $500 DAVID SANTIAGO FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL REP 08/12/14 $500 JACK LATVALA FOR FLORIDA SENATE FL REP 08/12/14 $500 JANET NUNEZ CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/12/14 $500 JASON BRODEUR CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/12/14 $500 KEITH PERRY CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/12/14 $500 NEIL COMBEE CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/12/14 $500 SCOTT PLAKON CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/12/14 $500 DAREN SOTO CAMPAIGN FL DEM 08/13/14 $500 DAVID SIMMONS FOR STATE SENATE CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/13/14 $500 MATT CALDWELL FOR STATE HOUSE FL REP 08/13/14 $500 ALAN WILLIAMS CAMPAIGN ACCOUNT FL DEM 08/15/14 $500 AMANDA MURPHY POLITICAL CAMPAIGN FL DEM 08/15/14 $500 JOSEPH GELLER FOR STATE HOUSE DISTRICT 100 FL DEM 08/15/14 $500 KAREN CASTOR DENTEL FOR HOUSE DISTRICT 30 FL DEM 08/15/14 $500 LARRY LEE JR CAMPAIGN FOR STATE REP DIST 48 FL DEM 08/15/14 $500 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2014 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2014 Payee State Party Date Amount BILL HAGER FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL REP 08/15/14 $500 BLAISE INGOGLIA CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 CAMPAIGN ACCOUNT FOR BRAD DRAKE FL REP 08/15/14 $500 CARLOS TRUJILLO FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL REP 08/15/14 $500 CHRIS LATVALA CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 CLAY INGRAM CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 DANIEL WRIGHT BURGESS JR. CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 DOUGLAS BROXSON CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 ERIC EISNAUGLE CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 ERIK FRESEN CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 FRANK ARTILES CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 FRED COSTELLO CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 GEORGE MORAITIS CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 JAMES WILLIAM GRANT FL REP 08/15/14 $500 JANET ADKINS CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 JOE NEGRON CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 JOHN THRASHER CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 JOHN WOOD CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 JOSE FELIX DIAZ CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 KATHLEEN PETERS CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 MANNY DIAZ JR CAMPAIGN FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE FL REP 08/15/14 $500 MICHAEL A LAROSA FL REP 08/15/14 $500 MICHAEL BILECA FL REP 08/15/14 $500 MIKE HILL CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 ROSS SPANO CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 STEVE CRISAFULLI CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 TOM GOODSON CAMPAIGN FL REP 08/15/14 $500 BOBBY DUBOSE CAMPAIGN FL DEM 08/21/14 $500 BOBBY POWELL CAMPAIGN FL DEM 08/21/14 $500 DWIGHT DUDLEY CAMPAIGN FL DEM 08/21/14 $500 ADAM PUTNAM CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/20/14 $3,000 JEFF ATWATER CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/20/14 $3,000 PAM BONDI FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL FL REP 10/20/14 $3,000 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA FL REP 10/20/14 $50,000 GERALDINE THOMPSON FOR FL SENATE FL DEM 10/23/14 $500 JEFF BRANDES CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/23/14 $500 JOHN TOBIA CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/23/14 $500 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2014 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2014 Payee State Party Date Amount REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA FL REP 10/23/14 $50,000 FL Total $184,000 DON BALFOUR FOR SENATE GA REP 01/16/14 ($500) FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS TO ELECT MARGARET KAISER GA DEM 02/24/14 ($350) CASEY CAGLE FOR LT. GOVERNOR GA REP 06/03/14 ($2,000) FRIENDS OF JAN JONES GA REP 02/07/14 $1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ED HARBISON GA DEM 05/29/14 $350 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT NIKKI RANDALL GA DEM 05/29/14 $350 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT KARLA DRENNER GA DEM 05/29/14 $350 FRIENDS OF STACEY Y ABRAMS GA DEM 05/29/14 $750 ALBERS FOR SENATE GA REP 05/29/14 $350 BRIAN KEMP FOR SECRETARY OF STATE GA REP 05/29/14 $1,000 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT RANDY NIX GA REP 05/29/14 $350 CHANNELL RE-ELECTION CAMPAIGN GA REP 05/29/14 $1,000 CITIZENS TO ELECT BROOKS COLEMAN GA REP 05/29/14 $350 CMTE TO RE-ELECT REP LYNN R SMITH GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COMM TO ELECT GREG MORRIS GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ALLEN PEAKE GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT HOWARD MAXWELL GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JASON SHAW GA REP 05/29/14 $350 COMMITTEE TO ELECT LARRY O'NEAL GA REP 05/29/14 $1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT THOMAS S. DICKSON GA REP 05/29/14 $350 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JAY ROBERTS GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COMMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT RON STEPHENS GA REP 05/29/14 $500 DAVID SHAFER SENATE COMMITTEE GA REP 05/29/14 $1,500 FRAN MILLAR FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 05/29/14 $500 FRIENDS OF DON PARSONS GA REP 05/29/14 $750 FRIENDS OF JUDSON HILL GA REP 05/29/14 $500 FRIENDS OF SAM TEASLEY GA REP 05/29/14 $500 FRIENDS TO ELECT BURT JONES GA REP 05/29/14 $500 HATCHETT FOR HOUSE GA REP 05/29/14 $500 NATHAN DEAL FOR GOVERNOR INC. GA REP 05/29/14 $3,000 ROBERT DICKEY FOR STATE HOUSE 136 GA REP 05/29/14 $350 ROSS TOLLESON FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 05/29/14 $500 SAM OLENS FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL GA REP 05/29/14 $500 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT JOHN MEADOWS GA REP 05/29/14 $1,000 TOM TAYLOR FOR GA HOUSE GA REP 05/29/14 $350 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2014 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2014 Payee State Party Date Amount TYLER HARPER FOR GEORGIA GA REP 05/29/14 $350 WILLIAMSON FOR WALTON GA REP 05/29/14 $500 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT VIRGIL FLUDD GA DEM 05/29/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT SUSAN DYKES HOLMES GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT JACK HILL GA REP 05/29/14 $750 FRIENDS OF BRETT HARRELL GA REP 05/29/14 $350 FRIENDS OF JACK MURPHY GA REP 05/29/14 $750 JOHN CARSON FOR GA HOUSE GA REP 05/29/14 $500 MARK HAMILTON FOR STATE HOUSE 23 GA REP 05/29/14 $500 MICHAEL A. CHEOKAS CAMPAIGN COMM. GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COWSERT FOR SENATE GA REP 05/29/14 $1,000 HENSON FOR SENATE GA DEM 05/29/14 $750 CHUCK HUFSTETLER FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH MILLER GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT LEE HAWKINS GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT RENEE UNTERMAN GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT CARL ROGERS GA REP 05/29/14 $500 FRIENDS OF JOE WILKINSON GA REP 05/29/14 $500 NEIGHBORS FOR EARL EHRHART GA REP 05/29/14 $500 CASEY CAGLE FOR LT. GOVERNOR GA REP 05/29/14 $2,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ANDY WELCH GA REP 05/29/14 $350 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DALE RUTLEDGE GA REP 05/29/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT RICHARD H SMITH GA REP 05/29/14 $500 FRIENDS OF FRANK GINN GA REP 05/29/14 $500 FRIENDS OF JAN JONES GA REP 05/29/14 $1,500 FRIENDS OF KATIE DEMPSEY GA REP 05/29/14 $500 FRIENDS OF KEVIN TANNER GA REP 05/29/14 $500 FRIENDS OF STEVE GOOCH GA REP 05/29/14 $500 HUNTER HILL FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 05/29/14 $500 LYNNE RILEY FOR GEORGIA GA REP 05/29/14 $400 MARTIN FOR GEORGIA GA REP 05/29/14 $500 RICK JEFFARES FOR SENATE GA REP 05/29/14 $500 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT MATT RAMSEY GA REP 05/29/14 $500 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT TERRY ENGLAND GA REP 05/29/14 $750 WILLIAMS FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 05/29/14 $500 HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS DPG GEORGIA LEADERS CAMPAIGN GA DEM 05/29/14 $500 SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS DPG SENATE MAJORITY FUND GA DEM 05/29/14 $500 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2014 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2014 Payee State Party Date Amount GEORGIA REPUBLICAN PARTY INC GA REP 05/30/14 $10,000 NIMMER FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 06/06/14 $400 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT GLORIA BUTLER GA DEM 06/06/14 $250 FRIENDS & NEIGHBORS TO ELECT MARGARET KAISER GA DEM 06/06/14 $500 POWELL FOR REPRESENTATIVE GA REP 06/06/14 $350 BRANDON BEACH GA REP 06/06/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DAVID RALSTON GA REP 06/06/14 $1,000 FRIENDS OF WENDELL WILLARD GA REP 06/09/14 $500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH PARRISH GA REP 06/09/14 $500 JEFF JONES FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE GA REP 09/19/14 $500 FRIENDS OF BERT REEVES GA REP 09/25/14 $500 GA Total $55,100 CITIZENS FOR CHAPIN ROSE IL REP 02/24/14 ($500) CITIZENS FOR JAY HOFFMAN IL DEM 02/24/14 ($500) CITIZENS TO ELECT RON SANDACK IL REP 02/11/14 $500 CITIZENS FOR MARIA A. BERRIOS IL DEM 02/12/14 $500 CITIZENS FOR THADDEUS JONES IL DEM 02/12/14 $500 FRIENDS OF CHRISTIAN MITCHELL IL DEM 02/12/14 $500 FRIENDS OF JAIME M. ANDRADE JR IL DEM 02/12/14 $500 FRIENDS OF SANDY PIHOS IL REP 02/12/14 $500 FRIENDS OF CHAPIN ROSE IL REP 02/25/14 $500 CITIZENS FOR SULLIVAN IL REP 03/10/14 $500 FRIENDS OF MICHAEL J MADIGAN IL DEM 04/24/14 $1,000 CITIZENS FOR DALE RIGHTER IL REP 06/19/14 $500 CITIZENS FOR FRED CRESPO IL DEM 09/05/14 $500 COMMITTEE FOR FRANK MAUTINO IL DEM 09/05/14 $500 FRIENDS FOR ART TURNER II IL DEM 09/05/14 $750 FRIENDS OF CAROL SENTE IL DEM 09/05/14 $750 FRIENDS OF JEHAN GORDON IL DEM 09/05/14 $500 FRIENDS OF JOHN BRADLEY IL DEM 09/05/14 $1,000 FRIENDS OF MICHAEL J MADIGAN IL DEM 09/05/14 $1,000 ZALEWSKI FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE IL DEM 09/05/14 $1,500 CITIZENS FOR DALE RIGHTER IL REP 09/05/14 $500 CITIZENS TO ELECT DAVID HARRIS IL REP 09/05/14 $500 CITIZENS TO ELECT PATTI BELLOCK IL REP 09/05/14 $250 CITIZENS TO ELECT RON SANDACK IL REP 09/05/14 $1,000 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2014 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2014 Payee State Party Date Amount FRIENDS OF JOHN D. ANTHONY IL REP 09/05/14 $750 HOUSE REPUBLICAN ORGANIZATION IL REP 09/05/14 $2,500 23RD WARD REGULAR DEMOCRATIC ORG IL DEM 09/05/14 $1,000 CITIZENS FOR JOHN CULLERTON IL DEM 09/05/14 $1,000 CITIZENS FOR TOM TUNNEY IL DEM 09/05/14 $500 FRIENDS OF ANDY MANAR IL DEM 09/05/14 $1,000 FRIENDS OF ANNA MOELLER IL DEM 09/05/14 $500 FRIENDS OF DEBORAH CONROY IL DEM 09/05/14 $500 FRIENDS OF HARRIS IL DEM 09/05/14 $250 FRIENDS OF KWAME RAOUL IL DEM 09/05/14 $1,000 FRIENDS OF MICHELLE MUSSMAN IL DEM 09/05/14 $500 FRIENDS OF NATALIE MANLEY IL DEM 09/05/14 $500 FRIENDS OF STEPHANIE KIFOWIT IL DEM 09/05/14 $500 FRIENDS OF TERRY LINK IL DEM 09/05/14 $500 CITIZENS FOR CHRISTINE RADOGNO IL REP 09/05/14 $1,000 CITIZENS FOR CONNELLY IL REP 09/05/14 $500 DAVE SYVERSON FOR SENATE IL REP 09/05/14 $500 DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF ILLINOIS IL DEM 09/05/14 $2,500 SENATE DEMOCRATIC VICTORY FUND IL DEM 09/05/14 $2,500 REPUBLICAN STATE SENATE CAMP. CMTE IL REP 09/05/14 $2,500 FRIENDS OF MIKE JACOBS IL DEM 09/19/14 $1,000 DAVID MCSWEENEY FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE IL REP 09/26/14 $750 IL Total $35,500 MIKE PENCE FOR INDIANA IN REP 06/12/14 $500 MIKE PENCE FOR INDIANA IN REP 10/10/14 $2,000 IN Total $2,500 BROWNBACK FOR GOVERNOR, INC. KS REP 10/28/14 $2,000 KS Total $2,000 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF LOUISIANA LA REP 10/13/14 $10,000 LA Total $10,000 ANGELA COCKERHAM CAMPAIGN MS DEM 06/03/14 ($500) STEVE HALE CAMPAIGN MS DEM 06/03/14 ($500) BO EATON CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/10/14 $500 BOBBY MOAK CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/10/14 $500 HASKINS MONTGOMERY CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/10/14 $500 HOB BRYAN CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/10/14 $500 KENNETH WAYNE JONES CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/10/14 $500 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2014 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2014 Payee State Party Date Amount OMERIA SCOTT CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/10/14 $500 ANGELA COCKERHAM CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/10/14 $500 STEVE HALE CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/10/14 $500 BRIGGS HOPSON CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 EUGENE S CLARKE CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 FORWARD MISSISSIPPI PAC MS REP 10/10/14 $1,000 FRIENDS OF TATE REEVES MS REP 10/10/14 $1,000 GARY CHISM CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 GARY STAPLES CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 GREG SNOWDEN CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 HERB FRIERSON CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 JEFF SMITH CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 JIM BECKETT CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 JOEY FILLINGANE CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 MARK BAKER CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 NOLAN METTETAL CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 PHIL BRYANT FOR GOVERNOR MS REP 10/10/14 $1,000 TERRY BURTON CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/10/14 $500 WILLIE SIMMONS CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/14/14 $500 PERRY LEE CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/14/14 $500 MS Total $13,000 NEW HAMPSHIRE REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEE NH REP 10/13/14 $5,000 NH Total $5,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT KELVIN ATKINSON NV DEM 05/12/14 $1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT PAT HICKEY NV REP 05/14/14 $750 FRIENDS OF MARILYN KIRKPATRICK NV DEM 05/14/14 $1,250 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BEN KIECKHEFER NV REP 05/16/14 $750 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DEBBIE SMITH NV DEM 05/19/14 $1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MO DENIS NV DEM 05/19/14 $1,000 FRIENDS FOR DAVID BOBZIEN NV DEM 05/19/14 $1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MICHAEL ROBERSON NV REP 05/20/14 $750 SANDOVAL FOR GOVERNOR NV REP 05/28/14 $1,500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MICHAEL ROBERSON NV REP 09/25/14 $1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT KELVIN ATKINSON NV DEM 09/26/14 $1,000 FRIENDS FOR DAVID BOBZIEN NV DEM 09/26/14 $1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MARILYN KIRKPATRICK NV DEM 10/10/14 $2,500 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2014 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2014 Payee State Party Date Amount JUSTIN JONES FOR NEVADA SENATE NV DEM 10/10/14 $1,000 ADAM LAXALT FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL NV REP 11/21/14 $2,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MARK HUTCHISON NV REP 12/10/14 $1,500 NV Total $19,000 NYS SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMM NY REP 03/20/14 $30,000 FRIENDS OF FARLEY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY REP 03/24/14 $500 FRIENDS OF SILVER NY DEM 03/24/14 $1,000 JEFF KLEIN FOR NEW YORK NY DEM 03/24/14 $1,000 SANTABARBARA FOR ASSEMBLY NY DEM 03/24/14 $500 STECK FOR ASSEMBLY NY DEM 03/24/14 $500 FRIENDS FOR THE ELECTION OF DEAN SKELOS NY REP 03/25/14 $1,000 NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE NY DEM 03/25/14 $30,000 HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NYS DEM SEN CAMPAIGN CMTE NY DEM 03/25/14 $10,000 NYS DEMOCRATIC ASSEMBLY CAMPAIGN CO NY DEM 03/25/14 $11,000 FRIENDS OF CECILIA TKACZYK NY DEM 03/27/14 $500 REPUBLICAN ASSEMBLY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY REP 10/10/14 $4,000 HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NY Total $90,000 FRIENDS OF TINA KOTEK OR DEM 10/21/14 $2,000 OR Total $2,000 HOUSE REPUBLICAN TRUST INC VA REP 01/23/14 $1,000 VA Total $1,000 PROPERTY CASUALTY INSURERS PACS NA NA 02/25/14 $906 (PERCENTAGE OF DUES PAYMENT) PROPERTY CASUALTY INSURERS PACS NA NA 08/25/14 $788 (PERCENTAGE OF DUES PAYMENT) Total $1,694 Grand Total $878,094 Non-U.S. Contributions Total Provincial CANADA Contributions 2014 $35,505 Global Total $913,599 For each association from which GE receives a notice that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a fiscal year on non-deductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2014 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2013 Payee State Party Date Amount REPUBLICAN ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION National REP 01/22/13 $5,000.00 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS' ASSOCIATION (DGA) National DEM 03/22/13 $10,000.00 REPUBLICAN STATE LEADERSHIP COMMITTEE National REP 04/13/13 $70,000.00 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION National REP 07/22/13 $100,000.00 REPUBLICAN LIEUTENANT GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION (RLGA) National REP 08/02/13 $10,000.00 DEMOCRATIC ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION National DEM 09/06/13 $5,000.00 National Total $200,000.00 STORMING THE STATE HOUSE PAC (STORM PAC) AL REP 03/08/13 $3,500.00 STORMING THE STATE HOUSE PAC (STORM PAC) AL REP 05/16/13 $500.00 MIKE HUBBARD CAMPAIGN AL REP 09/06/13 $2,000.00 AL Total $6,000.00 HERTZBERG FOR SENATE 2014 CA DEM 11/18/13 $4,100.00 CA Total $4,100.00 BILL GALVANO SENATE CAMPAIGN FL REP 09/16/13 $500.00 DARREN SOTO CAMPAIGN FL DEM 09/16/13 $500.00 DAVID SIMMONS CAMPAIGN FOR SENATE FL REP 09/16/13 $500.00 DOROTHY HUKILL SENATE CAMPAIGN FL REP 09/16/13 $500.00 JACK LATVALA FOR SENATE FL REP 09/16/13 $500.00 JEFF BRANDES CAMPAIGN FL REP 09/16/13 $500.00 LIZBETH BENACQUISTO CAMPAIGN FL REP 09/16/13 $500.00 OSCAR BRAYNON SENATE CAMPAIGN FL DEM 09/16/13 $500.00 TOM LEE CAMPAIGN FOR SENATE FL REP 09/16/13 $500.00 CYNTHIA STAFFORD FOR STATE HOUSE FL DEM 09/20/13 $500.00 DAN RAULERSON FOR STATE HOUSE FL REP 09/20/13 $500.00 DANE EAGLE CAMPAIGN FL REP 09/20/13 $500.00 DAVID SANTIAGO FOR STATE HOUSE FL REP 09/20/13 $500.00 DEBBIE MAYFIELD CAMPAIGN FL REP 09/20/13 $500.00 JASON BRODEUR CAMPAIGN FL REP 09/20/13 $500.00 KEVIN RADER FOR STATE HOUSE FL DEM 09/20/13 $500.00 MATT GAETZ CAMPAIGN FL REP 09/20/13 $500.00 RITCH WORKMAN CAMPAIGN FL REP 09/20/13 $500.00 SHERVIN JONES FOR STATE HOUSE FL DEM 09/20/13 $500.00 W. TRAVIS CUMMINGS FOR STATE HOUSE FL REP 09/20/13 $500.00 DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF FLORIDA (NON-FEDERAL) FL DEM 11/21/13 $2,500.00 DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF FLORIDA (NON-FEDERAL) FL DEM 11/21/13 $2,500.00 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA (NON-FEDERAL) FL REP 11/21/13 $2,500.00 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA (NON-FEDERAL) FL REP 11/21/13 $2,500.00 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2013 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2013 Payee State Party Date Amount REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA (NON-FEDERAL) FL REP 11/21/13 $5,000.00 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA (NON-FEDERAL) FL REP 11/21/13 $5,000.00 FL Total $30,000.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH MILLER GA REP 01/22/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JEFF MULLIS GA REP 01/22/13 $500.00 DAVID SHAFER SENATE COMMITTEE GA REP 01/22/13 $500.00 DON BALFOUR FOR SENATE GA REP 01/22/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF TOMMIE WILLIAMS GA REP 01/22/13 $500.00 GEORGIA REPUBLICAN PARTY (NON-FEDERAL) GA REP 05/10/13 $3,000.00 ROBERT DICKEY FOR STATE HOUSE 140 GA REP 06/20/13 $350.00 CITIZENS TO ELECT BROOKS COLEMAN GA REP 06/20/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF KATIE DEMPSEY GA REP 06/20/13 $500.00 JOHN CARSON FOR GA HOUSE GA REP 06/20/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF STACEY Y. ABRAMS GA DEM 06/20/13 $750.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT AMY CARTER GA REP 06/24/13 $350.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT VIRGIL FLUDD GA DEM 06/24/13 $350.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT LEE HAWKINS GA REP 06/24/13 $500.00 MARK HAMILTON FOR STATE HOUSE 24 GA REP 06/24/13 $500.00 NEIGHBORS FOR EARL EHRHART GA REP 06/24/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT TERRY ENGLAND GA REP 06/24/13 $750.00 CHANNELL RE-ELECTION CAMPAIGN GA REP 06/24/13 $1,000.00 FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS TO ELECT MARGARET KAISER GA DEM 07/22/13 $350.00 FRIENDS OF BRETT HARRELL GA REP 07/22/13 $350.00 RANDY NIX FOR STATE HOUSE 69 GA REP 07/22/13 $350.00 COMM TO ELECT GREG MORRIS STATE REP GA REP 07/22/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ALLEN PEAKE GA REP 07/22/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BEN HARBIN GA REP 07/22/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH PARRISH GA REP 07/22/13 $500.00 HATCHETT FOR HOUSE GA REP 07/22/13 $500.00 MARTIN FOR GEORGIA GA REP 07/22/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF DON PARSONS GA REP 07/22/13 $750.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT LARRY O'NEAL GA REP 07/22/13 $1,000.00 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT JOHN MEADOWS GA REP 07/22/13 $1,000.00 BRUCE WILLIAMSON FOR WALTON GA REP 07/26/13 $350.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JASON SHAW GA REP 07/26/13 $350.00 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT NIKKI RANDALL GA DEM 07/26/13 $350.00 LYNNE RILEY FOR GEORGIA GA REP 07/26/13 $350.00 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2013 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2013 Payee State Party Date Amount TOM TAYLOR FOR GA HOUSE GA REP 07/26/13 $350.00 BEACH FOR SENATE GA REP 07/26/13 $500.00 BETHEL FOR GEORGIA SENATE GA REP 07/26/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT CARL ROGERS GA REP 07/26/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DALE RUTLEDGE GA REP 07/26/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JAY ROBERTS GA REP 07/26/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT RICHARD H. SMITH GA REP 07/26/13 $500.00 COWSERT FOR SENATE GA REP 07/26/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF JOE WILKINSON GA REP 07/26/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF KEVIN TANNER GA REP 07/26/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF WENDELL WILLARD GA REP 07/26/13 $500.00 TIM GOLDEN FOR SENATE GA REP 07/26/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ED HARBISON GA DEM 07/29/13 $350.00 TYPER HARPER FOR GEORGIA GA REP 07/29/13 $350.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH MILLER GA REP 07/29/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT RENEE UNTERMAN GA REP 07/29/13 $500.00 FRAN MILLAR FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 07/29/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF JACK MURPHY GA REP 07/29/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF STEVE GOOCH GA REP 07/29/13 $500.00 FRIENDS TO ELECT BURT JONES GA REP 07/29/13 $500.00 HENSON FOR SENATE GA DEM 07/29/13 $500.00 HUNTER HILL FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 07/29/13 $500.00 ROSS TOLLESON FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 07/29/13 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT JACK HILL GA REP 07/29/13 $750.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JEFF MULLIS GA REP 07/29/13 $1,000.00 DAVID SHAFER SENATE COMMITTEE GA REP 07/29/13 $1,500.00 CASEY CAGLE FOR LT. GOVERNER GA REP 07/29/13 $2,000.00 HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS GA DEM 08/02/13 $500.00 GEORGIA HOUSE REPUBLICAN TRUST, INC. GA REP 08/02/13 $1,000.00 KASIM REED FOR MAYOR, INC. GA DEM 08/02/13 $1,000.00 NATHAN DEAL FOR GOVERNOR, INC. GA REP 08/02/13 $1,000.00 SAM OLENS FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL GA REP 08/02/13 $1,000.00 GEORGIA REPUBLICAN PARTY (NON-FEDERAL) GA REP 08/02/13 $2,500.00 CECIL STATON FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 11/20/13 $500.00 CHUCK HUFSTETLER FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 11/20/13 $500.00 WILLIAMS FOR STATE HOUSE-DISTRICT 119 GA REP 11/22/13 $500.00 DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF GEORGIA (NON-FEDERAL) GA DEM 12/18/13 $1,000.00 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2013 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2013 Payee State Party Date Amount FRIENDS OF LORETTA LEPORE, INC. GA REP 12/19/13 $500.00 GA Total $46,550.00 CITIZENS FOR KIRK DILLARD IL REP 05/10/13 $1,500.00 ZALEWSKI FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE IL DEM 07/24/13 $1,500.00 CITIZENS FOR DALE RIGHTER IL REP 08/23/13 $250.00 CITIZENS FOR JOANN OSMOND IL REP 08/23/13 $250.00 CITIZENS TO ELECT DAVID HARRIS IL REP 08/23/13 $250.00 CITIZENS TO ELECT PATRICIA R BELLOCK IL REP 08/23/13 $250.00 23RD WARD REGULAR DEMOCRATIC ORGANIZATION IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR BILL MITCHELL IL REP 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR BRIAN J KRAJEWSKI IL REP 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR CHAPIN ROSE IL REP 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR CONNELLY IL REP 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR FRED CRESPO IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR KAREN MCCONNAUGHAY IL REP 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR LINDA HOLMES IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR MATT MURPHY IL REP 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR MAUTINO IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR MIKE JACOBS IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR TUNNEY IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR DAN CRONIN IL REP 08/23/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF ANDY MANAR IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF BILL CUNNINGHAM IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF CAROL SENTE IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF JEHAN GORDON IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF KWAME RAOUL IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF MATTIE HUNTER IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF NAPOLEON HARRIS IL DEM 08/23/13 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR DON HARMON IL DEM 08/23/13 $750.00 CITIZENS FOR TOM CROSS IL REP 08/23/13 $1,000.00 FRIENDS OF TERRY LINK IL DEM 08/23/13 $1,000.00 DEMOCRATIC MAJORITY IL DEM 08/23/13 $2,500.00 (AKA: IL HOUSE DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP CAMPAIGN) ILLINOIS HOUSE REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP COMMITTEE IL REP 08/23/13 $2,500.00 ILLINOIS SENATE DEMOCRATIC VICTORY FUND IL DEM 08/23/13 $2,500.00 (AKA: IL SENATE DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP CAMPAIGN) REPUBLICAN STATE SENATE CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE IL REP 08/23/13 $2,500.00 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2013 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2013 Payee State Party Date Amount FRIENDS OF ANN WILLIAMS IL DEM 11/11/13 $250.00 CITIZENS FOR JAY C HOFFMAN IL DEM 11/11/13 $500.00 CITIZENS TO ELECT RON SANDACK IL REP 11/11/13 $500.00 DAVE SYVERSON FOR SENATE IL REP 11/11/13 $500.00 IL Total $28,500.00 ANGELA COCKERHAM CAMPAIGN MS DEM 11/19/13 $500.00 BOBBY HOWELL CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 BOBBY MOAK CAMPAIGN MS DEM 11/19/13 $500.00 BOBBY SHOWS CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 BRIGGS HOPSON CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 DAVID BLOUNT CAMPAIGN MS DEM 11/19/13 $500.00 DEAN KIRBY CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 EUGENE S. CLARKE CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 GARY CHISM CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 GARY STAPLES CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 HASKINGS MONTGOMERY CAMPAIGN MS DEM 11/19/13 $500.00 HERB FRIERSON CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 HOB BRYAN CAMPAIGN MS DEM 11/19/13 $500.00 JEFF SMITH CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 JOEY FILLINGANE CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 JOHN HORHN CAMPAIGN MS DEM 11/19/13 $500.00 JOHN MOORE CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 JOHNNY STRINGER CAMPAIGN MS DEM 11/19/13 $500.00 MARK BAKER CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 MARK FORMBY CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 NANCY COLLINS CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 NICKEY BROWNING CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 NOLAN METTETAL CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 PERCY WATSON CAMPAIGN MS DEM 11/19/13 $500.00 SAM MIMS CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 STEVE HALE CAMPAIGN MS DEM 11/19/13 $500.00 TERRY BROWN CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 TERRY BURTON CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 TOBY BARKER CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 VIDET CARMICHAEL CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF TATE REEVES MS REP 11/19/13 $1,000.00 PHIL BRYANT FOR GOVERNOR MS REP 11/19/13 $1,000.00 © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2013 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2013 Payee State Party Date Amount PHILIP GUNN CAMPAIGN MS REP 11/19/13 $1,000.00 MS Total $18,000.00 FRIENDS OF FARLEY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY REP 08/12/13 $500.00 FRIENDS FOR THE ELECTION OF DEAN SKELOS NY REP 08/12/13 $1,000.00 FRIENDS OF SILVER NY DEM 08/12/13 $1,000.00 JEFF KLEIN FOR NEW YORK NY DEM 08/12/13 $1,000.00 NYS DEMOCRATIC SENATE CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY DEM 08/12/13 $10,000.00 HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NYS DEMOCRATIC ASSEMBLY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY DEM 08/12/13 $11,000.00 HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NYS SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY REP 08/12/13 $30,000.00 HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT SANTABARBARA FOR ASSEMBLY NY DEM 08/15/13 $500.00 STECK FOR ASSEMBLY NY DEM 08/15/13 $500.00 NYS DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY DEM 08/23/13 $30,000.00 HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT FRIENDS OF CECELIA TKACZYK NY DEM 11/15/13 $500.00 NYS DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY DEM 11/20/13 $30,000.00 HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NY Total $116,000.00 FRIENDS OF WALTER STOSCH VA REP 05/10/13 $1,500.00 FRIENDS OF GREG HABEEB VA REP 05/22/13 $500.00 MASSIE FOR DELEGATE VA REP 05/22/13 $500.00 MCDOUGLE FOR VIRGINIA VA REP 05/22/13 $500.00 WARE FOR HOUSE OF DELEGATES VA DEM 05/22/13 $500.00 FRIENDS OF TOMMY NORMENT VA REP 05/22/13 $1,000.00 FRIENDS OF KIRK COX VA REP 05/22/13 $1,500.00 HOWELL FOR DELEGATE VA REP 05/22/13 $1,500.00 SASLAW FOR STATE SENATE VA DEM 05/22/13 $1,500.00 TOSCANO FOR DELEGATE VA DEM 05/22/13 $1,500.00 VA Total $10,500.00 Grand Total $459,650.00 Non-U.S. Contributions Total Provincial CANADA Contributions 2013 $63,975.00 Global Total $523,625.00 For each association from which GE receives a notice that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a fiscal year on non-deductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. © copyright 2015 general electric company global corporate political contributions for 2013 GENERAL ELECTRIC CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2012 Payee State Party Date Amount State Ballot Initiatives US Total $0 Republican State Leadership Committee National REP 06/01/12 $1,000.00 Republican Governors Association National REP 05/31/12 $155,000.00 Democratic Governors’ Association National DEM 06/07/12 $25,000.00 Democratic Governors’ Association National DEM 06/13/12 $100,000.00 Republican State Senate Campaign Committee National REP 09/18/12 $2,500.00 Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee National DEM 09/21/12 $30,000.00 Democratic Lieutenant Governors Association National DEM 12/06/12 $5,000.00 National Total $318,500.00 Patricia McKeon For Assembly 2012 CA REP 05/29/12 $1,000.00 Jimmy Gomez for Assembly 2012 CA DEM 05/29/12 $1,000.00 Newsom for California Lieutenant Governor 2014 CA DEM 06/15/12 $2,500.00 De Leon for Senate 2014 CA DEM 09/28/12 $1,800.00 Olsen for Assembly 2012 CA REP 09/28/12 $2,000.00 Bob Wieckowski for State Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $2,000.00 Taxpayers for Jim Nielsen Senate 2012 CA REP 09/28/12 $2,000.00 Raul Bocanegra for State Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $2,000.00 Taxpayers for Roderick Wright Senate 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $2,000.00 Steven Bradford for Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $2,000.00 Todd Zink for Senate 2012 CA REP 09/28/12 $2,000.00 Toni Atkins for State Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $2,000.00 Cannella for Senate 2014 CA REP 09/28/12 $2,000.00 Nora Campos for Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $2,000.00 Betsy Butler for Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $2,500.00 Ron Calderon for State Controller 2014 CA DEM 09/28/12 $3,000.00 Padilla for Senate 2010 Officeholder Account CA DEM 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Mike Gatto For Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Jeff Miller for Senate 2012 CA REP 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Skinner for Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Rubio for State Senate 2014 CA DEM 09/28/12 $3,900.00 John A. Perez For Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Taxpayers for Bob Huff for Senate 2012 CA REP 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Jeff Gorell for Assembly 2012 CA REP 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Connie Conway for Assembly 2012 CA REP 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Friends of Mimi Walters for Senate 2012 CA REP 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Hagman For Assembly 2012 CA REP 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Nestande for Assembly 2012 CA REP 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Plescia for Senate 2012 CA REP 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Henry Perea for Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Adam Gray for Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Ian Calderon for Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $3,900.00 © copyright 2012 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2012 | page 1 GENERAL ELECTRIC CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2012 Payee State Party Date Amount Hall for Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $3,900.00 Manuel Perez For Assembly 2012 CA DEM 09/28/12 $3,900.00 CA Total $102,000.00 Stephen Precourt Campaign FL REP 07/17/12 $500.00 Democratic Party of Florida (Non-Federal) (Senate Caucus) FL DEM 08/30/12 $2,500.00 Republican Party of Florida (House Caucus) FL REP 09/06/12 $2,500.00 Oscar Braynon Senate Campaign FL DEM 09/13/12 $500.00 Bill Montford Senate Campaign FL DEM 09/13/12 $500.00 Aaron Bean Senate Campaign FL REP 09/13/12 $500.00 Joe Abruzzo Senate Campaign FL DEM 09/13/12 $500.00 Dorothy Hukill Senate Campaign FL REP 09/13/12 $500.00 Migues Diaz De La Portilla Senate Campaign FL REP 09/13/12 $500.00 Rob Bradley Senate Campaign FL REP 09/13/12 $500.00 Wilton Simpson Senate Campaign FL REP 09/13/12 $500.00 Bill Galvano Senate Campaign FL REP 09/13/12 $500.00 Doug Holder Campaign FL REP 09/18/12 $500.00 John Wood Campaign FL REP 09/18/12 $500.00 Christopher Dorworth Campaign FL REP 09/18/12 $500.00 Jose Oliva Campaign FL REP 09/18/12 $500.00 Kathleen Passidomo Campaign FL REP 09/18/12 $500.00 Janet Cruz Campaign FL DEM 09/18/12 $500.00 Dana D. Young Campaign FL REP 09/18/12 $500.00 Jeanette Nunez Campaign FL REP 09/18/12 $500.00 Jason Brodeur Campaign FL REP 09/18/12 $500.00 Heather Fitzenhagen Campaign FL REP 09/18/12 $500.00 Democratic Party of Florida (Non-Federal) FL DEM 09/18/12 $2,500.00 Seth Mckeel Campaign FL REP 09/19/12 $500.00 Neil Combee Campaign FL REP 09/19/12 $500.00 Mia Jones Campaign FL DEM 09/19/12 $500.00 Katie Edwards Campaign FL DEM 09/19/12 $500.00 Mike Fasano Campaign FL REP 09/19/12 $500.00 Ben Albritton Campaign FL REP 09/19/12 $500.00 Dane Eagle Campaign FL REP 09/19/12 $500.00 Robert Schenck Campaign FL REP 09/19/12 $500.00 Richard Corcoran Campaign FL REP 09/19/12 $500.00 Republican Party Of Florida (Non-Federal) FL REP 09/19/12 $2,500.00 Tom Lee Campaign FL REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Darren Soto Campaign FL DEM 10/15/12 $500.00 Keith Perry Campaign FL REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Scott Plakon Campaign FL REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Jeff Brandes Campaign FL REP 10/15/12 $500.00 © copyright 2012 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2012 | page 2 GENERAL ELECTRIC CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2012 Payee State Party Date Amount Migues Diaz De La Portilla Senate Campaign FL REP 10/15/12 $500.00 FL Total $27,500.00 Friends of Josh Belinfante GA REP 02/03/12 $250.00 Committee To Elect Lee Hawkins GA REP 02/28/12 $500.00 Friends of Kevin Tanner GA REP 04/03/12 $500.00 Hunter Hill for State Senate GA REP 04/04/12 $500.00 Lee for Cobb GA REP 05/29/12 $500.00 Friends of Jack Murphy GA REP 05/29/12 $1,000.00 Committee to Elect Josh McKoon GA REP 10/18/12 $250.00 Committee to Elect Keith Greene GA REP 10/18/12 $250.00 Friends of Judge Green GA REP 10/18/12 $250.00 Friends of Hardie Davis GA DEM 10/18/12 $350.00 Vote for Terry Rogers GA REP 10/18/12 $350.00 Committee to Elect Donna Sheldon GA REP 10/18/12 $350.00 Williamson for Walton GA REP 10/18/12 $350.00 Committee to Elect Ed Harbison GA DEM 10/18/12 $350.00 Friends and Neighbors to Elect Margaret Kaiser GA DEM 10/18/12 $350.00 Committee to Elect Andy Welch GA REP 10/18/12 $350.00 Committee to Re-Elect Karla Drenner GA DEM 10/18/12 $350.00 Committee to Elect Amy Carter GA REP 10/18/12 $350.00 Buzz Brockway for State House GA REP 10/18/12 $350.00 Thompson Senate Campaign GA DEM 10/18/12 $350.00 Friends of Joe Wilkinson GA REP 10/18/12 $350.00 Committee to Re-Elect Nikki Randall GA DEM 10/18/12 $350.00 Friends of Brett Harrell GA REP 10/18/12 $350.00 Committee to Elect Jason Shaw GA REP 10/18/12 $350.00 Commmittee to Re-Elect Ron Stephens GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Cmte to Re-Elect Rep. Lynn R Smith GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Renee Unterman GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Butch Miller GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Georgia House Republican Trust, Inc. GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Rick Jeffares for Senate GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Mark Hamilton for State House 24 GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Friends of Mike Crane GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Henson for Senate GA DEM 10/18/12 $500.00 Georgia Senate Republican Trust GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Friends of Don Parsons GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Cecil Staton for State Senate GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Allen Peake GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Citizens to Elect Brooks Coleman GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 David Knight for State House GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 © copyright 2012 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2012 | page 3 GENERAL ELECTRIC CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2012 Payee State Party Date Amount Senate Democratic Caucus GA DEM 10/18/12 $500.00 Robert Dickey for State House 140 GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Richard H. Smith GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Ben Harbin GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Tim Golden for Senate GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Friends of Rich Golick GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Chuck Hufstetler for State Senate GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Chance for Senate GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 David Shafer Senate Committee GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Edward Lindsey for State House 54 Committee GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Neighbors for Earl Ehrhart GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 John Carson for GA House GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Friends of Wendell Willard GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Friends of Judson Hill GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Butch Parrish GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Friends of Calvin Smyre GA DEM 10/18/12 $500.00 House Democratic Caucus GA DEM 10/18/12 $500.00 Martin for Georgia GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Millar for State Senate GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Loudermilk for State Senate GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Jay Roberts GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Friends of Steve Gooch GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Carl Rogers GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Comm to Elect Greg Morris State Rep GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Bethel for Georgia Senate GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Committee to Re-Elect Jack Hill GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Jeff Mullis GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Friends of Bill Heath GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Friends to Elect Burt Jones GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Ross Tolleson for State Senate GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Friends of Katie Dempsey GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 The Committee to Elect Matt Ramsey GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Sharon Cooper for State House GA REP 10/18/12 $500.00 Friends of Stacey Y. Abrams GA DEM 10/18/12 $750.00 Friends of Jan Jones GA REP 10/18/12 $1,000.00 Channell Re-Election Campaign GA REP 10/18/12 $1,000.00 Cowsert for Senate GA REP 10/18/12 $1,000.00 Democratic Party of Georgia (Non-Federal) GA DEM 10/18/12 $1,000.00 Kasim Reed For Mayor, Inc. GA DEM 10/18/12 $1,000.00 Brian Kemp for Secretary of State GA REP 10/18/12 $1,000.00 The Committee to Elect John Meadows GA REP 10/18/12 $1,000.00 © copyright 2012 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2012 | page 4 GENERAL ELECTRIC CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2012 Payee State Party Date Amount Friends of Tommie Williams GA REP 10/18/12 $1,000.00 Committee to Re-Elect Don Balfour GA REP 10/18/12 $1,000.00 Sam Olens for Attorney General GA REP 10/18/12 $1,000.00 The Committee to Elect Terry England GA REP 10/18/12 $1,000.00 Friends of Chip Rogers GA REP 10/18/12 $1,000.00 Committee to Elect Larry O’Neal GA REP 10/18/12 $1,000.00 Georgia Republican Party (Non-Federal) GA REP 10/18/12 $2,000.00 Committee to Elect David Ralston GA REP 10/18/12 $2,000.00 Casey Cagle for Lt. Governer GA REP 10/18/12 $2,000.00 Nathan Deal for Governor,Inc. GA REP 10/18/12 $3,500.00 Committee to Re-Elect Don Balfour GA REP 12/17/12 $500.00 David Shafer Senate Committee GA REP 12/17/12 $500.00 Friends of Tommie Williams GA REP 12/17/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Butch Miller GA REP 12/17/12 $500.00 Chance for Senate GA REP 12/17/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Jeff Mullis GA REP 12/17/12 $500.00 GA Total $59,500.00 Citizens for Mike Jacobs IL DEM 02/03/12 $500.00 Friends of Don Harmon IL DEM 02/03/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Jay C Hoffman IL DEM 02/03/12 $1,000.00 Friends of John Sullivan IL DEM 02/24/12 $500.00 Committee to Elect Rich Morthland IL REP 06/15/12 $500.00 Illinois House Republican Organization IL REP 09/13/12 $2,500.00 Citizens for Dale Righter IL REP 09/18/12 $500.00 Dave Syverson for Senate IL REP 09/18/12 $500.00 23rd Ward Regular Democratic Organization IL DEM 09/18/12 $500.00 Citizens to Elect Patricia R Bellock IL REP 09/19/12 $250.00 Citizens for JoAnn Osmond IL REP 09/19/12 $250.00 Citizens for Pat Fee IL REP 09/19/12 $500.00 Friends for Skip Saviano IL REP 09/19/12 $500.00 Citizens for Unes IL REP 09/19/12 $500.00 Friends of Adam Brown IL REP 09/19/12 $750.00 Friends of Tim Schmitz IL REP 09/19/12 $750.00 Citizens for Tom Cross IL REP 09/19/12 $1,000.00 Citizens for Daniel Beiser IL DEM 09/20/12 $500.00 Friends for Art Turner II IL DEM 09/20/12 $500.00 Friends of Jehan Gordon IL DEM 09/20/12 $500.00 Zalewski for State Representative IL DEM 09/20/12 $500.00 Citizens for Fred Crespo IL DEM 09/20/12 $500.00 Friends of Ann Williams IL DEM 09/20/12 $750.00 Friends of Carol Sente IL DEM 09/20/12 $750.00 © copyright 2012 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2012 | page 5 GENERAL ELECTRIC CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2012 Payee State Party Date Amount Friends of Michael J Madigan IL DEM 09/20/12 $1,000.00 Democratic Majority IL DEM 09/20/12 $2,500.00 Citizens for Elaine Nekritz IL DEM 09/25/12 $250.00 Citizens for Dan Brady IL REP 09/25/12 $250.00 Friends of Michael Frerichs IL DEM 09/25/12 $500.00 Citizens to Elect Keith Farnham IL DEM 09/25/12 $500.00 Citizens for Pam Althoff IL REP 09/25/12 $500.00 Friends for Kwame Raoul IL DEM 09/25/12 $500.00 Citizens for Luechtefeld IL REP 09/25/12 $500.00 Friends of Terry Link IL DEM 09/25/12 $500.00 Friends of John Sullivan IL DEM 09/25/12 $500.00 Citizens for Tunney IL DEM 09/25/12 $500.00 Citizens for John Cullerton IL DEM 09/25/12 $1,000.00 Citizens for Kirk Dillard IL REP 09/25/12 $1,000.00 Friends for Christine Radogno IL REP 09/25/12 $1,000.00 Senate Democratic Victory Fund (IL) IL DEM 09/25/12 $2,500.00 Friends of Heather Steans IL DEM 10/15/12 $500.00 IL Total $29,500.00 Mike Pence For Indiana IN REP 02/28/12 $1,000.00 Mike Pence For Indiana IN REP 09/05/12 $4,000.00 Citizens for Merritt IN REP 09/06/12 $300.00 David Long for State Senate IN REP 09/06/12 $500.00 Indiana House Republican Campaign Committee (HRCC) (Non-Federal) IN REP 09/06/12 $2,000.00 Riecken for State Representative IN DEM 09/13/12 $250.00 Friends of Ron Bacon IN REP 09/13/12 $250.00 Bill Friend for State Rep. Committee IN REP 09/13/12 $250.00 Turner for State Representative Committee IN REP 09/13/12 $250.00 Committee To Elect Heath VanNatter IN REP 09/13/12 $250.00 Mark Messmer for State Representative IN REP 09/13/12 $250.00 Friends of Tom Wyss IN REP 09/13/12 $300.00 Elect Luke Kenley IN REP 09/13/12 $300.00 Jean Leising for State Senate IN REP 09/13/12 $300.00 Indiana Republican State Committee, Inc. (IRSC) (Non-Federal) IN REP 09/13/12 $1,000.00 Friends to Elect Vaneta Becker IN REP 09/19/12 $300.00 Committee To Elect Brian Bosma IN REP 09/19/12 $500.00 IN Total $12,000.00 Richard Carlson for State Representative KS REP 09/10/12 $250.00 Leslie Donovan for State Senate KS REP 09/10/12 $250.00 Pat Apple for State Senate Committee KS REP 09/10/12 $400.00 Steve Abrams for State Senate KS REP 09/10/12 $500.00 © copyright 2012 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2012 | page 6 GENERAL ELECTRIC CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2012 Payee State Party Date Amount Christopher Waldschmidt for State Representative KS REP 09/11/12 $250.00 Marvin Kleeb for State Representative KS REP 09/11/12 $250.00 Mary Pilcher-Cook for State Senate KS REP 09/11/12 $300.00 Susan Wagle for State Senate KS REP 09/11/12 $300.00 Jay Emler for State Senate Committee KS REP 09/11/12 $400.00 Kasha Kelley for State Representative KS REP 09/11/12 $400.00 Arlen Siegfreid for State Representative KS REP 10/15/12 $250.00 KS Total $3,550.00 Campaign to Elect Bodi White LA REP 08/03/12 $500.00 Campaign to Elect Kenny Havard LA REP 08/07/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Ray Garofalo LA REP 08/07/12 $250.00 Campaign To Elect Chuck Kleckley LA REP 08/07/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Eugene Reynolds LA DEM 08/07/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Clay Schexnayder LA REP 08/07/12 $250.00 Campaign To Elect Neil Abramson LA DEM 08/07/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Erich Ponti LA REP 08/07/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Greg Miller LA REP 08/07/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect John Morris LA REP 08/07/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Stephen Ortego LA DEM 08/07/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Ben Nevers LA DEM 08/07/12 $500.00 Campaign To Elect Dan Claitor LA REP 08/07/12 $500.00 Campaign to Elect Rick Ward LA DEM 08/07/12 $500.00 Campaign to Elect Jeff Thompson LA REP 08/09/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Kirk Talbot LA REP 08/09/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Greg Tarver LA DEM 08/09/12 $500.00 Campaign To Elect Daniel Martiny LA REP 08/14/12 $500.00 Campaign to Elect Robert E. Shadoin LA REP 08/16/12 $250.00 Campaign To Elect Thomas Carmody LA REP 10/10/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Kenny Havard LA REP 10/10/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Lance Harris LA REP 10/15/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Bryan Adams LA REP 10/15/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect John Berthelot LA REP 10/15/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Paul Hollis LA REP 10/15/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Troy E. Brown LA DEM 10/15/12 $500.00 Senator to Elect RL ‘Bret’ Allain II LA REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Campaign to Elect Rick Gallot LA DEM 10/15/12 $500.00 Campaign to Elect Edward J. Price LA DEM 10/17/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Lenar Whitney LA REP 10/17/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Sherman Q. Mack LA REP 10/17/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Steve Pylant LA REP 10/17/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Edward ‘Ted’ James LA DEM 10/17/12 $250.00 © copyright 2012 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2012 | page 7 GENERAL ELECTRIC CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2012 Payee State Party Date Amount Campaign to Elect Kirk Talbot LA REP 10/17/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Christopher Broadwater LA REP 10/17/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Marcus L. Hunter LA DEM 10/17/12 $250.00 Vincent Pierre Campaign Fund LA DEM 10/17/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Terry C. Landry Sr. LA DEM 10/17/12 $250.00 Campaign to Elect Neil Riser LA REP 10/17/12 $500.00 Campaign To Elect Norby Chabert LA REP 10/17/12 $500.00 Campaign to Elect Gary L. Smith LA DEM 10/17/12 $500.00 Campaign to Elect Jean-Paul J. Morrell LA DEM 10/17/12 $500.00 Campaign to Elect Fred H. Mills LA DEM 10/17/12 $500.00 Campaign to Elect Barrow Peacock LA REP 10/17/12 $500.00 Campaign to Elect Jonathan W. Perry LA REP 10/17/12 $500.00 LA Total $15,250.00 Friends of Martin O’Malley MD DEM 02/03/12 $500.00 MD Total $500.00 Forward Mississippi PAC MS REP 02/03/12 $1,000.00 Friends of Stacey Pickering MS REP 06/11/12 $500.00 Gary Staples Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $500.00 Angela Cockerham Campaign MS DEM 09/20/12 $500.00 David Blount Campaign MS DEM 09/20/12 $500.00 Haskings Montgomery Campaign MS DEM 09/20/12 $500.00 Gary Chism Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $500.00 Toby Barker Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $500.00 Will Longwitz Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $500.00 Bobby Shows Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $500.00 Percy Watson Campaign MS DEM 09/20/12 $500.00 Nolan Mettetal Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $500.00 Nancy Collins Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $500.00 Bobby Howell Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $500.00 Chris McDaniel Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $500.00 Hob Bryan Campaign MS DEM 09/20/12 $500.00 Videt Carmichael Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $500.00 Steve Hale Campaign MS DEM 09/20/12 $500.00 Terry Brown Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $1,000.00 Sam Mims Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $1,000.00 Herb Frierson Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $1,000.00 Briggs Hopson Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $1,000.00 Mark Baker Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $1,000.00 Dean Kirby Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $1,000.00 Jeff Smith Campaign MS DEM 09/20/12 $1,000.00 Joey Fillingane Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $1,000.00 © copyright 2012 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2012 | page 8 GENERAL ELECTRIC CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2012 Payee State Party Date Amount Eugene S. Clarke Campaign MS REP 09/20/12 $1,000.00 MS Total $18,500.00 Friends of Ovide 2012 NH REP 10/03/12 $1,000.00 NH Total $1,000.00 Committee To Elect Dennis Nolan NV REP 06/25/12 $1,000.00 NV Total $1,000.00 Friends of Farley Campaign Committee NY REP 09/25/12 $500.00 George Amedore for Senate NY REP 09/25/12 $1,000.00 Committee To Re-Elect Assemblyman Joe Morelle NY DEM 09/25/12 $1,000.00 Friends of Silver NY DEM 09/25/12 $1,000.00 Friends For The Election Of Dean Skelos NY REP 10/02/12 $1,000.00 New York State Democratic Campaign Committee Housekeeping Account NY DEM 10/17/12 $10,000.00 New York State Democratic Assembly Campaign Committee Housekeeping Account NY DEM 10/17/12 $10,000.00 New York State Democratic Senate Campaign Committee Housekeeping Account NY DEM 10/17/12 $10,000.00 New York State Senate Republican Campaign Committee Housekeeping Account NY REP 10/17/12 $30,000.00 NY Total $64,500.00 Steve Loftis for Sheriff SC REP 06/13/12 $500.00 Robert Williams for House SC DEM 10/15/12 $250.00 Chandra Dillard for House SC DEM 10/15/12 $250.00 Shane Martin for Senate SC REP 10/15/12 $250.00 James E. Smith for House SC DEM 10/15/12 $500.00 Gilda Cobb-Hunter for House SC DEM 10/15/12 $500.00 Joan Brady for House SC REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Jay Lucas for House SC REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Michael Pitts for House SC REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Rita Allison for House SC REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Nathan Ballentine for House SC REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Harry Ott for House SC DEM 10/15/12 $500.00 Mike Forrester For House SC REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Chip Limehouse for House SC REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Nikki G. Setzler for Senate SC DEM 10/15/12 $500.00 Paul Campbell for Senate SC REP 10/15/12 $500.00 Phillip D. Lowe for House SC REP 10/15/12 $1,000.00 Bruce Bannister for House SC REP 10/15/12 $1,000.00 Larry A. Martin for Senate SC REP 10/15/12 $1,000.00 John Courson for Senate SC REP 10/15/12 $1,000.00 Michael Fair for Senate SC REP 10/15/12 $1,000.00 © copyright 2012 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2012 | page 9 GENERAL ELECTRIC CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2012 Payee State Party Date Amount South Carolina House Democratic Caucus SC DEM 10/15/12 $2,500.00 Palmetto Leadership Council SC REP 10/15/12 $3,500.00 South Carolina House Republican Caucus SC REP 10/15/12 $5,000.00 South Carolina Republican Party SC REP 10/22/12 $5,000.00 SC Total $28,250.00 Herbert for Governor UT REP 08/10/12 $2,500.00 UT Total $2,500.00 Saslaw For State Senate VA DEM 05/22/12 $1,500.00 Massie For Delegate VA REP 05/30/12 $500.00 McDougle for Virginia VA REP 05/30/12 $500.00 Ware for House of Delegates VA DEM 05/30/12 $500.00 Friends of Greg Habeeb VA REP 05/30/12 $500.00 Toscano for Delegate VA DEM 05/30/12 $1,500.00 VA Total $5,000.00 Grand Total $689,050.00 For each association from which GE receives a notice that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a fiscal year on non-deductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. Based on the information GE received in 2012, the National Electrical Manufacturer's Association responded that they made a $20,000 contribution to the Republican Governor's Association. © copyright 2012 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2012 | page 10 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2011 United States of America Contributions Payee State Party Date Amount DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NATIONAL DEM 06/03/11 $100,000.00 DEMOCRATIC LIEUTENANT GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NATIONAL DEM 09/07/11 $5,000.00 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NATIONAL REP 12/22/11 $25,000.00 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NATIONAL REP 07/12/11 $100,000.00 REPUBLICAN STATE LEADERSHIP COMMITTEE NATIONAL REP 07/12/11 $65,000.00 NATIONAL Total $295,000.00 AL HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS PAC AL DEM 11/21/11 $4,000.00 AL SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS PAC AL DEM 11/18/11 $4,000.00 ALABAMA 2014 POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE AL REP 12/06/11 $10,000.00 GOVERNOR-ELECT BENTLEY INAUGURATION AL REP 01/27/11 $5,000.00 NETWORK POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE (NETPAC) AL REP 12/06/11 $4,000.00 AL Total $27,000.00 ADAM GRAY FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA DEM 12/08/11 $3,900.00 ALYSON HUBER FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA DEM 12/08/11 $1,500.00 BETSY BUTLER FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA DEM 12/08/11 $3,900.00 CALIFORNIA DEMOCRATIC PARTY (NON-FEDERAL) CA DEM 12/08/11 $25,000.00 CHARLES CALDERON FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA DEM 10/03/11 $3,200.00 CONNIE CONWAY FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA REP 12/08/11 $3,900.00 DE LEON FOR SENATE 2014 CA DEM 11/29/11 $1,100.00 DE LEON FOR SENATE 2014 CA DEM 11/29/11 $400.00 DE LEON FOR SENATE 2014 CA DEM 10/07/11 $3,500.00 FIONA MA FOR SENATE 2014 CA DEM 12/08/11 $3,900.00 HAGMAN FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA REP 12/08/11 $3,900.00 IAN CALDERON FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA DEM 12/08/11 $1,000.00 JEFF GORELL FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA REP 12/08/11 $3,900.00 JEFF MILLER FOR SENATE 2012 CA REP 12/08/11 $2,000.00 JOHN A. PEREZ FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA DEM 12/08/11 $3,900.00 MANUEL PEREZ FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA DEM 12/08/11 $3,900.00 MARK DESAULNIER FOR SENATE 2012 CA DEM 12/08/11 $3,900.00 MIKE GATTO FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA DEM 12/08/11 $1,500.00 NESTANDE FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA REP 12/08/11 $1,500.00 NORA CAMPOS FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA DEM 12/08/11 $1,500.00 PATRICIA MCKEON FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA REP 10/13/11 $1,500.00 RE-ELECT TONY STRICKLAND FOR SENATE 2012 CA REP 12/08/11 $3,900.00 RON CALDERON FOR STATE CONTROLLER 2014 CA DEM 08/10/11 $3,900.00 SHARON RUNNER FOR SENATE 2012 CA REP 12/08/11 $3,900.00 SKINNER FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA DEM 12/08/11 $3,900.00 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2011 | page 1 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2011 United States of America Contributions Payee State Party Date Amount STEINBERG FOR LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR 2018 CA DEM 12/08/11 $3,900.00 TAXPAYERS FOR BOB HUFF FOR SENATE 2012 CA REP 12/08/11 $3,900.00 TOM CALDERON FOR ASSEMBLY 2012 CA DEM 12/08/11 $3,900.00 CA Total $106,100.00 MARKELL FOR DELAWARE DE DEM 10/07/11 $500.00 DE Total $500.00 ALAN WILLIAMS CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/13/11 $500.00 ANDY GARDINER CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 ANITERE FLORES CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 CARLOS TRUJILLO CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 CHRISTOPHER DORWORTH CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 DANA D. YOUNG CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 DANIEL DAVIS CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 DARYL ROUSON CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/13/11 $500.00 DAVID SIMMONS CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/24/11 $500.00 DEBBIE MAYFIELD CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 DENISE GRIMSLEY CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 DOUG HOLDER CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 ELLYN BOGDANOFF CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 ERIK FRESEN CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY (NON-FEDERAL) FL DEM 11/21/11 $2,500.00 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY (NON-FEDERAL) FL DEM 11/18/11 $2,500.00 JANET ADKINS CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 JEFF CLEMENS CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/13/11 $500.00 JIMMY PATRONIS CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 JOE NEGRON CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 LIZBETH BENACQUISTO CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 MATT GAETZ CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 OSCAR BRANYON II CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/13/11 $500.00 RENE GARCIA CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA (NON-FEDERAL) FL REP 12/06/11 $10,000.00 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA (NON-FEDERAL) FL REP 12/06/11 $10,000.00 RICHARD CORCORAN CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 RITCH WORKMAN CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 ROBERT SCHENCK CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 SCOTT RANDOLPH CAMPAIGN FL DEM 10/13/11 $500.00 SETH MCKEEL CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2011 | page 2 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2011 United States of America Contributions Payee State Party Date Amount STEPHEN PRECOURT CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 STEVE CRISAFULLI CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 WILL WEATHERFORD CAMPAIGN FL REP 10/13/11 $500.00 FL Total $40,000.00 BRIAN KEMP FOR SECRETARY OF STATE GA REP 12/06/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO REELECT BEBE GA REP 06/22/11 $1,000.00 CASEY CAGLE FOR LT. GOVERNOR GA REP 09/23/11 $1,000.00 CHANCE FOR SENATE GA REP 06/03/11 $500.00 CMTE TO RE ELECT REP LYNN R SMITH GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 COMM. TO ELECT JEFF MULLIS GA. ST. SEN. GA REP 06/27/11 $1,000.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ALLEN PEAKE GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH MILLER GA REP 09/21/11 $1,000.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT CARL ROGERS GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DONNA SHELDON GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ED HARBISON GA DEM 09/21/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT GREG GOGGANS GA REP 09/21/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JAY ROBERTS GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT LARRY O'NEAL GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT JACK HILL GA REP 09/21/11 $1,000.00 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT DON BALFOUR GA REP 05/20/11 $1,000.00 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT KARLA DRENNER GA DEM 09/23/11 $250.00 COMMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT RON STEPHENS GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 COWSERT FOR SENATE GA REP 09/21/11 $1,000.00 DAVID SHAFER SENATE COMMITTEE GA REP 09/21/11 $500.00 DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF GEORGIA (NON-FEDERAL) GA DEM 12/01/11 $5,000.00 EDWARD LINDSEY FOR STATE HOUSE 54 COMMITTEE GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS TO ELECT MARGARET KAISER GA DEM 09/26/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF BILL HAMRICK GA REP 06/22/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF BILL HEATH GA REP 09/21/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF CHIP ROGERS GA REP 09/21/11 $1,000.00 FRIENDS OF DON PARSONS GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF JAN JONES GA REP 09/26/11 $1,000.00 FRIENDS OF JOE WILKINSON GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF JUDSON HILL GA REP 09/21/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF KATIE DEMPSEY GA REP 09/23/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF STACEY Y. ABRAMS, INC. GA DEM 06/17/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF TOMMIE WILLIAMS GA REP 09/21/11 $1,000.00 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2011 | page 3 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2011 United States of America Contributions Payee State Party Date Amount FRIENDS OF WENDELL WILLARD GA REP 06/22/11 $500.00 FRIENDS TO ELECT DOUG STONER GA DEM 09/21/11 $500.00 GEORGIA HOUSE REPUBLICAN TRUST, INC. GA REP 06/27/11 $250.00 GEORGIA REPUBLICAN PARTY (NON-FEDERAL) GA REP 11/15/11 $2,500.00 GEORGIA REPUBLICAN PARTY (NON-FEDERAL) GA REP 05/20/11 $10,000.00 GEORGIA REPUBLICAN PARTY (NON-FEDERAL) GA REP 01/24/11 $20,000.00 GUBERNATORIAL INAUGURATION GA NP 01/27/11 $10,000.00 HENSON FOR SENATE GA DEM 09/29/11 $500.00 KASIM REED FOR MAYOR, INC. GA DEM 09/15/11 $1,000.00 KASIM REED FOR MAYOR, INC. GA DEM 06/22/11 $500.00 LOUDERMILK FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 09/21/11 $500.00 MARK HAMILTON FOR STATE HOUSE 23 GA REP 09/29/11 $500.00 MILLAR FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 06/22/11 $500.00 NATHAN DEAL FOR GOVERNOR, INC. GA REP 06/14/11 $1,500.00 RALSTON FOR REPRESENTATIVE COMMITTEE GA REP 06/14/11 $1,000.00 ROGER WILLIAMS FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 ROSS TOLLESON FOR STATE SENATE GA REP 09/23/11 $500.00 SAM OLENS FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL GA REP 09/23/11 $1,000.00 SHARON COOPER FOR STATE HOUSE GA REP 09/23/11 $500.00 THE CMTE TO ELECT TERRY ENGLAND GA REP 09/23/11 $1,000.00 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT JOHN MEADOWS GA REP 09/29/11 $1,000.00 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT MATT RAMSEY GA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT R. M. CHANNELL GA REP 06/20/11 $1,000.00 THOMPSON SENATE CAMPAIGN GA DEM 09/21/11 $250.00 WILLIAMS FOR STATE HOUSE-DISTRICT 113 GA REP 06/22/11 $500.00 WILLIAMSON FOR WALTON GA REP 07/22/11 $500.00 GA Total $82,750.00 CITIZENS FOR BRIAN J KRAJEWSKI IL REP 11/30/11 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR DALE RIGHTER ILLINOIS STATE SENATE IL REP 09/14/11 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR DAN CRONIN IL REP 11/29/11 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR FRED CRESPO IL DEM 09/21/11 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR JOHN CULLERTON IL DEM 09/15/11 $1,000.00 CITIZENS FOR KIRK DILLARD IL REP 09/15/11 $1,000.00 CITIZENS FOR KYLE MCCARTER IL REP 09/15/11 $750.00 CITIZENS FOR LUECHTEFELD IL REP 09/16/11 $1,000.00 CITIZENS FOR TUNNEY IL DEM 09/16/11 $500.00 CITIZENS TO ELECT ADAM BROWN IL REP 09/15/11 $750.00 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2011 | page 4 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2011 United States of America Contributions Payee State Party Date Amount CITIZENS TO ELECT KEITH FARNHAM IL DEM 09/21/11 $500.00 CITIZENS TO ELECT PATRICIA R BELLOCK IL REP 09/21/11 $500.00 CITIZENS TO ELECT RON SANDACK IL REP 11/30/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE FOR FRANK MAUTINO IL DEM 09/15/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT RICH MORTHLAND IL REP 09/15/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT TOM HOLBROOK IL DEM 09/15/11 $500.00 DAVE SYVERSON FOR SENATE IL REP 09/14/11 $500.00 DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF ILLINOIS (NON-FEDERAL) IL DEM 09/14/11 $1,000.00 FRIENDS FOR MAY IL DEM 09/16/11 $500.00 FRIENDS FOR MIKE JACOBS IL DEM 09/21/11 $500.00 FRIENDS FOR PIHOS IL REP 09/16/11 $500.00 FRIENDS FOR RADOGNO IL REP 09/15/11 $1,000.00 FRIENDS FOR RAOUL IL DEM 09/21/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF JEHAN GORDON IL DEM 09/21/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF JOHN BRADLEY IL DEM 09/21/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF TERRY LINK IL DEM 09/21/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF TIM SCHMITZ IL REP 09/14/11 $500.00 ILLINOIS HOUSE DEMOCRATIC MAJORITY IL DEM 09/14/11 $2,500.00 ILLINOIS HOUSE REPUBLICAN ORGANIZATION IL REP 09/14/11 $2,500.00 REPUBLICAN STATE SENATE CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (IL) IL REP 09/14/11 $2,500.00 SENATE DEMOCRATIC VICTORY FUND (IL) IL DEM 09/15/11 $2,500.00 VOTERS FOR KEVIN MCCARTHY IL DEM 09/21/11 $500.00 ZALEWSKI FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE IL DEM 09/21/11 $500.00 IL Total $27,500.00 BEVERLY GARD FOR STATE SENATE CMTE IN REP 09/23/11 $300.00 CITIZENS FOR MERRITT IN REP 09/21/11 $300.00 CITIZENS FOR WOLKINS CMTE IN REP 09/23/11 $250.00 CMTE TO ELECT HEATH VANNATTER IN REP 09/23/11 $250.00 CMTE TO ELECT TOM DERMODY FOR STATE REP DIST 20 IN REP 09/23/11 $250.00 DAVID LONG FOR STATE SENATE IN REP 09/23/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF L JACK LUTZ IN REP 09/23/11 $250.00 INDIANA HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (HRCC) IN REP 09/16/11 $1,000.00 (NON-FEDERAL) INDIANA HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (HRCC) IN REP 09/15/11 $1,000.00 (NON-FEDERAL) INDIANA REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEE, INC. (IRSC) IN REP 09/16/11 $1,000.00 (NON-FEDERAL) JEAN LEISING FOR STATE SENATE IN REP 09/23/11 $300.00 MARK MESSMER COM IN REP 09/23/11 $250.00 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2011 | page 5 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2011 United States of America Contributions Payee State Party Date Amount MIKE PENCE FOR INDIANA IN REP 10/13/11 $1,000.00 MIKE PENCE FOR INDIANA IN REP 10/07/11 $1,500.00 MIKE PENCE FOR INDIANA IN REP 10/07/11 $1,000.00 MISHLER FOR STATE SENATE IN REP 09/23/11 $300.00 TURNER FOR ST REP CMTE IN REP 09/23/11 $500.00 VI SIMPSON FOR ST SENATE COMM IN DEM 09/21/11 $300.00 IN Total $10,250.00 STEVE MORRIS FOR SENATE KS REP 12/08/11 $500.00 KS Total $500.00 BOBBY JINDAL FOR GOVERNOR LA REP 07/13/11 $2,000.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT A G CROWE LA REP 09/29/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT ALAN SEABAUGH LA REP 09/26/11 $250.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT BOB HENSGENS LA REP 09/26/11 $250.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT BOB KOSTELKA LA REP 09/29/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT BUDDY CALWELL LA DEM 09/26/11 $1,000.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT CHUCK KLECKLEY LA REP 09/26/11 $1,000.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT CONRAD APPEL LA REP 09/29/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT DAN CLAITOR LA REP 09/29/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT DANIEL MARTINY LA REP 09/29/11 $1,000.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT FRANCIS THOMPSON LA DEM 09/29/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT FRANKLIN FOIL LA REP 09/26/11 $250.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT HELENA MORENO LA DEM 09/26/11 $250.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT JACK DONAHUE LA REP 09/29/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT JEFFERY ARNOLD LA DEM 09/26/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT JODY AMEDEE LA DEM 09/29/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT JOEL ROBIDEAUX LA IND 09/26/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT JOHN ALARIO LA REP 09/29/11 $1,000.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT JOHN SMITH LA REP 09/29/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT JOSEPH LOPINTO LA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT KIRK TALBOT LA REP 09/29/11 $250.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT MAJOR THIBAUT LA DEM 09/29/11 $250.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT MICHAEL STRAIN LA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT MIKE WALSWORTH LA REP 09/29/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT NEIL ABRAMSON LA DEM 09/26/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT NEIL RISER LA REP 09/29/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT NORBY CHABERT LA REP 09/29/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT STEPHEN PUGH LA REP 09/26/11 $250.00 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2011 | page 6 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2011 United States of America Contributions Payee State Party Date Amount CAMPAIGN TO ELECT THOMAS CARMODY LA REP 09/26/11 $250.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT TIM BURNS LA REP 09/26/11 $500.00 CAMPAIGN TO ELECT WALT LEGER LA DEM 09/26/11 $500.00 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF LOUISIANA (NON-FEDERAL) LA REP 04/21/11 $3,000.00 LA Total $20,000.00 LEPAGE TRANSITION 2010 ME REP 01/18/11 $2,000.00 ME Total $2,000.00 BO EATON CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/13/11 $500.00 BOBBY MOAK CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/13/11 $1,000.00 BOBBY SHOWS CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/13/11 $500.00 CECIL BROWN CAMPAIGN FUND MS DEM 10/03/11 $1,000.00 CHRIS MCDANIEL CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/13/11 $500.00 DEAN KIRBY CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/04/11 $1,000.00 EUGENE S. CLARKE CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/13/11 $1,000.00 FRIENDS OF PHIL BRYANT MS REP 06/22/11 $1,000.00 FRIENDS OF TATE REEVES MS REP 06/22/11 $1,000.00 GARY STAPLES CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/13/11 $500.00 HALEY'S PAC MS REP 04/21/11 $1,000.00 HASKINGS MONTGOMERY CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/13/11 $500.00 HERB FRIERSON CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/13/11 $1,000.00 JOEY FILLINGANE CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/13/11 $1,000.00 JOHNNY STRINGER CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/03/11 $1,000.00 MARK BAKER CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/13/11 $1,000.00 MERLE FLOWERS CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/13/11 $1,000.00 NOLAN METTETAL CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/03/11 $1,000.00 PERCY WATSON CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/03/11 $1,000.00 PHILIP GUNN CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/13/11 $1,000.00 STEVE HALE FOR STATE SENATE MS DEM 10/13/11 $500.00 TERRY BROWN CAMPAIGN MS REP 10/13/11 $1,000.00 TYRONE ELLIS CAMPAIGN MS DEM 10/13/11 $1,000.00 MS Total $20,000.00 JOHN LYNCH INAUGURAL COMMITTEE NH DEM 01/27/11 $5,000.00 NH Total $5,000.00 BEN KIECKHEFER FOR STATE SENATE NV REP 12/06/11 $1,000.00 BRIAN KROLICKI FOR LT GOVERNOR NV REP 12/01/11 $1,000.00 BRIAN SANDOVAL FOR GOVERNOR NV REP 12/01/11 $2,000.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DEBBIE SMITH NV DEM 12/01/11 $1,000.00 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2011 | page 7 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2011 United States of America Contributions Payee State Party Date Amount COMMITTEE TO ELECT MARCUS CONKLIN NV DEM 12/06/11 $3,000.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT PETE GOICOECHEA NV REP 12/06/11 $1,000.00 FRIENDS FOR DAVID BOBZIEN NV DEM 12/01/11 $1,000.00 FRIENDS OF MARILYN KIRKPATRICK NV DEM 12/08/11 $1,500.00 FRIENDS OF MICHAEL ROBERSON NV REP 12/01/11 $1,000.00 JAMES SETTELMEYER FOR SENATE NV REP 12/01/11 $1,000.00 SHEILA LESLIE CAMPAIGN NV DEM 12/06/11 $1,000.00 VOTE FOR KELLY KITE NV REP 12/01/11 $500.00 NV Total $15,000.00 CITIZENS FOR LENTOL NY DEM 10/13/11 $750.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MCDONALD TO THE SENATE NY REP 10/13/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT ASSEMBLYMAN JOE MORELLE NY DEM 10/13/11 $500.00 FRIENDS FOR THE ELECTION OF DEAN SKELOS NY REP 10/13/11 $1,000.00 FRIENDS FOR THE ELECTION OF DEAN SKELOS NY REP 10/13/11 $1,000.00 FRIENDS OF FARLEY NY REP 10/13/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF SENATOR LIBOUS COMMITTEE NY REP 10/13/11 $750.00 FRIENDS OF SILVER NY DEM 10/13/11 $1,000.00 NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC ASSEMBLY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY DEM 08/11/11 $15,000.00 HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE HOUSEKEEPING NY DEM 08/11/11 $25,000.00 ACCOUNT NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC SENATE CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY DEM 08/11/11 $15,000.00 HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NEW YORK STATE SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NY REP 08/11/11 $30,000.00 HOUSEKEEPING ACCOUNT NY Total $91,000.00 KASICH-TAYLOR NEW DAY CMTE INC. OH REP 01/27/11 $10,000.00 OH Total $10,000.00 CORBETT CAWLEY INAUGURAL COMMITTEE PA REP 01/17/11 $5,000.00 PA Total $5,000.00 2011 SOUTH CAROLINA INAUGURAL CMTE SC REP 01/27/11 $5,000.00 ALAN WILSON FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL SC REP 11/18/11 $1,000.00 BOBBY HARRELL CAMPAIGN FUND SC REP 11/21/11 $1,000.00 BRIAN WHITE FOR THE HOUSE SC REP 10/07/11 $1,000.00 CAMPSEN FOR SENATE SC REP 04/19/11 $500.00 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT FUNDERBURK SC DEM 06/22/11 $500.00 DAN HAMILTON FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/21/11 $1,000.00 DEBORAH LONG FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/21/11 $500.00 ERIC BEDINGFIELD FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/21/11 $1,000.00 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2011 | page 8 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2011 United States of America Contributions Payee State Party Date Amount HARRY OTT FOR HOUSE SC DEM 11/21/11 $500.00 HARVEY S. PEELER, JR. FOR SENATE SC REP 11/18/11 $1,000.00 HAYES FOR SENATE SC REP 06/22/11 $500.00 JACKIE HAYES FOR HOUSE SC DEM 11/21/11 $500.00 JAY LUCAS FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/22/11 $500.00 KENNY BINGHAM FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/21/11 $1,000.00 KRIS CRAWFORD FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/21/11 $500.00 LARRY GROOMS FOR SENATE SC REP 11/18/11 $1,000.00 LEATHERMAN FOR SENATE SC REP 09/06/11 $1,000.00 MIKE FORRESTER FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/21/11 $500.00 PHYLLIS HENDERSON FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/21/11 $500.00 PITTS FOR THE HOUSE SC REP 06/22/11 $500.00 SANDIFER FOR THE HOUSE SC REP 04/27/11 $1,000.00 SHANNON ERICKSON FOR HOUSE SC REP 11/21/11 $500.00 SHOOPMAN FOR SENATE SC REP 06/17/11 $500.00 WILLIAM H. O'DELL FOR SENATE SC REP 11/18/11 $500.00 SC Total $22,000.00 CITIZENS FOR REBECCA D LOCKHART UT REP 09/23/11 $500.00 CITIZENS FOR WADDOUPS UT REP 09/23/11 $500.00 HERBERT FOR GOVERNOR UT REP 09/23/11 $1,500.00 HERBERT FOR GOVERNOR UT REP 09/23/11 $1,500.00 UT Total $4,000.00 DOMINION LEADERSHIP TRUST PAC VA REP 01/24/11 $1,500.00 EDWARDS FOR VIRGINIA STATE SENATE VA DEM 06/17/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF BILL BOLLING VA REP 06/03/11 $2,500.00 FRIENDS OF GREG HABEEB VA REP 12/21/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF KIRK COX VA REP 06/03/11 $1,500.00 FRIENDS OF ROB BELL FOR DELEGATE VA REP 10/13/11 $500.00 FRIENDS OF TOMMY NORMENT VA REP 06/22/11 $1,000.00 FRIENDS OF WALTER STOSCH VA REP 10/17/11 $1,000.00 KEN CUCCINELLI FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL VA REP 09/29/11 $2,500.00 MASSIE FOR DELEGATE VA REP 06/03/11 $500.00 MOVE AHEAD PAC VA REP 06/03/11 $1,000.00 SASLAW FOR STATE SENATE VA DEM 05/20/11 $1,500.00 TOSCANO FOR DELEGATE VA DEM 05/20/11 $500.00 WARE FOR HOUSE OF DELEGATES VA DEM 06/17/11 $500.00 VA Total $15,500.00 Grand Total $799,100.00 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2011 | page 9 GENERAL ELECTRIC GLOBAL CORPORATE POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR 2011 Non-US Contributions Payee Payee Date Amount CANADA Total Provincial Contributions 2011 $74,642.00 Global Total $873,742.00 For each association from which GE receives a notice that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a ﬁscal year on non-deductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public ofﬁce. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. Based on the information GE received in 2011, the National Electrical Manufacturer's Association responded that they made a $20,000 contribution to the Republican Governor's Association. All Canadian contributions were made to provincial parties or individual constituency organizations. © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2011 | page 10 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions for 2010 Payee State Date Amount STOP THE JOBS TAX (CA PROP 24) Ballot 08/24/10 1,400,000 CALIFORNIANS FOR JOBS AND INNOVATION (CA PROP 24) Ballot 03/22/10 100,000 UNITED FOR JOBS AND OHIO'S FUTURE Ballot 05/17/10 50,000 Ballot Total 1,550,000 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Nat Org 03/10/10 100,000 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Nat Org 10/18/10 10,000 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Nat Org 10/18/10 15,000 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Nat Org 04/30/10 5,000 DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE Nat Org 01/07/10 45,000 DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE Nat Org 02/17/10 45,000 DEMOCRATIC LT. GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Nat Org 09/16/10 5,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Nat Org 01/07/10 5,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Nat Org 09/16/10 75,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Nat Org 10/18/10 15,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Nat Org 10/19/10 10,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Nat Org 04/23/10 100,000 REPUBLICAN STATE LEADERSHIP COMMITTEE Nat Org 05/19/10 50,000 REPUBLICAN STATE LEADERSHIP COMMITTEE Nat Org 07/27/10 10,000 Nat Org Total 490,000 CALIFORNIA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 10/13/10 7,500 CALIFORNIA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 07/28/10 3,500 DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF GEORGIA State Org 03/15/10 10,000 DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF ILLINOIS State Org 01/22/10 1,500 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 03/25/10 15,000 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 09/23/10 10,000 GEORGIA REPUBLICAN PARTY INC State Org 02/09/10 11,000 HOUSE MAJORITY 2010 State Org 10/18/10 5,000 HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (IN) State Org 05/19/10 1,000 HOUSE REPUBLICAN ORGANIZATION (IL) State Org 01/06/10 1,500 HOUSE REPUBLICAN ORGANIZATION (IL) State Org 10/21/10 2,000 INDIANA HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS State Org 05/21/10 1,000 INDIANA SENATE DEMOCRATS State Org 05/21/10 1,000 MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA CALIFORNIA PAC State Org 01/20/10 6,500 NEVADA SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS State Org 10/21/10 1,000 NEW HAMPSHIRE DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 01/08/10 2,500 NEW HAMPSHIRE DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 05/27/10 2,500 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2010 | page 1 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions for 2010 Payee State Date Amount NYS DEMOCRATIC SENATE CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE State Org 09/01/10 25,000 NYS DEMOCRATIC ASSEMBLY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE State Org 09/08/10 20,000 NYS DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE State Org 08/23/10 10,000 NYS SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE State Org 09/08/10 25,000 OHIO REPUBLICAN PARTY State Org 10/29/10 10,000 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA State Org 01/07/10 2,500 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA State Org 10/21/10 20,000 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA State Org 10/20/10 5,000 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA State Org 11/24/10 25,000 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF ORANGE COUNTY State Org 11/24/10 5,000 REPUBLICAN STATE SENATE CAMP. CMTE (IL) State Org 01/06/10 1,500 REPUBLICAN STATE SENATE CAMP. CMTE (IL) State Org 10/18/10 2,000 RPOF FLORIDA VICTORY 2010 State Org 07/29/10 1,000 SC HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS State Org 10/14/10 2,500 SC HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS State Org 09/13/10 3,500 SC SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS State Org 09/13/10 2,500 SC SENATE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS State Org 09/08/10 3,500 SENATE DEMOCRATIC VICTORY FUND (IL) State Org 01/06/10 1,500 SENATE DEMOCRATIC VICTORY FUND (IL) State Org 10/25/10 2,000 SENATE MAJORITY 2010 State Org 10/13/10 10,000 SENATE MAJORITY 2010 State Org 09/01/10 20,000 SENATE MAJORITY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (IN) State Org 05/19/10 1,000 TEXAS HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS State Org 11/08/10 500 State Org Total 281,500 ALARCON OFFICEHOLDER ACCOUNT, RICHARD CA 11/14/10 500 BLUMENFIELD FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, BOB CA 08/24/10 1,000 BRADFORD FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, STEVEN CA 08/24/10 1,000 BROWNLEY FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, JULIA CA 10/13/10 1,000 CAMERON SMYTH FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/25/10 3,900 COMM TO RE-ELECT ASSEMBLY MEMBER CA 10/25/10 3,900 DAVIS FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, MIKE CA 10/13/10 1,000 DE LA TORRE FOR INSUR. COMM 2010 CA 05/14/10 3,000 DE LEON FOR SENATE 2010, KEVIN CA 05/26/10 1,000 FELIPE FUENTES FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/18/10 3,900 FEUER FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, MIKE CA 10/13/10 3,900 FIONA MA FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/25/10 3,900 FLETCHER FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/18/10 3,900 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2010 | page 2 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions for 2010 Payee State Date Amount FRIENDS OF ANTHONY ADAMS CA 01/13/10 5,000 FRIENDS OF BETSY BUTLER CA 10/25/10 3,900 GALGIANI FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, CATHLEEN CA 10/13/10 1,000 GARRICK FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/25/10 3,900 GATTO FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 SPECIAL RUNOFF, MIKE CA 04/26/10 1,000 GATTO FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, MIKE CA 10/13/10 1,000 GREUEL OFFICEHOLDER COMMITTEE, CITY CONTROLLER WENDY CA 05/20/10 1,000 GREUEL OFFICEHOLDER COMMITTEE, CITY CONTROLLER WENDY CA 10/01/10 1,000 HAGMAN FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/25/10 3,900 HALL FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/25/10 2,500 HUIZAR OFFICEHOLDER ACCOUNT CA 04/27/10 500 JEFF GORELL FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/25/10 2,500 JOHNSON OFFICEHOLDER COMMITTEE, JAMES CA 10/14/10 500 KEVIN DE LEON FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/25/10 2,900 LARA FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/13/10 1,000 LIU FOR SENATE 2012, CAROL CA 03/10/10 1,300 LIU FOR SENATE 2012, CAROL CA 10/14/10 1,500 LOWENTHAL FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, BONNIE CA 04/23/10 1,500 MARK WYLAND FOR SENATE 2010 CA 05/17/10 1,500 MEG WHITMAN FOR GOV 2010 CA 09/16/10 10,000 MITCHELL FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, HOLLY J. CA 04/26/10 1,000 MITCHELL FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, HOLLY J. CA 10/13/10 1,000 MONNING FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, BILL CA 10/13/10 1,000 NIELSEN FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/25/10 1,500 NOGUEZ ASSESSOR 2010 CA 02/23/10 1,000 PAVLEY FOR SENATE 2012 CA 10/13/10 2,000 PEREZ FOR ASSEMBLY 2010, JOHN A. CA 02/22/10 3,900 PETE PARRA FOR STATE ASSEMBLY CA 05/17/10 1,500 PRICE FOR SENATE 2010, CURREN CA 08/11/10 2,000 REYES OFFICEHOLDER ACCOUNT, ED CA 11/17/10 500 RIDLEY-THOMAS OFFICEHOLDER CA 11/17/10 1,000 RON CALDERON FOR SENATE 2010 CA 05/12/10 3,900 RUNNER, TAXPAYERS FOR GEORGE CA 01/07/10 6,500 SHANNON GROVE FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 05/14/10 1,500 SKINNER FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/25/10 3,900 SMITH OFFICEHOLDER, GREIG CA 01/29/10 500 ST HOPE PUBLIC STREET CA 10/25/10 5,000 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2010 | page 3 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions for 2010 Payee State Date Amount STEVE COOLEY FOR ATTNY GENERAL 2010 CA 10/25/10 3,000 STEVE COOLEY FOR ATTNY GENERAL 2010 CA 10/25/10 3,500 STOKER FOR STATE ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 10/25/10 1,000 STRICKLAND FOR CONTROLLER 2010 CA 10/21/10 3,500 STRICKLAND FOR CONTROLLER 2010 CA 10/21/10 3,000 TAXPAYERS FOR ROGER NIELLO CA 12/13/10 300 TORLAKSON FOR STATE SUPERINTENDENT CA 10/13/10 2,000 OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION 2010, TOM VILLINES FOR INS COMMISSIONER 2010 CA 01/13/10 6,500 VILLINES FOR INS COMMISSIONER 2010 CA 10/25/10 3,000 VILLINES FOR INS COMMISSIONER 2010 CA 10/29/10 3,500 CA Total 146,300 ADAM PUTNAM CAMPAIGN FL 07/15/10 500 ADAM PUTNAM CAMPAIGN FL 07/12/10 500 ADAM PUTNAM CAMPAIGN FL 07/12/10 500 BILL MCCOLLUM FOR GOVERNOR FL 03/23/10 418 BILL PROCTOR CAMPAIGN FL 01/07/10 500 BILL SEGAL FOR MAYOR CAMPAIGN FL 04/08/10 500 BILL SEGAL FOR MAYOR CAMPAIGN FL 09/23/10 500 BILL SEGAL FOR MAYOR CAMPAIGN FL 09/23/10 500 BILL SUBLETTE CAMPAIGN FL 06/02/10 500 BRYAN NELSON FOR STATE REP FL 01/07/10 500 CHOOSING RIGHT FOR FLORIDA'S ECONOMY AND EDUCATION FL 06/18/10 5,000 CHRIS DORWORTH CAMPAIGN FL 10/12/10 500 CITIZENS COMMITTED TO FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY FL 10/05/10 5,000 DANA YOUNG CAMPAIGN FL 06/07/10 500 DEAN CANNON CAMPAIGN FL 01/07/10 500 DEAN CANNON CAMPAIGN FL 08/05/10 500 DEAN CANNON CAMPAIGN FL 08/05/10 500 ED HOOPER CAMPAIGN FL 01/07/10 500 ELLYN BOGDANOFF CAMPAIGN FL 09/23/10 500 ELLYN BOGDANOFF CAMPAIGN FL 09/23/10 500 FLORIDA COMMITTEE FOR CONSERVATIVE LEADERSHIP FL 10/21/10 5,000 FLORIDA VICTORY 2010 FL 03/22/10 25,000 FLORIDA VICTORY 2010 FL 06/09/10 5,000 FLORIDA'S FISCAL FUTURE FL 09/15/10 10,000 FLORIDA'S FISCAL FUTURE FL 09/10/10 10,000 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2010 | page 4 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions for 2010 Payee State Date Amount FLORIDIANS FOR FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY FL 10/04/10 2,500 FRANKLIN SANDS CAMPAIGN FL 08/24/10 500 FRED BRUMMER CAMPAIGN FL 10/14/10 500 FRED BRUMMER CAMPAIGN FL 10/14/10 500 GIL ZIFFER CAMPAIGN ACCOUNT FL 09/08/10 500 JACK LATVALA CAMPAIGN FL 07/09/10 500 JEANETTE NUNEZ CAMPAIGN FL 10/01/10 500 JEFF ATWATER CAMPAIGN FL 09/23/10 500 JEFF ATWATER CAMPAIGN FL 09/23/10 500 JENNIFER CARROLL CAMPAIGN FL 01/07/10 500 JENNIFER THOMPSON FOR ORANGE COUNTY COMMISSIONER FL 07/14/10 500 JIMMY PATRONIS CAMPAIGN FL 01/07/10 500 JOHN MARKS III FOR MAYOR FL 09/08/10 500 JOHN THRASHER CAMPAIGN FL 10/04/10 500 LIZBETH BENACQUISTO CAMPAIGN FL 10/05/10 500 LIZBETH BENACQUISTO CAMPAIGN FL 10/05/10 500 LT. GOV JEFF KOTTKAMP CAMPAIGN FL 02/24/10 1,747 MELONY BELL CAMPAIGN FL 08/04/10 500 MICHELLE VASILINDA CAMPAIGN FL 09/28/10 500 ORANGE CO REPUBLICAN EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FL 03/12/10 2,500 PAIGE KREEGEL CAMPAIGN FL 01/07/10 500 RICH GLORIOSO CAMPAIGN FL 01/07/10 500 ROBERT STUART CAMPAIGN FL 02/25/10 500 STEVE PRECOURT CAMPAIGN FL 01/07/10 500 STEVE PRECOURT CAMPAIGN FL 10/01/10 280 THAD ALTMAN CAMPAIGN FL 02/22/10 500 THAD ALTMAN CAMPAIGN FL 02/25/10 500 THE BILL SUBLETTE CAMPAIGN FL 03/18/10 500 TRUDI WILLIAMS CAMPAIGN FL 01/07/10 500 WILL WEATHERFORD CAMPAIGN FL 01/07/10 500 WILLIAM SNYDER CAMPAIGN FL 01/07/10 500 FL Total 94,445 BEACH FOR SENATE GA 02/22/10 500 BEACH FOR SENATE GA 07/15/10 500 BRIAN KEMP FOR SECRETARY OF STATE GA 07/08/10 1,000 CALVIN SMYRE CAMPAIGN GA 08/26/10 1,000 CASEY CAGLE FOR LT. GOVERNOR GA 01/08/10 2,000 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2010 | page 5 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions for 2010 Payee State Date Amount CASEY CAGLE FOR LT. GOVERNOR GA 10/25/10 2,000 CHANCE FOR SENATE GA 10/29/10 500 CHANNELL RE-ELECTION CAMPAIGN GA 08/26/10 500 CITIZENS FOR CALVIN HILL GA 09/01/10 500 CITIZENS TO ELECT BROOKS COLEMAN GA 09/01/10 500 CMTE TO ELECT SUSAN DYKES HOLMES GA 09/08/10 500 CMTE TO RE-ELECT REP LYNN R SMITH GA 09/01/10 500 COLLINS FOR STATE HOUSE DISTRICT 27 GA 10/29/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ALLEN PEAKE GA 09/01/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH MILLER GA 07/15/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT GREG GOGGANS GA 09/01/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT KEN HODGES GA 01/08/10 1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT KEN HODGES GA 07/13/10 1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT SUSAN HOLMES GA 03/23/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BEN HARBIN GA 09/01/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH PARISH GA 09/01/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT CARL ROGERS GA 09/01/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DAVID RALSTON GA 09/01/10 2,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DONNA SHELDON GA 08/26/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ED HARBISON GA 09/01/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JAY ROBERTS GA 09/01/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JEFF MULLIS GA 07/23/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT LARRY O'NEAL GA 09/01/10 1,000 COMMITTEE TO RE ELECT JACK HILL GA 08/23/10 1,000 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT KARLA DRENNER GA 10/29/10 250 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT RON STEPHENS GA 09/01/10 500 COWSERT FOR SENATE GA 10/29/10 1,000 DAVID SHAFER SENATE COMMITTEE GA 08/23/10 500 DEAL FOR GOVERNOR GA 10/12/10 5,000 DEAL FOR GOVERNOR GA 10/25/10 1,000 DON BALFOUR FOR SENATE GA 07/13/10 1,000 EDWARD LINDSEY FOR STATE HOUSE 54 GA 09/08/10 500 FRAN MILLAR FOR STATE SENATE GA 08/02/10 500 FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS TO ELECT M. KAISER GA 01/08/10 250 FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS TO ELECT M. KAISER GA 09/01/10 250 FRIENDS OF BILL HAMRICK GA 10/29/10 500 FRIENDS OF BILL HEATH GA 07/13/10 500 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2010 | page 6 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions for 2010 Payee State Date Amount FRIENDS OF BILL HEMBREE GA 09/01/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF BUDDY CARTER FOR SENATE GA 09/01/10 250 FRIENDS OF CHIP ROGERS GA 08/23/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF DON PARSONS GA 09/01/10 500 FRIENDS OF JAN JONES GA 09/01/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF JOE WILKINSON GA 09/01/10 500 FRIENDS OF JUDSON HILL GA 07/13/10 500 FRIENDS OF KATIE DEMPSEY GA 10/29/10 500 FRIENDS OF RICH GOLICK GA 10/29/10 500 FRIENDS OF ROBERT BROWN GA 09/01/10 500 FRIENDS OF TOMMIE WILLIAMS GA 08/23/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF WENDELL WILLARD GA 09/08/10 500 FRIENDS TO ELECT DOUG STONER GA 01/08/10 500 FRIENDS TO ELECT DOUG STONER GA 08/23/10 500 GARY BLACK FOR COMM OF AGRICULTURE GA 05/21/10 500 HANK HUCKABY FOR STATE HOUSE GA 10/05/10 500 JAMES MILLS FOR REPRESENTATIVE GA 09/01/10 500 LOUDERMILK FOR STATE SENATE GA 07/15/10 500 MARTIN FOR GEORGIA GA 09/01/10 500 NEIGHBORS FOR EHRHART GA 10/29/10 500 ROGER WILLIAMS STATE REP. GA 07/12/10 500 ROSS TOLLESON FOR STATE SENATE GA 08/23/10 500 SAM OLENS FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL GA 10/25/10 1,000 SHARON COOPER FOR STATE HOUSE GA 07/13/10 500 THE CMTE TO ELECT TERRY ENGLAND GA 09/01/10 500 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT MATT RAMSEY GA 09/01/10 500 WILES FOR SENATE GA 07/08/10 1,000 GA Total 50,000 CITIZENS FOR DALE RIGHTER IL 01/06/10 1,000 CITIZENS FOR DALE RIGHTER IL 10/29/10 500 CITIZENS FOR DAVE WINTERS IL 01/06/10 1,000 CITIZENS FOR DAVID LEITCH IL 01/06/10 1,000 CITIZENS FOR JIM DURKIN IL 01/06/10 1,000 CITIZENS FOR KIRK DILLARD IL 10/12/10 1,000 CITIZENS FOR KYLE MCCARTER IL 10/29/10 750 CITIZENS FOR LUECHTEFELD IL 10/25/10 1,000 CITIZENS FOR MARK BEAUBIEN IL 01/06/10 1,000 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2010 | page 7 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions for 2010 Payee State Date Amount CITIZENS FOR STEPHENS IL 10/25/10 500 CITIZENS FOR DAN CRONIN IL 01/06/10 1,000 CITIZENS FOR DAN CRONIN IL 10/05/10 1,000 CITIZENS TO ELECT KEITH FARNHAM IL 10/12/10 500 CITZNS TO ELECT PATRICIA R BELLOCK IL 11/08/10 500 CMTE TO ELECT JAY C HOFFMAN IL 10/12/10 750 COMMITTEE FOR FRANK MAUTINO IL 01/06/10 1,000 COMMITTEE FOR FRANK MAUTINO IL 10/21/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT RICH MORTHLAND IL 10/29/10 500 DAVE SYVERSON FOR SENATE IL 01/06/10 1,000 DAVE SYVERSON FOR SENATE IL 10/29/10 500 FRIENDS OF BOB FLIDER IL 10/12/10 750 FRIENDS OF DON HARMON IL 01/06/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF EDWARD M. BURKE IL 01/06/10 1,500 FRIENDS OF JEHAN GORDON IL 10/29/10 500 FRIENDS OF JOHN J MILLNER IL 01/06/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF MATTIE HUNTER IL 01/07/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF MICHAEL J MADIGAN IL 11/08/10 2,000 FRIENDS OF MIKE ZALEWSKI IL 11/08/10 500 FRIENDS OF SKIP SAVIANO IL 01/06/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF TIM SCHMITZ IL 01/06/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF TIM SCHMITZ IL 10/25/10 500 PEOPLE FOR RAUSCHENBERGER IL 10/25/10 500 PEOPLE FOR TERRENCE J. O'BRIEN IL 01/06/10 1,000 SENATOR DEMUZIO COMMITTEE IL 10/12/10 500 VOTERS FOR KEVIN MCCARTHY IL 10/29/10 500 IL Total 29,250 AIMING HIGHER PAC (GOV DANIELS) IN 07/07/10 4,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BRIAN BOSMA IN 10/05/10 2,000 IN Total 6,000 BROWNBACK FOR GOVERNOR, INC. KS 09/09/10 2,000 KS Total 2,000 JEFF ARNOLD CAMPAIGN FUND LA 01/13/10 500 LA Total 500 SIDNEY ALBRITTON MN 10/13/10 500 MN Total 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT TOM HOLBROOK MO 10/18/10 500 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2010 | page 8 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions for 2010 Payee State Date Amount MO Total 500 BILLY HEWES CAMPAIGN MS 10/13/10 500 BILLY MCCOY CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 BOB DEARING CAMPAIGN MS 10/13/10 500 BOBBY MOAK CAMPAIGN MS 10/19/10 500 CECIL BROWN CAMPAIGN MS 10/19/10 500 CHRIS MCDANIEL CAMPAIGN MS 10/19/10 500 DAVID NORQUIST CAMPAIGN MS 10/19/10 500 DEAN KIRBY CAMPAIGN MS 10/13/10 500 DIANE PERANICH CAMPAIGN MS 10/19/10 500 DIRK DEDEAUX CAMPAIGN MS 10/19/10 500 DOUG DAVIS CAMPAIGN MS 10/13/10 500 ERIC POWELL CAMPAIGN MS 10/19/10 500 GEORGE FLAGGS CAMPAIGN MS 10/19/10 500 HOB BRYAN CAMPAIGN MS 10/13/10 500 JOEY FILLINGANE CAMPAIGN MS 10/13/10 500 JOHN MAYO CAMPAIGN MS 10/19/10 500 JOHNNY STRINGER CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 KELVIN BUCK CAMPAIGN MS 10/21/10 500 LYDIA CHASSANOIL CAMPAIGN MS 10/13/10 500 MERLE FLOWERS CAMPAIGN MS 10/13/10 500 MICHAEL WATSON CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 NOLAN METTETAL CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 PERCY WATSON CAMPAIGN MS 10/29/10 500 PERRY LEE CAMPAIGN MS 10/12/10 500 SAM MIMS CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 SIDNEY BONDURANT CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 STACEY PICKERING CAMPAIGN MS 11/24/10 500 TERRY BROWN CAMPAIGN MS 10/12/10 500 TERRY BURTON CAMPAIGN MS 10/12/10 500 TOMMY MOFFATT CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 TYRONE ELLIS CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 VIDET CARMICHAEL CAMPAIGN MS 10/13/10 500 WALTER MICHAEL CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 WARNER MCBRIDE CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 WILBERT JONES CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 WILLIE SIMMONS CAMPAIGN MS 10/25/10 500 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2010 | page 9 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions for 2010 Payee State Date Amount MS Total 18,000 THE LYNCH COMMITTEE 2010 NH 10/05/10 1,000 NH Total 1,000 BRIAN KROLICKI FOR LT GOVERNOR NV 10/21/10 2,000 CMTE TO ELECT JOYCE WOODHOUSE NV 10/21/10 1,000 CMTE TO ELECT SEN STEVEN HORSFORD NV 11/12/10 3,000 CMTE TO RE-ELECT TICK SEGERBLOM NV 10/21/10 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DEBBIE SMITH NV 10/18/10 1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MARCUS CONKLIN NV 10/18/10 2,000 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT JOHN OCEGUERA NV 10/18/10 3,000 FRIENDS OF MARILYN KIRKPATRICK NV 10/18/10 1,000 THE CMTE TO ELECT JOHN HAMBRICK NV 10/21/10 500 NV Total 14,000 CMTE TO RE-ELECT JOHN L SAMPSON NY 10/12/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF BRIAN STRATTON NY 09/08/10 500 FRIENDS OF SILVER NY 08/23/10 2,000 PEOPLE FOR BING NY 08/23/10 1,500 NY Total 5,000 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT FUNDERBURK SC 09/08/10 500 COOPER FOR LT GOVERNOR SC 10/29/10 1,000 COUNCIL OF STATE GOVERNMENT SC 10/14/10 350 DAN COOPER FOR THE HOUSE SC 09/08/10 1,000 JENNY HORNE FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 500 NIKKI HALEY FOR GOVERNOR SC 09/13/10 3,500 REP BANNISTER FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 1,000 REP BINGHAM FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 1,000 REP BRADY FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 500 REP BRIAN WHITE FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 500 REP DEBRA LONG FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 500 REP DERHAM COLE FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 500 REP ERIC BEDINGFIELD FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 500 REP HAMILTON FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 1,000 REP HARRISON FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 1,000 REP HARRY OTT FOR SC HOUSE SC 10/05/10 500 REP KRIS CRAWFORD FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 500 REP LOWE FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 1,000 REP MIKE FORRESTER FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 500 © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2010 | page 10 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions for 2010 Payee State Date Amount REP PITTS FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 1,000 REP TOM YOUNG FOR SC HOUSE SC 09/08/10 500 RITA ALLISON FOR STATE HOUSE SC 09/08/10 500 SANDIFER FOR THE HOUSE SC 09/08/10 1,000 SC COASTAL CONSERVATION LEAGUE SC 05/21/10 500 SC Total 19,350 HERBERT FOR GOVERNOR UT 10/05/10 2,500 UT Total 2,500 ATTORNEY GENERAL CUCCINELLI VA 10/18/10 2,000 DEEDS FOR SENATE VA 07/13/10 1,000 DOMINION LEADERSHIP TRUST PAC (Speaker Howell) VA 11/03/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF BILL BOLLING VA 06/08/10 2,500 FRIENDS OF KIRK COX E96768 VA 06/08/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF MORGAN GRIFFITH VA 04/07/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF ROB BELL FOR DELEGATE VA 11/24/10 500 FRIENDS OF TOMMY NORMENT F20641 VA 11/03/10 1,000 FRIENDS OF WALTER STOSCH D19192 VA 10/18/10 1,000 SENATOR DICK SASLAW VA 11/03/10 1,000 TOSCANO FOR DELEGATE VA 06/08/10 500 WAMPLER FOR SENATE D19181 VA 11/03/10 1,000 WARD ARMSTRONG FOR DELEGATE VA 06/08/10 1,500 VA Total 15,000 Grand Total 2,725,845 For each association from which GE receives a notice that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a fiscal year on non-deductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. © copyright 2011 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2010 | page 11 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions For 2009 Payee State Date Amount SOUTH CAROLINA HOUSE REP CAUCUS State Org 6/22/09 3,500 GEORGIA REPUBLICAN PARTY INC State Org 7/7/09 10,000 SC SENATE REPUBLICAN CAUCUS State Org 7/14/09 3,500 GEORGIA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 8/24/09 10,000 NY ST DEMOCRATIC COMM HOUSEKEEPING State Org 11/11/09 5,000 NY STATE SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN State Org 11/16/09 20,000 NY STATE SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN State Org 11/17/09 20,000 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 12/4/09 5,000 INDIANA HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS State Org 12/7/09 1,000 INDIANA REPUBLICAN PARTY State Org 12/7/09 2,000 HOUSE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (IN) State Org 12/8/09 1,000 INDIANA DEMOCRATIC STATE CENTRAL COMMITTEE State Org 12/8/09 1,000 INDIANA SENATE DEMOCRATS State Org 12/8/09 1,000 SENATE MAJORITY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (IN) State Org 12/8/09 1,000 CALIFORNIA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 12/9/09 25,000 CALIFORNIA REPUBLICAN PARTY State Org 12/9/09 15,000 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 12/17/09 5,000 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 12/18/09 10,000 NEVADA SENATE DEMOCRATS State Org 12/18/09 500 SENATE REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP CONF (NV) State Org 12/18/09 1,000 ASSEMBLY DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS (NV) State Org 12/21/09 2,000 TEXAS ROUND UP INC (TX) State Org 12/21/09 10,000 State Org Total 152,500 DEMOCRATIC LT. GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NAT 2/5/09 2,500 DEMOCRATIC LT. GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NAT 2/26/09 5,000 REPUBLICAN STATE LEADERSHIP COMMITTEE NAT 5/21/09 55,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NAT 10/9/09 100,000 REPUBLICAN STATE LEADERSHIP COMMITTEE NAT 11/5/09 5,000 DEMOCRATIC ATTORNEYS GENERAL ASSOCIATION NAT 11/18/09 10,000 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NAT 11/18/09 100,000 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NAT 12/30/09 10,000 NAT Total 287,500 STATE LEGISLATIVE LEADERS FNDT Political Assoc 4/16/09 5,000 STATE LEGISLATIVE LEADERS FNDT Political Assoc 4/27/09 27,500 WESTERN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Political Assoc 5/29/09 15,000 US CONFERENCE OF MAYORS Political Assoc 7/17/09 7,500 SOUTHERN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Political Assoc 8/6/09 10,000 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2009 | page 1 Payee State Date Amount NATIONAL LIEUTENANT GOVERNORS Political Assoc 11/6/09 5,000 STATE LEGISLATIVE LEADERS FNDT Political Assoc 11/20/09 32,500 SOUTHERN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION Political Assoc 12/10/09 5,000 Political Assoc Total 107,500 CALIFORNIA DREAM TEAM CA 4/14/09 5,000 CHARLES CALDERON FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 12/18/09 3,900 COMM TO RE-ELECT ASSEMBLY MEMBER CA 12/18/09 3,900 FELIPE FUENTES FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 12/18/09 3,900 FIONA MA FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 12/18/09 3,900 FLETCHER FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 12/21/09 3,900 HECTOR DE LA TORRE CA 8/11/09 3,500 KEVIN DE LEON FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 12/18/09 3,900 PADILLA FOR SENATE CA 12/18/09 3,900 SENATOR DENISE MORENO DUCHENY CA 12/18/09 3,000 SKINNER FOR ASSEMBLY 2010 CA 12/18/09 3,900 TAXPAYERS FOR DAVE COGDILL 2010 CA 9/11/09 3,900 TAXPAYERS FOR GEORGE RUNNER CA 12/9/09 6,500 CA Total 53,100 ALEX SINK CAMPAIGN FL 3/24/09 500 BEN ALBRITTON FOR STATE REP FL 6/25/09 500 BILL MCCOLLUM FOR GOVERNOR FL 7/13/09 500 BILL MCCOLLUM FOR GOVERNOR FL 6/25/09 500 BILL MCCOLLUM FOR GOVERNOR FL 6/25/09 500 BILL SEGAL FOR MAYOR CAMPAIGN FL 12/18/09 500 CAMPAIGN OF DOUG HOLDER FL 12/17/09 500 CAREY BAKER FOR COMMISSIONER OF AGRICULTURE FL 2/19/09 500 CARLOS LOPEZ CANTERA CAMPAIGN FL 12/18/09 500 DAISY LYNUM CAMPAIGN FL 12/16/09 500 DAVID RIVERA CAMPAIGN FL 2/19/09 500 DAVID SIMMONS CAMPAIGN FL 5/21/09 500 DENISE GRIMSLEY CAMPAIGN FL 12/17/09 500 DOROTHY HUKILL FOR STATE REP FL 12/18/09 500 EDUARDO GONZALEZ CAMPAIGN FL 12/18/09 500 ELLYN BOGDANOFF CAMPAIGN FL 10/12/09 500 ELLYN BOGDANOFF CAMPAIGN FL 9/1/09 500 ERIC EISNAUGLE FOR STATE REP FL 7/8/09 500 FRED BRUMMER CAMPAIGN FL 8/24/09 500 GARY AUBUCHON CAMPAIGN FL 12/17/09 500 JEANETTE NUNEZ CAMPAIGN FL 3/17/09 500 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2009 | page 2 Payee State Date Amount JEFF ATWATER FOR CFO CAMPAIGN FL 9/16/09 500 JEFF ATWATER FOR CFO CAMPAIGN FL 9/16/09 500 JENNIFER THOMPSON FOR ORANGE COUNTY COMMISSIONER FL 3/26/09 500 JIM FRISHE FOR FLORIDA HOUSE FL 12/17/09 500 JOE NEGRON CAMPAIGN FL 6/23/09 500 JOHN LEGG CAMPAIGN FL 12/18/09 500 JOHN THRASHER FOR FLORIDA STATE SENATE FL 6/18/09 500 JOHN THRASHER FOR FLORIDA STATE SENATE FL 9/25/09 500 KOSMAS FOR CONGRESS FL 6/30/09 386 KRISTIN BEALL CAMPAIGN FL 8/18/09 500 MARTI COLEY CAMPAIGN FL 12/17/09 500 MIGUES DIAZ DE LA PORTILLA CAMPAIGN FL 6/25/09 500 MIKE HORNER CAMPAIGN FL 10/28/09 500 ORANGE COUNTY REPUBLICAN PARTY FL 4/24/09 2,500 PEPI DIAZ FOR HOUSE DISTRICT 115 FL 5/28/09 500 PETER NEHR CAMPAIGN FL 12/17/09 500 PHIL DIAMOND FOR ORLANDO CITY COUNCIL FL 3/19/09 500 PHIL DIAMOND FOR ORLANDO CITY COUNCIL FL 3/30/09 500 ROBERT SCHENCK CAMPAIGN FL 12/18/09 500 ROBERT STUART CAMPAIGN FL 11/3/09 500 SETH MCKEEL CAMPAIGN HOUSE FL 12/18/09 500 STEVE PRECOURT CAMPAIGN FL 2/10/09 500 STEVE PRECOURT CAMPAIGN FL 12/5/09 500 TED EDWARDS CAMPAIGN FL 9/25/09 500 TED EDWARDS CAMPAIGN FL 8/27/09 500 THAD ALTMAN CAMPAIGN FL 8/31/09 500 THAD ALTMAN CAMPAIGN FL 8/31/09 500 TIFFANY MOORE RUSSELL CAMPAIGN FL 11/13/09 500 FL Total 26,386 BRIAN KEMP FOR SECRETARY OF STATE GA 12/30/09 1,000 CALVIN SMYRE CAMPAIGN GA 12/30/09 1,000 CHANCE FOR SENATE GA 12/30/09 500 CHANNELL RE ELECTION CAMPAIGN GA 12/30/09 500 CITIZENS FOR CALVIN HILL GA 12/30/09 500 COLLINS FOR STATE HOUSE DISTRICT 27 GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH MILLER GA 12/31/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT KEVIN LEVITAS GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MARK RILEY GA 11/17/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BEN HARBIN GA 12/30/09 500 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2009 | page 3 Payee State Date Amount COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH PARISH GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT CARL ROGERS GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DONNA SHELDON GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ED HARBISON GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT GREG GOGGINS GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JAY ROBERTS GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JEFF MULLIS GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT LARRY O NEAL GA 12/30/09 1,000 COMMITTEE TO RE ELECT BOB LANE GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO RE ELECT JACK HILL GA 12/30/09 1,000 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT DON THOMAS GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT KARLA DRENNER GA 12/30/09 250 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT LYNN R. SMITH GA 12/30/09 500 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT RON STEPHENS GA 12/30/09 500 COWSERT FOR SENATE GA 12/30/09 1,000 DAVID SHAFER SENATE COMMITTEE GA 12/30/09 500 DON BALFOUR FOR SENATE GA 12/30/09 1,000 FRIENDS OF BILL HAMRICK GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF BILL HEATH GA 12/23/09 500 FRIENDS OF BUDDY CARTER FOR SENATE GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF CHIP PEARSON GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF CHIP ROGERS GA 12/30/09 1,000 FRIENDS OF DON PARSONS GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF FRAN MILLAR GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF JAN JONES GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF JERRY KEEN GA 12/30/09 1,000 FRIENDS OF JOE WILKINSON GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF JUDSON HILL GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF KATIE DEMPSEY GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF LISA M. BORDERS INC. GA 10/2/09 3,600 FRIENDS OF MIKE COAN FOR STATE REP GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF RICH GOLICK GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF ROBERT BROWN GA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF TOMMIE WILLIAMS GA 12/30/09 1,000 JAMES MILLS FOR REPRESENTATIVE GA 12/30/09 500 JAY SHAW CAMPAIGN GA 12/30/09 500 JIM COLE STATE REPRESENTATIVE GA 12/30/09 500 KASIM REED FOR MAYOR GA 6/4/09 2,000 KASIM REED FOR MAYOR GA 12/31/09 1,200 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2009 | page 4 Payee State Date Amount MARTIN FOR GEORGIA GA 12/30/09 500 NATHAN DEAL FOR GOVERNOR, INC. GA 12/30/09 2,000 NEIGHBORS FOR EHRHART GA 12/30/09 1,000 PRESTON SMITH CAMPAIGN FOR SENATE GA 12/30/09 500 RALSTON FOR REPRESENTATIVE GA 12/30/09 1,000 ROGER WILLIAMS STATE REP GA 12/30/09 500 ROSS TOLLESON FOR STATE SENATE GA 12/30/09 500 SAM OLENS FOR ATTORNEY GENERAL GA 12/30/09 1,000 SEABAUGH FOR SENATE GA 12/30/09 500 SHARON COOPER FOR STATE HOUSE GA 12/30/09 500 THOMPSON SENATE CAMPAIGN GA 12/30/09 500 THURBERT BAKER FOR GOVERNOR, INC. GA 12/30/09 1,000 TIM GOLDEN FOR STATE SENATE GA 12/30/09 500 WILES FOR SENATE GA 12/30/09 500 GA Total 44,550 BORROR FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE IN 12/8/09 250 CITIZENS FOR MERRITT IN 12/7/09 250 DEIG FOR SENATE COMMITTEE IN 12/7/09 250 ERIC KOCH FOR STATE REP IN 12/8/09 250 FRIENDS OF TOM WYSS IN 12/7/09 250 HOLDMAN FOR SENATE IN 12/7/09 250 MARY ANN SULLIVAN FOR STATE REP IN 12/7/09 250 PHIL BOOTS FOR ST SENATE DISTRICT IN 12/7/09 250 RICHARD BRAY CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE IN 12/7/09 250 STEELE FOR SENATE COMMITTEE IN 12/7/09 250 THE COMM. TO ELECT JOHN BARNES IN 12/8/09 250 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT TERRI AUSTIN IN 12/8/09 250 THE FOLEY CAMPAIGN IN 12/7/09 250 VAN HAAFTEN FOR STATE REP IN 12/8/09 250 VI SIMPSON FOR ST SENATE COMM IN 12/22/09 250 WES CULVER FOR INDIANA STATE REP IN 12/8/09 250 IN Total 4,000 ANN DUPLESSIS CAMPAIGN FUND LA 12/30/09 500 CMTE TO ELECT HUNTER GREENE LA 12/30/09 500 DANNY MARTINY CAMPAIGN FUND LA 12/30/09 500 FRIENDS OF BOBBY JINDAL LA 12/9/09 3,000 GORDON DOVE CAMPAIGN ACCOUNT LA 12/30/09 500 JIM TUCKER CAMPAIGN LA 12/30/09 500 JODY AMEDEE LA 12/30/09 500 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2009 | page 5 Payee State Date Amount JOEL CHAISSON CAMPAIGN FUND LA 12/30/09 500 NICK GAUTREAUX CAMPAIGN FUND LA 12/30/09 500 TIM BURNS CAMPAIGN FUND LA 12/30/09 500 LA Total 7,500 FRIENDS OF DOUG GANSLER MD 10/13/09 500 MD Total 500 ALAN NUNNELEE CAMPAIGN MS 11/19/09 1,000 BELIEVE PAC MS 12/3/09 1,000 CECIL BROWN CAMPAIGN FUND MS 11/30/09 1,000 DEAN KIRBY CAMPAIGN MS 11/19/09 1,000 FRIENDS OF BILLY HEWES MS 11/17/09 1,000 FRIENDS OF BOBBY MOAK MS 12/21/09 1,000 FRIENDS OF PHIL BRYANT MS 7/17/09 1,000 FRIENDS OF TATE REEVES MS 11/20/09 1,000 HOB BRYAN CAMPAIGN MS 11/30/09 1,000 JOHNNY STRINGER CAMPAIGN MS 11/19/09 1,000 JP COMPRETTA CAMPAIGN MS 11/19/09 1,000 NOLAN METTETAL CAMPAIGN MS 11/19/09 1,000 PERCY WATSON CAMPAIGN MS 11/19/09 1,000 SPEAKER BILLY MCCOY CAMPAIGN MS 11/19/09 1,000 STEVE HOLLAND CAMPAIGN MS 11/30/09 1,000 WARNER MCBRIDE CAMPAIGN MS 11/19/09 1,000 MS Total 16,000 GOVERNOR PERDUE INAUGURAL COMMITTEE NC 6/18/09 3,000 NC Total 3,000 BOUTIN FOR STATE SENATE NH 12/30/09 1,000 NEW HAMPSHIRE FOR JOHN LYNCH NH 12/3/09 2,500 THE LYNCH COMMITTEE 2010 NH 6/15/09 2,500 NH Total 6,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT NATE GENTRY NM 10/26/09 250 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DIANE DENISH NM 10/13/09 1,000 NM Total 1,250 COMM. TO RE-ELECT KELVIN ATKINSON NV 12/21/09 500 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DEBBIE SMITH NV 12/18/09 1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DENNIS NOLAN NV 12/18/09 1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MARCUS CONKLIN NV 12/21/09 1,000 COMMITTEE TO ELECT MILLER NV 12/21/09 1,000 COMMITTEE TO RE ELECT JOHN OCEGUERA NV 12/9/09 3,500 COMMITTEE TO RE-ELECT WILLIAM HORNE NV 12/21/09 500 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2009 | page 6 Payee State Date Amount FRIENDS FOR DAVID BOBZIEN NV 12/21/09 500 FRIENDS FOR STEVEN HORSFORD NV 12/21/09 2,500 FRIENDS OF BETSY BUTLER NV 12/18/09 3,900 FRIENDS OF MARILYN KIRKPATRICK NV 12/18/09 1,000 JAMES SETTELMEYER CAMPAIGN NV 12/18/09 1,000 MO DENIS FOR STATE ASSEMBLY NV 12/21/09 1,000 RUBEN KIHUEN FOR ASSEMBLY 11 NV 12/18/09 1,000 NV Total 19,400 ANDREW CUOMO 2010 NY 11/11/09 1,000 FRIENDS FOR THE ELECTION OF DEAN G. NY 11/10/09 1,000 FRIENDS OF BRIAN STRATTON NY 11/10/09 500 FRIENDS OF JERRY JENNINGS NY 11/10/09 500 FRIENDS OF SILVER NY 11/10/09 2,000 NY Total 5,000 BARRETT FOR GOVERNOR SC 12/9/09 3,500 SC Total 3,500 A STRONG MAJORITY PAC VA 7/16/09 1,500 BOB MCDONNELL INAUGURAL COMMITTEE VA 12/30/09 10,000 BOLLING FOR LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR 09 VA 4/24/09 2,500 DOMINION LEADERSHIP TRUST VA 10/13/09 2,000 DOMINION LEADERSHIP TRUST PAC VA 7/17/09 1,000 FRIENDS OF DELEGATE KEN PLUM VA 12/3/09 500 FRIENDS OF MORGAN GRIFFITH VA 10/9/09 2,000 FRIENDS OF ROB BELL FOR DELEGATE VA 5/21/09 500 MCDONNELL FOR GOVERNOR VA 5/28/09 5,000 MCDONNELL FOR GOVERNOR VA 10/9/09 5,000 MCDONNELL FOR GOVERNOR VA 12/3/09 5,000 SASLAW FOR SENATE VA 10/13/09 2,000 TOSCANO FOR DELEGATE VA 12/3/09 500 VA Total 37,500 Total 775,186 For each association from which GE receives a notice that the association has spent or will spend $25,000 or more of GE payments in a fiscal year on non-deductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used to fund independent expenditures expressly advocating for or against candidates in elections for public office. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such requests. © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2009 | page 7 General Electric Corporate Political Contributions For 2008 Supplier Name Supp. State/Prov. Payment Date Amount DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF GEORGIA State Org 10/20/2008 5,000.00 DEMOCRATIC PARTY OF ILLINOIS State Org 9/26/2008 1,250.00 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 7/10/08 1,395.84 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 8/19/08 1,475.00 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 1/31/08 5,000.00 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 1/24/08 19,839.41 FLORIDA DEMOCRATIC PARTY State Org 7/24/08 25,000.00 GEORGIA REPUBLICAN PARTY State Org 10/15/2008 10,000.00 HOUSE REPUBLICAN ORGANIZATION State Org 9/26/2008 1,250.00 ILLINOIS SENATE DEMOCRATIC FUND State Org 9/26/2008 1,250.00 ILLINOIS SENATE DEMOCRATIC FUND State Org 4/10/2008 1,500.00 INDIANA HOUSE DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS State Org 4/28/2008 1,200.00 INDIANA REPUBLICAN PARTY State Org 6/24/2008 5,000.00 NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC COMMITTEE State Org 9/26/2008 10,000.00 HOUSKEEPING ACCOUNT NEW YORK STATE SENATE DEMOCRATIC CAMPAIGN State Org 9/26/2008 6,000.00 COMMITTEE NEW YORK STATE SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN State Org 9/29/2008 32,000.00 COMMITTEE NEW YORK STATE DEMOCRATIC ASSEMBLY CAMPAIGN State Org 9/26/2008 12,000.00 COMMITTEE HOUSE REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA State Org 8/12/08 5,000.00 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA State Org 8/11/08 10,000.00 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA State Org 2/22/08 120,548.72 SENATE REPUBLICAN CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE State Org 9/26/2008 1,250.00 State Org Total 275,958.97 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NAT 10/13/2008 7,000.00 DEMOCRATIC GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NAT 9/3/2008 65,000.00 DEMOCRATIC LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE NAT 10/10/2008 30,000.00 DEMOCRATIC LT GOVERNORS ASSOCATION NAT 1/25/2008 5,000.00 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NAT 10/9/2008 7,000.00 REPUBLICAN GOVERNORS ASSOCIATION NAT 9/5/2008 65,000.00 REPUBLICAN STATE LEADERSHIP COMMITTEE NAT 9/3/2008 50,000.00 NAT Total 229,000.00 AGHAZARIAN FOR SENATE CA 6/9/2008 3,600.00 AGHAZARIAN FOR SENATE CA 11/5/2008 3,600.00 ALAN LOWENTHAL CA 1/28/08 2,000.00 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2008 | page 1 Candidate/Committee State Payment Date Amount ALBERTO TORRICO FOR ASSEMBLY 2008 CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 ANTHONY PORTANTINO CA 1/28/08 3,600.00 AUDRA STRICKLAND CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 BOB BLUMENFIELD CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 CALIFORNIANS FOR PAUL KREKORIA CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 CAMERON SMYTH CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 CAMERON SMYTH FOR ASSEMBLY 200 CA 11/5/2008 3,600.00 CAROL LIU FOR SENATE CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 CATHLEEN GALGIANI CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 CATHLEEN GALGIANI FOR ASSEMBLY CA 11/5/2008 2,000.00 CHARLES CALDERON FOR ASSEMBLY CA 11/5/2008 3,600.00 CHRISTINE KEHOE CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 DAVE COGDILL CA 1/28/08 2,000.00 DAVE COX CA 1/28/08 2,000.00 DEVORE IN 04 CA 6/9/2008 1,000.00 ELLEN CORBETT CA 1/28/08 2,000.00 FLETCHER FOR ASSEMBLY CA 10/30/2008 2,000.00 FRAN PAVLEY CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 FRIENDS OF ANTHONY PORTANTINO CA 10/31/2008 3,600.00 FRIENDS OF JEFF DENHAM AGAINST RECALL CA 6/9/2008 2,500.00 FRIENDS OF JEFF DENHAM CA 11/3/2008 2,000.00 FRIENDS OF MIMI WALTERS CA 6/9/2008 3,600.00 FRIENDS OF MIMI WALTERS CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 FRIENDS OF TOM TORLAKSON 2008 CA 10/30/2008 2,000.00 FUENTES FOR ASSEMBLY 2008 CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 GEORGE RUNNER CA 1/28/08 3,600.00 GIL CEDILLO CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 GLORIA ROMERO CA 1/28/08 2,000.00 GOVERNOR SCHWARZENEGGER’S CALIFORNIA DREAM TEAM CA 10/2/2008 2,500.00 JACK SCOTT CA 1/28/08 2,000.00 JENNY OROPEZA CA 1/28/08 2,000.00 JERRY BROWN CA 1/28/08 2,000.00 JOHN LAIRD CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 JUAN ARAMBULA CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 JULIA BROWNLEY CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 KEVIN DE LEON FOR ASSEMBLY 200 CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 LELAND YEE FOR SENATE CA 11/4/2008 3,600.00 LOU CORREA FOR STATE SENATE 20 CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 MARY HAYASHI CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2008 | page 2 Candidate/Committee State Payment Date Amount MIKE DAVIS CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 MIKE FEUER CA 1/28/08 3,600.00 PADILLA FOR SENATE CA 11/4/2008 3,600.00 PAUL KREKORIAN CA 1/28/08 3,600.00 PAVLEY FOR SENATE CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 PEDRO NAVA CA 1/28/08 3,600.00 RE ELECT AUDRA STRICKLAND FOR ASSEMBLY CA 10/30/2008 2,000.00 RE ELECT FIONA MA CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 ROGER NIELLO CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 RON CALDERON FOR SENATE 2010 CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 SENATOR DENISE MORENO DUCHENY OFFICEHOLDER ACCOUNT CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 SHARON RUNNER CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 SHEILA KUEHL CA 1/28/08 2,000.00 STRICKLAND FOR SENATE CA 11/4/2008 3,600.00 TAX PAYERS FOR ROD WRIGHT CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 TAXPAYERS FOR DAVE COGDILL CA 11/5/2008 3,600.00 TAXPAYERS FOR ROGER NIELLO CA 10/30/2008 3,600.00 TOM HARMAN CA 1/28/08 2,000.00 TONY MENDOZA CA 1/28/08 1,000.00 VAN TRAN CA 1/28/08 2,000.00 VILLINES FOR ASSEMBLY 2008 CA 9/24/2008 3,600.00 CA Total 157,400.00 ANDY GARDINER CAMPAIGN FL 6/17/08 500.00 ANDY GARDINER CAMPAIGN FL 9/30/08 500.00 ARONBERG RE-ELECTION CAMPAIGN FL 7/24/08 500.00 ATWATER FOR SENATE CAMPAIGN FUND FL 2/12/2008 500.00 BELINDA ORTIZ CAMPAIGN FL 1/11/08 500.00 BELINDA ORTIZ CAMPAIGN FL 1/31/08 500.00 BILL COWLES CAMPAIGN FL 9/22/08 500.00 BILL POSEY FL 6/25/08 1,000.00 BILL SEGAL FL 5/14/08 500.00 BRANDON ARRINGTON CAMPAIGN FL 10/9/08 500.00 CAMPAIGN TO RE-ELECT ST ATTY LAWSON LAMAR FL 10/9/08 500.00 CHARLES DEAN FOR SENATOR CAMPAIGN FL 10/1/08 500.00 CHRIS SMITH FOR STATE SENATE FL 10/13/08 500.00 CHRISTINE MOORE CURTIS FL 7/31/08 165.00 CHRISTINE MOORE CURTIS FL 7/31/08 500.00 CITIZENS SPEAKING OUT COMMITTEE FL 5/5/08 5,000.00 DAN GELBER FOR STATE SENATE FL 10/13/08 500.00 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2008 | page 3 Candidate/Committee State Payment Date Amount DAVID SIMMONS CAMPAIGN FL 2/20/08 500.00 DEAN CANNON FL 2/27/08 500.00 DEAN CANNON FL 2/27/08 500.00 ED TINSLEY FL 9/15/08 1,000.00 ELLYN BOGDANOFF FL 5/16/08 500.00 ERIC EISNAUGLE CAMPAIGN FL 10/2/08 500.00 EVELYN LYNN FL 9/17/08 500.00 FACCE (FLA ATTRACTIONS COMM OF CONTINUOUS EXIST) FL 10/9/08 1,000.00 JD ALEXANDER CAMPAIGN FL 10/1/08 500.00 JEANNE VAN METER FL 2/25/08 500.00 JEFF ATWATER CAMPAIGN FL 2/8/08 500.00 JEFF ATWATER CAMPAIGN FL 10/2/08 500.00 JERRY DEMINGS FOR SHERIFF FL 3/26/08 500.00 JERRY DEMINGS FOR SHERIFF FL 6/19/08 500.00 JIMMY PATRONIS FL 2/28/08 500.00 LET US VOTE FL 10/29/08 2,500.00 LOU ROEDER FL 7/11/08 500.00 LOU ROEDER FL 7/11/08 500.00 LYDIA GARDNER CAMPAIGN FL 10/9/08 500.00 MARTIN KIAR FL 2/27/08 500.00 MIKE HORNER CAMPAIGN FL 10/1/08 500.00 MILDRED FERNANDEZ FL 2/28/08 500.00 MILDRED FERNANDEZ FOR ORANGE COUNTY COMMISSIONER FL 10/2/08 500.00 NANCY DETERT FL 9/12/08 500.00 PETER BOULWARE CAMPAIGN FL 7/23/08 500.00 PHILLIP WALKER FL 8/18/08 500.00 PRESERVE THE AMERICAN DREAM FL 10/28/08 1,000.00 RENIER DIAZ DE LA PORTILLA FL 3/21/08 500.00 REPUBLICAN PARTY OF FLORIDA FL 9/19/08 523.57 RIC KELLER FL 9/11/08 2,000.00 RON KLEIN FL 6/17/08 1,000.00 RON KLEIN FL 2/8/08 1,500.00 RPOF KRUPPENBACHER EVENT FL 3/23/08 10,000.00 RPOF-AARLC FL 2/28/08 500.00 SANDY ADAMS FL 7/24/08 500.00 SCOTT PLAKON FL 6/17/08 500.00 SHANNON GRAVITTE FOR ORANGE COUNTY COMMISSIONER FL 10/2/08 500.00 SHANNON GRAVITTE FOR ORANGE COUNTY COMMISSIONER FL 10/2/08 500.00 STEVE PRECOURT FL 2/27/08 500.00 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2008 | page 4 Candidate/Committee State Payment Date Amount STEVE WISE FL 2/28/08 500.00 THAD ALTMAN CAMPAIGN FL 8/7/08 500.00 THAD ALTMAN CAMPAIGN FL 10/2/08 500.00 THAD ALTMAN CAMPAIGN FL 10/13/08 500.00 WEST ORANGE POLITICAL ALLIANCE FL 11/17/08 500.00 FL Total 51,188.57 CALVIN SMYRE CAMPAIGN GA 10/14/2008 1,000.00 CALVIN SMYRE CAMPAIGN FUND GA 1/1/2008 500.00 CHANCE FOR SENATE GA 10/21/2008 500.00 CHANNELL RE ELECTION CAMPAIGN GA 11/17/2008 500.00 CITIZENS FOR CALVIN HILL GA 10/8/2008 500.00 CITIZENS TO ELECT LEE HAWKINS GA 10/24/2008 500.00 CITIZENS TO ELECT LEE HAWKINS GA 8/13/2008 500.00 COLLINS FOR STATE HOUSE DISTRICT GA 11/11/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BEN HARBIN GA 10/7/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT BUTCH PARRISH GA 10/10/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT CARL ROGERS GA 10/14/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT DONNA SHELD GA 10/13/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT ED HARBISON GA 10/22/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT GREG GOGGAN GA 10/21/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JAY ROBERTS GA 10/14/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JEFF MULLIS GA 10/23/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT JEFF MULLIS GA 7/24/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT KEVIN LEVITAS GA 11/11/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT LARRY O’NEAL GA 10/10/2008 1,000.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT VANCE C SMITH GA 10/13/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO RE ELECT BOB LANE GA 11/11/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO RE ELECT GLENN RICHARDSON GA 10/14/2008 2,000.00 COMMITTEE TO RE ELECT JACK HILL GA 10/22/2008 1,000.00 COMMITTEE TO RE ELECT LYNN SMITH GA 10/15/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO REELECT DON THOMAS GA 10/20/2008 500.00 COWSERT FOR SENATE GA 10/29/2008 1,000.00 DAVID SHAFER SENATE COMMITTEE GA 10/15/2008 500.00 DON BALFOUR FOR SENATE GA 10/21/2008 1,000.00 DUBOSE PORTER ELECTION COMMITTEE GA 10/14/2008 1,000.00 ERIC JOHNSON FOR LT GOVERNOR GA 10/20/2008 2,000.00 FRIENDS AND NEIGHBORS OF ROB TEILHET GA 10/14/2008 500.00 FRIENDS FOR CHIP ROGERS GA 10/20/2008 1,000.00 FRIENDS OF BILL HAMRICK GA 10/28/2008 500.00 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2008 | page 5 Candidate/Committee State Payment Date Amount FRIENDS OF BILL HEATH GA 10/23/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF CHIP PEARSON GA 10/15/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF FRAN MILLAR GA 10/7/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF JAN JONES GA 11/11/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF JERRY KEEN GA 10/8/2008 1,000.00 FRIENDS OF JOE WILKINSON GA 10/14/2008 1,000.00 FRIENDS OF JUDSON HILL GA 10/22/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF KATIE DEMPSEY GA 11/12/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF MARK BURKHALTER GA 10/7/2008 1,000.00 FRIENDS OF MIKE COAN GA 11/11/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF ROBERT BROWN GA 10/24/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF TOMMIE WILLIAMS GA 10/15/2008 1,000.00 FRIENDS OF WENDELL WILLARD GA 10/16/2008 500.00 FRIENDS TO ELECT DOUG STONER GA 10/20/2008 500.00 GEORGIANS FOR THURBERT BAKER GA 10/15/2008 2,500.00 JAMES MILLS FOR REPRESENTATIVE GA 11/11/2008 500.00 JAY SHAW CAMPAIGN GA 10/14/2008 500.00 JIM COLE STATE REPRESENTATIVE GA 11/11/2008 500.00 MARTIN FOR GEORGIA GA 10/7/2008 500.00 NEIGHBORS FOR EHRHART GA 11/11/2008 1,000.00 PRESTON SMITH CAMPAIGN GA 10/15/2008 500.00 RALPH HUDGENS FOR STATE SENATE GA 10/22/2008 500.00 ROGER WILLIAMS FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE GA 10/14/2008 500.00 ROSS TOLLESON FOR STATE SENATE GA 10/15/2008 500.00 SEABAUGH FOR SENATE GA 10/15/2008 500.00 SHARON COOPER FOR STATE HOUSE GA 10/7/2008 500.00 THE COMMITTEE TO ELECT VIRGIL FLUDD GA 11/11/2008 500.00 THOMPSON SENATE CAMPAIGN GA 10/20/2008 500.00 TIM GOLDEN FOR STATE SENATE GA 10/21/2008 500.00 WILES FOR SENATE GA 11/10/2008 500.00 GA Total 42,500.00 CITIZENS FOR BOB PRICHARD IL 9/23/2008 500.00 CITIZENS FOR DALE RISINGER IL 9/23/2008 500.00 CITIZENS FOR CAREEN M GORDON IL 9/16/2008 500.00 CITIZENS FOR CHAPIN ROSE IL 9/23/2008 500.00 CITIZENS FOR DALE RIGHTER IL 9/16/2008 500.00 CITIZENS FOR DAN BRADY IL 9/24/2008 500.00 CITIZENS FOR FRANK WATSON IL 4/8/2008 1,500.00 CITIZENS FOR JAMES CLAYBORNE IL 10/21/2008 500.00 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2008 | page 6 Candidate/Committee State Payment Date Amount CITIZENS FOR JOHN CULLERTON IL 9/16/2008 500.00 CITIZENS FOR KIRK DILLARD IL 9/16/2008 500.00 CITIZENS TO ELECT TOM CROSS IL 4/21/2008 1,500.00 COMMITTEE FOR FRANK MAUTINO IL 9/25/2008 500.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT RICKEY HENDON IL 2/15/2008 750.00 COMMITTEE TO ELECT TOM HOLBROOK IL 9/26/2008 500.00 FRIENDS FOR MATTIE HUNTER IL 9/25/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF JULIE HAMOS IL 9/16/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF MICHAEL J MADIGAN IL 4/28/2008 1,500.00 FRIENDS OF MICHAEL J MADIGAN IL 9/12/2008 5,000.00 FRIENDS OF SAVIANO IL 9/23/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF SENATOR BILL BRADY IL 9/25/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF TERRY LINK IL 9/16/2008 500.00 GARY DAHL FOR STATE SENATE IL 9/23/2008 500.00 IL Total 18,750.00 CRAWFORD COMMITTEE IN 4/28/2008 500.00 MITCH FOR GOVERNOR CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE IN 4/28/2008 5,000.00 PAT BAUER FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE IN 4/28/2008 500.00 IN Total 6,000.00 BLUESTEM FUND KS 5/15/2008 5,000.00 KS Total 5,000.00 FRIENDS FOR THE ELECTION OF DEAN SKELOS NY 9/26/2008 2,000.00 FRIENDS OF BRIAN STRATTON NY 9/30/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF JERRY JENNINGS NY 9/26/2008 500.00 NY Total 3,000.00 COMMITTEE TO PROTECT FLORIDA’S FISCAL FUTURE Other 11/12/08 5,000.00 MPAA CALIFORNIA PAC Other 1/28/08 6,000.00 Other Total 11,000.00 TOM DAVIS FOR SENATE SC 10/29/2008 1,000.00 SC Total 1,000.00 A STRONG MAJORITY PAC (ARMSTRONG) VA 10/2/2008 1,000.00 A STRONG MAJORITY PAC (ARMSTRONG) VA 10/24/2008 1,000.00 DOMINION LEADERSHIP TRUST PAC VA 10/24/2008 2,000.00 FRIENDS OF MORGAN GRIFFITH VA 11/3/2008 2,000.00 FRIENDS OF ROB BELL FOR DELEGATE VA 9/29/2008 500.00 FRIENDS OF WALTER STOSCH VA 10/2/2008 1,000.00 LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR BILL BOLLING VA 10/14/2008 1,000.00 MCDONNEL FOR VIRGINIA VA 10/24/2008 2,500.00 MOVING VIRGINIA FORWARD VA 10/24/2008 2,500.00 © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2008 | page 7 Candidate/Committee State Payment Date Amount ONZLEE WARE VA 10/28/2008 500.00 RE ELECT SENATOR MARY MARGARET WHIPPLE VA 11/3/2008 1,000.00 SASLAW FOR SENATE VA 11/3/2008 2,000.00 VIRGINIA VICTORY 2008 VA 9/25/2008 2,500.00 VIRGINIANS FOR BRIAN MORAN VA 9/23/2008 1,000.00 VA Total 20,500.00 VERMONT SENATE VICTORY VT 9/29/2008 2,000.00 VT Total 2,000.00 RE ELECT AG ROB MCKENNA WA 10/24/2008 1,000.00 WA Total 1,000.00 Grand Total 824,297.54 Per GE’s commitment beginning in 2007, for each association from which GE receives a notice that the association has or will spend $25,000 or more of GE’s payments in a fiscal year on non-deductible lobbying and/or political expenditures under Internal Revenue Code (“Code”) Section 162(e), we will ask the trade association to identify the portion of those payments used in connection with participation or intervention in a political campaign on behalf of (or in opposition to) any candidate for public office, as defined under Subsection 162(e)(1)(B) of the Code. We will include in our political contributions report any responses we receive to such request. GE has not received notice from any Trade Association that payments have been used in connection with participation or intervention in a political campaign on behalf of (or in opposition to) any candidate for public office, as defined under Subsection 162(e)(1)(B) of the Code. © copyright 2010 general electric company corporate political contributions for 2008 | page 8 Table A (as of May 23, 2018) Summary of Smelters and Refiners # of Smelters and Refiners Reported in Our Supply Chain A. RMI Conformant B. RMI Active Smelters C. Other Smelters & Refiners & Refiners Smelters & Refiners Total 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Tantalum 44 40 0 0 0 0 44 40 Tin 68 72 7 2 8 9 83 83 Tungsten 40 40 1 1 5 4 46 45 Gold 93 99 10 8 42 41 145 148 Total 245 251 18 11 55 54 318 316 We note the following in connection with the information contained in the foregoing table: (1) The smelters and refiners reflected in the table were first-tier tungsten smelters or were identified by our Significant Suppliers as potentially being part of our 2017 supply chain. However, not all of the included smelters and refiners may have processed the necessary 3TG contained in the in-scope products that we manufactured, since many Significant Suppliers reported to us at a “company level” the 3TG contained in all of their products, not just those in the products that they sold to us. Some Significant Suppliers also may have reported to us smelters and refiners that were not in our supply chain due to over-inclusiveness in the information received from their suppliers or for other reasons. In addition, the smelters and refiners reflected above may not be all of the smelters and refiners in our supply chain, since many Significant Suppliers were unable to identify all of the smelters and refiners used to process the necessary 3TG content contained in the in-scope products that we manufactured and not all of the Significant Suppliers responded to our inquiries. (2) “Conformant” means that a smelter or refiner was audited by the RMI and has been found to be conformant with the RMAP. (3) “Active” means participants in the RMAP that have committed to undergo an audit or are participating in one of the crossrecognized certification programs. (4) “Other” means the smelter or refined is not listed as “Conformant” or “Active.” (5) The table excludes two smelters that ceased operation in 2017. (6) The compliance status information reflected in the table is based solely on information made available by the RMI to its members, without independent verification by us. Smelters and Refiners for 2017 Metal Smelter/Refiner Name Smelter/Refiner Location Status Tantalum Asaka Riken Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Tantalum Changsha South Tantalum Niobium Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum D Block Metals, LLC UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum Exotech Inc. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum F&X Electro-Materials Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum FIR Metals & Resource Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum Global Advanced Metals Aizu JAPAN Conformant Tantalum Global Advanced Metals Boyertown UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum Guangdong Rising Rare Metals-EO Materials Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum Guangdong Zhiyuan New Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Co., Ltd. THAILAND Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Hermsdorf GmbH GERMANY Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Inc. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Smelting GmbH & Co. KG GERMANY Conformant Tantalum H.C. Starck Tantalum and Niobium GmbH GERMANY Conformant Tantalum Hengyang King Xing Lifeng New Materials Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum Jiangxi Dinghai Tantalum & Niobium Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant 7 Tantalum Jiangxi Tuohong New Raw Material CHINA Conformant Tantalum Jiujiang Janny New Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum JiuJiang JinXin Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum Jiujiang Tanbre Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum Jiujiang Zhongao Tantalum & Niobium Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum KEMET Blue Metals MEXICO Conformant Tantalum KEMET Blue Powder UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum LSM Brasil S.A. BRAZIL Conformant Tantalum Metallurgical Products India Pvt., Ltd. INDIA Conformant Tantalum Mineracao Taboca S.A. BRAZIL Conformant Tantalum Mitsui Mining and Smelting Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Tantalum Ningxia Orient Tantalum Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tantalum NPM Silmet AS ESTONIA Conformant MACEDONIA, THE FORMER Tantalum Power Resources Ltd. Conformant YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF Tantalum QuantumClean UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum Resind Industria e Comercio Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant RFH Tantalum Smeltery Co., Ltd./Yanling Jincheng Tantalum CHINA Conformant Tantalum & Niobium Co., Ltd. Tantalum Solikamsk Magnesium Works OAO RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Tantalum Taki Chemical Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Tantalum Telex Metals UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tantalum Ulba Metallurgical Plant JSC KAZAKHSTAN Conformant Tantalum XinXing HaoRong Electronic Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Alpha UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tin Chenzhou Yunxiang Mining and Metallurgy Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Chifeng Dajingzi Tin Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin China Tin Group Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin CV Ayi Jaya INDONESIA Conformant Tin CV Dua Sekawan INDONESIA Conformant Tin CV Gita Pesona INDONESIA Conformant Tin CV United Smelting INDONESIA Conformant Tin CV Venus Inti Perkasa INDONESIA Conformant Tin Dowa JAPAN Conformant BOLIVIA (PLURINATIONAL Tin EM Vinto Conformant STATE OF) Tin Fenix Metals POLAND Conformant Tin Gejiu Fengming Metallurgy Chemical Plant CHINA Conformant Tin Gejiu Jinye Mineral Company CHINA Conformant Tin Gejiu Kai Meng Industry and Trade LLC CHINA Conformant Tin Gejiu Non-Ferrous Metal Processing Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Gejiu Yunxin Nonferrous Electrolysis Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Guangdong Hanhe Non-Ferrous Metal Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Guanyang Guida Nonferrous Metal Smelting Plant CHINA Conformant Tin HuiChang Hill Tin Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Huichang Jinshunda Tin Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Jiangxi Ketai Advanced Material Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Jiangxi New Nanshan Technology Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Magnu's Minerais Metais e Ligas Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant Tin Malaysia Smelting Corporation (MSC) MALAYSIA Conformant Tin Melt Metais e Ligas S.A. BRAZIL Conformant 8 Tin Metallic Resources, Inc. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tin Metallo Belgium N.V. BELGIUM Conformant Tin Metallo Spain S.L.U. SPAIN Conformant Tin Mineracao Taboca S.A. BRAZIL Conformant Tin Minsur PERU Conformant Tin Mitsubishi Materials Corporation JAPAN Conformant Tin O.M. Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. THAILAND Conformant Tin O.M. Manufacturing Philippines, Inc. PHILIPPINES Conformant BOLIVIA (PLURINATIONAL Tin Operaciones Metalurgical S.A. Conformant STATE OF) Tin PT Aries Kencana Sejahtera INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Artha Cipta Langgeng INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT ATD Makmur Mandiri Jaya INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Babel Inti Perkasa INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Bangka Prima Tin INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Bangka Serumpun INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Bangka Tin Industry INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Belitung Industri Sejahtera INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Bukit Timah INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT DS Jaya Abadi INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Eunindo Usaha Mandiri INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Inti Stania Prima INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Karimun Mining INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Kijang Jaya Mandiri INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Lautan Harmonis Sejahtera INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Menara Cipta Mulia INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Mitra Stania Prima INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Panca Mega Persada INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Premium Tin Indonesia INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Prima Timah Utama INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Rajehan Ariq INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Refined Bangka Tin INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Sariwiguna Binasentosa INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Stanindo Inti Perkasa INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Sukses Inti Makmur INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Sumber Jaya Indah INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Timah (Persero) Tbk Kundur INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Timah (Persero) Tbk Mentok INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Tinindo Inter Nusa INDONESIA Conformant Tin PT Tommy Utama INDONESIA Conformant Tin Resind Industria e Comercio Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant Tin Rui Da Hung TAIWAN, PROVINCE OF CHINA Conformant Tin Soft Metais Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant Tin Thaisarco THAILAND Conformant Tin White Solder Metalurgia e Mineracao Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant Tin Yunnan Chengfeng Non-ferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tin Yunnan Tin Company Limited CHINA Conformant Tin Modeltech Sdn Bhd MALAYSIA Active Tin PT Babel Surya Alam Lestari INDONESIA Active Tin An Vinh Joint Stock Mineral Processing Company VIET NAM Other Tin CNMC (Guangxi) PGMA Co., Ltd. CHINA Other 9 Electro-Mechanical Facility of the Cao Bang Minerals & Tin VIET NAM Other Metallurgy Joint Stock Company Tin Estanho de Rondonia S.A. BRAZIL Other Tin Gejiu Zili Mining And Metallurgy Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Tin Nghe Tinh Non-Ferrous Metals Joint Stock Company VIET NAM Other Tin Pongpipat Company Limited MYANMAR Other Tin Super Ligas BRAZIL Other Tin Tuyen Quang Non-Ferrous Metals Joint Stock Company VIET NAM Other Tungsten A.L.M.T. TUNGSTEN Corp. JAPAN Conformant Tungsten ACL Metais Eireli BRAZIL Conformant Tungsten Asia Tungsten Products Vietnam Ltd. VIET NAM Conformant Tungsten Chenzhou Diamond Tungsten Products Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Chongyi Zhangyuan Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Fujian Jinxin Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Ganzhou Huaxing Tungsten Products Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Ganzhou Jiangwu Ferrotungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Ganzhou Seadragon W & Mo Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Global Tungsten & Powders Corp. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tungsten Guangdong Xianglu Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten H.C. Starck Smelting GmbH & Co. KG GERMANY Conformant Tungsten H.C. Starck Tungsten GmbH GERMANY Conformant Tungsten Hunan Chenzhou Mining Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Hunan Chuangda Vanadium Tungsten Co., Ltd. Wuji CHINA Conformant Tungsten Hunan Chunchang Nonferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Hydrometallurg, JSC RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Tungsten Japan New Metals Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Tungsten Jiangwu H.C. Starck Tungsten Products Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Jiangxi Gan Bei Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Jiangxi Tonggu Non-ferrous Metallurgical & Chemical Tungsten CHINA Conformant Co., Ltd. Tungsten Jiangxi Xinsheng Tungsten Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Jiangxi Yaosheng Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Kennametal Fallon UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tungsten Kennametal Huntsville UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Tungsten Malipo Haiyu Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Moliren Ltd. RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Tungsten Niagara Refining LLC UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Nui Phao H.C. Starck Tungsten Chemicals Manufacturing Tungsten VIET NAM Conformant LLC Tungsten Philippine Chuangxin Industrial Co., Inc. PHILIPPINES Conformant South-East Nonferrous Metal Company Limited of Tungsten CHINA Conformant Hengyang City Tungsten Tejing (Vietnam) Tungsten Co., Ltd. VIET NAM Conformant Tungsten Unecha Refractory metals plant RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Tungsten Vietnam Youngsun Tungsten Industry Co., Ltd. VIET NAM Conformant Tungsten Wolfram Bergbau und Hutten AG AUSTRIA Conformant Tungsten Woltech Korea Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Tungsten Xiamen Tungsten (H.C.) Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Xiamen Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Xinfeng Huarui Tungsten & Molybdenum New Material Tungsten CHINA Conformant Co., Ltd. 10 Tungsten Xinhai Rendan Shaoguan Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Tungsten Ganzhou Haichuang Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Active Tungsten Ganzhou Yatai Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Tungsten Hunan Litian Tungsten Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Tungsten Jiangxi Dayu Longxintai Tungsten Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Tungsten Jiangxi Minmetals Gao'an Non-ferrous Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Gold Advanced Chemical Company UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Aida Chemical Industries Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Al Etihad Gold Refinery DMCC UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Conformant Gold Allgemeine Gold-und Silberscheideanstalt A.G. GERMANY Conformant Gold Almalyk Mining and Metallurgical Complex (AMMC) UZBEKISTAN Conformant Gold AngloGold Ashanti Corrego do Sitio Mineracao BRAZIL Conformant Gold Argor-Heraeus S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Asahi Pretec Corp. JAPAN Conformant Gold Asahi Refining Canada Ltd. CANADA Conformant Gold Asahi Refining USA Inc. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Asaka Riken Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold AU Traders and Refiners SOUTH AFRICA Conformant Gold Aurubis AG GERMANY Conformant Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (Central Bank of the Gold PHILIPPINES Conformant Philippines) Gold Boliden AB SWEDEN Conformant Gold C. Hafner GmbH + Co. KG GERMANY Conformant Gold CCR Refinery Glencore Canada Corporation CANADA Conformant Gold Cendres + Metaux S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Chimet S.p.A. ITALY Conformant Gold Daejin Indus Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold DODUCO Contacts and Refining GmbH GERMANY Conformant Gold Dowa JAPAN Conformant Gold DSC (Do Sung Corporation) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold Eco-System Recycling Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Emirates Gold DMCC UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Conformant Gold Geib Refining Corporation UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Gold Refinery of Zijin Mining Group Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold HeeSung Metal Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold Heimerle + Meule GmbH GERMANY Conformant Gold Heraeus Metals Hong Kong Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Heraeus Precious Metals GmbH & Co. KG GERMANY Conformant Inner Mongolia Qiankun Gold and Silver Refinery Share Gold CHINA Conformant Co., Ltd. Gold Ishifuku Metal Industry Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Istanbul Gold Refinery TURKEY Conformant Gold Italpreziosi ITALY Conformant Gold Japan Mint JAPAN Conformant Gold Jiangxi Copper Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold JSC Uralelectromed RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Gold JX Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Kazzinc KAZAKHSTAN Conformant Gold Kennecott Utah Copper LLC UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Kojima Chemicals Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant 11 Gold Kyrgyzaltyn JSC KYRGYZSTAN Conformant Gold LS-NIKKO Copper Inc. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold Marsam Metals BRAZIL Conformant Gold Materion UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Matsuda Sangyo Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Metalor Technologies (Hong Kong) Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Metalor Technologies (Singapore) Pte., Ltd. SINGAPORE Conformant Gold Metalor Technologies (Suzhou) Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Metalor Technologies S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Metalor USA Refining Corporation UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Metalurgica Met-Mex Penoles S.A. De C.V. MEXICO Conformant Gold Mitsubishi Materials Corporation JAPAN Conformant Gold Mitsui Mining and Smelting Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold MMTC-PAMP India Pvt., Ltd. INDIA Conformant Gold Moscow Special Alloys Processing Plant RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Gold Nadir Metal Rafineri San. Ve Tic. A.S. TURKEY Conformant Gold Nihon Material Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Ogussa Osterreichische Goldund Silber-Scheideanstalt Gold AUSTRIA Conformant GmbH Gold Ohura Precious Metal Industry Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant OJSC The Gulidov Krasnoyarsk Non-Ferrous Metals Gold RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Plant (OJSC Krastsvetmet) Gold OJSC Novosibirsk Refinery RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Gold PAMP S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Planta Recuperadora de Metales SpA CHILE Conformant Gold Prioksky Plant of Non-Ferrous Metals RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Gold PT Aneka Tambang (Persero) Tbk INDONESIA Conformant Gold PX Precinox S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Rand Refinery (Pty) Ltd. SOUTH AFRICA Conformant Gold Republic Metals Corporation UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Royal Canadian Mint CANADA Conformant Gold SAAMP FRANCE Conformant Gold Safimet S.p.A ITALY Conformant Gold Samduck Precious Metals KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold SAXONIA Edelmetalle GmbH GERMANY Conformant Gold SEMPSA Joyeria Plateria S.A. SPAIN Conformant Gold Shandong Zhaojin Gold & Silver Refinery Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Sichuan Tianze Precious Metals Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Singway Technology Co., Ltd. TAIWAN, PROVINCE OF CHINA Conformant Gold SOE Shyolkovsky Factory of Secondary Precious Metals RUSSIAN FEDERATION Conformant Gold Solar Applied Materials Technology Corp. TAIWAN, PROVINCE OF CHINA Conformant Gold Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold SungEel HiMetal Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold T.C.A S.p.A ITALY Conformant Gold Tanaka Kikinzoku Kogyo K.K. JAPAN Conformant Gold The Refinery of Shandong Gold Mining Co., Ltd. CHINA Conformant Gold Tokuriki Honten Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Torecom KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Conformant Gold Umicore Brasil Ltda. BRAZIL Conformant Gold Umicore Precious Metals Thailand THAILAND Conformant Gold Umicore S.A. Business Unit Precious Metals Refining BELGIUM Conformant 12 Gold United Precious Metal Refining, Inc. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Conformant Gold Valcambi S.A. SWITZERLAND Conformant Gold Western Australian Mint (T/a The Perth Mint) AUSTRALIA Conformant Gold WIELAND Edelmetalle GmbH GERMANY Conformant Gold Yamakin Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Yokohama Metal Co., Ltd. JAPAN Conformant Gold Zhongyuan Gold Smelter of Zhongjin Gold Corporation CHINA Conformant Gold Bangalore Refinery INDIA Active Gold DS PRETECH Co., Ltd. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Active Gold KGHM Polska Miedz Spolka Akcyjna POLAND Active Gold L'Orfebre S.A. ANDORRA Active Gold Modeltech Sdn Bhd MALAYSIA Active Gold NH Recytech Company KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Active Gold Remondis Argentia B.V. NETHERLANDS Active Gold SAFINA A.S. CZECH REPUBLIC Active Gold Abington Reldan Metals, LLC UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Other Gold African Gold Refinery UGANDA Other Gold Atasay Kuyumculuk Sanayi Ve Ticaret A.S. TURKEY Other Gold Caridad MEXICO Other Gold Chugai Mining JAPAN Other Gold Daye Non-Ferrous Metals Mining Ltd. CHINA Other Gold Degussa Sonne / Mond Goldhandel GmbH GERMANY Other Gold Elemetal Refining, LLC UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Other Gold Fidelity Printers and Refiners Ltd. ZIMBABWE Other Gold GCC Gujrat Gold Centre Pvt. Ltd. INDIA Other Gold Great Wall Precious Metals Co., Ltd. of CBPM CHINA Other Gold Guangdong Jinding Gold Limited CHINA Other Guoda Safina High-Tech Environmental Refinery Co., Gold CHINA Other Ltd. Gold Hangzhou Fuchunjiang Smelting Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Gold Hunan Chenzhou Mining Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Gold HwaSeong CJ CO., LTD. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Other Gold JSC Ekaterinburg Non-Ferrous Metal Processing Plant RUSSIAN FEDERATION Other Gold Kaloti Precious Metals UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Other Gold Kazakhmys Smelting LLC KAZAKHSTAN Other Gold Kyshtym Copper-Electrolytic Plant ZAO RUSSIAN FEDERATION Other Gold L'azurde Company For Jewelry SAUDI ARABIA Other Gold Lingbao Gold Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Gold Lingbao Jinyuan Tonghui Refinery Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Gold Luoyang Zijin Yinhui Gold Refinery Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Gold Morris and Watson NEW ZEALAND Other Gold Morris and Watson Gold Coast AUSTRALIA Other Gold Navoi Mining and Metallurgical Combinat UZBEKISTAN Other Gold Pease & Curren UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Other Gold Penglai Penggang Gold Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Gold Refinery of Seemine Gold Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Gold Sabin Metal Corp. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Other Gold Sai Refinery INDIA Other Gold Samwon Metals Corp. KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Other Gold Shandong Tiancheng Biological Gold Industrial Co., Ltd. CHINA Other 13 State Research Institute Center for Physical Sciences and Gold LITHUANIA Other Technology Gold Sudan Gold Refinery SUDAN Other Gold Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co., Ltd. CHINA Other Gold Tony Goetz NV BELGIUM Other Gold TOO Tau-Ken-Altyn KAZAKHSTAN Other Gold Universal Precious Metals Refining Zambia ZAMBIA Other Gold Yunnan Copper Industry Co., Ltd. CHINA Other 14 Stem Cell Research and Technologies for Cell Therapies Credit CCRM Updated January 2018 GE develops and provides technology that enables pharmaceutical companies, clinicians and academic researchers to develop new therapies. This research includes the study, manipulation and storage of stem cells as a resource for drug discovery and • GE develops and manufacturing of cell-based therapies. GE uses pluripotent stem cells derived from both embryonic and adult sources for the development of predictive drug-screening provides technology applications and for technologies supporting the development and manufacture of that enables cell therapies. GE Healthcare’s cell therapy division also offers technology for efficient and reproducible processing of umbilical cord blood in adult stem cell processing. GE pharmaceutical recognizes the sensitivities associated with the use of some types of stem cells. companies, clinicians and academic Cell therapies and immunotherapies are changing the face of medicine, enabling doctors to address not just the symptoms of a disease, but also its underlying causes, researchers to develop essentially teaching the body to heal itself. The pace of current developments in new therapies. cell therapy and immunotherapy is promising, with some researchers reporting unprecedented clinical outcomes. However, the field still has many issues to • We conduct our overcome, and GE’s tools and technologies are helping customers make these new research in an ethically therapies affordable and part of mainstream clinical practice. and scientifically GE has ongoing and planned research that uses both adult-derived stem cells and responsible manner. established ES (embryonic stem) cell lines to develop drug research technologies and cell-based therapy applications. GE conducts research in accordance with U.S. federal guidelines, as well as with www.ge.com/sustainability the U.K.’s, and any other applicable country’s, legislation and recommendations regarding stem cell research. Our ES cell research programs employ established ES sustainability@ge.com cell lines approved by the National Institutes of Health or other cell lines established in accordance with good ethical practice. GE will not be associated with the primary harvest of human embryo–derived cells or tissues for its research. In a rapidly evolving scientific field, our intention is for GE’s position to accurately reflect the most recent government and public opinions, therefore, from time to time, we will update this statement to reflect such changes. This statement was last revised in January 2017. We acknowledge the considerable debate over, and take very seriously the ethical and societal issues associated with, research using stem cells derived from embryonic or fetal tissue. We conduct our research in an ethically and scientifically responsible manner. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33678 1/2018 Animal Testing Updated February 2018 GE works with a limited number of animals, primarily rodents, in the discovery and development of novel diagnostic and healthcare products used in the identification and detection of disease. GE is committed to using the fewest number of animals • GE subscribes to the that will provide scientifically sound data to help ensure the safety and efficacy of its products. GE is also committed to providing exemplary care in accordance with Three Rs principle industry best practices for the care and welfare of laboratory animals. GE adheres • GE uses animals in to the “Three Rs” principle, through which the use of animals is reduced, refined and replaced. This principle forms part of the strict regime regarding the use of animals in research and product medical research. development only when absolutely necessary GE recognizes that the use of animals in medical research to advance scientific understanding of biological systems and to develop new medical technologies may • GE is committed to be unsettling to some. However, others believe that the challenges and burdens using alternative resulting from diseases such as cancer, Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, heart failure and stroke support the carefully considered use of animals for research when non-animal studies other appropriate scientific methods are not available. Recent developments in wherever possible the fields of genetics, molecular biology and advanced computing are providing unprecedented opportunities for advancements in the area of medical diagnostics while simultaneously reducing the need for the use of animals in research. While we expect that today’s research will result in future medical diagnostic solutions that will benefit both healthcare delivery and patient outcomes, these future discoveries will www.ge.com/sustainability be dependent, in part, on continued research involving the limited use of animals. sustainability@ge.com Healthcare GE Healthcare’s goal is to enable healthcare providers to better diagnose, treat and manage their patients. A key technology in this effort is the visualization of biological processes at all levels within the human body—from the sub-cellular molecules and biochemicals that make up our genetic structure to cells, tissues and whole organ systems. To advance this technology, GE Healthcare performs medical research that requires the use of a limited number of animals to determine the safety of products and to satisfy the regulatory requirements of health authorities around the world. GE Healthcare’s Life Sciences unit develops diagnostic products used to understand and enable the treatment of major diseases in conjunction with X-ray, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ultrasound, and functional imaging systems. Contrast and radiopharmaceutical imaging agents are, in general, injected into the bloodstream to enhance images taken of the structure or function of internal body organs and tissues. GE Healthcare Life Sciences also develops and provides technologies for disease research and drug discovery, development and manufacture. These technology platforms allow researchers to better understand Animal Testing the functions of genes and proteins remains essential in bridging the • All animal studies are scrutinized that may be responsible for disease; to gap between the discovery of safe and approved prior to initiation to screen possible drug candidates and and effective healthcare products ensure that they are both necessary develop them for clinical trials; and to and the conquering of disease. and designed to minimize the number manufacture biopharmaceuticals, such as Where possible, we use and develop of animals used. Furthermore, all insulin. alternatives to animal studies. studies are designed to avoid or • Health authorities across the world minimize pain, discomfort and levels GE’s limited use of animals set stringent regulatory guidelines for of stress for the animals. Finally, once involves the following: the evaluation of new pharmaceutical underway, studies are periodically • Developing products and compounds. These require that all monitored by ethical oversight technologies that help reduce the prescription medicines intended for boards to ensure compliance with all need for research involving animals use in humans must be shown to relevant policies and procedures. • Research toward development of be safe, effective and of the highest • As part of its business, GE has novel diagnostics quality before being made available developed a number of products and • Safety testing of products to meet to treat patients. technologies that can help reduce the regulatory requirements • At present, it is not possible to number of animals used in research, • Use of animal-derived materials in GE determine the safety of products or including gene chip microarrays Healthcare Life Sciences’ biological meet the regulatory requirements of developed for toxicology studies and products supply chain global health authorities without any the IN Cell Analyzer for studying the • Marketing of third-party biological animal studies. impact of new drugs on living cells in products with animal origins • All animal studies must comply real time. with local regulations, including The Use of Animals in Our appropriate licensing requirements. Animals Used, by Species Medical Research Studies must also be scientifically and GE subscribes to the Three Rs principle, ethically justified prior to initiation. which advocates for study designs in • GE uses animals in research and • GE is committed to using alternative product development only when medical research that will reduce, refine and non-animal studies wherever possible. replace the use of animals. In the area of absolutely necessary. The safety and Animals are used only when no efficacy of our products for use in research involving animals, GE is considered suitable alternative is available. Our low-volume in its use of animals. humans is of paramount importance. researchers subscribe to the Three • Non-animal methods are important Rs, which advocate for study designs tools that are used to refine and Below is a summary by species of animals in medical research that will reduce, used by GE in the years 2009–2017. support studies that require the use refine and replace the use of animals. of animals. The use of animals still 6,000 Species 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Mice 5,000 and 5,394 4,712 4,179 2,020 1,952 1,339 833 582 648 Rats 4,000 Rabbits 139 153 60 4 48 0 10 0 0 3,000 Other 127 24 47 8 19 32 0 40 10 Total 5,660 4,889 4,286 2,032 2019 1,371 843 622 658 2,000 1,000 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Mice and Rats Rabbits Other Total © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33679 2/2018 Military Products Updated January 2018 Most of GE’s sales of military products and services is through GE’s Aviation business, although GE’s healthcare and power businesses also sell limited military products and services. GE’s military products consist of components or subsystems of primary The military aircraft and systems, including: vessels supported by • Engines and propellers for propulsion of military aircraft and engines for GE perform important military vessels • Flight actuation, flight control, and mission and flight management systems for national security, military aircraft search-and-rescue, and • Power generation, distribution, and conversion for military aircraft and vessels humanitarian missions. • Aero structures for military aircraft • Gears and other transmission components for military aircraft and vessels • Non-explosive components and parts for weapons systems The military aircraft and vessels supported by GE perform important national GE Global Research security, search-and-rescue, and humanitarian missions. We do not manufacture, conducts research and assemble, sell or service cluster bombs, land mines or nuclear weapons, or component parts of cluster bombs, land mines or nuclear weapons. development associated with military healthcare, GE Global Research conducts research and development associated with military healthcare, aviation, power systems, and electronics. aviation, power systems, and electronics. GE’s military products and services are sold either directly to the US Department of Defense or to a foreign government’s military agency, or indirectly to the US Department of Defense and foreign militaries through another commercial entity as a subcontractor. www.ge.com/sustainability GE complies with all US export control laws that govern the sale of military sustainability@ge.com products and services, including the Arms Control Export Act, as well as with all US departments of state and commerce regulations governing these sales. GE also complies with the applicable export control laws in other countries from which it exports military equipment, and can only deliver to customers when the sales are consistent with those laws. Each GE business reviews its sales of military products and services, including sales to any foreign military customer, to ensure that any sale comports with these requirements. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33634 1/2018 Labor Relations Updated February 2018 In the U.S., GE is party to a four-year national agreement with each of its two largest unions, the IUE-CWA and the UE (which together currently represent 9,450 employees). The larger of the two unions, the IUE-CWA, represents approximately 4,900 GE employees at 22 Company • In the U.S. the IUE-CWA locations, while the UE represents approximately 1,500 employees at four locations1. and the UE together Certain terms of these two contracts were also extended to, and approved by, nine currently represent other U.S. unions representing smaller groups of GE employees. These other unions are members of the AFL-CIO Coordinated Bargaining Committee (CBC), which has 9,450 employees local contracts with GE, and represent an additional 2,900 employees. The IUE and UE • Formal trade union national agreements, and a majority of the other local CBC contracts, expire on June representation exists 23, 2019. Other GE affiliates are parties to non-CBC labor contracts with various labor unions, covering approximately 1,500 employees2, that have varying expiration dates. at many GE locations in the EU GE’s relationship with employee-representative organizations outside the U.S. takes many forms, especially in the EU. Information exchange and consultation occur through works councils, trade unions and employee-representative bodies at various levels of the business organizations. Formal trade union representation exists at many GE locations www.ge.com/sustainability in the EU, while in others, notwithstanding the union membership of some employees, alternative employee-representative structures have been established. These include sustainability@ge.com formal representative bodies, at the business, national, sector or site level, with which GE is legally obliged to engage in a range of circumstances, as well as health & safety committees in some countries. We estimate that our employees are represented by approximately 250 representative bodies throughout the EU. For pan-European issues, we currently have four European Works Councils (EWCs), each aligned with specific business divisions. Together, the EWCs cover approximately 35% of our European workforce. In addition, we have temporarily put in place a similar voluntary arrangement to represent employees of the recently acquired Alstom energy business. We are roughly two years into a maximum threeyear negotiation process related to the creation of a new single EWC structure that will provide European-level representation to all GE employees outside of the Capital business and will ultimately supersede the existing arrangements at that level. In China, 39 GE legal entities (including 13 legacy Alstom entities) have unions representing nearly 20,000 employees (Alstom, 4,695 employees), all affiliated with the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, including GE China’s headquarters in Shanghai. Collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated at each of these locations. 1 U.S. data as of December 2016. 2 As of Q1 2017. © 2018 General Electric Company – All rights reserved. GEA33680 2/2018
