OUR RESPONSIBILITY MARTIN BENCHER GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2018 Statement of continued support September 21, 2018 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY To our stakeholders MARTIN BENCHER GROUP wants to provide first class freight forwarding services I am pleased to confirm that Martin to customers worldwide. Martin Bencher Group is an active player in the Bencher (Scandinavia) A/S reaffirms communities in which the Group operates. its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and Our objective is to develop our business with respect for, and in harmony with, the UN Global Compact Sustainable our surroundings. development goals. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP operates with the following definition of Corporate In this annual Communication on Progress, Social Responsibility (CSR): CSR is defined as a set of activities undertaken by we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global a company to operate in an economically, socially and environmentally Compact and its principles into our sustainable manner. business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also share this information In the case of MARTIN BENCHER GROUP, all principles, objectives and activities with our identified stakeholders using our described in the Martin Bencher Standards are communicated and applied in all primary channels of communication. offices and followed by all employees at all times when at the workplace, jobsite or traveling on behalf of the Group. Sincerely yours, MARTIN BENCHER GROUP has supported the UN Global Compact since 2013. The Peter Thorsoe Jensen objective of this document is to communicate the progress made since then. We CEO, Martin Bencher Group see this document continually developing as we acquire more knowledge and experience. 3 OUR RESPONSIBILITY MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is committed to demonstrating a high standard of integrity and corporate social responsibility worldwide. We commit to behave ethically and contribute to economic and environmental development globally and locally by implementing and communicating ethical standards at our workplace and complying with international norms, the UN Global Compact and universal principles of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. MARTIN BENCHER has integrated the UN Global Compact´s ten principles into the Martin Bencher Standards. MARTIN BENCHER is part of UN Global Compact´s vision of a sustainable and inclusive global economy, which delivers lasting benefits to people, communities, and markets. This CSR Report includes our fifth annual Communication on Progress (COP) and is shared with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Our CSR Policy as well as our Martin Bencher Standards are valid for all MARTIN BENCHER GROUP offices worldwide and are reviewed continuously and, if necessary, revised in the light of legislative or organizational changes. In addition to above, we also have been awarded a CSR Silver Medal from EcoVadis. Martin Bencher took part in the NAVAL GROUP recent suppliers’ CSR evaluation program, and was awarded a silver recognition level. This good result places Martin Bencher among the top 30% performers evaluated by EcoVadis. 5 We work in a competitive and challenging environment, and even more so as we expand into new markets. As a company and as individuals we are faced with financial, technical, CODE OF CONDUCT commercial, and human challenges every single day. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is committed to carrying out its business in a sustainable In order to ensure lasting success, we must way, through conducting business with integrity and in compliance with the respond to these challenges by acting with integrity in our dealings with our customers, local laws and regulations governing its business. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is suppliers, colleagues, and other stakeholders. committed to respect human rights, promote fair employment practices, work to protect the environment and to oppose corruption. I am making this commitment, and I am confident that Martin Bencher employees and other MARTIN BENCHER GROUP Code of Conduct is named Good Business Behaviour, stakeholders will do the same based on our values of being result-oriented, responsible and and is part of the Martin Bencher Standards. It has been adopted to emphasize responsive. the above principles by which the Group conducts its relations with employees, business partners and other stakeholders. It applies to all members of the Board Sincerely yours, of Directors, and all employed by the MARTIN BENCHER GROUP. Peter Thorsoe Jensen CEO, Martin Bencher Group 7 CSR OBJECTIVES MARTIN BENCHER GROUP sets to follow and work within its sphere of influence to uphold the Universal Declaration Say on Human Rights Principles to promote equality; life and security; personal freedom; and economic, social and cultural freedoms. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP follows local labour legislation. It is incorporated into the Martin Bencher Standards and is applied at all office locations. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP encourages responsible entrepreneurship to promote policies and operations of business and industry in reducing impacts on resource use and the environment. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP will actively support transparency and anti-corruption to ensure that it does not engage in corrupt practices. All of the policies mentioned above are a part of global Martin Bencher Standards are are available to all employees worldwide through the global QHSE Management System. 9 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY MARTIN BENCHER GROUP acknowledges the need for a responsible policy towards the environment. By applying our values, we strive to contribute to reducing the negative environmental impact on our local as well as global community. Martin Bencher works to influence our environmental impact through choice of suppliers used as well as modes of transport chosen. Martin Bencher considers itself as part of both the local and the global community and wherever we trade we shall always comply to local legislation and we shall behave in an environmentally conscious manner. Martin Bencher works proactively and continuously on environmental improvements and keeps staff and suppliers updated and motivated. The environmental policy is part of the Martin Bencher QHSE Policy. It is valid for all the Martin Bencher offices worldwide and will be regularly monitored to ensure that the objectives are achieved. It will be reviewed and, if necessary, revised in the light of client expectations, legislative or organizational changes. 11 “Martin Bencher is a company that makes you feel like being part of a family, both at the office and across borders. People listen to the opinion and suggestions of each other in order to find new WORKING ENVIRONMENT alternatives and create good business. New ideas are always welcome” MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is a company in constant development and growth. GPTW Survey We are a young, dynamic and enthusiastic team with a company culture we are proud of. The last few years we have grown significantly and with our current strategy we expect this to continue. This also means that we need to take extra care to maintain our good working environment. An important part of the Martin Bencher culture is how we treat people. We are a service provider so relationships with people are paramount for our business and day-to-day operations. We make sure to address everybody in a professional, timely, and decent manner – both colleagues, clients and others that we meet. We acknowledge differences and treat everybody courteously, decently and professionally. The international environment that Martin Bencher operates within makes it important to consider cultural differences between colleagues, clients, suppliers, agents, etc. As written in the Martin Bencher Standards for Good Business Behaviour, MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is committed to carrying out its business in a sustainable way, through conducting business with integrity and in compliance with the local laws and regulations governing its business. 13 SPONSORSHIPS MARTIN BENCHER GROUP sponsors various organizations, projects and events. In general, the main sponsorships are divided into three areas: environment -, humanity -, and health related. Environment MARTIN BENCHER GROUP sponsors WWF (Denmark) each year. As a WWF partner, we help to take care of nature and endangered species, and slow down climate change. Humanity we sponsor PLAN Børnefonden, Children’s Welfare in Denmark (Børns Vilkår), BuyAid and we are a 365-partner for DanChurchAid, who fight for human rights, equality and anti-corrpution. Health We are an official corporate sponsor for the Danish Cancer Society and Team Rynkeby, who supports Child Cancer Foundation. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP also sponsors local initiatives and organizations; for example ‘Vaajakosten Tera’, an orienteering organisation in Finland promoting a healthy and active lifestyle as well as some sporting institutions, such as Skanderborg Golfklub in Denmark, National Multiple Sclerosis Society in the USA, cancer fundraising event “Relay for Life” in Norway and the local football team in Aarhus, Denmark. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP asks all local Martin Bencher offices to support and sponsor local organizations/projects in relation to shipping and/or being a responsible business in the local environment and community. 15 10 UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLES UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 6 MARTIN BENCHER GROUP has supported the United Nations Global Compact PRINCIPLE 1 The elimination of discrimination in respect since 2013. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses Businesses should support and respect the of employment and occupation. that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally protection of internationally proclaimed accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and antihuman rights; and ENVIRONMENT corruption. PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 7 In September 2015, the UN adopted 17 new Sustainable Development Goals to Make sure that they are not complicit in Businesses should support a precautionary replace the previous Millennium Goals. The Sustainable Development Goals take human rights abuses. approach to environmental challenges; a broad perspective and are relevant for all countries, rich as well as poor. For these goals to become reality, all countries, businesses and organizations should LABOUR PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater embrace whatever change is necessary. For Martin Bencher, the journey has PRINCIPLE 3 environmental responsibility; and already begun. While Martin Bencher supports all the Sustainable Development Businesses should uphold the freedom of Goals, we focus our efforts towards the three goals, on which we can have the association and the effective recognition PRINCIPLE 9 biggest positive impact: goals no. 3, 8 and 17. of the right to collective bargaining; Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and ANTI-CORRUPTION compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 10 PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should work against corruption in The effective abolition of child labour; and all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 17 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in MARTIN BENCHER GROUP actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human human rights abuses. Rights. The MARTIN BENCHER GROUP Good Business Behaviour is the written company policy concerning respecting and supporting human rights. The Code of Conduct applies to all members of the Board of Directors, and all employed by the MARTIN BENCHER GROUP. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP operates its business in a transparent and trustworthy way. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is an office-based service provider in the shipping and freight forwarding industry. The nature of the operations makes the Group’s human rights related risks relatively low and direct human rights impact relatively small. 19 Photo credits: Martin Bencher Group Nobelwind and Jan de Nul as EPCI contractor. “MARTIN BENCHER GROUP, acknowledges our responsibility to follow and respect Human Rights on a global scale. We do not allow any discrimination of any kind WHAT WE HAVE DONE... within the Group, and all staff members are encouraged to pass on our point of MARTIN BENCHER GROUP continues its work with Martin Bencher Standards. view to partners and clients alike.” We conduct monthly surveys on Martin Bencher Standards and Good Business Behavior. Peter Jensen CEO at Martin Bencher Group We have mandatory training on the standards, which are registered in our internal operations system. ...WHAT WE AIM TO ACHIEVE MARTIN BENCHER GROUP aims to implement CSR Code of Conduct for all our suppliers and partners. This is to ensure that all our suppliers and partners also live up to the high standards of Martin Bencher Group. 21 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; LABOUR PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is committed to ensuring the health, safety and wellcompulsory labour; being of all its employees and foster a safe and healthy work environment in all Martin Bencher locations at ports, jobsites and while travelling. Our policy is PRINCIPLE 5 safety first. The effective abolition of child labour; and Each employee will be given such information, instruction and training necessary PRINCIPLE 6 to enable the safe performance of work activities. It is the duty of management The elimination of discrimination in respect to ensure that all processes and systems of work are designed to take into of employment and occupation. account health and safety and are properly supervised at all times. Adequate facilities and arrangements will be maintained to enable employees and their representatives to raise issues of health and safety. In the Martin Bencher Standards, our Quality, Health, Safety and Environment Policy is to lower labour risks at offices, ports and jobsites. We have identified risks for employees when working for Martin Bencher, and mitigations have been put in place to minimize the risks. When travelling with MARTIN BENCHER GROUP employees are encouraged to be careful, make sure to notify their whereabouts to local consulat from the respective country of the employee, and also notify the local agent of activities. 23 WHAT WE HAVE DONE... MARTIN BENCHER GROUP has reached the tagret on keeping the employee satisfaction at a level of 80%. The survey was conducted by The Great Place to Work and the survey includes a focus on credibility, respect, fairness, pride and camaraderie. We have created incident reporting in our QHSE Management System available to all employees, where they can report health and safety hazards at the office or when on site. ...WHAT WE AIM TO ACHIEVE MARTIN BENCHER GROUP has a goal to register all local rules and regulations for all Martin Bencher office worldwide in our QHSE Management System. We aim to keep 80% satisfactory level from employee satisfaction survey in 2019 We aim to keep incident reporting related to health and safety to a minimum and take preventive and corrective actions when needed. 25 ENVIRONMENT MARTIN BENCHER GROUP acknowledges the need for a responsible policy towards the environment. By applying our values, we strive to contribute to reducing the negative environmental impact on our local as well as global community. Martin Bencher works to influence our environmental impact through choice of suppliers used as well as modes of transport chosen. Martin Bencher considers itself as part of both the local and the global community and wherever we trade we shall always comply to local legislation and we shall behave in an environmentally conscious manner. Martin Bencher works proactively and continuously on environmental improvements and keeps staff and suppliers updated and motivated. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is an office-based freight forwarding provider. The ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 nature of the operations makes the Group´s environmental impact relatively Businesses should support a precautionary small. The environmental impact of MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is instead mostly approach to environmental challenges; indirect through clients, partners, suppliers, etc. PRINCIPLE 8 We have local offices around the world that are encouraged to take an active Undertake initiatives to promote greater part in the local community. This enables us to influence the environmental environmental responsibility; and awareness and work of our stakeholders. PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 27 WHAT WE HAVE DONE... MARTIN BENCHER GROUP has implemented new ERP paperless system worldwide to support accounting and project management globally. We have created Virtual Library a paperless system where employees around the world can create their own presentations. The platform is also used for internal knowledge sharing. We have created incident reporting in our QHSE management system regarding environmental hazards available to all emplyees worldwide. Martin Bencher has obtained a patent for wind blade fixtures for the North American railway system, which is also most environmentally friendly mode of transport. ...WHAT WE AIM TO ACHIEVE MARTIN BENCHER GROUP aim is to evaluate and select suppliers and partners based on their ISO 140001:2015 environmental management system. We aim to create waste handling plans for each Martin Bencher office worldwide. Another goal is to give our partners and clients an overview of the transport co2 emission when useing our services. 29 ANTI-CORRUPTION MARTIN BENCHER GROUP adheres to a zero-tolerance policy on corruption. At Martin Bencher we will not tolerate any form of corruption or bribery. The legal definition varies by legal jurisdiction, so Martin Bencher Group has adopted the following definitions in order to be clear with what it means in our organization. Martin Bencher Group bribery definition: The offering, giving, soliciting, or acceptance of an inducement or reward which may influence any person to act morally or legally inappropriate. Martin Bencher Group anti-corruption definition: the abuse of entrusted power for private gain. This definition captures three elements of corruption. One, corruption occurs in both the public and private sectors (and media and civil society actors are not exempt). Two, it involves abusing power held in a state institution or a private organization. Three, the bribe-taker (or a third party or, for example, an organization such as a political party) as well as the bribe-giver benefit, whether it be in terms of money or an undue advantage. All employees are encouraged and obliged to raise concerns at the earliest possible stage about any indications of bribery and / or corruption. To report issues or concerns, please contact the CEO of Martin Bencher Group. Any employee of Martin Bencher Group involved in corruption or bribery activities will be subject to sanctions and penalties aligned to the gravity of the offence. The strictest disciplinary measures will ANTI-CORRUPTION include termination of employment and reporting to the authorities for criminal investigation. PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in Martin Bencher´s Anti-Corruption / Bribery Policy is valid for all Martin Bencher offices worldwide and all its forms, including extortion and bribery. will be regularly monitored to ensure that the objectives are achieved. It will be reviewed and, if necessary, revised in the light of legislative or organizational changes. 31 WHAT WE HAVE DONE... MARTIN BENCHER GROUP has trained staff in the Martin Bencher Standards, which includes policies, procedures, and Good business behavior. In the Good business behaviour, we have identified several scenarios for all employees to identify where the critical areas of corruption and bribery exist. ...WHAT WE AIM TO ACHIEVE MARTIN BENCHER GROUP will have a continous focus on our zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. Martin Bencher aims to implement CSR Code of Conduct for all our suppliers “Martin Bencher Group adheres to a zeroand partners. This is to ensure that all our suppliers and partners also live up to tolerance policy on corruption. In many the high standards of Martin Bencher Group. parts of the world, corruption and bribery is unfortunately both accepted and expected in business. However, Martin Bencher Group will not tolerate corruption or bribery in any form.” Peter Thorsoe Jensen CEO at Martin Bencher Group 33 UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS WHILE MARTIN BENCHER GROUP supports all the Sustainable Development Goals, we focus our efforts towards the three goals, on which we can have the biggest positive impact: goals no. 3, 8 and 17. Goal 3: Good health and well-being Through our ISO 14001 certification, we ensure the health and wellbeing of staff and stakeholders. Locally all offices identifies relevant health initiatives to implement, such as health checks, fruit at the office, health insurance, adjustable office furniture, and airimrpovement devices at the office. We have just received our Great Place to Work certificate based on an audit of our culture and an employee satisfaction survey. Goal 8: Decent work and economic growth We have our MB standards and quaterly QHSE report to follow up on performance. We have employee satisfaction surveys and performance reviews with all employess. Here we identify the need for new competences for the individual employees as wells as to develop the business. Goal 17: Partnerships for the goal We have two strategic partnerships which enable us to contribute to sustainable global development. First, our partnership with PLAN Børnefonden (member of Child Funds Alliances) gives us the possibility to support children and families in creating a better future thorugh education. Second, our support of WWF has guided our environmental responsibility commitments. 35 ABOUT MARTIN BENCHER GROUP MARTIN BENCHER GROUP is a Scandinavian based freight forwarding company that transports all kinds of cargo and specialize in the handling of projects and oversized / heavy cargo. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP strives to provide first class freight forwarding services to customers worldwide and aims for a high level of social responsibility at all MARTIN BENCHER locations. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP has expanded its network in recent years to strategically important places both for our customers and the Group. With own local offices and a strong network of trusted partners located all around the world, MARTIN BENCHER is able to manage even the largest projects. FACTS ABOUT MARTIN BENCHER GROUP A strong work culture and global values transferred across borders ensure the success of MARTIN BENCHER GROUP globally. MARTIN BENCHER GROUP • We transport all kinds of cargo and specialize in the handling of projects and oversized / heavy cargo. embraces and commits to high standards such as United Nations Global • We have been profitable every year since the start in 1997. Compact, ISO 9001, ISO 14001, and OHSAS 18001. • We embrace, support and enact with the UN Global Compact standards • We are ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015, and OHSAS 18001:2008. • We employ approximately 150 people worldwide 54 % men and 46 % women. • Our headoffice is located in Aarhus, Denmark. • We have 25 own local offices in 19 countries. • We have partners and agents in strategically important locations 37 Stockholm Helsinki Kristiansand Aarhus Copenhagen Hamburg London Gdansk Marseille Kansas City New Jersey Los Angeles Qingdao Houston Shanghai Dubai Taipei Guangzhou Mumbai Chennai Bangkok Ho Chi Minh City Kuala Lumpur Singapore Jakarta Sao Paulo Sydney 39 CORPORATE HEADQUARTER | Martin Bencher (Scandinavia) A/S | Tel: +45 86 122 699 headoffice@martin-bencher.com|www.linkedin.com/company/MartinBencherGroup|www.martin-bencher.com
