Annual Report 2017 The company Hempel A/S Lundtoftegårdsvej 91 DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby Denmark Tel: +45 4593 3800 Fax: +45 4588 5518 hempel.com CVR no. 59946013 Financial year: 1 January 31 December Board of Directors Richard Sand, Chairman Eric Alström, Deputy Chairman Marianne Wiinholt Anders Pettersson Leif Jensen Peder Holk Nielsen Helle Fiedler, elected by the employees Henrik Bach Falkenberg, elected by the employees Kim Scheibel, elected by the employees Executive Management Board Henrik Andersen Group President & Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Anders Boyer Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Lars Petersson Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer (COO) Peter Kirkegaard Executive Vice President & Chief People & Culture Officer (CPCO) Michael Hansen Executive Vice President & Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab Strandvejen 44 DK-2900 Hellerup Denmark Bankers Nordea Bank SEB (Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken) BNP Paribas HSBC Group Cover photo: A Hempel coating advisor at ZPMC’s Changxing Base in China. The cranes are coated with Hempel’s waterborne coatings, which ensure long-lasting corrosion protection and minimal emissions. Contents Highlights from 2017 5 Hempel at a glance 7 Letter to stakeholders 10 2017 in review 14 Strategy 19 Spotlight on our work 22 Our values 24 Trust is earned 25 Corporate governance 26 Risks 30 Research & Development 34 Corporate responsibility 38 Board of Directors 56 Management’s statement 57 Independent auditor’s report 58 Financial statements 62 Highlights from 2017 Highlights from 2017 Organic growth (%) • Organic growth of -0.7%, Cash conversion (%) • Continued focus on working equivalent to revenue of capital resulted in another 5 EUR 1,378 million 150 year of solid cash conversion 5.5 162 • Challenging conditions in the • Net working capital days the coatings industry – growth in lowest in Hempel’s history line with the market segments 100 116 – the strategic ambition for 0 Hempel operates in 2020 achieved 3 years early 83 – releasing EUR 177 million -0.7 • Unfavourable currency 50 since the beginning of 2016 fluctuations, in particular the -4.5 weakening of the US dollar, • Net debt reduced to EUR 21 -5 negatively impacted revenue million making Hempel virtually 2015 2016 2017 by 2.3% (EUR 33 million) 2015 20161) 2017 debt-free at the end of 2017 -0.7% 116% vs 2016 EBITDA margin (%) • Satisfactory EBITDA margin ROIC (%) • ROIC increased by 2.1p.p. comparable to last year as a result of reductions in 20 invested capital 14.1 • Significant investments, 21.4 12 13.2 particularly in our commercial • Invested capital decreased 12.4 organisation, to solidify our 15 18.9 by 20%, mainly driven by 9 16.8 platform for accelerated growth a focused drive to decrease 10 working capital 6 • Steep raw material price increases negatively impacted • Working capital days reduced 3 margins – partially offset by 5 to 59 end of 2017 compared efficiency initiatives, selected to 89 end of 2016 cost reductions and the passing 2015 20161) 2017 on of price increases to our 2015 20161) 2017 customers -0.8p.p. +2.1p.p. vs 2016 vs 2016 1) Excluding special items. 5 Key figures Key figures In EUR million (unless otherwise stated) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 1) Income statement Revenue 1,378 1,424 1,563 1,298 1,239 EBITDA 171 188 2) 220 166 165 Amortisation, depreciation and impairment 56 58 62 37 40 Operating profit 115 130 2) 158 129 125 Share of net profits of associates – 2 2 2 2 Net financials -23 -18 -22 -17 -19 Profit before tax 92 78 138 114 108 Net profit for the year 55 47 108 82 78 Financial position Total assets 1,144 1,265 1,377 1,162 1,056 Equity 442 458 488 421 377 Net interest-bearing debt 21 119 272 146 133 Cash flows Total cash flow from operating activities 155 250 131 88 133 Total cash flow from acquisitions / divestments of enterprises 14 – -141 -13 – Total cash flow from net investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets -23 -36 -47 -23 -45 Free cash flow 144 216 -56 53 89 Working capital Net working capital (NWC) days 59 89 122 113 108 Employees Average number of employees 5,740 5,787 5,661 5,134 5,029 Employee Net Promoter Score (Scale: -100 to +100) 20 25 N/A N/A N/A Ratios (%) Organic growth -0.7 -4.5 5.5 5.2 1.7 Gross margin 40.9 43.7 41.7 41.0 40.5 EBITDA margin 12.4 13.22) 14.1 12.8 13.3 Operating profit margin 8.3 9.12) 10.1 10.0 10.1 Return on invested capital 18.9 16.8 2) 21.4 21.0 20.8 Equity ratio 38.6 36.2 35.4 36.2 35.6 Cash conversion 116 162 2) 83 81 114 Leverage ratio (Net interest-bearing debt/EBITDA) 0.1 0.62) 1.2 0.9 0.8 1) Comparative figures have been restated according to the changed accounting policies in 2013 only. For definitions, see note 5.8. 2) Excluding special items related to compliance issues. 6 Hempel at a glance Our business is trust Hempel’s coatings protect our customers’ most valuable corrosion and help make our world look more colourful, assets, demanding that we deliver the market’s most trusted keeping ships, containers, wind turbines, buildings, infrasolutions. Hempel does not claim to be the most trusted or structure, hospitals and homes in prime condition. Hempel assume we have our customers’ trust. Instead, we ­recognise has been earning the trust of customers under the toughest that it is up to us to earn this trust every day through the conditions for more than 100 years. superior performance of our products, and our expert service and support. The Hempel Foundation Trust is earned by connecting to our customers to better The Hempel Foundation has been the sole owner understand their needs. It is earned by constantly challenging of the Hempel Group since 1948. As a commercial ourselves to push the boundaries of performance and protecfoundation, its primary purpose is to provide and tion. It is earned by committing to improving the environmental maintain a solid economic base for the Hempel Group. footprint of our solutions with no compromise on performance. Its secondary purpose is to support cultural, social, It is earned by inspiring confidence through our invaluable humanitarian, scientific and artistic purposes around technical advice on coating products and processes. the globe. Our comprehensive assortment of advanced coatings is Read more about the Hempel Foundation and its work proven to perform under the roughest treatment and in the at hempelfoundation.com world’s harshest environments. Our solutions protect against 7 Hempel at a glance 8 Hempel at a glance Adding value to every customer’s business globally In the harshest industrial environments Across infrastructure and industries, we work closely with customers Protective to protect their valuable structures and heavy-duty equipment from corrosion, increase production efficiency, cut costs and reduce the environmental impact of their operations. An energy-efficient fleet With advanced coatings for every part of a ship, we help our Marine marine customers increase the overall efficiency of their fleets by cutting maintenance costs and helping reduce fuel consumption and emissions. A world of colour From homes and offices to hospitals, schools, airports and public Decorative buildings, public buildings, our Decorative solutions our Decorative solutions reducereduce energyenergy consumption, use, improve hygiene, lower maintenance requirements – and help make our world more colourful beautiful.and inspiring. Safeguarding cargo We work with container producers across the globe to Container protect their containers from corrosion, both inside and out, and to reduce waste, throughput time and energy use on their production lines. Under wind and sail With a full range of products for pleasure and racing yachts, Yacht from maintenance products to specialist fuel-efficient hull coatings, we help professional boat builders and sailing enthusiasts keep their vessels in perfect condition so they can enjoy the sea. World leading technical support and advice From specification through to application and ongoing Services maintenance, we work closely with customers to understand their major challenges, and partner with them to find trusted solutions that add real value to their businesses. 9 Letter to stakeholders Letter to were stopped immediately and effectively, and the employees involved have left the company. stakeholders Performance in 2017 In the Annual Report for 2016, it was stated that the coatings market was expected to remain challenging in 2017. This turned out to be the case. Additionally, Hempel experienced complications as a consequence of the inappropriate sales practices discovered during 2016. Considering these conditions, our financial performance was satisfactory in 2017, with organic growth of -0.7 per cent. This was in line with the global coatings market and the segments in which Hempel operates. As expected, we maintained a stable The transformation of Hempel. EBITDA margin (12.4 per cent) in 2017, just below the 2016 level (13.2 per cent). Increasing raw material prices and our continued investments to build a platform for accelerated We started two years ago to transform Hempel into a leading growth were partially offset by solid progress on our internal global coatings company in order to ensure that we are ready excellence projects. At the same time, we were pleased to to take part in the consolidation happening throughout the see a significant further improvement in net working capital industry. We, the Board of Directors and the Executive Managedays. By the end of 2017, net working capital days was at 59. ment Board, acknowledge that this transformation is a major We have improved efficiency over the last 24 months, with change in the way the Group operates globally and we know over 100 days coming from increased efficiency in inventory, that it will take a couple of years to finalise. 2017 has conaccounts payable and firmer agreements with customers on firmed that such a journey involves cultural change, challenges accounts receivable. Most of these improvements are due to for individual leaders and employees and has, in some cases, optimisation and better discipline in our processes, and we unveiled a few unwelcome surprises in the form of inappropriare now at a level comparable to our best-in-class global ate sales practices in certain parts of the world. peers. As a result, we finished the year almost debt-free – leaving us in a strong position to take an active role in the We are pleased to see that our strong leadership team is consolidation of the global coatings industry. dealing confidently with these challenges, and has already made great progress while also increasing momentum in all ‘Collaborating like crazy’ our business units across the globe. We are encouraged by As stated in our 2016-2020 Journey to Excellence strategy, the support we have received from our customers, employour goal is to improve profitability by striving for excellence ees and other stakeholders, and we will continue to work across our organisation, while growing faster than the market. diligently on the remaining part of our transformation in the Much of our work in 2017 focused on ensuring we have the years to come. The unveiled inappropriate sales practices necessary platform to accelerate this journey. 10 Letter to stakeholders We created a new organisational structure in 2016 with everything we do at Hempel must have a direct or indirect two dimensions, led by our Operational Management Board. positive effect on our customer relationships. As part of our Dimension I is made up of our regions, while dimension II transformational journey, we improved our sales practices and includes four global Group functions. This enables our regions strengthened our commercial organisation in 2017. Our new to focus on customers and operational execution, while our Group commercial organisation is divided into four distinct Group functions concentrate on driving Group-wide initiatives areas: segment strategy, marketing, sales excellence and and best practice to increase excellence, alignment and GKAM (Global Key Account Management). These changes synergies across the globe to the benefit of all stakeholders. ensure that our Group commercial organisation can work closely In 2016, we introduced an Annual Management Cycle, a yearly with R&D and our other support functions to deliver products management wheel that ensures our management teams and solutions that meet customer needs, and that we have the across the globe understand and share a common vision. Our global capabilities required to create best-in-class customer new organisational structure and management cycle have been engagement from 'order to cash’. successfully implemented: We are working together closely across regions and functions – what we call ‘collaborating like We know that our customers appreciate ease of doing crazy’ – and we benefited from faster decision-making and ­business, 24/7 accessibility and seamless service, so we greater alignment across the business in 2017 as a result. accelerated our work to create compelling digital options for our Our global organisation is now much more effective, operating customers, such as digital order handling. We also launched more like one family and, ­importantly, much more agile when and refined our GKAM programme. We can already see that our working with customers, wherever in the world they operate. large global customers appreciate the dedicated and fast global support offered by the programme, and our GKAM team won In 2017, we decided to further improve our organisation by many large contracts and iconic projects in 2017. investing in our Commercial, R&D and Supply Chain functions, as well as our Compliance function and internal controls. In Hempel has long been renowned throughout the industry addition, we strengthened our Board of Directors, adding two for its technical service. Every day, our coating advisors can new Board members. Both bring extensive senior executive be found in dockyards, on construction sites and in offices experience and knowledge of global operations to the table, around the world, working closely with our customers to and will play an important part in our continued efforts to provide essential expert technical advice. This service is of further professionalise and grow our business. All these immense value to our customers and plays a crucial role in organisational changes mean we are now ready to welcome our ability to deliver trusted solutions. In 2017, we took the new members of the Hempel family, and to play a leading role strategic decision to sharpen and expand how we work with in the consolidation of the industry. and deliver this service. Our long-term vision is to lead the industry in ‘surface management’, essentially taking over The customer at the heart of all we do responsibility for keeping our customers’ assets in the A key part of delivering trusted solutions is listening to customagreed condition over the asset’s lifecycle. We took the first ers and translating their needs into value-adding products and steps on this road in 2017, by creating a new global ­Services services. This is the responsibility of all employees, and organisation and establishing a Services Leadership Team. 11 Letter to stakeholders In 2017, we proudly announced our title sponsorship of the Hempel Sailing World Championships 2018 in Aarhus, Denmark We look forward to continuing this important industry­guidance to ensure the messages in the Code of Conduct are changing work in 2018. cascaded to the organisation. We also launched an eLearning training package in October and were very pleased to see that Finally, we conducted our first ever Customer Experience everyone had gone through the training by the end of the year. Survey in 2017, in which we asked around 5,000 customers In addition, we established an Ethics Committee, as well as an to give us feedback on our work and relationship with them in online collaboration site and hotline called ­ComplianceHelp, an anonymous online questionnaire. Their responses gave us where employees can seek guidance and help on specific many useful insights on a country, regional and global level, matters. This is an extremely important part of our transformaand we are already using this information to improve how we tional journey and we are planning other initiatives in 2018, work, how we interact with our customers and the services including a Business Partner Code of Conduct. and products we offer. Our overall NPS (Net Promoter Score) was 54. While this score was good, we must do more to In 2017, we continued our internal compliance investigations engage with the relatively large proportion of customers in relevant regions, with the assistance of external global who did not respond actively to the survey. advisors from the audit and legal industries. As a result of these investigations, we uncovered inappropriate sales Building trust through greater compliance practices in a number of offices, mainly in Asia-Pacific. These We made strong improvements in compliance and controls were self-­reported by Hempel A/S in April 2017 to the Danish across our organisation during the year. We have zero-­tolerance State Prosecutor for Serious Economic and International for inappropriate practices and violation of the law. Any such Crime. The investigation by the Danish State Prosecutor is behaviour is in conflict with what we stand for: It is a direct still ongoing. attack on the integrity of our customers, culture, values and colleagues. We expect the highest level of transparency and Helping our employees to reach their full potential ethical behaviour from all Hempel employees, irrespective of Our founder J.C. Hempel often said that ‘our people are where in the world they work or what is considered usual in our most important asset’, and this remains true today. Our local business practice. Following the detailed plan agreed transformational journey involves a culture change, and we can between the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee, the only succeed if we are engaged and passionate about moving Executive Management Board and our Compliance function, our company forward. We believe that engagement begins at we made substantial investments internally and externally leadership level. Our leaders should be lighthouses, offering a during 2017 to ensure this is the case. shining example and guidance to our employees. Therefore, in 2017 we developed a new talent management process that These investments included updating our Code of Conduct ensures we all understand the skills and behaviours that our to make it absolutely clear what is expected of our employees leaders need. The process includes a new way of identifying in different business situations, and to provide solid guidance and developing future leaders that will give us a strong to you as a stakeholder to Hempel. To ensure the Code of leadership pipeline and ensure that our future leaders are Conduct is understood by all employees, we provided our ready for succession and increased global responsibility regional management teams with extensive training and as we consolidate and grow around the world. 12 Letter to stakeholders Richard Sand Henrik Andersen We also performed our Employee Engagement Survey for the Expectations for 2018 second time. We first held the survey in 2016, and it is now We expect the global marine coatings market to continue to an integral part of our Annual Management Cycle. Like last be challenging in 2018, especially the newbuilding segment, year, 93 per cent of employees took the time to take the where global overcapacity is adding to the already negative survey, which gives the results high validity. Our employee Net trends in the industry. Despite this, we anticipate positive Promoter Score dropped from 25 to 20 in 2017. This is not underlying organic growth across most segments and satisfactory, and we are working closely with the business geographies. Our EBITDA margin is expected to remain units that were challenged by low scores to find the root at a strong level, in line with 2017. cause and improve. Our goal is to be the most attractive employer in the industry, able to attract, retain and develop Trust is earned and thank you the industry’s leading talents and employees. Trust is a key aspect of our values and the Hempel way, and it is central to our identity, both internally and externally. Now, Selected highlights from the year it is also central to our brand. In 2017, we launched our first We made many other important decisions and strategic invest­company-wide tagline: Trust is earned. We look forward to ments during the year. In June, we were proud to a ­ nnounce living up to that tagline in 2018 – and the years ahead. that Hempel will be title sponsor of the Hempel Sailing World Championships 2018. To be held in Aarhus, Denmark in July Overall, 2017 was a tough but satisfying year. We took great and August, the championships are expected to draw around strides on our transformational journey, and made many 1,500 sailors from 100 nations, as well as over 400,000 important investments in building the foundation we need visitors. The event matches our values and profile perfectly. to accelerate growth. We would not have been able to make We have our roots in Denmark and the maritime industry, and such progress without the hard work of our highly skilled we always strive for better cooperation and higher performance. and dedicated employees across the globe. On behalf of the This makes the event, in which the world’s best sailors meet Executive Management Board and the Board of Directors, and compete, a perfect fit. The entire world will be looking at we would like to thank you all for your contributions in 2017. Aarhus during the championships, and we are looking forward We would also like to extend our thanks to you, our customto showing our brand, products and values on the world stage. ers, shareholder and other stakeholders, for your ongoing support and trust. In December 2017, Hempel Holding A/S bought additional land around our current headquarters outside Copenhagen, Denmark, where we will build new facilities, including an extended state-of-the-art R&D centre focused on production and environmental technology. Together with our existing headquarters, the new facilities will constitute a true ‘Hempel Campus’, where all colleagues based in Copenhagen will work and we will have room to accommodate and welcome new colleagues as we Henrik Andersen Richard Sand Group President & Chairman of the expand. The campus is expected to be complete in 2020. Chief Executive Officer Board of Directors of Hempel A/S 13 2017 in review 2017 in review In 2017, Hempel focused on getting ready for accelerated growth. We now have the foundation in place needed to accelerate our Journey to Excellence strategy and get back on a positive organic and acquisition-driven growth trajectory. It was stated in the Annual Report for 2016 that the global coatings market was expected to remain challenged throughout 2017. In addition, the Board of Directors and Executive Management Board emphasised that they would conduct thorough compliance investigations to make certain that any inappropriate practices were brought to an end. 2017 turned out to be more challenging than anticipated, and we did not see growth pick up as quickly as expected. However, despite the challenging business environment and our u ­ ncompromising efforts to stop inappropriate practices, we managed to make strong progress in many areas and took important steps in the execution of our Journey to Excellence strategy. We now have a platform from which we will be able to accelerate organic growth and take an active part in the consolidation of the global coatings industry. The Hempel Group’s revenue for the year was EUR 1,378 million, corresponding to negative organic growth of 0.7 per cent. While revenue development was below expectations, it was comparable to that of peers in the industry, and we outperformed competitors in strategically important market segments, such as marine. The EBITDA margin ended at 12.4 per cent, slightly below the 2016 level (13.2 per cent) and slightly short of our ambitions as laid out in the Annual Report for 2016. This was driven by an increase in raw material prices, which impacted both Hempel and the rest of the coatings industry. Considering the development of the coatings market and increasing raw material prices, we consider the financial results in 2017 satisfactory. Our relentless focus on operational excellence and proactive implementation 14 2017 in review 15 2017 in review With a capacity up to 25 million litres per year, our new factory in Mina Abdullah in Kuwait will meet growing demand for coatings in the region of cost-saving initiatives where needed, almost offset the As expected, we experienced tough market conditions in the adverse earning effects from increases in raw material prices. marine industry globally, where the combination of slowing Our operational excellence initiatives also led to continued demand and increasing competition contributed to negative strong cash flow generation. Hempel’s net interest-bearing organic growth in 2017. Significant negative impacts were debt reduced from EUR 119 million by the end of 2016 to observed in the marine newbuild markets in China and Korea. just EUR 21 million and thus made Hempel a virtually The inappropriate sales practices discovered during 2016 and debt-free company at the end of 2017. The Group’s net early 2017 also negatively affected our 2017 performance, working capital was reduced to an all-time low of 59 days both in terms of direct losses associated with the discontinuaby the end of 2017, down from 89 days at the end of 2016. tion of customer relationships and indirectly due to the resulting We thereby delivered on one of our 2020 ambitions in our restructuring activities and changes to leadership and sales Journey to Excellence strategy – net working capital in line teams in our Asia-Pacific regions. However, with our new with best-in-class peers – three years early. But we still have Asia-Pacific organisation and leadership team in place, we have room for improvement. We will continue to raise the bar. a strong foundation from which to drive our accelerated growth agenda in 2018 and beyond. Sales In 2017, we delivered sales of EUR 1,378 million, correIn line with our strategy, we established a new Commercial sponding to organic growth of -0.7 per cent. Unfavourable function that will drive our commercial excellence journey across fluctuations in currencies generated a negative foreign the globe. A new Chief Commercial Officer joined the company exchange impact of EUR 33 million (or -2.3 per cent) in May 2017 and a new Group commercial organisation was ­compared to sales of EUR 1,424 million in 2016. launched in the third quarter. This gives Hempel a strong foundation from which we can further develop and professionalIn 2017, we saw positive organic growth in our large Europe ise our global marketing, sales excellence and segment strategy & Africa region, our two regions in the Middle East as well capabilities in order to accelerate growth in the years to come. as South America. It was encouraging to see that our Middle East regions both saw growth, despite a very complicated We also launched our GKAM programme and saw important business environment following the geo-political crisis in wins with customers as a result of our ability to deliver strong the region. and consistent services to large global companies. We expect to further accelerate growth and increase our share of wallet Sales declined within Crown Paints, our Decorative busiwith our GKAM customers in 2018, and we will continue to ness in the UK, caused by the loss of one large tender invest in digitalisation, including our customer portal My in late 2016. Across all other customer segments, Crown Hempel, with the explicit ambition of improving measurable Paints delivered growth and increased market share. North customer ­satisfaction. America delivered negative organic growth, driven largely by weak performance in the Protective segment. The rail Operating expenses market and our Neogard industrial coatings in particular In 2017, operating expenses decreased 6.3 per cent comwere weaker than expected. pared to 2016. The cost-saving and operational excellence 16 The Hempel Executive Management Board: Peter Kirkegaard, Henrik Andersen, Michael Hansen, Anders Boyer and Lars Petersson initiatives implemented during 2016 and 2017 as part of a few jurisdictions, including Germany and Asia-Pacific. The our Journey to Excellence strategy released funds, which provision covers potential tax consequences and an estimate were reinvested in accelerating execution of our strategy. of potential financial sanctions, including fines, advisor fees We continued to invest in building a platform for accelerated and severance payments. Apart from the impact from lower growth, including strengthening our commercial organisation sales resulting from discontinuing inappropriate sales practicas mentioned above. Furthermore, we continued to expand es, there was no net profit impact in 2017 from inappropriate and invest in improving our Decorative distribution network in sales practices, as all compliance-related expenses were set the Middle East and the UK, as well as a stronger and wider off against the provision booked in 2016. At the end of 2017, footprint in Africa. We also continued to make significant the provision amounted to EUR 22 million. investments to improve our internal controls, the compliance organisation and not least our internal audit framework. The effective tax rate for the year was 40 per cent compared to 41.3 per cent last year. The effective tax rate for 2017, Operating expenses in 2017 include a number of one-time excluding impact from the US tax reform, was 30.3 per cent costs, including costs related to reinforcing Hempel's commit(2016: 24.2 per cent excluding one-off costs related to ment to the Hempel Employee Foundation. Employees and compliance issues). The effective tax rate, before non-­ their close family can apply for support from the Hempel recurring items, increased by 6.1 percentage points from Employee Foundation in the case of illness or to pursue 2016 to 2017 due to a re-assessment of uncertain tax education. These one-time costs were offset by gains from positions as well as higher withholding taxes. The effective property sales in North America and the Middle East. tax rate in 2018 and onwards, excluding potential non-­ recurring items, is expected to be lower than in 2017. EBITDA The EBITDA margin for 2017 was 12.4 per cent. This was Net profit amounted to EUR 55 million, up from EUR 47 roughly in line with the 13.2 per cent reported in 2016, million last year. excluding special items. The continued solid EBITDA margin was delivered despite lower sales and increased raw material Capital expenditure prices, which were significantly higher than expected. During 2017, we continued to invest in new factories, Continued strong progress on our operational excellence modernisation of our production capacity and optimisation journey enabled us to continue investing in our Journey to of our manufacturing footprint. Total gross capital expenditure Excellence while at the same time protecting margins. was EUR 44 million, in line with last year. As part of optimising our manufacturing footprint, we are progressing with the In absolute terms, EBITDA amounted to EUR 171 million. This optimisation and relocation of our Yantai factory in China and compares to EUR 188 million in 2016 (excluding special items). we are working on finding a solution to fully complete the closure of our factory in Dammam, Saudi Arabia. In addition, Net profit and special items we finalised and inaugurated our new factory in Kuwait, In 2016, Hempel expensed EUR 40 million related to complicompleted our factory and production technology expansion ance issues connected to inappropriate sales practices in projects in Dallas, US and Darwen, UK, and we continued our 17 2017 in review strategic investments in passive fire protection technology in Balance sheet and financial position our laboratories in Barcelona, Spain. Other capital investOur continued focus and success in reducing net working ments in 2017 include strategic investments in cutting-edge capital was the main contributing factor behind a decrease coatings technology for the wind industry and the opening in total assets of EUR 121 million, or 10 per cent, from of our new distribution centre in Texas, US. 2016 to 2017. By the end of 2017, total assets amounted to EUR 1,144 million. As a consequence, invested capital We will continue to invest in new capacity and manufacturing decreased from EUR 703 million, excluding special items, optimisation in the future in line with our strategy plans in by the end of 2016 to EUR 566 million at the end of 2017 order to reduce operating costs and to ensure we can deliver – a decline of 19.5 per cent. The decrease in invested products when and where our customers need them. capital was the main driver behind an increase in Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) from 16.8 per cent in 2016 Acquisitions (excluding special items related to compliance issues) An important part of our Journey to Excellence strategy is to to 18.9 per cent in 2017. participate in the consolidation in the coatings industry and grow through acquisitions. During the year, we took significant Expectations for 2018: Ready to accelerate steps forward in our preparation for acquisitions and the The coatings market is expected to remain challenging in acquisition pipeline is healthy. 2018, not least in the marine industry, which is expected to contract by more than 20 per cent as a result of low demand Hempel completed one technology acquisition during the in the newbuilding market. Despite these challenges, we expect fourth quarter of 2017. The acquisition is a perfect strategic to see underlying organic growth across most segments and fit and we expect to be able to develop the acquired cutting­geographies, driven by our stronger and more customer-­ edge technology and knowledge into competitive products in focused commercial organisation. From an earnings perspecour Protective segment within the next few years to the tive, we expect to deliver a solid EBITDA margin in line with benefit of some of our largest global customers. 2017 despite further increases in raw material prices and while continuing to invest in our Journey to Excellence strategy. Cash flow and net interest-bearing debt 2017 was the second year with sharp focus on improving Parent company net working capital and bringing down Hempel’s net debt, In 2017, the parent company delivered sales of EUR 117 and we saw very strong improvement. At the start of 2016, million compared to sales of EUR 110 million in 2016. Gross we performed below our industry peers in terms of net profit in 2017 ended at EUR 64 million, at the same level as working capital. By the end of 2017, we were close to 2016 (EUR 63 million). Operating expenses increased by 30 best-in-class. Net working capital days decreased to 59 per cent from EUR 50 million in 2016 to 65 million in 2017, days by the end of 2017, down from 89 days in 2016 and mainly due to increased head count at headquarters. 122 days in 2015. Income from investments in subsidiaries increased from EUR As a consequence, we saw strong cash flow during 2017. 26 million in 2016 to 34 million in 2017. Net profit for the Total cash flow from operating activities ended at EUR 155 year ended at EUR 41 million compared to EUR 33 million in million in 2017 and, at the end of the year, net interest-­ 2016. For 2018, revenue and the net result are expected to bearing debt had been reduced to a mere EUR 21 million, be at the same level as in 2017. equalling a ratio of 0.1 to EBITDA, down from 0.6 in 2016. This leaves us in a strong position to take an active role in the consolidation of the global coatings industry. 18 Strategy Strategy CIVIL ENERGY HEAVY-DUTY MARINE SUPPLY SALES SOLUTION DECORATIVE MARINE PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT CHAIN EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE EXCELLENCE Journey to Excellence Foundation for Foundation for Leadership leadership In 2017, we continued to lay the implemented successfully, and we are making strong progress on strategy execution. However, we can see that foundation needed for future growth, we still need to improve our customer focus and internal accelerating execution on our excellence. Journey to Excellence strategy. Key strategy execution initiatives in 2017 • 2017 was our first full year of working with our two dimensional organisational structure, and we continued to invest Our Journey to Excellence aims at building the foundation for in stronger global functions with particular focus on our Hempel’s long-term success by strengthening and improving commercial organisation, R&D, supply chain and complithe way we deliver valuable products and services to our ance. Dimension I and II are quickly learning to ‘collaborate customers (Key Enablers); as well as focusing on developing like crazy’, giving us greater alignment and faster strategy our offering to customers, especially in selected segments execution across the Group. (Must-Win Battles), but in general in our three chosen business areas within the coatings industry. • We made significant progress in Supply Chain Excellence through a number of initiatives, including: Our aim remains to grow faster than the market, and we are Optimising our global supply chain footprint preparing for accelerated growth – both organically and Improving our manufacturing process by introducing through acquisitions. Our new organisation has been new concepts such as in-can production 19 Strategy Increasing performance and reducing cost levels customer’s fleet. The confirmed savings, in terms of both through our Continuous Improvement programme costs and CO2 emissions, demonstrate that our Hempaguard® Continued strategic procurement initiatives addressing X7 hull coating leads the world in fouling control. both raw materials and indirect spend Streamlining our product assortment to make • We continued to refine our GKAM programme to ensure specification easier and reduce costs even closer and stronger customer relationships with our large global customers. GKAM is a key part of our strength• We extended our pipeline of innovative solutions to ensure ened commercial organisation, led by our Chief Commercial we meet customer needs in areas where no existing Officer, a new role created in May 2017. products meet these needs today. These solutions are developed in collaboration with our customers, from early • We launched our new Services organisation as a global ideas through to design, testing and application. business unit with the goal of becoming the world leader in coatings service and advice. Our long-term vision is to lead • We worked further with our Foundation for Leadership. This the industry in ‘surface management’, essentially taking included developing a new talent management process that over responsibility for keeping our customers’ assets in the will strengthen our leadership teams today, and ensure we agreed condition. have a strong leadership pipeline for the future. In addition, we continued to work with tools, such as Let's Talk, our Looking ahead personal development process, and our Employee EngageIn 2018, we will continue to execute on our Journey to ment Survey, to ensure that we continue to attract, retain Excellence strategy plan, with increased focus on customer­and develop the industry’s leading talents. centricity and internal excellence. We also remain committed to seeking growth by inviting new companies to join the • We documented our leadership in fuel efficiency – a key part Hempel family, and have built a strong pipeline with highly of our Marine Must-Win Battle – through data collection on a interesting small and large candidates. Group organisational structure Hempel North South Crown Europe North South & Middle Middle America America Paints & Africa Asia East Asia East (West) East (East) Commercial Dimension 2 Operations Finance People & Culture Dimension 1 20 Strategy Hempel business model Produce & supply Advise & support • Constantly strive for greater • Keep customer assets excellence & efficiency in agreed condition • Work to improve lead times • Help customers & environmental performance optimise processes • Ensure fast and reliable supply • Ensure efficiency & & delivery across the globe quality during application Communicate & sell Customers Innovate & create • Understand customers’ • Listen to customer needs business needs • Partner with customers • Communicate benefits to create solutions of solutions • Partner with others to • Ensure best possible explore new solutions solution for each project & technologies Develop & improve • Work with customers to test solutions in the field • Adjust existing solutions to improve performance • Tailor solutions to local conditions We supply coatings to the protective, marine, decorative, connecting to our customers to better understand their needs industrial, container and yacht industries. We protect our and by constantly challenging ourselves to push the boundacustomers’ most valuable assets, which demands that we ries of performance and protection. It is earned by committing deliver the market’s most trusted solutions. We do not to improving the environmental footprint of our solutions with assume we have our customers’ trust. Instead, we recognise no compromise on performance, and by inspiring confidence that it is up to us to earn this trust. Trust is earned by through our invaluable technical advice. 21 Spotlight on our work Spotlight on our work LLC “Transneft Media” Euronav’s Very Large Crude Carrier Sara in drydock in Singapore Our products and services help Velesstroy protect structures in harsh environments Documenting fuel efficiency A unique range of services Marine customers want documented fuel savings, and we When Velesstroy approached us with a unique service established ourselves as leader in this field. challenge, we were quick to come up with a solution. The challenge The challenge Many hull coatings claim to improve hull smoothness and Velesstroy implements large and complex projects in a so reduce vessel fuel consumption and emissions. But number of sectors, from oil and gas to civil installations. many factors affect fuel consumption, making it hard to These projects require the application of protective determine the return on investment. For Euronav, a global coatings in many different locations and a variety of climatic leader in shipping crude oil, the answer was our perfor­conditions, often through third-party steel fabricators. mance monitoring service. The ­challenge was to ensure complete consistency of ­application quality, and timely execution. The solution The service gives accurate hull and propeller performance The solution data, enabling customers to ascertain exactly how fuel We worked closely with Velesstroy to perform technical savings are achieved. Euronav first took advantage of this audits of potential subcontractors and third-party steel service in connection with the upgrading of three of its fabricators to ensure the ideal solution could be found. vessels to our Hempaguard X7 hull coating. Six months In addition, our local team provides an ongoing total after the application, there was a clear increase in technical package, including continuous supervision on propulsion efficiency, of which a significant portion was site and training to Velesstroy personnel. These services attributable to the coating. are all designed to address the specific challenges Velesstroy faces. “Hempel’s fuel monitoring system gives us complete insight into our return on investment. It also enables us to work Our work with Velesstroy has included numerous projects closely with Hempel and so improve long-term efficiency,” over several years, from large storage tanks to LNG says Theodore Mavraidis, Fleet ­Technical Manager at processing facilities and oil and gas refineries. Euronav Ship Management (Hellas) Ltd. 22 Spotlight on our work We work with many great companies and supply coatings to a wide range of projects. Here are a few of our stories from 2017. One of our newly opened shops in the Middle East These petrol storage tanks in the Netherlands were repaired in just five months, without any asset downtime Closer to customers Repairs without downtime Combining an expanded physical store network with We worked with B&R Groep to restore and recoat 11 petrol the My Hempel web portal to get closer to customers storage tanks without the need for asset downtime. in the Middle East. The challenge The challenge When VARO decided to sell its hydrocarbon product-blending Our customers want a better in-store experience, as well and storage terminal in the Netherlands, it had to repair as 24/7 accessibility. Our challenge was to deliver both to corrosion in the welding seams on all 11 tanks extremely Decorative customers in the Middle East. quickly. The question was: How to repair the tanks while they were still filled with cargo? The solution To make it easier for customers and applicators to find the The solution ideal Hempel product, we increased the number of shops VARO asked experienced applicator B&R Groep to take on in the Middle East by 26 per cent in 2017, reaching a total the job. B&R Groep knew it needed quality products and of 180 Hempel stores in the region by the end of the year. expert guidance, and asked us to help. The tanks were At the same time, we enhanced our stores to showcase the repaired in just five months, using a two-coat system that latest decorative trends, enabling our customers to get not only ensures long-term anti-corrosion protection, but inspiration, products and expert advice, all in one place. also maintains the tanks’ visual aesthetic. In addition, customers can access our product catalogues, “We are very satisfied with the final results, as well as the place orders and do much more through My Hempel, professional way the teams approached any operational an online customer-centric web portal. My Hempel was issues that occurred during the five-month project,” says launched in 2016. By the end of 2017, 99 per cent of our Hein van der Eng, Operations & Project Manager at VARO. retail partners in the Middle East were using it, and 40 per cent of all orders in our Middle East (West) region were being made through My Hempel. 23 Our values Our values Our values unite us as members of stakeholders, helping to ensure we make the right decisions even in the most challenging situations. Close to 1,000 new the Hempel family. They capture and colleagues joined Hempel in 2017, and our values enabled communicate our unique way of doing a smooth and fast integration into our family. business, centred around delivering Embedding our values the market’s most trusted solutions. Since launching our values, much work has been done to embed them throughout our company. With our management They describe what it means to have team as ambassadors, they have been cascaded down Hempel at Heart. through our local organisations and functions using many tools, including our newly developed dilemma game. Our values were formally defined in 2016, but they are actually We have integrated our values into our annual Employee more than 100 years old. We can trace them back to the roots Engagement Survey and performance appraisal dialogues of our company and the philosophy of our founder, J. C. Hempel. for all employees. We have used our dilemma game to train our people in using our values to help make the right choices Putting our values into words that everyone can relate to has when faced with tough decisions. Our values were central had a major impact on our business. Our values guide us in to updating our Code of Conduct. And, of course, our values our interactions with colleagues, business partners and other inspired the creation of Hempel’s new tagline: Trust is earned. Connecting to customers Inspiring Constantly confidence challenging Socially committed 24 Trust is earned A tagline worthy of the Hempel name In 2016, Hempel completed a major initiative with the help assuming we have the trust of customers. Instead, we are of key customers to define our values, together with our brand recognising that it is the responsibility of every Hempel promise: ‘To deliver the market’s most trusted solutions’. Since employee to earn the trust of our customers and partners. then, a lot of great work has been done to firmly anchor these values and this promise in the Hempel organisation. Secondly, it takes ownership of the trust space in the coatings market. Interviews with our customers confirmed But as J.C. Hempel, our founder, always told us: “It’s the will that trust is the driver of partner preference. to want, that creates the skill to do”. Thirdly, this tagline is visionary. It has the potential to inspire Embracing this spirit, our management team wanted to take us to constantly challenge the way we do things – with the things to the next level, by creating a distinctive tagline worthy goal of earning even greater trust – giving long-term direction of the Hempel name: A tagline that conveys our promise of to our business. Trusted Solutions in a few memorable words; a tagline that will inspire and commit each and every member of the Hempel Fourthly, it perfectly supports our transition from ‘product family to think, act and innovate in ways that earn the trust selling to solution selling’. This is especially important given of our customers; a tagline that is truly memorable. our increased focus on services. To that end, a process was initiated to explore potential The external launch of our new tagline will happen throughHempel taglines. Both customers and colleagues collaboratout 2018 and 2019. The launch will be carefully controlled ed to help develop and judge more than 40 alternatives. to ensure that whenever and wherever we communicate A clear favourite emerged and was selected. Trust is earned externally, Hempel can live up to it internally. Trust is earned commits our organisation to a way of working that challenges all employees to ask themselves every day: “What more can I do to earn the trust of our customers?” As an external stakeholder, please use this tagline to challenge Hempel and our employees by simply asking: “Are you sure this is what is meant by Trust is earned?” We are on a Why Trust is earned? journey to become an excellent global family, and by challengFirstly, it strikes an emotional chord. Put simply, it feels right ing us in this way, you challenge us to better understand your for Hempel. We are not claiming to be the most trusted, or purpose and strengthen your business. Corporate governance Corporate governance We further strengthened our Members of the Board of Directors elected by the shareholder at the Annual General Meeting are elected for an annual governance structure with new term. Board members can be elected to the Board of Direcadditions to the Board of Directors tors up until the Annual General Meeting in the calendar year in which the member reaches 70 years of age. and initiatives in compliance. At the Annual General Meeting in 2017, two new Board members were elected. Both new members have extensive We continued our focus on building a strong governance top management experience and will play an important part structure in 2017. A new mandatory Code of Conduct in our continued efforts to further professionalise and grow eLearning was implemented worldwide for all Hempel Hempel. Marianne Wiinholt is Executive Vice President & employees, with a pass rate of 100 per cent. We also added Chief Financial Officer at Ørsted A/S and a member of the significant competencies to the Board of Directors with the Board of Norsk Hydro, among others. She is also Chair of addition of Marianne Wiinholt and Eric Alström. the Hempel Audit Committee. Eric Alström is President of Danfoss Power Solutions and a member of the Board at With these initiatives and others, we have taken a significant Torotrak, UK. He is the Deputy Chairman of the Board of step within compliance and governance that will allow us to Directors of Hempel A/S and a member of the Nomination live up to the new company tagline: Trust is earned. and Remuneration Committee. Management Employee representatives are elected in accordance with the The Hempel Group’s organisational structure has two dimenDanish Companies Act, for terms of four years. sions. Our regions focus on our customers and operational execution, while four Group functions ensure excellence and Composition and responsibilities of the Board of Directors operational synergies across the Group. The Board composition mixes professional Board members and members with executive positions. This composition is Hempel’s Executive Management Board consists of the heads deemed appropriate as it provides a good balance between of the four Group functions, and the Chief Executive Officer. knowledge, competencies and experience, and ensures The Operational Management Board consists of the Executive members are able to deal with the substantial workload. Management Board, the Head of Strategy and M&A, and the heads of the regions. This organisational structure ensures The Board of Directors is responsible for safeguarding the management is close to the business, enables management interests of the shareholder, while also considering all other to drive Group-wide initiatives, and helps speed up decision-­ stakeholders. At least once a year, the Board of Directors making processes and strategy execution. It also gives manageassesses its most important tasks, based on the overall ment oversight, control and alignment across the business. strategic direction of the Hempel Group and including the financial and managerial supervision of the Group. As part of In order to ensure that our management teams across the its assessment, the Board of Directors evaluates the perforglobe understand and share a common vision, the Hempel mance of the Executive Management Board on a continual Group operates an Annual Management Cycle. basis. The Chairman of the Board of Directors has an obligation to keep the Board of Directors of the Hempel Board of Directors Foundation informed about the performance of the Group. Hempel’s Board of Directors consists of six directors elected by the shareholder at the Annual General Meeting and three Competencies of the Board of Directors employee representatives elected by the employees based in Hempel’s Board of Directors strives to recruit Board Denmark. members with a diverse range of mutually complementary 26 Corporate governance skills and expertise. When the Board of Directors proposes importance of diversity in general, including diversity of new Board members, a curriculum vitae and thorough gender, nationality and competencies. In 2017, one female description of the candidate’s qualifications are made was elected at the Annual General Meeting to the Board of available to the shareholder. Hempel is a global leader and, Directors. The Board of Directors’ goal is to have at least to successfully develop and maintain its position, Hempel is two female Board members elected at the Annual General dependent on global expertise and experience at Board Meeting by 2020. More information on our initiatives to level. Today, the Board of Directors is a diverse group of increase diversity in Hempel can be found on page 49. individuals mixing global experience, functional competencies and industry background, which ensures that it can Remuneration fulfil its obligations. As well as in-depth knowledge of Hempel offers its Board of Directors and Executive ManageHempel’s business, Board members possess expertise ment Board remuneration that is competitive with industry within a wide range of areas, from innovation, product peers and other global companies, as this enables it to development, online marketing and commercialisation attract and retain competent and professional business through to finance and human resources. leaders and Board members. Each year the Board of Directors carries out a self-­ Remuneration of the Executive Management Board is based evaluation of its competencies and skills, including those on a fixed-base salary, plus a target bonus of up to 67 per of the Chairman and of individual Board members. The cent of the base salary. Taking into account the potential to evaluation is carried out systematically, using clearly defined meet or fall short of the target, the effective potential bonus criteria to ensure the Board constantly improves both its range is 0–67 per cent of the base salary. In addition, a own performance and its cooperation with the Executive long-term incentive programme is in place, with a target of Management Board. up to 200 per cent of the base salary over three years. Diversity The Executive Management Board has severance agreements The Board of Directors fundamentally believes that diversity in line with market terms. Conditions for notice of termination strengthens any governing body and acknowledges the are determined individually for each member of the Executive The Annual Management Cycle Hem ay pe yD l trateg mm Board Strategy Day Hempel Summer School Hempel Leadership Summit Su (May) (June) (November) Board S er Schoo l The Executive Management Hempel’s top managers Hempel’s top managers Board meets with the Hempel ­review and refine the company gather to set the agenda Board of Directors to review strategy at IMD Business for the year ahead the strategy plan School He mp t e l Le mi adership Sum 27 Corporate governance Management Board. The company has a fixed termination Committee assists the Board of Directors with its tasks in notice of 12 months if given by the company and six months if regard to preparing the Annual Report and the audit thereof given by a member of the Executive Management Board. and policies related to it. Members of the Board of Directors receive fixed remuneraIn 2017, the committee reviewed initiatives to further tion and do not participate in incentive programmes. strengthen compliance as well as the internal control framework, including updating internal policies and procedures. In Board committees addition, the committee reviewed the Group’s whistleblower The Board of Directors establishes dedicated committees in reporting system and whistleblower cases, the main accountorder to supervise and solve specific tasks. Currently, there ing principles and judgments, and tax compliance and key are two committees: a Remuneration and Nomination risks. Furthermore, the committee focused on the preparaCommittee, and an Audit Committee. tions for the implementation of the new EU General Data Protection Regulation in May 2018, to ensure compliance The Remuneration and Nomination Committee through our procedures and infrastructure. According to its charter, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee assists the Board of Directors with the recruitment Internal Audit function of its executives. In addition, it assists with the establishment In accordance with its charter, the Audit Committee annually of remuneration for the Group’s executives, etc., and helps considers the need for an Internal Audit function. Based on ensure that the Group’s general remuneration policies are the recommendations of the Audit Committee, the Board of balanced appropriately. In 2017, the committee supervised Directors determines whether an Internal Audit function is and reviewed the salary, bonus and long-term incentive required and whether internal control systems are adequate. programmes, as well as the results of these programmes. The Hempel’s Group Internal Audit function was established Furthermore, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee in 2016 in order to strengthen focus on compliance and advises and makes recommendations to the Board of ethical behaviour, as well as the control environment in Directors in relation to the skills that the Board of Directors general. The Group Internal Audit function is part of the and the Executive Management Board must have to best Group’s Finance function. The Head of Group Internal Audit perform their tasks. Each year, the committee evaluates the meets separately with both the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Board, Group’s external auditor at least once a year. and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors in regard to any changes. The committee helps prepare the The Board of Directors’ assessment, which is based on the Board of Directors’ work by selecting candidates with the company’s size and the organisation of the Finance function, assistance of a professional global search firm. is that the organisation in place and the plans laid out are adequate to ensure the necessary focus on compliance for The committee convenes as necessary. However, it has two the entire Group. fixed meetings during the year, in February and November. Business ethics and compliance The Audit Committee Hempel’s commitment to business ethics and compliance According to its charter, the Audit Committee’s work includes with international regulations and internal policies is ­anchored assisting the Board of Directors with fulfilling its oversight in its Code of Conduct, Business Ethics Policy and other responsibilities for the financial reporting process, the system internal corporate guidelines. These outline the fundamental of internal control, the audit process, the Group’s process for requirements for how Hempel operates, and describe the monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and its Code responsibilities and ethical standards expected of all of Conduct, as well as risk management. Further, the Audit ­employees and relevant business partners. To ensure and 28 Corporate governance document employees’ familiarity with the Code of Conduct, Meeting activity Business Ethics Policy and other key policies, relevant employees electronically sign off on their compliance within Remuneration specific areas. In addition, they take eLearning courses Board of Directors Audit Committee and Nomination within anti-corruption and competition compliance on a Committee regular basis. 20 February 10 March 20 February In 2017, additional measures were taken to ensure continu27 March 19 June 29 November ous compliance within the Group and, as a consequence, the 29 March 25 September internal compliance team was expanded. During the year, it 27 April 27 November was also decided to extend the responsibilities of the Ethics 27 May Committee to include an oversight role with regards to the 27 June effective implementation and monitoring of the entire Hempel 11 October 29 November compliance programme. Further, starting from January 2018, all regional Finance Directors have been appointed Regional Compliance Officers. This role ensures compliance is ­anchored in the regional leadership teams and ensures that compliance enhance the current whistleblower solution and implement a is close to the business. new global Hempel Ethics Hotline. The new system was rolled out in 2017. The system enables all employees and external The whistleblower reporting system stakeholders to anonymously report potentially irregular or Hempel has had an internal whistleblower reporting system unethical conduct through an internet portal or via a local since 2012. However, during 2016, a project was initiated to phone number. The system is an important tool to ensure that allegations of irregular or unethical conduct are reported and addressed quickly. All complaints are treated confidentially and followed up by an objective and independent investigation. All reports are reviewed by the Compliance and Corporate Responsibility Director, who recommends appropriate action to the Ethics Committee. The Ethics Committee consists of: the Group Chief Financial Officer; Group Chief People and Culture Hempel Ethics Hotline Officer; Group General Counsel; Head of Group Internal Audit; and the Compliance and Corporate Responsibility Director. A link to the Hempel Ethics Hotline can be found on the Corporate You can read more about our work in this area, including responsibility section of hempel.com reporting statistics from our whistleblower system, on page 40. 29 Risks Risks Providing a robust and effective framework to mitigate risk to the Hempel Group. Hempel’s global business covers many industry segments risks, as well as the risk management process and and a wide range of operational activities across the globe, governance structure. resulting in a variety of risks and opportunities. Risks are therefore a natural part of our business and a precondition The Group Risk Committee has overall responsibility for running for being able to create value. Across the organisation, we the risk management process and governance structure within continuously evaluate the risks we face and assess the level the day-to-day business. It also evaluates consolidated risks of acceptable risk within the business. This is done through and the status of mitigating activities at Group level. a process and governance structure that has clear roles and responsibilities for defining and reviewing risks, as well as The risk management process following up on mitigating activities. Every year, an extensive Group-wide risk analysis is carried out, in which risks are assessed and quantified by key employees Risk governance at both Group and regional level. The Group Risk Committee The Board of Directors has final responsibility for risk drives the process and consolidates the risks and related management and is the final approver of risk tolerance and mitigating activities reported by the organisation. Based on this risk mitigation activities. The Audit Committee monitors key work, a risk report is prepared and discussed in the Executive 30 Risks Management Board and subsequently the Audit Committee Risk matrix before final approval by the Board of Directors. High 5 1 During 2016, we updated our risk management process to ensure a structured data collection, analysis and reporting 2, 3, 4 process. In 2017, we rolled out a comprehensive training programme to our regional and functional Group risk manageImpact ment teams to build up competencies and harmonise the methodology and terminology we use in relation to risk identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting. Low Low Likelihood High Key risks The most important risks are identified based on their 1 Business ethics 3 Organisational capacity 5 Raw material potential impact and likelihood. The figure on the right shows prices the most important risks as identified at the end of 2017. 2 Fire 4 Market risk and trends 31 Risks Main risks Description of risk Potential impact Actions taken 1. Business ethics At Hempel, we do not accept • Potential penalties • Vigorously communicate the tone inappropriate practices or and loss of business, from the top: Hempel has zero-­ violations of internal rules. customers or licences tolerance for inappropriate practices. We have however uncovered • Loss of trust and brand The integrity of the business must inappropriate practises in the reputation always come first past, and these cases still • The inappropriate practices were pose a risk until the matter stopped immediately and effectively is fully investigated by the and the employees involved have proper authorities. left Hempel • Building of a strong Compliance function and strengthening of our internal control framework • In 2017, we updated our Employee Code of Conduct, including training of all employees 2. Fire leading We have high standards for • Loss of assets, production • Hempel standard (based on NFPA to human injury fire protection in Hempel and capacity, finished products and other global standards) for and loss of personal safety is a basic and, in the worst case, fire protection is part of our design production expectation in the company. human injury manual for new factories However, fire is still a major • Preventive maintenance risk as we handle flammable of fire protection equipment materials in our factories and • Training programmes in fire safety warehouses. • Upgrading of the fire protection programme 3. Organisational Hempel is going through a • Delays in executing • Building organisational capacity capacity fast-paced transformation and on our strategy through the Annual Management is executing on an ambitious • Delays in growing Cycle, including the Hempel Leaderstrategy plan. There is a risk our businesses ship Summit that Hempel does not have the • Cascading values and a shared right people with the right leadership language competencies, or sufficient • Development of talent programmes talent and potential successors at all levels of the organisation to to drive the transformation. build a stronger talent pipeline • Annual review of the talent pool to identify top talents and successors 32 Risks Description of risk Potential impact Actions taken 4. Market risk Large structural changes to • Reduction in size of the • Monitoring technology trends and trends the coatings industry could coatings market in Hempel’s end markets come through disrupted end • Weakening of competitive • Increasing focus on product markets (e.g. changes in the position innovation through partnerships energy mix, in construction • Potentially significant with customers and universities materials or in trade patimpact on Hempel’s sales terns). Structural changes and earnings could also come from the ongoing consolidation in the coatings industry and changes to the competitive landscape. 5. Raw material Raw materials account for • Potentially significant • Only a part of our key raw materials prices a large share of the Group’s impact on Hempel’s profits are traded on a commodity costs and prices are volatile. and cash flow ­exchange, so effective hedging on most raw materials is not possible • We currently hedge part of our annual consumption of zinc and copper, which constitutes less than 10 per cent of our total raw material costs • Hedging of our raw material exposure thus mainly takes place through continuous adjustment of sales prices of our products 33 Research & Development Research & • Explorative Innovation and New Technologies explores new technologies that go beyond coatings in order to deliver superior solutions to customers. Development • R&D Technical Advisory delivers technical support that makes Hempel stand out in the eyes of our customers. We measure the progress of our innovation strategy by the gross profit generated from new product solutions. We improved in this area in 2016, and did so again in 2017, demonstrating that we are on the right track. We will continue to increase our R&D investments in 2018. Strategic external collaborations Focusing on creating At Hempel, innovation starts with the customer. We partner with our customers to develop solutions that meet their value for customers. needs. Examples of this in 2017 include our work with companies in China and the US. Hempel R&D is a global organisation that thinks, works and In China, we successfully developed a new pipeline coating with collaborates with customers and other external partners a Chinese oil and gas company. The new solvent-free product around the world to develop innovative and trusted solutions delivers excellent corrosion protection, impact resistance and that protect our customers' assets and add value to their surface-tolerant performance for both newbuild and maintenance, businesses. We create this value by developing new soluwhile being significantly more environmentally friendly than tions, optimising existing solutions and supporting our solvent-borne alternatives. In the US, we collaborated with one customers with expert technical advice. of the world's leading integrated energy companies to co-develop a superior solution for maintenance in offshore environments – To increase focus on value creation, we reorganised our R&D a growing problem in the oil and gas upstream industry. organisation in 2017 into four different areas. • New Solution Development focuses on delivering trusted In addition to customer partnerships, we collaborate with solutions to our customers to protect their valuable assets. universities, research groups, technology providers and • Product Optimisation works to continually optimise existing suppliers across the world, leveraging our global R&D products to improve performance. network that spans 12 countries to develop superior solutions for our customers. 34 Research & Development Highest patent activity ever in 2017 Hempaguard: Our leading hull coating We protect our innovations. In terms of patents filed, 2017 continues to prove superior to all conventional was a record year for Hempel. This was the result of our biocide-­based self-polishing technologies for all increased focus on innovation and technology development, trading patterns, including slow-steaming and and the patents filed relate to new coating technologies as low activity vessels. Sales of Hempaguard grew well as new technologies that go beyond coatings. significantly in 2017, including repeated sales to customers who recognise the coating’s Investing in future R&D ability to reduce fuel consumption. We are investing in a new R&D centre focused solely on passive fire protection coatings, located in Spain and due to Globic 9500M/S: Our new top-of-the-range open towards the end of 2018. The investment demonstrates self-polishing Globic products combine three our commitment to further developing our range of life-saving proprietary Hempel technologies in the marcoatings for both cellulosic and hydrocarbon fires. We are ket’s smartest biocide package to provide very currently developing a coatings range for the hydrocarbon strong fouling prevention and fuel efficiency pool fire market, and we launched our first product in this compared to other self-polishing alternatives. range in 2017. Hempafire Pool 200 has been specially developed for onshore markets, including oil refineries, Hempafloor Strata: A competitive floor coating petrochemical plants and power stations. business is an important part of our strategy. Our floor coating range, Hempafloor Strata, is New product solutions gaining traction in the market, following good We continued our strong development of trusted solutions performance on multiple projects in the in 2017. Here are some examples. Middle East, including the Qatar Metro, a power plant in Saudi Arabia and new hospiHempadur Avantguard®: We introduced the next tals in Kuwait. generation activated zinc primer, based on our patented Avantguard technology. Developed to Hempaline Defend: Launched in North overcome application challenges without America, South East Asia and the Middle East compromising performance, the new product in 2016 and 2017, our comprehensive range overcomes many of the challenges faced by our of Hempaline Defend linings are specially customers in the oil and gas, infrastructure and developed for the oil and gas and thermal wind power industries – ­making it a power industries. The range will be launched game-changer in corrosion protection. in other markets in 2018. 35 Research & Development Our customers’ biggest challenges Reducing environmental impact Our customers have both a need and a willingness to reduce the environmental footprint of their Although every challenge is operations. In some cases, it is also their customers, end consumers or different, most of our customers’ society in general that ­­increasingly coating challenges can be broadly demand even more ­sustain­able coating solutions. categorised. Increasing asset lifetime The main purpose of most coatings is to protect. Whether they are Improving efficiency protecting a bridge, wind turbine For most businesses, greater or home, our customers want efficiency means greater profits. long-lasting coatings that increase Customers want coatings that help asset lifetimes and reduce reduce fuel consumption, energy maintenance costs. use or emissions, as well as streamlined production processes that reduce waste and increase output. Sustainable and ­lasting beauty Coatings are perhaps the most seen products in the world. Our Meeting global customers want to add beauty to their interiors and exteriors regulations in a sustainable way. Many of our customers operate across many countries and they need solutions that meet many different laws and regulations. 36 Research & Development 37 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility A strong social commitment has been at the heart of Hempel's values since the company was founded in 1915. In 2017, we formalised our commitment to corporate responsibility by signing the UN Global Compact, sending a strong signal to our stakeholders regarding our commitment to deliver trusted solutions in all aspects. By signing, we have committed to reporting annual progress on our initiatives within human rights, labour, the environment and anti-­corruption. The following pages describe our development within these important areas and provide information as required by the Danish Financial Statements Act §99a and 99b. 38 Corporate responsibility Business and Human Rights We follow the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our internal guidelines are described in our Human Rights Policy as well as our Employee Code of Conduct. 39 Corporate responsibility Ethical behaviour True to our values, we are committed other stakeholders are committed to the highest level of transparency and ethical behaviour. to conducting business respectfully • We introduced an online collaboration site and hotline and ethically at all times, and without called ComplianceHelp, where employees can seek guidance and ask for help on specific matters. compromising our integrity. • We strengthened our Ethics Committee, which now consists of: the Group Chief Financial Officer; Group Chief People and Culture Officer; Group General Counsel; Head We expect the highest level of transparency and ethical of Group Internal Audit; and the Compliance and Corporate behaviour from all Hempel employees and business partners, Responsibility Director. The Ethics Committee evaluates irrespective of where in the world they work and what is the handling of all whistleblower cases and makes critical considered usual in local business practice. We continuously decisions in regard to cases. strive to develop and enforce good ethical standards in all of • We further expanded the Group Internal Audit function. our business operations. If anything falls short of our standards, The Group Internal Audit function has a reporting obligation we correct the issue in a firm, swift and dedicated manner. to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Building a strong Compliance function Ensuring compliance across the Hempel globe In 2017, we continued our internal investigations into In order to ensure compliance across our global organisation, inappropriate practices in relevant regions, with the assisour regional offices and Group functions work together tance of external global advisors from the audit and legal closely. As part of this work in 2017, our Legal, Group Internal industries. As a result of these investigations, we uncovered Audit, Finance and Compliance functions formed a Global inappropriate sales practices in a number of offices, mainly in Compliance team. The team conducted roadshows in 2017, Asia-Pacific. These were self-reported by Hempel A/S in April visiting every Hempel region to give intense compliance 2017 to the Danish State Prosecutor for Serious Economic training to members of senior management. We also ­appointed and International Crime. We made, and will continue to make, a Regional Compliance Officer in every region to further substantial investments to prevent compliance issues or embed compliance in every corner of Hempel’s business. anything similar from happening in the future. • In 2017, we released an updated Employee Code of In addition, we continue to conduct regular internal audits. Conduct to make it clear what is expected of our employees Our Executive Management Board reviews the findings from in different business situations. As part of this, we launched each audit and corrective actions are taken where needed. a tailor-made Code of Conduct eLearning for more than 3,800 employees, reaching a 100 per cent completion and pass rate. Employees without a Hempel email address will Whistleblower statistics complete Code of Conduct training in 2018. • We introduced a new Hempel Ethics Hotline, operated by 2017 2016 an external partner, in early 2017. The hotline can be used Incidents reported to Ethics Hotline 2 0 by any stakeholder, both internal and external, and reports Compliance cases reported can be made anonymously. At the end of 2017, the hotline 1 January to 31 December 51 19 was available in almost all Hempel countries. It will be • hereof substantiated* 13 10 made available in the remaining countries, where legal • hereof not substantiated* 18 9 approvals are pending, in 2018. In 2017, we received 53 • cases under investigation* 20 0 whistleblower reports from 19 countries. We consider the Total 53 19 substantial increase in reporting activity to be proof that our reporting channel is working and that employees and *Status as of 2 March 2018 40 Corporate responsibility Health & safety In 2017, our health and safety from shop floor to senior management, was highly positive. We will continue to roll-out Safety Excellence across all performance did not meet e ­ xpectations remaining Hempel factories during 2018. The programme and our target of zero incidents was will also be used to support other parts of our business, including our Services organisation and R&D centres. not achieved. Phasing-out red raw materials We want our product portfolio to be fully sustainable. Our incident rate was 1.98 in 2017. This result was disapThis can only be achieved by managing our raw materials. pointing. At Hempel, we care about safety, and we promote a Therefore, it is essential that we choose raw materials that healthy and safe work environment for all of our employees are safe for our employees, customers and the environment. and business partners. This commitment is anchored in our We use a Raw Material Matrix to evaluate raw materials in values and reflected in our Code of Conduct, in which we ask our products, and we classify materials as red, yellow or all employees to look for safer ways to work. green. Red raw materials can be severely damaging to health or the environment. Lead chromate, for example, Safety Excellence which is used in some products to produce a yellow, orange, In 2017, we developed and launched a comprehensive Safety red or green colour, has been linked to long-term health Excellence programme to break the negative trend in our problems. In 2017, we set the goal of reducing consumption statistics. This is a Group-wide approach that consists of a of red raw materials by 5 per cent per litre of product number of very operational elements, such as 'safety walks', produced. By the end of 2017, we had managed to phase training, risk assessments and our new ‘8 Ways’ model, which out lead chromates completely and a number of other red describes eight safety rules that everyone must follow. raw materials, achieving a total reduction of 32 per cent. In October 2017, we launched Safety Excellence at our We will continue with this work in 2018 and ensure the safe production facility in Dallas, in the US. Employee feedback, use of all hazardous raw materials in our products. I will... • Maintain my working area to the agreed (6S) standard • Respect and use all designated walkways The 8 ways • Follow all safety signs, safety rules and procedures to keep Hempel • Only use equipment that I am trained & authorised to use a safe place • Never work under the influence of drugs or alcohol • Always wear the appropriate Personal Protective Equipment • Act responsibly at all times • Stop work if I see unsafe conditions or unsafe behaviour 41 Corporate responsibility 42 Corporate responsibility Environment At Hempel, we care for the environmentation of waste gas treatment in our Chinese factories, automation of process steps and a general update of ventilament. Our care for the environment tion in several of our factories. is shown through our product To help break this trend, we launched a programme to install steward­ship, and our continued power monitoring technology across our production sites. work to reduce the environmental The introduction of energy meters, software and supporting infrastructure allows us to evaluate total electricity consumpimpact of our operations. tion and how energy is being used. With access to specific real-time energy data, we can make informed fact-based decisions on how we can further optimise our facilities and When considering the direct environmental impact of our own continually improve. In 2017, power management capability operations, we were challenged in 2017. Our target to reduce was installed at seven of our largest production units. We our relative CO2 emissions from energy consumption was not will cover our remaining factories in 2018. In 2017, we also met, and energy consumption increased overall. The increase initiated a number of energy saving activities, and we expect was driven by a number of different factors, such as impleto see the full effect from these in 2018 and onwards. Local focus: Malaysia focuses on waste As part of our waste reduction initiatives in 2017, we challenged our production units around the world to come up with an initiative to reduce waste onsite and prepare a short video demonstrating the concept. This resulted in 16 entries from across the Group, with ideas ranging from the reuse of waste materials to reducing waste at source. Our site in Malaysia was selected as the overall winner, where they had successfully reduced paint can disposal. Overall, the video challenge generated seven new initiatives that will be rolled-out across our business. Local focus: Hull receives ‘Coatings Care’ environmental award In 2017, our Crown Paints production site in Hull won the British Coatings Federation's Coatings Care Overall Best Performer Award. The British Coatings Federation is part of a worldwide umbrella programme for the paint and printing ink manufacturing industries, and in the UK it is managed by member companies. The Coatings Care Overall Best ­Performer Award is presented to the company that has d ­ emonstrated best-inclass performance across a range of key performance indicators. These include accidents and incidents, energy consumption, waste and recycling, volatile organic compound emissions, personnel management and communications. 43 Corporate responsibility Health, i­ncluding waste, and an independent auditor's statement, will be included in future reports when data quality improves. safety and Accounting principles The health and safety indicators in scope cover all Hempel employees and the environmental indicators in scope cover environmental all activities at locations where we have production. This covers 26 factories and 10 R&D facilities in 22 countries, referred to below as ‘Hempel sites’. data If we acquire or divest a business or close down a facility, we adjust our baseline and add or remove the indicator as appropriate to ensure year-to-year comparability. Lost time accident frequency Lost time accidents are defined as the number of occupational accidents resulting in at least one day’s absence following the day of the accident per one million working hours for full-time employees. Only accidents regarding In 2017, we engaged a third-party auditor to independently employees employed directly or supervised by Hempel are review our health, safety and environmental data. This reported. Accidents occurring when commuting to or from extensive programme helped us increase data quality and work are not included. All lost time accidents are registered evaluate our data management processes. As our health, in our SharePoint system. safety and environmental data in 2017 is more accurate than previous years, we have not included historical data in our The number of working hours used to calculate the lost Annual Report 2017. The programme also revealed gaps in time accident frequency is based on the number of full-time our documentation for waste and, therefore, the waste employees working for Hempel, multiplied by the OECD indicator is not part of this report. We will continue to improve average for actual working hours of 1,763 hours per our data quality and processes in future. Additional indicators, employee per year (2016). 44 Corporate responsibility Consumption of red raw materials emissions by applying relevant Greenhouse Gas Conversion A red raw material is defined as a raw material classified Factors for Company Reporting from the Department for according to the United Nations’ Globally Harmonised Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (Defra) in the UK for the System as: relevant year. • Carcinogenic, mutagenic or reprotoxic (CMR) in category 1A/1B Scope 2 covers indirect emissions from purchased electricity • Acute toxic category 1, 2, 3 and district heating at Hempel sites. The consumption of • Very pollutant to the environment: persistent, electricity and district heating is converted to CO2 emissions bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) or very persistent by applying the location-based conversion factors from the and very bioaccumulative (vPvB) International Energy Agency (2016 & 2017) and Defra (2016 & 2017, v1.0) databases. The consumption of red raw materials is a subset of all raw material consumption used in Hempel’s production with the above classification, which is monitored and compiled in our ERP system. The consumption of red raw materials is calculated as kg of red raw materials registered as used per Data table 1,000 litres of product produced. What 2017 Energy Lost time accident frequency Hempel uses four sources of energy in its production: (number/1,000,000 working hours) 1.98 electricity, fuel, heat and gas. All energy consumption at Energy consumption Hempel sites has been consolidated based on invoices. (kWh/1,000L paint produced) 274 Consumption of red raw materials (kg/1,000L paint produced) 8.47 Carbon footprint Scope 1 covers direct emissions originating from Hempel sites. Scope 1 emissions are linked to the energy used in Carbon footprint the form of fuel (fuel oils and natural gas) used by Hempel Scope 1 (tons CO2/1,000L paint produced) 0.02 (see above). The consumption of fuels is converted to CO2 Scope 2 (tons CO2/1,000L paint produced) 0.10 45 Corporate responsibility Responsible supply chain management Our commitment to the UN Global Our audit process of existing suppliers is built on a risk analysis, and suppliers are selected for audit based on the Compact and the United Nations’ products or services they supply, as well as the country in Guiding Principles on Business and which they operate. We mainly focus our efforts on suppliers who we deem to have the highest risk of non-compliance. Human Rights guides the initiatives in our responsible procurement In 2017, we had particular focus on suppliers in the Middle East, Asia and Russia, because there can be a high risk of programme. health, safety and environmental issues, as well as the use of forced labour and child labour, in these regions. Established in 2013, our Responsible Procurement Committee As a result of our Responsible Procurement Programme work consists of our Group Procurement Director and our Compliance in 2017, four suppliers received a low score. These suppliers and Corporate Responsibility Director, as well as subject will be audited on site by our procurement and quality staff in matter experts from these departments. Together, this team 2018 to ensure that their business processes meet our works to ensure legal compliance as well as progress in this requirements and that improvement plans are put in place if important area. needed. If a supplier fails to meet our requirements in terms of improvement to existing processes, the business relationResponsible Procurement Programme ship will be discontinued. As a signee to the UN Global Compact, we commit to extending its principles to our suppliers. This is done through the due In 2017, we trained our indirect procurement staff in how to diligence process in our Responsible Procurement Programme, identify risk areas regarding suppliers. We will extend our due which is a combination of third-party auditing by EcoVadis, diligence procedures to cover more indirect spend suppliers as well as internal audits and screening of new suppliers. in 2018. Our Supplier Policy clearly states what we expect of our Conflict minerals suppliers, including our requirement that they work with We do not use conflict minerals – such as tantalum, tin, respect for their employees and the environment. Before gold or tungsten – or their derivatives in our products. This entering into an agreement with a major supplier, we means we already comply with the requirements in future perform a due diligence assessment covering a number legislation in the EU Conflict Minerals Regulation, as well as of areas, from human rights and anti-corruption to the existing Dodd-Frank Act Section 1502 on due diligence environmental issues. We never work with suppliers of conflict minerals. who employ child labour or forced labour. 46 Corporate responsibility 47 Corporate responsibility Our people on the organisation, which is reflected in the survey results. Overall, our global employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) fell from 25 in 2016 to 20 in 2017. There were significant variations between regions. Low eNPS scores were obtained in areas impacted by large organisational and strategic ­changes. The region with the biggest improvement was Middle East (East), which saw its eNPS rise from 23 in 2016 to 56 in 2017. In contrast, our Asia-Pacific region, which was heavily i­mpacted by large organisational change, saw its eNPS drop from 24 in 2016 to 2 in 2017. We are working We come from many different countries closely with the business units that were challenged by low and walks of life, and bring many scores to find the root cause and improve. We can also see that there is a need to improve how we cascade information different skills and viewpoints to our and strategic direction to the organisation, as our eNPS was work. We believe that this diversity is significantly higher at management level than for employees without managerial responsibility. Therefore, we began key to our business success, and we several initiatives to ensure that our Journey to Excellence do all we can to create an inclusive and strategy is communicated throughout the organisation, not least by regular town hall meetings across the world. supportive work environment, where we all have the chance to develop New performance appraisal dialogue tool In our Employee Engagement Survey, our score for learning and fulfill our potential. and development was 78 in 2017, an improvement of 2 index points. This is the result of our new performance appraisal dialogue tool, called Let’s Talk, which was introduced in early Employee Engagement Survey 2017 and enables managers and employees to have a close Our global Employee Engagement Survey was carried out for dialogue about the employee’s potential, career aspirations the second time in 2017. As in 2016, we obtained an impresand results in connection with their personal development sive response rate of 93 per cent. The survey was available in plans. During the year, 93 per cent of all employees with a 17 languages and was carried out in 80 countries. Hempel email address completed the Let's Talk process. The survey showed that satisfaction and motivation among Improving talent management employees remained at a medium level, improving by 1 index We continued our focus on leadership development in 2017, point, from 68 to 69. However, employee association was again holding Explorer – Next Generation training for new and very high, 82 index points, which indicates that most employees potential leaders, as well as extensive leadership and change across the world are very loyal and committed to the company. management training for more experienced leaders. Hempel is going through a fast-paced industrial transformation, We also focused on developing our talent pipeline and with many change projects initiated. This has put pressure conducted an extensive talent review of more than 500 48 Corporate responsibility Local schoolgirls at our labs during Girl’s Day in Science, a national campaign held in Denmark each year that gives schoolgirls the chance to meet women working within the sciences existing and potential leaders. The talent review feeds into and we place special focus on this during our talent review, the Let’s Talk process. This ensures that we recognise talents successor planning process, leadership development, etc. in our organisation, provide them with the right development One finding from our talent management review was that the opportunities, and help them realise their full potential. talent among our potential and existing female leaders Knowing our talents will ensure that we can promote talent exceeded the share of women who currently hold senior from within and thereby create a balance between external leadership positions. Therefore, we decided to begin a hiring and internal promotion. This will ensure that we fill mentoring initiative that will enable our female talents to be mission critical positions with our own talents and provide mentored by experienced colleagues, giving them the development opportunities for our people, which helps encouragement and support they need to pursue greater maintain high engagement and motivation. career opportunities. Ensuring diversity and equal opportunity In 2017, women made up 25 per cent of our employees, Our Diversity and Equal Opportunity Policy applies to all up from 24 per cent in 2016. At the end of 2017, women Hempel offices and ensures that all employment and career filled 19 per cent of our senior management positions, up development decisions are based on merit and made to from 18 per cent in 2016. Our aim is to reach 25 per cent support business goals. by 2022. We are committed to creating a much more representative distribution of men and women at management level, and have an action plan in place to increase the number of Girl’s Day in Science women in senior management positions. We monitor the We wish to encourage girls to study science. Therefore, distribution of male and female employees in our workforce, 40 girls from Trongårds School in Lyngby, Denmark visited Hempel in August to learn how science can be translated into environmental improvements, including Employees* how our silicone coatings for ship hulls can reduce vessel CO2 emissions. Our goal is that at least one of the girls will work for us one day. 1,615 3,693 Hempel Employee Foundation The Hempel Employee Foundation provides support for current and former Hempel employees, as well as their 549 close family members. Financial support can be given in case of illness or to enable applicants to pursue their EMEA dream of quality education. The Hempel Employee Asia-Pacific Foundation was expanded in 2017. Americas * Head count as of December 2017 49 Corporate responsibility Hempel Leadership Summit Our top leaders and selected talents from across the globe gathered in Elsinore, Denmark on 15-17 November for our second Hempel Leadership Summit. This year, the summit focused on how to accelerate and execute on our Journey to Excellence strategy over the next three years. It included panel discussions, team exercises and debates, iconic speakers from the worlds of business, sailing and the arts, and the annual Hempel Awards. The summit is part of our Annual Management Cycle, and ensures alignment and enthusiasm across the Hempel organisation. Following the summit, it is the managers’ responsibility to ensure that the information and enthusiasm are passed onto their local teams and employees. 50 Corporate responsibility 51 Corporate responsibility Community engagement As a socially committed company, the poorest countries in Africa, and two out of every three Tanzanians live under the international poverty line. Due to we believe that our work should poor living standards, education is low on the list of priorities. contribute to the societies in which Many children do not attend school or drop out after just a few years. In the project, the Hempel Foundation and SOS we operate and the world in general. Children’s Villages are working together to improve facilities in eight schools, train teachers and provide children with more books and better learning materials. The project is benefitting All Hempel offices are encouraged to support causes or around 3,000 children. events that can have a positive impact on their local communities or the wider world. We also encourage our employees to During the trip, the Hempel volunteers introduced the children take an active role in corporate responsibility by volunteering to their home country and culture, taught classes, and met the their time to the causes that mean the most to them. As part children’s families; the children taught the volunteers about of this, we give a number of employees the chance to their lives and culture. Many of the children have never been volunteer at one of the projects supported by our owner, outside of their local community, and it was a unique chance the Hempel Foundation. for them to learn about cultures far away from their own. The Hempel Foundation is part of our company’s DNA. Each year, many of our colleagues in Denmark donate their Since 1948, it has used part of the profits from our work company Christmas gift to the Hempel Foundation project to support good causes around the world. Today, much of its where the volunteering trip is held. efforts are focused on improving education for underprivileged children, as we believe education can help break the cycle of disadvantage that affects many children living in poverty. The volunteering trips give employees the chance to help out and The work of the Hempel Foundation see for themselves the impact that the projects have. When The Hempel Foundation focuses its charitable work on the employees return, they inform their colleagues about the two main areas: the education of children in need and Foundation’s work. Hempel pays the employees’ travel costs research into environmentally sustainable solutions. and expenses for the trip. The employees donate their time. Both these areas support the Sustainable ­Development In previous years, employees have given their time to projects Goals laid out in the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for in Cambodia, Mozambique, Bolivia, Indonesia and Vietnam. Sustainable Development. A unique experience in Tanzania You can read more about the Foundation and its work In 2017, eight Hempel employees volunteered at the Hempel at hempelfoundation.com Foundation project in Iringa in Tanzania. Tanzania is one of 52 Corporate responsibility “ School changes their lives and improves their opportunities. Life will still be a struggle for these children, but our support for them now will give them a much better chance in the future.” Clara Perez Hornero, Development Engineer 53 Corporate responsibility Making a difference to communities in Bolivia In the Aymara indigenous community in the high Andes of Bolivia, many children used to drop out of school before learning to read or write. A Hempel Foundation project has changed that. Started five years ago with non-profit organisation Oxfam IBIS, the Hempel Foundation project in Aymara is making education more relevant and accessible to indigenous children by working with 23 local schools to develop indigenous language education, train bilingual teachers and introduce new teaching methods. Since the project began, grades have improved by 40 per cent. In September 2017, Chairman of the Board of both Hempel A/S and the Hempel Foundation Richard Sand and Hempel Group President & CEO Henrik Andersen visited the project As a Hempel employee, I feel to see the difference it has made first hand. privileged to work for a global company that, through its owner, supports education of children in need. It was almost impossible to put into words the feelings I had when seeing the difference the project here made. It’s not just changing the children’s lives; it’s changing entire communities. Henrik Andersen, Group President & CEO 54 Corporate responsibility 55 Board of Directors Anders Pettersson Leif Jensen Henrik Bach Falkenberg Peder Holk Nielsen Kim Scheibel Marianne Wiinholt Richard Sand Helle Fiedler Eric Alström Management’s statement Management’s statement The Board of Directors and the Executive Management In our opinion, the Management's Review includes a true Board have today considered and adopted the Annual and fair account of the development of the Group’s and the Report of Hempel A/S for the financial year 1 January parent company’s operations and financial affairs, the profit – 31 December 2017. for the year and the Group’s and the parent company’s financial position together with a description of the principal The Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the risks and uncertainties that the Group and the parent Danish Financial Statements Act. company face. In our opinion, the parent company’s financial statements The Annual Report has been submitted for adoption at the and the consolidated financial statements give a true and Annual General Meeting. fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position at 31 December 2017 of the parent company and the Group and Kgs. Lyngby, 4 April 2018 of the results of the parent company’s and the Group’s operations and the consolidated cash flows for 2017. Executive Management Board Henrik Andersen Anders Boyer Lars Petersson Peter Kirkegaard Group President & Executive Vice President & Executive Vice President & Executive Vice President & Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Chief Operating Officer (COO) Chief People & Culture Officer (CPCO) Board of Directors Richard Sand Eric Alström Marianne Wiinholt Anders Pettersson Leif Jensen Chairman Deputy Chairman Peder Holk Nielsen Helle Fiedler Henrik Bach Falkenberg Kim Scheibel Elected by the employees Elected by the employees Elected by the employees 57 Auditor’s report Independent auditor’s report To the shareholder of Hempel A/S Opinion applicable in Denmark. Our responsibilities under those In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements and the standards and requirements are further described in the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial of the financial position of the Group and the parent company ­statements section of our report. We are independent of the at 31 December 2017, and of the results of the Group’s and Group in accordance with the International Ethics Standards the parent company’s operations as well as the consolidated Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional cash flows for the financial year 1 January 31 December Accountants (IESBA Code) and the additional requirements 2017 in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act. applicable in Denmark, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We We have audited the consolidated financial statements believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the parent company financial statements of Hempel and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. A/S for the financial year 1 January 31 December 2017, which comprise income statement, balance sheet, stateStatement on Management’s Review ment of changes in equity and notes, including a summary Management is responsible for Management’s Review. of significant accounting policies, for both the Group and Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the parent company, as well as the consolidated statement Management’s Review, and we do not express any form of cash flows (“financial statements”). of assurance conclusion thereon. Basis for opinion In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our We conducted our audit in accordance with International responsibility is to read Management’s Review and, in doing Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and the additional requirements so, consider whether Management’s Review is materially 58 Auditor’s report inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge the preparation of financial statements that are free from obtained during the audit, or otherwise appears to be material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. materially misstated. In preparing the financial statements, management is Moreover, it is our responsibility to consider whether responsible for assessing the Group’s and the parent Management’s Review provides the information required company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, under the Danish Financial Statements Act. as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Based on the work we have performed, in our view, financial statements unless management either intends Management's Review is in accordance with the consolidated to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease financial statements and the parent company financial stateoperations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. ments and has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Danish Financial Statements Act. We did not Auditor’s responsibilities for identify any material misstatement in Management’s Review. the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about Management’s responsibilities for the financial statements whether the financial statements as a whole are free from Management is responsible for the preparation of consolimaterial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, dated financial statements and parent company financial and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is the Danish Financial Statements Act, and for such internal not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance control as management determines is necessary to enable with ISAs and the additional requirements applicable in 59 Auditor’s report Denmark will always detect a material misstatement when future events or conditions may cause the Group and the it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and parent company to cease to continue as a going concern. are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the eco• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and contents nomic decisions of users taken on the basis of these of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and financial statements. whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that gives a true and As part of an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and fair view. the additional requirements applicable in Denmark, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the scepticism throughout the audit. We also: financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain design and perform audit procedures responsive to those solely responsible for our audit opinion. risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of We communicate with those charged with governance not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and is higher than for one resulting from error as fraud may timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, mis­ any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify representations, or the override of internal control. during our audit. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the Hellerup, 4 April 2018 audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and the parent company’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and, based on the audit evidence PricewaterhouseCoopers obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the CVR no. 33771231 Group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence Lars Baungaard Mads Melgaard State Authorised Public Accountant State Authorised Public Accountant obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, mne23331 mne34354 60 Financial statements Contents 65 Primary statements Income statement 65 Balance sheet 66 Statement of changes in equity 68 Cash flow statement 70 71 Section 1 – Basis of preparation 1.1 General accounting policies 71 90 Section 4 – Capital structure and financing items 4.1 Share capital, distribution to shareholders 90 4.2 Bank loans etc. 90 74 Section 2 – Results of the year 2.1 Revenue, segment information 74 4.3 Financial risks 4.4 Derivative financial instruments 90 91 2.2 Employee costs 74 4.5 Net financials 92 2.3 Other operating income and expenses 75 4.6 Cash and cash equivalents, net 92 2.4 Special items 75 4.7 Acquisitions of enterprises 93 2.5 Income from investments in subsidiaries and associates 76 2.6 Income tax, tax assets and tax liabilities 76 94 Section 5 – Other disclosures 5.1 Fee to auditors appointed at the General Meeting 94 5.2 Adjustments for non-cash items 94 81 Section 3 – Operating assets and liabilities 3.1 Intangible assets 81 5.3 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations 94 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 84 5.4 Events after the reporting period 95 3.3 Inventories 87 5.5 Related parties and ownership 96 3.4 Prepayments 87 5.6 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 96 3.5 Receivables 87 5.7 The Hempel Group 100 3.6 Pension and similar assets and obligations 88 5.8 Financial definitions 102 3.7 Provisions 89 3.8 Other liabilities 89 Financial statements 64 Financial statements Income statement In EUR million Group Parent company Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 2.1 Revenue 1,378 1,424 117 110 Production costs -815 -802 -53 -47 Gross profit 563 622 64 63 Sales and distribution costs -327 -349 -13 -18 Administrative costs -135 -144 -52 -32 2.3 Other operating income 14 1 – – Operating profit before special items 115 130 -1 13 2.4 Special items – -36 – -1 Operating profit 115 94 -1 12 2.5 Income from investments in subsidiaries 34 26 2.5 Income from investments in associates – 2 – – Profit before financial income and expenses 115 96 33 38 4.5 Net financials -23 -18 -1 1 Profit before tax 92 78 32 39 2.6 Income tax -37 -31 9 -6 Net profit for the year 55 47 41 33 In EUR million Group Parent company Distribution of profit 2017 2016 2017 2016 Proposed distribution of profit: Proposed dividend 28 27 28 27 Reserve for net revaluation under the equity method – 1 34 26 Reserve for development costs 1 2 Minority interests 14 14 Retained earnings 13 5 -22 -22 55 47 41 33 65 Financial statements Balance sheet as at 31 December – assets In EUR million Group Parent company Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 Goodwill 74 95 – – Software 5 5 3 1 Software under development 3 3 3 3 Customer relationships 45 55 – – Other intangible assets 57 61 16 14 3.1 Intangible assets 184 219 22 18 Land and buildings 133 141 – – Assets under construction 22 25 2 1 Plant and machinery 75 78 1 2 Other fixed assets 22 21 1 1 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 252 265 4 4 5.6 Investments in subsidiaries 330 380 5.6 Investments in associates – – – – Loans to Group enterprises – – 189 219 2.6 Deferred tax assets 51 36 14 – Deposits etc. 6 4 1 – Fixed asset investments 57 40 534 599 Total non-current assets 493 524 560 621 3.3 Inventories 178 190 4 5 3.5 Trade receivables 309 366 4 4 Receivables from Group enterprises 94 86 2.6 Tax receivables 6 5 – – Other receivables 39 60 18 20 3.4 Prepayments 8 5 3 3 Receivables 362 436 119 113 Cash at bank and in hand 111 115 6 5 Current assets 651 741 129 123 Total assets 1,144 1,265 689 744 66 Financial statements Balance sheet as at 31 December – equity and liabilities In EUR million Group Parent company Note 2017 2016 2017 2016 4.1 Share capital 15 15 15 15 Reserve for net revaluation under the equity method – – – 21 Reserve for development costs 3 2 Retained earnings 399 416 396 393 Proposed dividend for the year 28 27 28 27 Shareholders in Hempel A/S’s share of equity 442 458 442 458 Minority interests 52 67 Total equity 494 525 442 458 2.6 Deferred tax liabilities 51 23 – – 3.6 Pension obligations and similar obligations 22 21 1 1 3.7 Other provisions 69 90 – – Provisions 142 134 1 1 4.2 Bank loans etc. 18 99 – 76 Long-term debt 18 99 – 76 Overdraft facilities 49 67 21 45 4.2 Short-term part of bank loans etc. 12 10 – – Trade payables 200 185 7 12 Payables to Group enterprises 53 58 188 126 2.6 Tax liablities 13 19 – – 3.8 Other liabilities 163 168 30 26 Total current liabilities 490 507 246 209 Total liabilities 508 606 246 285 Total equity and liabilities 1,144 1,265 689 744 67 Financial statements Statement of changes in equity as at 31 December In EUR million Group Reserve Shareholders Share for net Retained Proposed in Hempel A/S’ Minority Total Note capital revaluation earnings dividend share of equity interest equity Equity Equity at 1 January 2016 15 19 406 48 488 63 551 Net profit for the year – 1 32 – 33 14 47 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – 1 -14 – -13 – -13 Hedging of future transactions – – 1 – 1 – 1 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – – -3 – -3 – -3 Dividend distributed – -2 2 -48 -48 -10 -58 Proposed dividend – – -27 27 – Disposals for the year – -19 19 – – – – 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2016 15 – 416 27 458 67 525 Net profit for the year – – 41 – 41 14 55 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – – -29 – -29 -9 -38 Hedging of future transactions – – – – – – – Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – – -1 – -1 – -1 Dividend distributed – – – -27 -27 -20 -47 Proposed dividend – – -28 28 – 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2017 15 – 399 28 442 52 494 68 Financial statements In EUR million Parent company Reserve for Share Reserve for net development Retained Proposed Note capital revaluation costs earnings dividend Total Equity Equity at 1 January 2016 15 57 – 368 48 488 Net profit for the year – 26 2 5 – 33 Dividend received – -46 – 46 – – Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – -13 – – – -13 Hedging of future transactions – – – 1 – 1 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – -3 – – – -3 Dividend distributed – – – – -48 -48 Proposed dividend – – – -27 27 – 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2016 15 21 2 393 27 458 Net profit for the year – 34 1 6 – 41 Dividend received – -55 – 55 – – Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – -29 – – – -29 Hedging of future transactions – – – – – – Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – -1 – – – -1 Dividend distributed – – – – -27 -27 Proposed dividend – – – -28 28 – Retained earnings, transfer – 30 – -30 – – 4.1 Equity at 31 December 2017 15 – 3 396 28 442 69 Financial statements Cash flow statement In EUR million Group Note 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Operating profit 115 94 5.2 Adjustment for non-cash items 22 95 Total cash flows from operating activities before financial items, tax and changes in working capital 137 189 Change in receivables 33 50 Change in inventories -1 31 Change in trade payables 29 35 Total change in working capital 61 116 Total cash flows from operating activities before financial items and tax 198 305 Income tax paid -32 -40 Interest income and expenses paid, net -11 -15 Total cash flows from operating activities 155 250 Cash flows from investing activities 3.2 Purchase of property, plant and equipment -35 -40 3.1 Purchase of intangible assets -6 -4 Sale of property, plant and equipment 18 3 Received grant – 5 Change in deposits etc., net -2 – Received from sale of associate 14 – 5.6 Dividend received from associates – 2 Total cash flows from investing activities -11 -34 Free cash flow 144 216 Cash flows from financing activities Change in bank and other borrowings etc. -81 -123 Change in minority shares (dividend distributed etc.) -20 -10 Dividend distributed to shareholders -27 -48 Capital losses and gains, net 3 -4 Total cash flows from financing activities -125 -185 Net cash flow 19 31 4.6 Cash and equivalents, net, beginning of year 48 17 Exchange adjustment -5 – 4.6 Cash and equivalents, net, end of year 62 48 70 Financial statements Section 1 Basis of preparation 1.1 General accounting policies All entities in the Hempel Group follow Recognition and measurement take into account predictable losses and risks occurring before the presentation of the the same Group accounting policies. Annual Report that confirm or invalidate affairs and condiThis section gives a summary of the tions existing at the balance sheet date. significant accounting policies. Euro is used as the presentation currency. All other currencies are regarded as foreign currencies. General The Annual Report of Hempel A/S for 2017 has been Basis of consolidation prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Danish The consolidated financial statements comprise the parent Financial Statements Act (Årsregnskabsloven) applying to company, Hempel A/S, and subsidiaries in which the parent large enterprises of reporting class C. The Annual Report for company directly or indirectly holds more than 50 per cent of 2017 is presented in EUR millions. The accounting policies the votes or in which the parent company, through share applied remain unchanged from previous years. ownership or otherwise, exercises control. Enterprises in which the Group holds between 20 per cent and 50 per cent Recognition and measurement of the votes and exercises significant influence but not Revenues are recognised in the income statement as control are classified as associates. earned. Furthermore, value adjustments of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value or amortised On consolidation, items of a uniform nature are combined. costs are recognised. Elimination is made of intercompany income and expenses, shareholdings, dividends and accounts as well as of realised Moreover, all expenses incurred to achieve the earnings for the and unrealised profits and losses on transactions between year are recognised in the income statement, including deprecithe consolidated enterprises. ation, amortisation, impairment losses and provisions as well as reversals due to changed accounting estimates of amounts that The parent company’s investments in the consolidated were previously recognised in the income statement. subsidiaries are set off against the parent company’s share of the net asset value of subsidiaries stated at the Assets are recognised in the balance sheet when it is time of consolidation. probable that future economic benefits attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and the value of the asset can Minority interests be measured reliably. On statement of Group results and Group equity, the shares of results and equity of subsidiaries attributable to minority Liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when it is interests are recognised as separate items in the probable that future economic benefits will flow out of the distribution of profits and the equity. Minority interests are Group and the value of the liability can be measured reliably. recognised on the basis of a re-measurement of acquired Assets and liabilities are initially measured at cost. Subseassets and liabilities to fair value at the time of acquisition quently, assets and liabilities are measured as described in of subsidiaries. individual sections. 71 Financial statements On subsequent changes to minority interests, the changed • the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ and associates’ share is included in results as of the date of change. income statement from average exchange rates to exchange rates at the end of the reporting period Foreign currency translation • the translation of intra-Group receivables that are considFunctional and presentation currency ered to be an addition to net investments in subsidiaries Items included in the financial statements of each of Hempel’s entities are measured using the currency of the These specific exchange rate adjustments are recognised primary economic environment in which the entity operates directly in equity. (functional currency). Transactions denominated in other currencies than the functional currency are considered Classification of operating expenses transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The in the income statement consolidated financial statements are presented in euro. Production costs Production costs comprise costs incurred to achieve revenue Translation of transactions and balances for the year. Costs comprise raw materials, consumables, Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the direct labour costs and indirect production costs such as exchange rates at the dates of transaction. Gains and losses maintenance and depreciation, etc., as well as operation, arising due to differences between the transaction date rates administration and management of factories. and the rates at the dates of payment are recognised in financial income and expenses in the income statement. Production costs also include research and development costs Where foreign exchange transactions are considered hedging that do not qualify for capitalisation as well as amortisation of of future cash flows, the value adjustments are recognised capitalised development costs. Also included are inventory directly in equity. write-downs. Receivables, payables and other monetary items in foreign Sales and distribution costs currencies that have not been settled at the balance sheet date Sales and distribution expenses comprise costs incurred to are translated at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date. distribute sales and for sales campaigns, including costs for Any differences between the exchange rates at the balance sales and distribution staff, advertising costs and sheet date and the transaction date rates are recognised in depreciation of sales equipment. financial income and expenses in the income statement. Administrative costs Fixed assets acquired in foreign currencies are measured at Administrative costs comprise costs incurred for management the transaction date rates. and administration of the Group, including costs for administrative staff and management as well as office costs and Translation of Group companies depreciation and write-downs for bad debt losses. AmortisaFinancial statements of foreign subsidiaries and associates tion of goodwill, customer relationships and brands are are translated into euros at the exchange rates prevailing at recognised in administrative costs. the end of the reporting period for balance sheet items, and at average exchange rates for income statement items, with Cash flow statement the exception of exchange rate adjustments of investments The cash flow statement is presented using the indirect in subsidiaries and associates arising from: method based on the operating profit (loss). The cash flow statement for the Group shows the cash flows for the year • the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ and associates’ net broken down by operating, investing and financing activities, assets at the beginning of the year at the exchange rates changes for the year in cash and cash equivalents as well as at the end of the reporting period cash and cash equivalents for the Group at the beginning and 72 Financial statements end of the year. The cash flow statement cannot be The Hempel Group has therefore presented costs related immediately derived from the published financial records. to identified and potential irregularities within Hempel’s subsidiaries in certain countries as ‘Special items’ in the Cash flows from operating activities income statement. Costs include potential penalties, costs Cash flows from operating activities are calculated as the associated with investigations performed, severance net profit/loss for the year adjusted for changes in working payments as well as potential compensation to impacted capital, interest and tax paid and non-cash operating items, parties, etc. Management has found it necessary to present such as depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses, these costs separately as they are material to the Group, and provisions. Working capital comprises current assets non-recurring and indeed extraordinary in terms of Hempel’s less short-term debt excluding items included in cash and continuing global business. It is the view of management cash equivalents. that a note disclosure only is not sufficient to ensure that the performance of the continuing business is understood Cash flows from investing activities correctly by the reader of the financial statements. Individual Cash flows from investing activities comprise cash flows from line items included in ‘Operating profit’ are impacted by a acquisitions and disposals of intangible assets, property, total of EUR 0 million (2016: EUR 36 million). Operating profit plant and equipment as well as fixed asset investments. after special items, profit after tax, total assets, total equity or cash flow are not impacted by this presentation. Cash flows from financing activities Cash flows from financing activities comprise cash flows from the raising and repayment of principal long-term debt as well as payments to and from shareholders. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term marketable securities with a term of three months or less and are subject to an insignificant risk of change on value. Separate presentation of special items With reference to §11(3) of the Danish Financial Statements Act, the Hempel Group has departed from the presentation requirements in the Act. It is management’s assessment that a separate presentation of certain costs provides a true and fair view of the financial statements. 73 Financial statements Section 2 Results of the year 2.1 Revenue, segment information 2.2 Employee costs Accounting policies Accounting policies Revenue from the sale of goods for resale and finished goods Wages, salaries, social security contributions, annual leave is recognised in the income statement when delivery and and sick leave, bonuses and non-monetary benefits are transfer of risk has been made before year end. recognised in the year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of Hempel. Where Hempel provides Revenue is recognised exclusive of VAT and net of discounts long-term employee benefits, the costs are accrued to match relating to sales. the rendering of the services by the employees concerned. Segments Reporting of operating segments is based on internal In EUR million Group Parent company reporting to regional and Group management. 2017 2016 2017 2016 Hempel operates in three geographical regions: EMEA Employee costs: (Europe including Russia, the Middle East and Africa), Directors’ fees 1 1 1 1 Asia-Pacific and Americas. Sales are attributed to Remuneration of the geographical regions according to the location of the Executive Board1) 5 5 5 5 customer.1) Wages and salaries etc. 260 267 36 25 Pension In EUR million Group Parent company contributions 15 14 3 2 2017 2016 2017 2016 281 287 45 33 EMEA 798 816 117 110 Average number Asia-Pacific 398 414 – – of employees 5,740 5,787 282 250 Americas 182 194 – – Employee costs have 1,378 1,424 117 110 been recognised in the income statement 1) F  or competitive reasons, a breakdown of revenue on activities has been left out as follows: (in accordance with §96 of the Danish Financial Statements Act). Production costs 70 71 12 9 Selling and distribution expenses 146 157 7 9 Administrative expenses 65 59 26 15 281 287 45 33 1) Executive Board registered with the Danish Business Authority (Erhvervsstyrelsen). 74 Financial statements 2.3 Other operating income and expenses 2.4 Special items Accounting policies Accounting policies Other operating income and other operating expenses Special items comprise costs related to potential penalties, comprise items of a secondary nature to the core activities costs associated with investigations performed and severance of the enterprise, including gains and losses on the sale of payments, as well as potential compensation to impacted intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. parties, etc. In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group Parent company 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Other operating Administrative costs – -36 – -1 income 1) 14 1 – – Operating profit – -36 – -1 14 1 – – Net financials – -1 – – 1) O  ther operating income comprises sale of properties in 2017 and 2016. Profit before tax – -37 – -1 Income tax – -3 – – Net profit for the year – -40 – -1 75 Financial statements 2.5 Income from investments in subsidiaries and associates 2.6 Income tax, tax assets and tax liabilities Accounting policies Income tax The items ‘Income from investments in subsidiaries’ and Accounting policies ‘Income from investments in associates’ in the income Income tax for the year consists of current tax for the year and statement include the proportionate share of the profit for the deferred tax for the year. The tax attributable to the profit for year less goodwill amortisation. the year is recognised in the income statement, whereas the tax attributable to equity transactions is recognised directly in equity. The company is jointly taxed with wholly owned Danish In EUR million Group Parent company subsidiaries. The tax effect of the joint taxation is allocated to Danish enterprises in proportion to their taxable incomes. 2017 2016 2017 2016 Income from Hempel is subject to income taxes around the world. Signifiinvestments in subsidiaries cant judgment is required in determining the worldwide accrual Profit before tax 92 65 for income taxes, deferred income tax assets and liabilities, and provision for uncertain tax positions. Hempel recognises Amortisation of goodwill -12 -14 deferred income tax assets if it is probable that sufficient taxable income will be available in the future against which the Tax for the year -46 -25 temporary differences and unused tax losses can be utilised. Profit after tax 34 26 Management has considered future taxable income when Income from assessing whether deferred income tax assets should be investments recognised. In the course of conducting business globally, in associates transfer pricing disputes with tax authorities may occur, and Profit after tax – 2 – – management’s judgment is applied to assess the possible outcome of such disputes. Hempel believes that the provision made for uncertain tax positions not yet settled with local tax authorities is adequate. However, the actual obligation may deviate and is dependent on the result of litigations and settlements with the relevant tax authorities. 76 Financial statements In EUR million Group Parent company Group Parent company 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Hempel Group: Effective tax rate of the Group 40.0% 41.3% Profit before tax 92 78 Reconciliation Income from of tax rate: investments in associates – -2 Danish tax rate 22.0% 22.0% 92 76 Higher/(lower) tax rates of foreign subsidiaries -4.5% -3.8% Income tax on profit for the year: Weighted tax Total tax -37 -34 -37 -31 rate of the Group: 17.5% 18.2% Tax in respect Permanent of subsidiaries 46 25 differences -2.1% 1.1% Tax in respect Unrecognised of associates – 3 – – deferred tax assets 1.4% 3.5% -37 -31 9 -6 Recognised deferred tax assets related to prior years -9.7% -0.6% Current tax for the year -29 -38 -5 -6 Adjustments in respect of Deferred tax previous years 0.3% -0.1% for the year 9 9 2 – Other adjustments 17.8% -1.0% Change in US tax rate -9 – – – Change in US tax rate 9.7% 0.0% Adjustment in respect of Withholding previous years -8 -2 12 – taxes etc. 5.1% 3.1% Income tax -37 -31 9 -6 Effective tax rate of the Group before special items 40.0% 24.2% Adjustment related to special items – 17.1% Effective tax rate of the Group 40.0% 41.3% 77 Financial statements Deferred tax assets and liabilities In EUR million Group Parent company Accounting policies 2017 2016 2017 2016 Deferred income tax is measured using the balance sheet Deferred tax (net) liability method in respect of temporary differences arising relates to the between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their following items: carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes on the Intangible assets 6 -5 11 – basis of the intended use of the asset and settlement of the Property, plant and liability, respectively. equipment 2 -1 3 – Inventories 3 5 – – Deferred tax assets, including the tax base of tax loss carry Trade receivables 3 2 – – forwards, are measured at the value at which the asset is Provisions and other expected to be realised, either by elimination in tax on future payables -26 7 – – earnings or by set off against deferred tax liabilities within the Tax losses 12 5 – – same legal tax entity. – 13 14 – Deferred tax is measured on the basis of the tax rules and tax rates that will be effective under the legislation at the balance At 31 December 2017, the Group had recognised a deferred sheet date when the deferred tax is expected to crystallise as tax asset comprising tax losses carried forward of EUR 5 million current tax. Any changes in deferred tax due to changes to tax (2016: EUR 5 million). Management believes it is likely that the rates are recognised in the income statement. unutilised tax losses can be utilised within the next years. The Group has non-recognised tax assets of EUR 12 million In EUR million Group Parent company (2016: EUR 28 million, of which the parent company represented EUR 13 million in 2016, which is recognised 2017 2016 2017 2016 during 2017). Deferred tax (net) Deferred tax, beginning of year 13 5 – – Exchange adjustment at year-end rate -2 1 – – Deferred tax for the year 9 9 2 – Adjustment in respect of previous years -11 -2 12 – Change in tax rate -9 – – – Deferred tax (net), end of year – 13 14 – 78 Financial statements In EUR million Group Parent company 2017 2016 2017 2016 The net value is recognised in the balance sheet as follows: Deferred tax assets 51 36 14 – Deferred tax liabilities -51 -23 – – – 13 14 – Current tax receivables and liabilities Accounting policies Current tax liabilities and receivables are recognised in the balance sheet as the expected taxable income for the year adjusted for tax on taxable incomes for prior years and tax paid on account. In EUR million Group Parent company 2017 2016 2017 2016 The net value is recognised in the balance sheet as follows: Current tax assets 6 5 – – Current tax liabilities -13 -19 – – -7 -14 – – 79 Financial statements Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities 3.1 Intangible assets Accounting policies An amount corresponding to development costs capitalised as Goodwill acquired is measured at cost less accumulated intangible assets is transferred to ‘Reserve for development amortisations. Goodwill is amortised on a straight-line basis cost’ under equity (in the parent company). The reserve is over its useful life on the basis of management experience reduced with amortisation of the intangible assets. within the individual areas. The amortisation period is 2-25 years, the longest period applicable to acquired enterprises Customer relations are measured at cost less accumulated with a strong market position and a long-term earnings profile. amortisation and impairment losses. The period of amortisation is 2-17 years. Development projects concerning products, processes and software that are clearly defined and identifiable and in Other intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulatrespect of which technical feasibility, sufficient resources and ed amortisation and impairment losses. The assets are a potential future market or development opportunity in the amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful enterprise can be demonstrated, and where it is the intention lives. The amortisation period is 2-25 years. to manufacture, market or use the product or process in question, are recognised as intangible assets. The costs Impairment comprise direct wages, salaries, materials and other direct The carrying amounts of intangible assets are reviewed on an and indirect costs attributable to the development project. annual basis to determine whether there is any indication of impairment other than that expressed by amortisation. Upon completion of the development project, costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful If so, the asset is written down to its lower recoverable life. The amortisation period is 3-10 years. amount. Other development costs and costs relating to rights developed by the company are recognised in the income statement as costs in the year of acquisition. 81 Financial statements In EUR million Group Software under Customer Other intangible Goodwill Software development relationships assets Total Intangible assets Costs, beginning of year 159 35 3 124 92 413 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate -15 -2 – -12 -5 -34 Additions for the year – 3 1 – 5 9 Disposals for the year – -1 – – – -1 Transfer to/from other items – 1 -1 – – – Costs, end of year 144 36 3 112 92 387 Accumulated amortisation, beginning of year 64 30 – 69 31 194 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate -6 -2 – -8 -2 -18 Amortisation for the year 12 4 – 6 6 28 Reversal of amortisation of assets sold – -1 – – – -1 Accumulated amortisation, end of year 70 31 – 67 35 203 Carrying amount, end of year 74 5 3 45 57 184 Other intangible assets comprise brands, formulas, non-compete agreements and lease rights. Other intangible assets comprise EUR 12 million on lease rights for sale. 82 Financial statements In EUR million Parent company Software under Customer Other intangible Goodwill Software development relationships assets Total Intangible assets Costs, beginning of year – 5 3 – 25 33 Additions for the year – 3 1 – 5 9 Disposals for the year – -1 -1 – – -2 Costs, end of year – 7 3 – 30 40 Accumulated amortisation, beginning of year – 4 – – 11 15 Exchange adjustment at year, end rate – – – – 1 1 Amortisation for the year – 1 – – 2 3 Reversal of amortisation of assets sold – -1 – – – -1 Accumulated amortisation, end of year – 4 – – 14 18 Carrying amount, end of year – 3 3 – 16 22 Other intangible assets comprise brands, formulas and non-compete agreements. In EUR million Group Parent company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Amortisation and impairment are specified as follows: Production costs 1 1 – – Sales and distribution costs 1 1 – – Administrative costs 26 29 3 3 28 31 3 3 83 Financial statements 3.2 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less Buildings (max.) .......................................................50 years accumulated depreciation and less any accumulated impairLaboratory equipment .............................................10 years ment losses. Plant and machinery ...............................................10 years Other fixtures and fittings, Costs comprise the cost of acquisition and expenses directly tools and equipment ........................................... 3-10 years related to the acquisition up until the time when the asset is ready for use. In the case of assets of own construction, Leasehold improvements are included in other operating costs comprise direct and indirect expenses for labour, equipment and are recognised at cost and depreciated over materials, components and sub-suppliers. the term of the lease; however, not exceeding 10 years. Interest expenses on loans raised directly for financing the The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed construction of property, plant and equipment are recognised annually. If residual value exceeds the carrying amount, in costs over the period of construction. All indirectly attributdepreciation is discontinued. If the depreciation period or the able borrowing expenses are recognised in the income residual values are changed, the depreciation effect is recogstatement. nised prospectively as a change in accounting estimates. Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all Impairment of fixed assets the risks and rewards of ownership (finance leases) are The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the balance sheet at the lower of the fair value reviewed on an annual basis to determine whether there is of the leased asset and the net present value of the lease any indication of impairment other than that expressed by payments computed by applying the interest rate implicit in amortisation and depreciation. the lease or an approximated value as the discount rate. Assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated and If so, the asset is written down to its lower recoverable written down for impairment under the same policy as amount. determined for the other fixed assets of the Group. Depreciation based on costs reduced by any residual value is calculated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets, which are: 84 Financial statements In EUR million Group Land and Plant and Other fixed Assets under buildings machinery assets construction Total Property, plant and equipment Costs, beginning of year 213 221 88 25 547 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate -14 -13 -6 -2 -35 Additions for the year 10 13 9 3 35 Disposals for the year -5 -6 -2 – -13 Transfer to/from other items – 3 1 -4 – Costs, end of year 204 218 90 22 534 Accumulated depreciations, beginning of year 72 143 67 – 282 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate -7 -8 -5 – -20 Depreciation for the year 7 14 7 – 28 Reversal of depreciations of assets sold -1 -6 -1 – -8 Accumulated depreciation, end of year 71 143 68 – 282 Carrying amount, end of year 133 75 22 22 252 Including leased assets of 3 – – – 3 Including interest expenses of 1 – – – 1 85 Financial statements In EUR million Parent company Land and Plant and Other fixed Assets under buildings machinery assets construction Total Property, plant and equipment Costs, beginning of year – 4 5 1 10 Additions for the year – – 1 1 2 Disposals for the year – -1 -1 – -2 Costs, end of year – 3 5 2 10 Accumulated depreciations, beginning of year – 2 4 – 6 Depreciation for the year – – 1 – 1 Reversal of depreciations of assets sold – – -1 – -1 Accumulated depreciation, end of year – 2 4 – 6 Carrying amount, end of year – 1 1 2 4 In EUR million Group Parent company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Depreciation and impairment are specified as follows: Production costs 18 18 – – Sales and distribution costs 5 5 – – Administrative costs 5 4 1 1 28 27 1 1 86 Financial statements 3.3 Inventories 3.4 Prepayments Accounting policies Accounting policies Inventories are measured at cost in accordance with the Prepayments comprise prepaid expenses relating to rent and FIFO principle. insurance premium. The cost of goods for resale, raw materials and consumables equals landed cost. The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises the cost of raw materials, consumables and direct labour 3.5 Receivables with addition of indirect production costs. Indirect production costs comprise the cost of indirect materials and Accounting policies labour as well as maintenance and depreciation of the Receivables are measured in the balance sheet at the lower of machinery, factory buildings and equipment used in the amortised cost and net realisable value, which corresponds to manufacturing process as well as costs of factory nominal value less provisions for bad debts. Provisions for bad administration and management. debts are determined on the basis of an individual assessment of each receivable and, in respect of trade receivables, a Where the net realisable value is lower than cost, inventories general provision is also made based on the company’s are written down to this lower value. The net realisable value experience from previous years. is calculated as the sales amount less costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale. Receivables are recognised in the balance sheet at amortised cost, which substantially corresponds to nominal value. Provisions for estimated bad debts are made. In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group Parent company 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Raw materials Receivables 362 436 119 59 and consumables 62 66 4 4 of which due more than one year from Work in progress 6 5 – – balance sheet date 2 3 – – Finished goods 110 119 – 1 Inventories 178 190 4 5 87 Financial statements 3.6 Pension and similar assets and obligations Accounting policies Hempel operates a number of defined contribution plans Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience throughout the world. Hempel’s contributions to the defined adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are contribution plans are recognised in the income statement in recognised directly in equity in the period in which they arise. the year to which they relate. In a few countries, Hempel also Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income operates defined benefit plans. The costs for the year for statement. Pension assets are only recognised to the extent defined benefit plans are determined using the projected unit that Hempel is able to derive future economic benefits such credit method. This reflects services rendered by employees as refunds from the plan or reductions of future contributions. to the valuation dates and is based on actuarial assumptions primarily regarding discount rates used in determining the The net obligation recognised in the balance sheet is present value of benefits and projected rates of remuneration reported as non-current asset and liabilities. growth. Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-rated corporate bonds in the country concerned. In EUR million Group Parent company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Pension and similar obligations comprise: Pension and similar obligations 59 58 1 1 Fair value of assets related to the plans -37 -37 – – Pension obligations, net 22 21 1 1 Recognition in the balance sheet: Liabilities 22 21 1 1 Pension obligations recognised in the balance sheet, net 22 21 1 1 Defined benefit plans Specification of plan assets: Shares and properties 14% 30% – – Fixed interest current asset investments 78% 69% – – Cash at bank and in hand 8% 1% – – Total 100% 100% – – Weighted average assumptions: Discount rate 2.0% 2.1% 2.0% 3.0% General wage inflation 2.7% 2.6% – – General price inflation 1.7% 1.6% – – 88 Financial statements 3.7 Provisions Accounting policies Provisions are recognised when – in consequence of an event sheet date. The costs required to settle the liability are having occurred before or on the balance sheet date – the discounted if the effect is material to the measurement of Group has a legal or constructive obligation and it is probable the liability. that there may be an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits to settle the obligation. Provisions for liabilities relating to environmental, warranty commitments and other provisions include factual, legal and Provisions comprising provisions for environmental, warranty estimated liabilities as a result of events occurring before the and restructuring obligations as well as other obligations are end of the financial year. Estimates are based on recognised and measured based on a best estimate of the management’s judgment. expenses necessary to fulfil the obligations at the balance In EUR million Group Environmental Warranty Other 2017 2016 obligations commitments provisions Total Total Total provisions, beginning of year 21 13 56 90 56 Reclassification – – – – -3 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate -1 – -1 -2 – Additions for the year – 1 – 1 39 Reversed – – -5 -5 -1 Consumed – -3 -12 -15 -1 Total provisions, end of year 20 11 38 69 90 Maturities are expected to be: Within 1 year 3 5 1 9 8 Between 1 and 5 years 10 6 8 24 57 After 5 years 7 – 29 36 25 20 11 38 69 90 3.8 Other liabilities Accounting policies Other liabilities are measured at amortised cost, substantially corresponding to nominal value. Other liabilities comprise employee costs payable, VAT and duties payable, accruals, other payables and fair values of derivative financial instruments. 89 Financial statements Section 4 Capital structure and financing items 4.1 Share capital, distribution to shareholders Accounting policies Mortgage loans are measured at amortised cost, which for Dividend distribution proposed by management for the year is cash loans corresponds to the remaining loan. Amortised disclosed as a separate equity item. cost of debenture loans corresponds to the remaining loan calculated as the underlying cash value of the loan at the The share capital amounts to DKK 115 million (EUR 15 date of raising the loan adjusted for depreciation of the price million) comprising 110 A shares of DKK 1 million each, one A adjustment of the loan made over the term of the loan at the share of DKK 900,000, four B shares of DKK 1 million each date of raising the loan. and four B shares of DKK 25,000 each. B shareholders enjoy special dividend rights. In EUR million Group Parent company There have been no changes to the share capital in the past 2017 2016 2017 2016 five years. Long-term bank borrowings etc. including In EUR million Parent company short-term part: Distribution of profit 2017 2016 Due within 1 year 12 10 – – Proposed distribution of profit: Due within 1 to 5 years 17 99 – 76 Proposed dividend 28 27 Due after 5 years 1 – – – Reserve for net revaluation 34 26 under the equity method 30 109 – 76 Reserve for development costs 1 2 Retained earnings -22 -22 41 33 4.3 Financial risks 4.2 Bank loans, etc. Due to its operations, investments and financing, the Group is exposed to commercial risks as well as financial risks related to changes in exchange rates and interest rates. Hempel has Accounting policies centralised handling of these risks, except for commercial credit Fixed-interest loans, such as mortgage loans and loans from risk, which is managed by the operating units across the world. credit institutions, are recognised initially at the proceeds The risks are managed in accordance with the policies and received net of transaction expenses incurred. Subsequently, guidelines laid out by the Board of Directors. It is the Group’s the loans are measured at amortised cost; the difference policy not to speculate actively in financial risks. between the proceeds and the nominal value is recognised as an interest expense in the income statement over the The Group has no material risks relating to a single customer loan period. or business partner. It is the Group’s credit policy to rate major 90 Financial statements customers and other business partners on a current basis. In EUR million Bank Acceptance Bills are used as a financial instrument to Contract further limit the risk of credit losses. amount based on exercise Term to maturity price 1) Fair value (months) To some extent, the Group’s income and expenses in foreign AUD -3.4 -0.1 1 currencies net out and create a natural hedge of the Group’s BRL -1.0 – 1 profitability margin. Hempel hedges the short-term transactional CAD 0.4 – 1 exposure in the major currencies using financial instruments. FX hedge contracts are predominantly entered into in order to CZK -2.2 – 1 mitigate accounting and settlement risks from internal GBP -29.8 -0.1 1 trans­actions between subsidiaries and the parent company. HKD 47.7 -0.2 1 HUF 0.1 – 1 The Hempel Group currently has a low level of interest-­ IDR -3.7 – 1 bearing debt and is therefore not materially exposed to KRW 3.1 – 1 interest rate risks. PLN -12.2 -0.1 1 RUB -10.5 -0.1 1 4.4 Derivative financial SEK -0.5 – 1 instruments SGD -4.1 – 1 USD -92.2 0.3 1 ZAR -3.5 -0.3 1 Accounting policies -0.6 Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the 1) Positive principal amounts equal a purchase of the currency in question balance sheet at cost and are subsequently re-measured at and negative amounts equal a sale. their fair values. Positive and negative fair values of derivative financial instruments are classified as ‘Other receivables’ Bank borrowings of EUR 30 million comprise loans denominated and ‘Other payables’, respectively. in various currencies, mainly EUR 10 million, KWD 5 million (EUR 13 million) and other currencies amounting to EUR 7 million. Changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the income statement unless the derivative financial instrument is designated and qualifies as a cash Interest rate risks: flow hedge. Changes in the fair values of the cash flow The weighted average effective interest rates as at the balance hedges are recognised in equity. sheet date were as follows: Currency risks: Group Parent company Open foreign currency hedges at 31 December 2017 entered 2017 2016 2017 2016 into in order to hedge future purchases and sales as well as Bank borrowings etc. 3.1% 2.3% – 1.7% receivables and payables in foreign currencies are specified as follows: 91 Financial statements 4.5 Net financials 4.6 Cash and cash equivalents, net Accounting policies Accounting policies Financial income and expenses comprise interest income Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in and expenses, gains and losses on receivables, payables and hand offset by overdraft facilities. transactions denominated in foreign currencies. In EUR million Group Parent company In EUR million Group 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 External interest Cash at bank and in hand, beginning of year 115 114 income 1 1 – – Overdraft facilities, beginning of year -67 -97 Interest income from subsidiaries 9 11 48 17 External interest expenses -12 -15 -3 -6 Cash, end of year 111 115 Interest paid to Overdraft facilities, end of year -49 -67 Group enterprises -1 -1 -1 -1 62 48 Realised and unrealised exchange gains/losses, net -11 -3 -6 -3 -23 -18 -1 1 92 Financial statements 4.7 Acquisitions of enterprises Accounting policies Enterprises acquired during the year are recognised in the If identifiable assets and liabilities are subsequently consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. determined to have a different fair value at the acquisition The acquisition date is the date when the parent company date than first assumed, goodwill is adjusted until the end effectively obtains control of the acquired enterprise. For of the financial year following the year of acquisition. These acquisitions of new enterprises in which the parent company adjustments are also reflected in the value of goodwill, is able to exercise control over the acquired enterprise, the including in amortisation already made. Amortisation of purchase method is used. The acquired enterprises’ individual goodwill is allocated in the consolidated financial statements assets and liabilities are measured at fair value at the to administrative costs. acquisition date. Deferred tax on revaluations is recognised. The difference between the costs of the enterprise and the No acquisitions took place in 2017 or 2016. net asset value is recognised in the balance sheet as goodwill, which is amortised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. 93 Financial statements Section 5 Other disclosures 5.1 Fee to the auditors appointed at the General Meeting 5.3 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations In EUR million Group Parent company The operating lease commitments are related to non-­ 2017 2016 2017 2016 cancellable operating leases primarily related to premises, Audit fee 1 1 – – company cars and office equipment. Tax advice 1 1 1 – Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the Other fees 1 1 – – income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 3 3 1 – Other guarantees primarily relate to bid and performance bonds. In EUR million Group Parent company 2017 2016 2017 2016 5.2 Adjustments for non-cash items Rental and lease obligations: Due within 1 year from the balance For the purpose of presenting the statement of cash flows, sheet date 15 16 2 2 non-cash items with effect on the income statement must be Due within 1 to reversed to identify the actual cash flow effect from the 5 years from the balance sheet date 34 35 8 7 income statement. The adjustments are specified as follows: Due more than 5 years from the balance sheet date 13 8 2 4 In EUR million 62 59 12 13 Group 2017 2016 Guarantees: Amortisation, depreciation and impairment, For local loans and including goodwill 56 58 bank credits to subsidiaries 1) 122 146 Provisions -18 34 Other guarantees 3 5 – – Exchange rate adjustment, operating profit -2 4 3 5 122 146 Gains and losses on the sale of fixed assets -14 -1 1) Parent company guarantees for unutilised local loans and bank credits to 22 95 subsidiaries. The guarantees amount to EUR 61 million (2016: EUR 76 million). 94 Financial statements Other contingent liabilities: Following the compliance issues discovered in Germany in August 2016, management investigated potential 5.4 Events after the reporting period compliance issues in a number of other jurisdictions during 2017. In the financial statements for 2016, management No events have occurred after the balance sheet date that decided to expense EUR 40 million (see note 2.4) and by the could have a material impact on the Company’s financial results end of 2017 the provision amounted to EUR 22 million. In April or equity. 2017, management made a full self-disclosure to the Danish State Prosecutor for Serious Economic and International Crime (SØIK). The investigations by SØIK are, however, still pending and ongoing. The outcome is subject to considerable uncertainty, and it is not possible to estimate the related potential financial impact reliably. Hempel is jointly taxed with a number of Danish companies in the Hempel Foundation Group. The Group’s Danish enterprises are jointly and severally liable for Danish taxes at source and income taxes. 95 Financial statements 5.5 Related parties and ownership Related parties and ownership Basis Controlling influence: Hempel Foundation, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Ultimate parent company Hempel Holding A/S, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Majority shareholder (100%) Members of the Executive Management Board and Board of Directors of Hempel A/S as well as the Board of Directors of the Hempel Foundation and Hempel Holding A/S are also regarded as related parties. The members of the Boards of Directors of the Hempel Foundation and Hempel Holding coincide. Other related parties: Hempel’s Employee Foundation, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party Hempel’s Cultural Foundation, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party Brænderupvænge ApS, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party Keldskov ApS, Amaliegade 8, 1256 Copenhagen K, Denmark Related party Hempel’s Employee Foundation of 2017, Lundtoftegårdsvej 91, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby Related party Transactions: All related-party transactions were carried out at arm’s length 5.6 Investments in subsidiaries and associates Accounting policies Investments in subsidiaries and associates are recognised ‘Reserve for net revaluation under the equity method’ under and measured under the equity method. This implies that the equity. The reserve is reduced by dividend distributed to the investments are measured in the balance sheet at the parent company and adjusted for other equity movements in proportionate ownership share of the net asset value of the subsidiaries and associates. enterprises with deduction or addition of shares of unrealised intercompany profits and losses. Subsidiaries and associates with a negative net asset value are recognised at EUR 0. Any legal or constructive obligation The total net revaluation of investments in subsidiaries and of the parent company to cover the negative balance of the associates is transferred upon distribution of profit to enterprise is recognised in receivables from subsidiaries. 96 Financial statements In EUR million Group Parent company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Investments in subsidiaries Costs, beginning of year 354 346 Additions for the year – 8 Costs, end of year 354 354 Net revaluations, beginning of year 21 57 Exchange adjustment at year-end rate -29 -11 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans -1 -3 Profit before tax 92 65 Amortisation of goodwill -12 -14 Tax for the year -46 -25 Dividend received -55 -46 Reversed – -2 Net revaluations, end of year -30 21 Carrying amount, end of year 324 375 Recognised in the balance sheet as follows: Subsidiaries with negative equity -6 -5 Investments in subsidiaries 330 380 324 375 Subsidiaries with negative equity are recognised in the balance sheet as follows: Recognised in receivables from subsidiaries -6 -5 Net value, end of year -6 -5 98 Financial statements In EUR million Group Parent company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Investments in associates Costs, beginning of year – – – – Costs, end of year – – – – Net revaluations, beginning of year 19 – – Exchange adjustment at year-end rate – 1 – – Net profit – 1 – – Dividend received – -2 – – Disposals for the year – -19 Net revaluations, end of year – – – – Carrying amount, end of year – – – – 99 Financial statements 5.7 The Hempel Group including foreign branches Country Name Currency Share capital Ownership Denmark Hempel A/S DKK 115,000,000 100% Argentina Hempel Argentina S.R.L. ARS 338,774,200 100% Australia Hempel (Australia) Pty. Ltd. AUD 700,000 100% Bahrain Dahna Paint Middle East Holding B.S.C. (closed) BHD 15,000,000 51% Bahrain Hempel Paints (Bahrain) S.P.C. BHD 300,000 51% Brazil Hempel Tintas do Brasil Ltda. BRL 31,211,487 100% Canada Hempel (Canada) Inc. CAD 1,776,005 100% Chile Hempel A/S (Chile) Ltda. CLP 1,651,829 100% China Hempel (China) Limited HKD 106,000,000 100% China Hempel (China) Management CNY 10,000,000 100% China Hempel (Kunshan) Coatings Co. Ltd. CNY 110,035,054 100% China Hempel (Yantai) Coatings Co. Ltd. CNY 42,656,510 100% China Hempel (Guangzhou) Coatings Co. Ltd. CNY 185,327,620 100% China Hempel-Hai Hong Coatings (Shenzhen) Co. Ltd. HKD 40,000,000 100% China Hempel (Seagull) Coatings Co. Ltd. HKD 20,000,000 100% Croatia Hempel Coatings (Croatia) Ltd. HRK 31,019,200 100% Cyprus Hempel Coatings (Cyprus) Limited EUR 1,000 100% Czech Republic Hempel (Czech Republic) s.r.o. CZK 30,000,000 100% Denmark HSA (Danmark) A/S DKK 10,000,000 100% Denmark Hempel Decorative Paints A/S DKK 1,000,000 100% Ecuador Hempel (Ecuador) S.A. USD 100,000 100% Egypt Hempel Egypt L.L.C. EGP 200,000 100% Egypt Hempel Paints (Egypt) L.L.C EGP 250,000 100% Finland OY Hempel (Finland) AB EUR 63,000 100% France Hempel (France) S.A. EUR 1,220,000 100% Germany Hempel (Germany) GmbH EUR 1,533,876 100% Greece Hempel Coatings (Hellas) S.A. EUR 6,300,000 100% India Hempel Paints (India) Pvt. Ltd. INR 690,000,000 100% Indonesia P .T . Hempel Indonesia IDR 830,000,000 100% Iraq Hempel (Iraq) Ltd. USD 8,300 31% Ireland Crown Paints Ireland Ltd. EUR 127 100% Italy Hempel (Italy) s.r.l. EUR 50,000 100% Korea Hempel Korea Co. Ltd. KRW 1,450,000,000 100% Kuwait Hempel Paints (Kuwait) K.S.C.C. KWD 600,000 51% Malaysia Hempel (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. MYR 5,000,000 100% Malaysia Hempel Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. MYR 9,500,000 100% 1) Share capital is CNY 50 million, with paid up capital of CNY 10 million. 100 Financial statements Country Name Currency Share capital Ownership Mexico Pinturas Hempel de Mexico S.A. de C.V. MXN 9,943,450 100% Morocco Hempel (Morocco) SARL MAD 2,500,000 99% New Zealand Hempel (New Zealand) Ltd. NZD 300,000 100% Norway Hempel (Norway) AS NOK 4,981,428 100% Oman Hempel (Oman) L.L.C OMR 500,000 20% Peru Hempel Pinturas del Perú S.A.C. PEN 4,900,000 100% Poland Hempel Paints (Poland) Sp. z o.o. PLN 60,500,000 100% Portugal Hempel (Portugal) Lda. EUR 1,246,995 100% Qatar Hempel Paints (Qatar) W.L.L. QAR 4,000,000 29% Russia ZAO Hempel RUB 95,000 100% Saudi Arabia Hempel Paints (Saudi Arabia) W.L.L. SAR 24,500,000 51% Singapore Hempel (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. SGD 2,700,000 100% South Africa Hempel Paints (South Africa) Pty Ltd. ZAR 118,906,790 100% Spain Pinturas Hempel S.A. (Spain) EUR 1,202,000 100% Sweden Hempel (Sweden) AB SEK 2,500,000 100% Switzerland Hempel Switzerland AG CHF 100,000 100% Syria Hempel Paints (Syria) L.L.C. SYP 121,600,000 49% Taiwan Hempel (Taiwan) Co. Ltd. TWD 20,000,000 100% Thailand Hempel (Thailand) Ltd. THB 3,000,000 100% The Netherlands Hempel (The Netherlands) B.V. EUR 500,000 100% The Netherlands Schaepman's Lakfabrieken B.V. EUR 306,302 100% Turkey Hempel Coatings San. Ve Tic Ltd. Sti. TRY 2,789,300 100% UK Crown Brands Ltd. GBP 1 100% UK Crown Paints Ltd. GBP 1 100% UK Crown Paints Group Ltd. GBP 1,000,000 100% UK Crown Paints Holding Ltd. GBP 1,000,000 100% UK Hempel Decorative Paints UK Ltd. GBP 2,000 100% UK Hempel UK Ltd. GBP 4,100,000 100% UK Reebor Ltd. GBP 100 100% Ukraine Hempel Ukraine LLC UAH 656,291 100% United Arab Emirates Hempel Paints (Abu Dhabi) L.L.C. AED 150,000 23% United Arab Emirates Hempel Paints (Emirates) L.L.C. AED 4,000,000 29% Uruguay Hempel (Uruguay) S.A. UYU 8,000,000 100% USA Hempel (USA) Inc. USD 20,000,000 100% USA Jones-Blair Company, LLC USD 17,664,600 100% Vietnam Hempel Vietnam Company Limited VND 116,498,272,000 100% 101 Financial statements Foreign branches Belgium Hempel (The Netherlands) BV Branch office Austria Hempel (Germany) GmbH Branch office Caribbean Pinturas Hempel (Caribbean) Hungary Hempel (Czech Republic) s.r.o., Magyarorszagi Fioktelepe India Hempel (Singapore) Pte Ltd India Representative Office Japan Hempel (Singapore) Pte Ltd Japan Branch Office, Tokyo Slovakia Hempel (Czech Republic) s.r.o., org. zlozka Slovensko Vietnam Hempel (Singapore) Pte Ltd Vietnam Representative Office 5.8 Financial definitions Financial ratios have been calculated as follows: Absolute organic revenue growth Organic growth = Revenue in comparative period Organic growth is defined as growth from one year to the next, based on values in fixed currencies for both years excluding mergers, acquisitions and divestments, etc. Gross profit Gross margin = Revenue EBITDA EBITDA margin = Revenue EBITDA = Operating profit (and loss) before amortisations and depreciations Operating profit (loss) Operating profit margin = Revenue Return on Operating profit (loss) = invested capital Average invested capital Intangibles + property, plant and equipment + inventories + receivables Invested capital = other provisions trade payables other payables Shareholder’s equity Equity ratio = Total assets Net interest-bearing debt Leverage ratio = EBITDA Net interest-bearing debt = Overdraft facilities + bank loans, etc. + interest-bearing payables to Group enterprise cash at bank and in hand Total cash from operating activities + income tax paid + interest income and expenses paid, net Cash conversion = EBITDA Accounts receivable Accounts receivable x 90 = (AR) days Revenue (last 3 months) Accounts payable Accounts payable x 90 = (AP) days COGS + change in inventory (last 3 months) Inventory x 90 Inventory days = COGS (last 3 months) Net working capital = Accounts receivable days + Inventory days Accounts payable days (NWC) days 102 Follow us LinkedIn Streaming www hempel.com Follow Hempel on social media to get all the latest news, thoughtleadership articles, videos and stories about our work. hempel.com Hempel A/S Lundtoftegårdsvej 91 DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby Denmark Tel: +45 4593 3800 Fax: +45 4588 5518 Email: hempel@hempel.com
