SYST E M B O L A G E T’S Responsibility Report This report is solely a pdf product and not available in printed or online form. S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 CONTENTS Contents The year in brief 3 Financial reporting The statutory annual report, which includes the Economic performance 59 Directors’ Report and the financial reports, comprises Chairman’s Statement 4 Risk and sensitivity analysis 62 pages 3, 8, 15 and 57-93. Corporate Governance Report 65 President’s Statement 6 Ten year overview 81 The Sustainability Report, which is subject to a review Financial reports and Notes to the Accounts 82 by the company’s auditors, is presented on pages 4–7, This is Systembolaget Proposed appropriation of profits 93 12–14, 16–56 and 95-127. Our history 10 and signatures How we create sustainable value 12 Systembolaget’s business model 14 Sustainability notes and other information The world around us 16 About our Responsibility Report 95 Systembolaget’s strategic plan 18 Materiality analysis 97 Stakeholder engagement 99 Our three strategic shifts Our work with the UN’s global 102 sustainability goals Our human rights work 104 We shall continue to impress 23 Carbon dioxide emissions reported 106 our customers in accordance with the GHG protocol GRI Aspect Boundary table 108 Increase awareness of alcohol’s 37 GRI-index 110 risks and why Systembolaget exists Audit and review 117 Glossary 123 Creating optimum conditions for 44 List of references 127 achieving our goals Financial calendar and contacts 128 2 The year in brief S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 CONTENTS The year in brief The Board of Directors and the President of System• Awards: • Systembolaget has continued its partnership with the bolaget AB, corporate ID number 556059-9473, --First place in Medieakademin’s confidence baromeSwedish Public Employment Service in 2017 and has hereby present the annual accounts, including the ter for companies, media and social institutions. As in taken on almost 200 people who, for a variety of reaCorporate Governance Report and the Sustainability 2016, 70 per cent of respondents expressed great or sons, were finding it difficult to enter the labour market. Report, for the 2017 financial year. fairly great confidence in Systembolaget3. • Cecilia Halle was elected as a new full Board Member Systembolaget AB has, in accordance with section 6, --ServiceScore winner for the fifth year in succession. at the AGM on 26 April. §11 of the Swedish Companies Act, elected to prepare Systembolaget was named “Best service in Sweden, the statutory sustainability report separately from the 2017” and “Best retail company, 2017”4 . • This year’s Customer Satisfaction Index reached 84.3 annual accounts. The Sustainability Report is presented (84.1), which is slightly higher than last year’s previous on pages 4–7, 12–14, 16–56 and 95-127 of this document. --Second place in this year’s sustainability ranking for record high figure. State-owned companies5. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AND RESULTS • Proof of Age checks were carried out in 95.6 per cent • The 2016 measurement of alcohol consumption* in --Winner of the Publishing prize in the “Films marketing (95.7) of cases. Sweden showed a year-on-year reduction of just over a company” category6. one percentage point to 9.0 litres per head of pop• The accumulated Opinion Index figure for the year ulation, which is in line with the ongoing downward • The agreement between Systembolaget and the was 76.9 (76.2). trend seen in the last ten years.1 State was clarified in the autumn of 2017 such that it now explicitly states that Systembolaget shall take • The return on equity was 17.2 per cent (17.5). • Systembolaget published its Alcohol Report2 for the specific sustainability considerations into account first time. The aim of the report is to provide a onein connection with its drinks procurement activities. • The equity/assets ratio for the year was 27.8 per cent stop shop for alcohol-related research, statistics and (28.2). trends in Sweden and to act as an easily accessible • Systembolaget, in cooperation with three Stateknowledge base. owned companies and an external party, carried out • Systembolaget’s sales volumes totalled 483 m (479) preparatory work for offering work experience places litres. • Systembolaget has, together with industry associato foreign academics, starting next year. The aim is tion representatives**, drafted a proposal for how the to utilise their expertise and to facilitate access to • Net sales increased to SEK 29,355 m (28,469). industry can help take responsibility for countering the Swedish labour market through work experience climate change. The initiative has been formalised in places and networking opportunities. • The operating profit was SEK 270 m (217). a joint statement of intent. • The net profit for the year was SEK 282 m (289). * The measurement of alcohol consumption was carried out in 2017 and refers to 2016. Reported one year in arrears. ** Industry associations: the Swedish Spirits & Wine Suppliers’ Association (SVL) and Brewers of Sweden Association, and 11 member companies. 3 Chairman’s Statement S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 CONTENTS Chairman’s Statement: We’re not like other companies Kenneth Bengtsson has been the Chairman of the research, helping to disseminate information, and imBoard of Systembolaget since 2014, and has both plementing a comprehensive quality control process. extensive experience of Board-related work and a wide-ranging background in both the grocery retail We’re more like other companies when it comes to sector and specialist retail. Kenneth is also active in a things like HR, administration and IT – in other words, number of other organisations, such as the Childhood issues that are not directly linked to the customer Foundation and Ersta diakoni. interaction and sales. We want to be – and we must be – a professional, cost-effective, and resource-smart How do you view Systembolaget’s role and mandate? company. Systembolaget isn’t like other companies. We have a special mandate, and one of the things that distinSystembolaget is an exclusive operator in a regulated guishes us is the way we work with customer interacmarket, so Systembolaget’s role and mandate could, tions. We differ from outright commercial companies to summarise, be said to be substantially different in that we are brand neutral and that we do not encourfrom those of other companies. Which means, given age increased consumption. We don’t, for example, our monopoly position, that customer service, product engage in bait pricing in the form of “buy 2, get 1 free”. range, and operating cost-effectively are even more What we want, instead, is for all our customers to feel important. welcome, and to receive good advice and high-quality service. Our social mandate affects everything from How do you view your role as Chairman of the Board? opening hours and store openings to proof of age I lead the Board’s work and am, along with my Board checks and the fact that we don’t sell to people who colleagues, ultimately responsible for ensuring that are visibly intoxicated or where we suspect illegal reSystembolaget fulfils its objective of limiting the harmsale. This is how we limit the harmful effects of alcohol ful effects of alcohol. My role, and that of the Board, is Which events have affected Systembolaget in 2017? in our society and how we fulfil our owner’s mandate to generate the conditions for and support the manI’m delighted that our efforts to boost our Customer to us. agement in their efforts to achieve long-term goal Satisfaction Index (CSI) are continuing to yield results. fulfilment and sustainable development. Most immeThe ongoing efforts to further enhance our customer We also do a lot of other things that people are, perdiately, that involves working towards implementing interaction are critical in this respect, and we’re workhaps, less familiar with, such as financing alcohol the integrated strategic plan by 2020. ing on that in a variety of different ways – everything 4 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 CONTENTS from the layout of our stores to offering home deliverWhat are the biggest challenges and opportunities ies on a trial basis in a number of areas. We are, like any for 2018? company, affected both internally and externally by the One of the challenges we face is maintaining a high process of digitisation, and the challenge for Systemlevel of customer satisfaction. A satisfied customer bolaget is to live up to our customers’ expectations is about more than simply being satisfied with their Systembolaget in brief when it comes to improved service and accessibility purchase. It’s about them having confidence in us and in digital channels without promoting sales. being treated well, whether they buy from us or not. Employees: 5,714 And that’s why it’s important that Systembolaget is a Another issue, and one that’s been a hot topic in the workplace where everyone is empowered to do what Stores and agents: 441 stores and just over political debate arena, is that of farm sales of alcohol. they can and what they are good at, and where the 450 agents We have stated that under EU law, farm sales cannot workforce reflects today’s Sweden. Active drinks suppliers: in excess of 700 be combined with Systembolaget’s monopoly, while at the same time communicating on the development of Items: circa 17,500 – 2,500 in the fixed our local and small scale product range. range, 13,500 in the available for order range, and 1,500 in the temporary range, As far as the future is concerned, I envisage ongoing 1,200 of which are in the local and small work with customer interactions in an increasingly scale range digitalised world. It’s also vital that we remain on the cutting edge when it comes to our integrated work Customer visits to the stores: 122.2 million with sustainability issues. Visits via digital channels: 46.7 million What do you think distinguishes Systembolaget from (systembolaget.se, the Search & Find app, other companies? and the Promillekoll app) “Soft” values, such as public health, a good working environment, and selling responsibly are Systembolaget’s top priority. I am seeing more and more companies placing greater importance on these soft goals, not least because this is what customers expect nowadays. This is a mindset I try to take with me into my other activities. From a corporate governance perspective, the difference between Systembolaget and other companies is that the State has formulated our ownership directive, but the Board still has ultimate responsibility and is subject to the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act. 5 President’s Statement S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 CONTENTS President’s Statement: we must be a cutting-edge company Systembolaget began implementation of our strategic plan, which runs until 2020, in 2017. The strategic objective is for Systembolaget to continue impressing its customers, to increase awareness of alcohol’s risks and Systembolaget’s role, and to generate optimum conditions for our slightly over 5,000 employees. Other areas addressed by Systembolaget during the year included work on our renewed customer guarantee – that includes full integration of our entire programme of sustainability work – across our entire operations. ALCOHOL – NOT LIKE OTHER PRODUCTS The Alcohol Report, which Systembolaget published for the first time this year, includes an account by a woman who is strong and full of life, of how, as a 7-year old, she could mix a perfect drink for her parents, and how she was forced, at an early age, to deal with feelings such as shame and loyalty in order to protect her parents. Things turned out fine for her, but in excess of 100,000 children in Sweden today are living with a parent with alcohol abuse problems. The report also shows how seven out of every ten teachers have suspected that one of their pupils has a parent who drinks too much, but that fewer than one in five have reported their concerns.2 Alcohol is not like other products. Alcohol use is ranked as one of the five leading global threats to health7, and this is precisely why Systembolaget is not like other companies. We work to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol in society, and this is an important reason why Sweden is on the cutting edge in this respect. Our work in this area includes limiting the availability of alcohol through opening hours, the number of stores, and thorough proof of age checks, by selling responsibly, and by informing people of the risks associated with alcohol. We carry out ongoing proof of age checks in our stores to ensure that no minor purchases alcohol from us, and in 2017, ID was requested in 95.6 per cent of control 6 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 CONTENTS purchases made by so-called mystery shoppers aged Our focus on disseminating research findings also see ourselves as enablers for the rural community, with between 20 and 24. includes the open, free research seminars we hold at least three employees in every municipality and a every year. The theme of the seminars held this year in wide range of local and small-scale products on our Systembolaget’s subsidiary, IQ, works to reach out Sundsvall and Jönköping were parents, children and alshelves. Our local and small-scale beer range, which to teenagers and young adults in a variety of ways. cohol. This year’s alcohol research conference, which has increased from around 320 products to just over Alcohol becomes part of life in various ways, as we was held at our training centre on Skarpö, included 900 in just three years is one example of this. grow up, but some age groups are more sensitive than a presentation of a new study of the ways in which others, both in terms of how alcohol affects the brain public health in Sweden would be affected if the retail A SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE PLAN and in terms of their ability to resist peer pressure. monopoly were to be abolished. The UN has drawn up 17 sustainability goals – Agenda Social groups and friends are one way in which teen2030 – and Systembolaget has identified seven of agers build their sense of identity, which is why the CONTINUED STRONG SUPPORT them as being of particular importance in terms of Teenage Phrasebook is sent out to every household In Sweden – as in other parts of the Nordic region, the our operations and the way we work. The goals are with a 14-year old child in conjunction with the Valborg USA and Canada, we have a retail monopoly on sales wide-ranging, covering everything from reducing the festivities, because we know that this is when many of alcohol. The reason for this is simple: by limiting harmful effects of alcohol to ensuring good working young people make their alcohol debut.8 total consumption, we ensure a healthier population. conditions for everyone. Our work on our strategic A number of studies have shown that if alcohol were to objectives for 2030 include an increased focus on The Alcohol Index, which measures attitudes to alcohol be sold for a profit, consumption would increase and our suppliers, because we believe that we can make a in society, gives us an indication of how we should conwe would see more accidents, violent crime, broken greater difference throughout the supply chain by supduct our information work, and the key ratio is measured families, alcohol-related diseases, days off sick – and porting the suppliers in their dealings with producers, annually. The Alcohol Index figure for 2017 was 62.0, that’s just for starters.9 The level of support we enjoy farmers and workers. in comparison with 62.6 last year, and the weak downamongst the population of Sweden is considerable, wards trend towards a more permissive attitude to alcowith 76.9 per cent supporting a retention of SystemWe are continuously working to reduce our environhol is, therefore continuing. The biggest shift towards a bolaget’s monopoly, according to the Opinion Index mental and climate footprint, and the Nordic alcohol more permissive attitude towards drinking is, by gender (OPI) key ratio. monopolies have drawn up a joint environmental and age, greatest in the groups comprising 16 to 29-year analysis of alcohol’s environmental impact throughout old men and 30 to 44-year old women. Every year, Medieakademin measures public confithe value chain. Packaging manufacturing in general, dence in institutions, political parties, the media, and and glass in particular, has the biggest environmental ALCOHOL RESEARCH FOR THE FUTURE companies, and awards the Confidence Barometer impact, followed by cultivation and production. TransAlcohol research and dissemination of the findings are prize. Systembolaget came first in 2017, with 70 per port also has a relatively substantial environmental important components of Systembolaget’s mandate. cent of respondents stating that they had very or fairly impact throughout Systembolaget’s value chain, and Systembolaget awarded SEK 10 million in research great confidence in us.3 in 2017, the drinks industry and Systembolaget drew up grants in 2017, with the grant recipients decided by the a joint statement of intent with the aim of reducing our Alcohol Research Council, which is independent of SysThe Swedish monopoly is based on popular and politiclimate footprint. We will, collectively, reduce greentembolaget. SEK 1 million has been earmarked for junior cal support, but the past year has seen more and more house gas emissions by setting up quantifiable goals researchers, in an attempt to encourage growth in the voices raised in favour of farm sales of alcohol. We based on each, individual company’s preconditions. field of alcohol research, and Systembolaget has also are continuously developing both our local and small established a research stipend for junior researchers. scale offering and our dialogue with producers, and Reducing the use of plastics is another component of 7 S Y S T E M B O L A G E T ’ S R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 017 CONTENTS our environmental and climate control work, and on 1 iour, both in store and online. Wherever our customers feel, and the main focus of our work in this area over June this year, a new law governing the use of plastic meet us, whether in a store or on our website, they the past year has been on reviewing factors promoting bags came into force. Systembolaget began informing must receive the same high-quality reception. health and illness, respectively, and the establishment our customers of the environmental impact of plastic of a process team who have worked on reducing longbags and of the benefits of reducing their use, and Systembolaget’s customers are satisfied. Our Customterm sick leave. 2017 saw purchases of plastic bags decline by 3.6 miler Satisfaction index figure is 84.3 per cent, which is lion, corresponding to a reduction of 41 tonnes in the on a par with the figure for last year. We have also, If we are to be a long-term sustainable company, it amount of plastic used. for the fifth year in succession, won the Best Service is important that Systembolaget is an attractive emin Sweden – all categories award in ServiceScore’s ployer that recruits and develops people from different SALES TRENDS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS customer survey.4 backgrounds, with different areas of expertise, differTotal consumption in Sweden in 2016 fell by just ent experiences, and different skillsets: that we have over one percentage point, year-on-year, to 9.0 litres Systembolaget endeavours to ensure our customers a welcoming climate characterised by respect and of pure alcohol per head of population aged 15 and are satisfied at all time, not in order to boost our sales, understanding. above. Systembolaget’s share of sales in 2016 totalled but in order to ensure that Sweden’s solidarity-based 63.2 per cent, corresponding to approximately one alcohol policy continues to enjoy the supports of It is important for us to secure our talent pool, and to percentage point, year-on-year.1 Swedes. As a Systembolaget customer, you should feel ensure that we have a workforce that feels good and welcome, that we are happy to share our expertise, and reflects our society. We can never be better than the Systembolaget’s sales volume increased by 0.8 per that you can rely on us to sell responsibly. sum of our parts. cent, year-on-year, which is in line with population growth. The percentage of sales for which the organOne example of how this can work in concrete terms ic range accounts is continuing to increase, rising to is the approaches by the winners of Systembolaget’s 12.6 per cent in 2016 in comparison with 11.6 per cent “Store of the Year” competition, Malå and Haninge in the previous year. Net sales totalled SEK 29,355 Söderby. The stores differ greatly in terms both of the m, in comparison with SEK 28,469 m in the previous geographic location within Sweden and their size, but year, with the increase due both to increases in sales both have a well-thought out and structured managevolumes and to the so-called premiumisation trend ment approach that creates a good environment for that is seeing many customers electing to buy more every store employee. This is how we enable every inexpensive products. dividual employee to provide an engaged interaction with customers, based on their personal qualities. FOCUSING ON RESPONSIBLE CUSTOMER INTERACTIONS The “performance culture” key ratio measures emWith 441 stores, we are the only State business that ployees’ perceptions of preconditions for performing has a presence and employees in every municipality. well in their job and their perceptions of how well their It is important that we continue to develop and adapt basic requirements are met. The result for 2017 was our operations in line with external conditions, which 81.5 per cent, corresponding to an increase from last includes everything from a product range that meets year’s figure of 77.9 per cent. The sick leave key ratio demand to addressing changes in customer behavis another important indicator of how our employees 8 CONTENTS This is Systembolaget 9 Our history THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS Our history: from a “river of schnapps” to e-commerce and sustainability Decision makers have been attempting to limit the Interruptions to work caused by accidents were hamharmful effects of alcohol since schnapps first reached pering their operations and the compensation paid Sweden in the 15th century. This was the mandate givto widows was starting to become expensive, and en to Systembolaget when we were founded in 1955, the mine owners consequently sought permission to but our history actually begins a lot earlier than this. form a retail company with a monopoly on the distilling and sales of schnapps, with the revenues to go Schnapps reached Sweden in the 15th century as to the improvement of social conditions amongst the an ingredient in the manufacture of gunpowder, but mineworkers. Swedes were quick to discover a different sphere of use and Sweden soon became a schnapps country Falun’s idea was refined in Gothenburg a few years to the detriment of beer and mead. Everyone drank – later, when the so-called “Gothenburg system” was men, women, and even children – and the authorities formed in 1865. This system saw the city take over all of became concerned about this “river of schnapps”. the bars where schnapps was sold and the introduction of an age limit of 18. The name, “Gothenburg system” In the 18th century, King Gustav III tried to enable comes from the fact that the bar operations were inthe State to take over all manufacture and sales of corporated and schnapps sales were systemised. And schnapps, but this first schnapps monopoly only lastthis is the origin of Systembolaget’s name. ed a few years. RATION BOOKS INTRODUCED The drink problem became even worse in the wake of Doctor Ivan Bratt was at the heart of the next round of 19th century industrialisation. Better quality schnapps Swedish alcohol policy in 1913, founding the Stockcould now be manufactured at lower prices, and this holm system that introduced the ration book. Strong was reflected in consumption. The backlash was not beer could now only be bought on prescription at a slow in coming, and Sweden’s first populist movement pharmacy. – the temperance movement – was founded. The temperance movement continued to push hard for MINE OWNERS PUT THEIR FOOT DOWN a total ban on alcohol, in spite of these huge changes, Patience eventually wore thin, even amongst society’s and their pressure eventually resulted in Sweden’s first leaders, and Systembolaget’s first predecessor was referendum in 1922. The “No” side won a slight margin, founded in Falun in 1850. It was founded by the mine at 51 per cent against a ban and 49 per cent for. owners, who had had enough of miners’ drunkenness. 10 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS So alcohol sales continued, as did the increasingly unin 1993, and 92 people were prosecuted for taking popular ration book, which was regarded as undemoor giving bribes in connection with Systembolaget’s cratic due to the fact that one’s social class, gender and procurement. occupation determined how much one was allowed to buy. After several years of investigation, the ratio book What had started with an anonymous letter turned into was abolished in 1955 and all of the regional system a completely new chapter in Systembolaget’s history – companies were amalgamated into a single, Statea turning point and a new path that resulted in today’s owned company, the nationwide Systembolaget. Systembolaget enjoying high levels of public confidence and, furthermore, being declared Sweden’s Any Swede over the age of 21 who was not intoxicated best service company in all sectors3, 4. And it’s a path or suspected of carrying out illegal resale could now we intend to follow. buy alcohol in Systembolaget’s stores. THE INTERNET AND E-COMMERCE WINE INSTEAD OF SPIRITS Adapting to changes in the outside world has always Schnapps was still the main type of alcohol consumed, been important in retaining our monopoly. Satisfied so Systembolaget began working at a very early stage customers are a must in enabling us to fulfil our manto persuade people to drink wine instead. For many, date in the long term. The next step involves the rising the idea that alcohol was an accompaniment to food level of digitisation. Customers are making completely that should be enjoyed in moderate quantities was a new demands and we must meet them. We must pronovelty. Learning about wine and understanding how vide advice, engage in retail operations, and provide different wines go with different types of food was also information on the harmful effects of alcohol in the something new. This approach also coincided with the new channels enabled by technological development, launch of new, alcohol-free drinks – choices that didn’t as well as in the old. dampen either the party spirit or taste experience. We take with us the things we have learned over the EU ACCESSION CHANGES EVERYTHING years in everything we do – the things that have led to Systembolaget had lived side by side with Vin & Sprit, our clear social mandate: to engage, through a monopwhich had a monopoly on alcohol imports, since 1955. oly, responsibly and with a high standard of service, in Vin & Sprit lost its monopoly when Sweden joined the the retail sales of spirits, wines and strong beers, and EU in 1995, and the number of alcohol importers into inform people about the harmful effects of alcohol. creased overnight to 115. Hundreds of suppliers imposed completely new demands. Systembolaget’s management had been working determinedly since the EU accession to ensure the company’s independence and integrity, but despite the company’s best efforts, a bribery scandal broke 11 How we create sustainable value THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS How we create sustainable value Systembolaget creates sustainable economic and soSWEDEN-WIDE FOCUS alcohol. Systembolaget has a clear social mandate and cial value through our monopoly. This is how we do it. Systembolaget’s 441 stores and just over 450 agents our owner has consequently stated that our purpose is throughout Sweden also generate positive value for not to maximise profits. Systembolaget must, howevWE REDUCE HARM Swedish local communities, through job creation. Syser, operate cost-effectively and in a business-minded The greatest value created by Systembolaget lies in tembolaget has at least three employees in every municway. Our owner has set three economic goals for the the form of the preconditions we establish for good ipality, and 65 per cent of our employees work in the 326 operations: equity/assets ratio, return on equity, and public health and a reduction in alcohol-related harm, stores located outside of Sweden’s three biggest conurcost-effectiveness. whether medical or social. In 2017, an international bations. The customer flow to the stores and agents also group of researchers presented a report on the effects has a positive effect on other local businesses. WE’VE MADE PROGRESS BUT WE STILL HAVE SOME of Systembolaget’s monopoly on alcohol-related injuWAY TO GO ries, illnesses and deaths. The report showed that the Shopping at Systembolaget and accessing our prodAlcohol is not like other products: it can cause both number of alcohol-related deaths would increase by ucts should be quick, smooth and simple. Our home direct and indirect harm. Alcohol abuse continues 800-1,400 per year and the number of hospital addelivery trials in certain counties is one example of how to harm people and we have not, as yet, realised our missions by 13,000-20,000 per year if Sweden were we are developing our service to meet our customers’ vision of a society in which alcohol is enjoyed with to abolish Systembolaget’s monopoly.9 needs. due regard to health considerations so that no one is harmed. We also have some customers who regard the WE CONTRIBUTE TO ENJOYMENT AND DINING We measure our success in satisfied customers who restriction on availability that comes from our opening PLEASURE are impressed by our service, our social responsibilihours as limiting their freedom of action. With over 20,000 products, Systembolaget ensures ty, and our range. This applies wherever the customer freedom of choice and accessibility with regard to chooses to interact with us – in physical stores, online, The drinks industry, like all other manufacturing indusboth alcohol-free and alcoholic drinks. Our expertise via agents, via home deliveries, or via tomorrow’s detries, also creates negative value through its climate and good advice help our customers match their food livery concepts. footprint. The biggest impact comes from indirect and drink. emissions created in conjunction with the manufacture WE ARE A MAJOR EMPLOYER of packaging, the cultivation of raw materials, the proWE CREATE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES Salaries and other forms of remuneration to employees duction of drinks, and transportation. The production Systembolaget’s procurement process is completely totalled SEK 1,949 million in 2017, comprising 57 per and cultivation processes also utilise valuable natural brand neutral and this, coupled with the fact that our cent of total operating expenses. At the end of the year, resources, including water, and in some areas, a numrange must be both broad and deep, enables our monopSystembolaget had 5,714 employees. ber of suboptimal chemicals are still used. Working oly to create opportunities for a great many drinks market conditions for people working in the supply chain may operators to launch their products on to the market. This WE CREATE ECONOMIC VALUE also sometimes fail to live up to global minimum standis good for our customers, who gain greater freedom of The most important economic value generated by ards. There is also a risk, within the industry, of corrupchoice, and for the operators, who have the chance to Systembolaget takes the form of the reduced societal tion and improper influence, which are problems that operate on a competitively neutral playing field. harm that results from limiting the harmful effects of can generate substantial negative value. 12 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS Our ability to handle this type of risk by imposing more stringent demands has increased now that our agreement with the State has been clarified to explicitly state that Systembolaget shall take specific sustainability considerations into account in conjunction with its drinks procurement. We are also endeavouring to minimise our negative impact on the climate by expanding our collaboration with drinks suppliers on the basis of a joint statement of intent undertaking to work together to reduce the industry’s climate footprint. Systembolaget’s goal is to maximise the positive value we create and, at the same time, to minimise the negative value caused by alcohol. We will talk more about this throughout this Responsibility Report as, for example, in the following description of our business model. 13 Systembolaget’s business model THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS Systembolaget’s Vision Mandate and objective For whom business model A society in which alcohol is enjoyed with due regard to health considerations so that no one is Systembolaget shall, through its monopoly, responsibly and with a high standard of service, sell alcoholic Systembolaget exists for everyone in Sweden. harmed. drinks and provide information on the harmful effects of alcohol. Several hundred years of Swedish alcohol consumption and alcohol policy resulted in the formation of Systembolaget in 1955. Nowadays, we are a Stateowned company and we, administratively, come unValues Activities Customer guarantee der the Ministry of Health & Social Affairs. As such, our operations are regulated by a number of steering Considerate, knowledgeable, Retail sales of alcoholic drinks, You should always feel welcome, and inspirational. quality control of products, and you should always be able to learn documents, including our agreement with the state, provision of information on the from us, you should always be able our Owner’s Directive, the Swedish Alcohol Act 10, and risks associated with alcohol. to rely on us to sell responsibly. EU law. Systembolaget’s clear vision is of a society in which alcohol is enjoyed with due regard to health consideraFundamentals Offering Distribution to customers tions so that no one is harmed. We will realise this vision through our mandate: we shall, through our monopoly, Responsible sales, good service, Range, expertise, experience, Via stores, agents and a broad range, brand neutrality, and advice. home deliveries. responsibly and with a high standard of service, sell alsustainable enterprise, and coholic drinks and provide information on the harmful efficiency. effects of alcohol. Systembolaget’s business model is based on our mandate and our history – and on the sustainable value we create (see page 12). Revenues Costs The business model is supported by our organisational Financed by surcharges on goods sold, based Purchases of goods and services, salaries, and premises primarily on handling costs from efficient and costs are the most significant. The company shall structure. rational operations. The surcharge is objective, operate cost-effectively without maximising profits. transparent and equal for all. Corporate structure Steering documents Limited company with a monopoly, owned by the State. The agreement with the State, the Owner’s Directive, the establishment policy, the Owner’s Policy, the Swedish Alcohol Act, the Swedish Companies Act, the Articles of Association, and EU law. 14 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS ORGANISATION Systembolaget’s operations are conducted via 441 stores in Sweden which were visited by a combined total of 122.2 million (122.1) customers during the year. Three new stores were opened in southern Sweden in 2017. Systembolaget’s Board of Directors also decided PRESIDENT to strengthen the store network by establishing stores in three municipalities. The aim, by opening more stores – the majority of which are planned for major PRESIDENT’S conurbations – is to meet the demands of population STAFF FUNCTION growth and urbanisation. There are also, in addition to the stores, just over 450 agents throughout Sweden C O M P A N Y A N D S O C I E T Y* HR AND QUALITY from whom customers can order goods for collection. Systembolaget is also offering home delivery on a trial basis in a number of areas across Sweden. FINANCE AND IT ADMINISTRATION The operations are conducted by Systembolaget AB and the wholly owned subsidiaries, IQ-initiativet AB BUSINESS AREA, BUSINESS AREA, and AB K14 Näckströmsgatan. IQ-initiativet works with OFFERING SALES information and communication in order to prevent and limit the harmful effects of alcohol, while K14 PRODUCT RANGE AND SALES AREA, Näckströmsgatan manages Systembolaget’s operating PROCUREMENT SOUTH premises. SALES AREA, COMMUNICATION NORTH Systembolaget AB is 100 per cent owned by the Swedish State and there are 360,000 shares in the company. SALES AREA, SUPPLY CHAIN E-CHANNEL Our business model and organisational structure shall help optimise the conditions for our operations. If we OFFER STORE are to succeed, we must constantly be aware of the DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT changing world in which we live and must act in accordance with our mandate. On the next page, we talk about the external factors that have had the biggest effect on us and our stakeholders in 2017 and which we must address in future. *New organisation from 1 March 2018. 15 The world around us THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS The world around us Systembolaget exists to limit the harmful effects of should be doing if we are to remain relevant and topical positive effects outweigh the negative ones and the alcohol. Our entire operations are structured for opin our efforts to limit the harmful effects of alcohol. problems are primarily experienced by other people12. timum success in this respect, but the world around These are factors that we must take into account when us is changing and this places new demands on how AN INCREASINGLY DIGITAL WORLD we interact with customers and when we provide inforwe should act if we are to achieve our goal. See below The rapid pace of digital development is both posing mation about the harmful effects of alcohol. for some of the external factors that affected Systemchallenges and offering opportunities. Our customers’ bolaget in 2017. underlying needs have not changed, but their behavSUPPLY CHAIN RISKS iour and demands are influenced by new technological Systembolaget has over 700 suppliers and innumeraCHANGING ATTITUDES AND BEHAVIOURS solutions. ble producers in over 100 countries. Our supply chain We must conduct ourselves, throughout our operais complex and it is an area we must constantly review tions, in accordance with our customers’ attitudes Relevance, in 2017, means having an online presence, in order to ensure we act responsibly. towards alcohol and their alcohol-related behaviour engaging in e-commerce, and communicating digital– from our information work to our interactions with ly, and Systembolaget, just like every other company, is We want all of our products to be sustainable prodcustomers, whether in-store or via our digital channels. at the heart of this trend – we must be. But there is one ucts, both in terms of quality and from ethical, social big difference: our online presence is not about selling and environmental perspectives. And our customers The trends that Systembolaget is currently handling inmore. In a world in which customers are demanding and owners want this too – and they are demanding clude the general reduction in binge drinking in Sweden greater accessibility, increased service, and simple it more and more loudly for every year that passes. since the start of the new millennium and the fact that solutions, our role is to give them all that while still With a global and complex supply chain, we must work women aged between 65 and 84 are drinking more than selling responsibly and without boosting sales. continuously to improve the checks and balances we before. Men are, however, continuing to drink more often, build into the supply chain. We do this in a variety of getting drunk more often, and drinking in larger amounts UNWITTINGLY RISKY CONSUMPTION ways: with the help of industry partnerships, audits, than women.11 Systembolaget has been commissioned 93 per cent of our customers do not think they have training, and by investigating various kinds of certifiby the government to conduct annual measurements of any problems at all with alcohol – despite the fact that, cation, labelling, and requirements that we can impose the total volume of alcohol consumed in Sweden. according to “Allmänheten om inställning till alkohol throughout our value chain. och monopol mm”, Novus, 2015” (Public attitudes to alThe survey, known as the Monitor measurement, is cohol and the monopoly, et cetera), almost one million CLIMATE CHANGE AND INCREASED AWARENESS carried out by the Swedish Council for Information on Swedes are consuming alcohol at hazardous levels. Our operations have a substantial environmental Alcohol and Other Drugs (CAN)1. The survey involves footprint and our customers are not only becoming complementing registered sales in Sweden with other The same survey shows that three out of every four increasingly aware, they are placing higher demands unregistered acquisition sources. We also, by means of Swedes think that they know everything, or virtually on the way we work and the products we offer. the Alcohol Index and Everyday Index, measure how the everything, about the harmful effects of alcohol on population’s attitudes to alcohol and drinking change. their own health. Most of them are aware that alcoOur biggest environmental impact is indirect and arises These surveys give us important insights into what we hol causes problems, but believe that for them, the from our producers and suppliers. It causes air pollu16 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS tion and has a negative impact on the climate as well as less popular is our opening hours, primarily because changed the labour market. We now have the opporimpacting biological diversity through increased land they are limited. The most common reason given by tunity to enhance and expand our expertise through usage. Packaging production accounts for the biggest those customers who want to abolish the monopoly is new perspectives, which means we must identify ways climate footprint, followed by cultivation and transport. convenience, followed by an ideological opposition to of attracting this labour market segment. Different eco-labelling schemes tell us a certain amount monopoly companies. about how a product is produced, but a single eco-label Working with diversity and inclusiveness is a given for does not tell us everything about a product’s sustainaThe insights are not new, but the trend in our neighus, as a State-owned company. It is also vital to cusbility. When we are working to reduce our climate and bouring countries is worrying, particularly in Finland, tomer satisfaction. Recognition is an important factor environmental impact, we must also influence the way where a new, more liberal Alcohol Act was passed in whether a customer feels included and receives perour suppliers and producers work and must, at the same during the year. sonal service, which means we and our workforce need time, listen to what our consumers want. to become even better at reflecting today’s Sweden. DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES POLITICAL REGULATION The population growth rate in the past ten years is YOU WON’T FIND A SUSTAINABILITY CHAPTER IN Our mandate is clearly regulated in the Owner’s Direcreckoned to be the highest for at least 100 years and, THIS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT … tive and changes in the outside world and its demands possibly, since measurements were introduced in the There is one more social trend that affects Systembolaon us may, from time to time, necessitate a review of mid-1700s. This, coupled with the increase in the perget, and it’s one we’re very happy to see. Sustainability this Directive, in consultation with our owners. centage of people in Sweden who were born in other is no longer viewed as one area amongst many, but countries, is imposing new demands on Systembolaas something that should permeate every aspect of a The guidelines regulating our purchasing process get. We calculate that in the ten biggest municipalities company’s operations. Which is why you will not find a was one of the issues that arose during the year. The alone, the number of people permitted to purchase separate chapter on sustainability in Systembolaget’s agreement between Systembolaget and the State was alcohol will increase by approximately 400,000 by Responsibility Report. What you will find, as we hope clarified in the autumn of 2017 such that it now explic2024 (according to an in-house analysis based on you’ll see, is that sustainability is an important factor in itly states that Systembolaget must take specific susStatisticon’s population forecasts for 2024). This will all of the decisions we take and all of the programmes, tainability considerations into account in conjunction demand new, more flexible solutions if we are to meet initiatives, and measures we implement. with its drinks procurement. The clarification makes it the demands of big city customers in small spaces. clear that sustainable development is important and an Meeting the needs of municipalities and towns with area upon which Systembolaget must focus. steep population growth will demand a high level of originality and innovation. ATTITUDES TO THE MONOPOLY The long-term fulfilment of our mandate requires the A growing percentage of foreign-born residents mean support of both decision-makers and the public. that Systembolaget must identify ways of reaching out to and communicating with all new Swedes, particuThe majority of decision-makers feel that they are fully larly when it comes to the benefits of Systembolaget familiar with alcohol policy and that it is effective. A and to making them feel welcome. majority of Swedes – four out of every five – support the monopoly, and a clear majority rate SystembolaCHANGES IN THE LABOUR MARKET get’s service, range and personnel highly. What is The increase in immigration levels in Sweden has 17 Systembolaget’s strategic plan THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS Where we want to be – Systembolaget’s strategic plan Systembolaget’s vision is of a society in which alcohol In 2016, Systembolaget decided, in line with our vision tive empowers our implementation of this approach. is enjoyed with due regard to health considerations and our mandate, and taking into account our value so that no one is harmed. We aim to realise this vicreation and the external factors that affect us, to This Responsibility Report describes how we are worksion through our stated purpose and mandate: to adopt the strategic plan that will run until 2020. The ing to achieve the plan’s objectives – the measures and engage, through a monopoly, responsibly and with a plan is the first time that our key sustainability aspects initiatives we are taking and the challenges we face high standard of service, in the retail sales of spirits, have been integrated into the overall strategic plan. and must address. But in order to be clear about why wines and strong beers, and to inform people about Sustainability is an increasingly explicit operational we do what we do, it is important to understand where the harmful effects of alcohol. goal for us, and an integrated sustainability perspecwe are going. Strategic goal, 2020 I am proud of the fact that Sweden has Sysand other drinks affect me and those around me. I often the monitoring of compliance with these tembolaget! think about how often, how much, and what I drink. More rules is improving all the time. and more people are coming forward and saying why they I, as a customer, feel increasingly like a welappreciate Systembolaget and its mandate, and it’s easier There are 5,000 Systembolaget employees come guest at Systembolaget. The offering for me to understand and appreciate the monopoly and and we are placing increasing value on each is increasingly adapted in line with my rethe difference Systembolaget makes to public health. other’s differences. We are thinking along new quirements, and Systembolaget continues lines and achieving success by working with to offer the best service. I like that they take We employees know how we can help ensure more others. Developing our operations and each responsibility. Systembolaget ensures qualinformed alcohol consumption. Thanks to us, people other makes optimum use of our resources ity and its range takes an increasingly clear know more about the downsides of alcohol and are in terms of money, employees, and the enposition on social responsibility and the enaware of the risks that come with alcohol increasingly vironment. Our managers are creating good vironment. It allows me, through my choices, often being portrayed as just another product. We are conditions and more people are willing, able, to make a difference, too. very involved in the alcohol debate and Systembolaget, and allowed to take responsibility through a along with other parties, is contributing to the debate by clear mandate. We are well on the way to beAs a customer, it’s easy for me to learn more providing knowhow and insights. The rules of the game coming Sweden’s most attractive employer about drinks and about how spirits, wine, beer when it comes to alcohol policy are being clarified and and are proud of making a difference. 18 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS Three strategic shifts STRATEGIC SHIFTS SUBSIDIARY AREAS WORKING TOWARDS THE UN’S GLOBAL GOALS Achieving our strategic goal – where customers, employees and our other stakeholders are proud of Systembolaget – demands hard work and that we take a stand on various issues. People’s expectations of Continue to impress Systembolaget are constantly increasing and we want the customers The customer to be proactive in meeting them, which is why we have interaction identified three strategic shifts as being of particular A carefully selected range importance over the next few years. Social sustainability in the supply chain WE WANT OUR CUSTOMERS TO BE EVEN MORE IMPRESSED Surveys show that our customers are happy with Systembolaget. But our customers’ expectations are constantly increasing, which means that they are Increase awareness of Engage our customers and other stakeholders in the benefits of demanding more of us if their satisfaction levels are alcohol’s risks and why Systembolaget to be maintained. The increase in digitisation is, for Systembolaget exists Increased social dialogue example, resulting in consumers generally demanding more in terms of service and accessibility and we are, Tools that facilitate mindfulness therefore, keen to anticipate our customers’ changing Research and facts behaviours and requirements and to be just as good online as we are in our physical stores. We must also live up to our customers’ increased expectations of us when it comes to operating a business that promotes sustainable development throughout our value chain. Securing the talent pool This involves both doing more ourselves and involving Optimise conditions Ethics and anti-corruption not just our customers, but our suppliers and producers in our sustainability work. Environment and climate Finance Systembolaget is not like other companies and alcohol is not like other products. We don’t want satisfied customers to make them buy more. We do not run campaigns and we do not sell three products for the price of two. We do this in our own way, within the Our shifts will move us closer to the subsidiary areas of our operations and to several of the UN’s global sustainaparameters that support our mandate. Our goal is for bility goals, the most important of which are presented, along with links to the relevant shift, in the following table. 19 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS our customers to be proud of Systembolaget – and a diversity of perspective, a value-governed manageOther owner’s goals are followed up and analysed conachieving that means constantly striving for progress. ment, sustainable and rational operations, and by taktinuously in order to pick up on changes. Some of the ing environmental and social responsibility, all of our goals are set by the owners, other are not. This enables WE NEED TO INCREASE PEOPLE’S AWARENESS employees to feel proud of us as an employer. us to set goals for and follow up on our strategy in order OF THE RISKS OF ALCOHOL AND WHY SYSTEMto ensure a balanced development at the same time as BOLAGET EXISTS WE WANT TO HELP ACHIEVE THE UN’S GLOBAL we ensure we are meeting our owner’s goals. Systembolaget and the monopoly enjoy high levels of GOALS public confidence, and we’re proud of that fact. But we Our strategic shifts move us closer to several of the The State’s ownership policy requires State-owned also believe that there is a risk that the dialogue we want UN’s global sustainability goals, and we have also forcompanies to act as role models when it comes to susto promote being afforded less space if not enough mulated our own long-term goals for 2030 with regard tainable enterprise. Sustainable enterprise includes people are involved. If we are to fulfil our mandate to the most significant UN goals. For more detailed such areas as human rights, working conditions, the and limit the harmful effects of alcohol, this dialogue information, see page 123. environment, anti-corruption, and business ethics, as needs to involve more people. Alcohol is increasingly well as gender equality and diversity. Acting as a role perceived as “just another product”, as is clear from its KEY RATIOS AND GOAL LEVELS model with regard to sustainable enterprise means, marketing and in social media. We are pretty poor, in Our owner, the State, has set a number of goals that amongst other things, acting transparently on issues Sweden, at reflecting on our own alcohol consumption, steer our course, and it is clear that the mandate goals relating to material risks and opportunities, engaging and a survey by Novus shows that despite almost one take precedence. The primary goal, according to our in an active dialogue with the company’s stakeholdmillion Swedes drinking at hazardous levels, only 7 per owner, is consequently the social benefit. The seconders, cooperating with other companies and relevant cent of Swedes believe that they, personally, drink too ary goal is that we shall deliver a required return on organisations, and complying with international guidemuch. Many consumers believe that alcohol problems investment that is predetermined by the owner and lines in the field. State-owned companies, such as are “someone else’s problem” 12. Our goal is to create which is followed up over time through a number of Systembolaget, must have well thought out and firmly greater space for a healthy alcohol debate and to infinancial key ratios. established strategic goals in the area of sustainable volve more voices in the dialogue. enterprise, and Systembolaget has consequently esWe have adjusted the structure of our key ratios, in tablished policies, strategies and strategic goals in this WE MUST CREATE BETTER INTERNAL CONDITIONS order to increase focus and facilitate delegation. The area. In December 2017, the Board decided to explicFOR ACHIEVING OUR GOALS adjustment involved both reducing the number of raitly link five strategic goals to sustainable enterprise. If we are to succeed in all these endeavours, we need tios and, at the same time, ensuring that all strategicalThese goals are presented in the table overleaf, where to create even better conditions in which to operate. ly steering key ratios can be directly affected through we present all of Systembolaget’s strategic key ratios Developing our operations and each other makes our own operations. and indicators. optimum use of our resources in terms of money, employees, and the environment. Our employees are far The owner’s goals over which we have direct control In the next chapter, we will talk about what we are doand away the most important key to success in this reare obvious, such as the strategic steering key ratios. ing to achieve the goals laid down in our three strategic spect. The strength inherent in our 5,000 employees is There are also a number of other key ratios that relate shifts, and our plans for the future. considerable, and we must ensure that our employees to the broader owner’s goals but which are defined have both the mandate and the desire to contribute in a way that enables us to measure our own perforas much as possible. We want to be one of Sweden’s mance. All strategic key ratio goals – whether financial best and most attractive employers. We want, through or non-financial – are set by the Board of Directors. 20 THIS IS SYSTEMBOLAGET CONTENTS OUR STRATEGIC KEY RATIOS AND INDICATORS Strategic shift Subsidiary area Strategic key ratio Result, Goal, Sustainable Owner’s Board’s 2017 1 2017 enterprise goal 2 goal goal Continue to impress the The customer interaction and Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) 84.3 84.5-85 x x x customers product range Social sustainability in the supply Suppliers’ sustainability x x chain maturity Increase awareness of Engage our customers and other OPI (%), the percentage who alcohol’s risks and why stakeholders in the benefits of want to retain Systembolaget for 76.9 77.0 x Systembolaget exists Systembolaget the sake of public health Tools that facilitate mindfulness Proof of age checks 95.6 96.0 x x Optimum conditions Securing the talent pool Performance culture 81.5 78.2 x x Sick leave (%) 4.8 4.8 x Environment and climate Climate footprint of own 3,583 x x operations (net emissions) Finances Equity/assets ratio 27.8 20-30 x Return on equity 17.2 9.0-10.0 x Cost-effectiveness 2.2 ≤ 2.3 x Strategic indicator 3 Result, Goal, Sustainable Owner’s Board’s 2017 2017 enterprise goal goal goal Alcohol index 62.0 x x Total consumption, litres of pure alcohol per head of population 9.0 aged 15 or older 4 Systembolaget’s share of 63.2 alcohol consumption, % 4 1 As of 2017, Systembolaget reports all key ratios and indicators to one decimal place in order to increase the transparency of our analyses. 2 In December 2017, the Board resolved to adopt the following five strategic goals for sustainable enterprise. 3 Strategic indicators are also followed up by the owner, but no goals are set. 4 Reported one year in arrears. 21 CONTENTS Our three strategic shifts 22 We shall continue to impress our customers O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS S T R AT E G I C S H I F T # 1 : We shall continue to impress our customers The world around us is changing and our customers’ wishes, expectations and behaviour are changing with it. Here at Systembolaget, we work continuously with development in order to continue impressing our customers. There are three areas that we have prioritised within the overall context of this work, namely a good customer interaction, a carefully selected range, and a sustainable supply chain. All of these factors have a substantial impact on customers’ perceptions, both of Systembolaget and of our mandate. The customer interaction is also, ultimately, the place where we have the opportunity to make a difference to people’s health, both individually and in terms of public health. And if we are to continue to maintain public confidence in Systembolaget’s role and monopoly – factors which are, in turn, the key to a sustainable alcohol policy – it is vital that we meet our customers’ new expectations and adapt to their new behaviour patterns. 23 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Customer interaction Confidence Barometer showed that people have more confidence in Systembolaget than in any other company or institution included in the survey3. • Our advice is brand-neutral and tailor-made for you, to ensure you can make good, informed choices. and product range A NEW CUSTOMER PROMISE In the autumn of 2016, we developed our customer You should always be able to rely on us to sell responsibly. • Our selling rules include consideration for everyone’s promise to generate even greater societal and customer wellbeing, and we adhere to them at all times. Why this is important benefits, and the promise now describes, in more con• The products you buy are carefully selected and we crete terms, what interacting with us should feel like, are keen to ensure that they are sustainable, both for Every company wants satisfied customers, and Syswhatever the channel. It also includes a clearer statepeople and for the environment. tembolaget is no exception. A first-class customer ment of our values, our vision and our strategic plan. In • Our goal is not to make as much money as possible. interaction and an impressive product range are two of 2017, we worked on implementing our new customer We are happy to talk about why Systembolaget exists, our most important tools in this work. But unlike many promise throughout 2017 and engaging our just over and the benefits we bring. other companies, Systembolaget does not want satis5,000 employees in the process. A customer promise fied customers so that it can boost its sales. Satisfied that permeates the entire organisation in a way that enOur goal is for our just over 5,000 employees to be familcustomers are important to us because they ensure our sures all employees are engaged in delivering on it is an iar with and work in line with this customer guarantee. The long-term ability to deliver on our social mandate: to important tool in continuing to impress our customers. customer promise is a central component of both perforengage, through a monopoly, responsibly and with a mance reviews and themed meetings with all employees. high standard of service, in the retail sales of spirits, Our new and improved promise to our customers is as wines and strong beers, and to inform people about the follows: PROOF OF AGE CHECKS IN THE CUSTOMER harmful effects of alcohol. INTERACTION You should always feel welcome. Systembolaget must not sell to anyone under the age of 20, anyone who is visibly intoxicated, or whom we suspect Direction and strategic initia• You are welcome and respected, whoever you are and will resell the products. The way we handle the situation whatever the reason for your visit. where we are unsure of a customer’s age is very important tives – the customer interaction • We are here for you and will actively show how happy in terms of our customer interaction, which is why we bewe are to see you. gan interweaving our proof of age checks with our efforts The outside world is constantly changing and System• We will do all we can to help you – simply and smoothly. to improve our customer interaction in 2017. Our checks bolaget must change with it if we are to continue living have previously been based on the rules, but we are now up to our customers’ high levels of expectation. This You should always feel that our knowledge and experworking towards acting in a more values-controlled way. is why we work strategically with a number of areas in tise is at hand. What this means is that the proof of age checks must order to ensure that we continue to impress our customnot contravene our good customer service principle: ers in every customer interaction. • We share our knowledge generously in a way that every customer must be treated with consideration, not suits you. suspicion. This is not easy, but it is important and every For the fifth year in succession now, Systembolaget • You choose and we provide inspiration, so that you employee must not only feel responsible for this work, but has been rated Best Service Company and Best Retail can enjoy our drinks with due regard for both your must have a mandate to make the correct decision. The Company by ServiceScore4. Medieakademin’s 2017 own health and other people’s. results of our proof of age checks are shown on page 43. 24 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS INCREASED DIGITAL SERVICE are to continue impressing our customers, we must be requirements, irrespective of their preferred chanSociety’s increased digitisation creates opportunities where they are, which means e-commerce and a digital nel. The goods should be in stock and it should be and poses challenges. For Systembolaget, adapting to presence are vital. But we must also continue to work in easy to find them, to find help, and to pay. the digitisation trend means everything from developing a way that does not increase sales and, hence, alcohol the digital customer offering to automation and internal consumption. Everything we do digitally must, just as in 2. The second step involves being proactive. Systemskill development. our physical stores, be done within the framework of our bolaget must be a proactive host, enabling everyone entire mandate, which is why we don’t have top 10 lists who wants to interact with us to do so, even when Our customers’ underlying needs have not changed, or discounts on our website, any more than we do in our we are at our busiest. In our stores, the percentage but their behaviour is influenced by new technological stores. That having been said, we are operating in an inof customers who stated that our staff made contact solutions. Accessibility, rapid solutions, and transparencreasingly commercialised digital environment and it is, with them during their most recent visit has risen cy are becoming increasingly important, not least for a therefore, vital that we continue to ensure good control from 29 per cent in 2009 to 60 per cent in 2017. generation that is permanently online. Today’s customers of our digital information and functionality, in line with Being knowledgeable and sharing our expertise are, want to decide when, where and how they shop, and to our mandate and objective, in order to ensure that they of course, equally given in our customer services customise the way in which their product is delivered. are not used to promote the sort of additional sales that department and our digital channels. Our chat funcare contrary to what we stand for. We must not become tion, for example, gives us the opportunity for active We are working on enhancing the level of service providinterchangeable with commercial operators. Alcohol-recustomer interaction via systembolaget.se. ed by our digital channels in order to continue providing lated legislation must, therefore, be modernised and high quality, responsible service. We have noticed that adapted in line with the changes that digitisation entails 3. The third step involves personalisation. A personalcustomers are increasingly using our digital interfaces, to show, more clearly than ever, that Systembolaget’s ised customer interaction is increasingly what people both to prepare their purchases and to order goods for monopoly and the ban on commercial supply refers both are looking for and this is an issue that will become delivery to stores, agents, or their homes, and we are to sales in physical stores and to sales through other meincreasingly topical in the years ahead when we will consequently developing our digital offering by providdia – e-commerce and home deliveries, for example. be focusing strongly on, amongst other things, the ing such features as new search and ordering facilities development of our website. and home deliveries in trial areas. SEAMLESS SERVICE IN ALL CONTACT INTERFACES The customer’s contact interfaces with Systembolaget DEVELOPED STORE CONCEPT It’s also important that we are the people customers turn comprise our physical stores, systembolaget.se and In 2015 and 2016, we developed our store concept to digitally for inspiration, to make decisions, or to learn omsystembolaget.se, our app, our social media platthrough two new trial stores, and a further 16 stores have more about spirits, wine, beer and the risks associated forms, our agents, our drinks auctions, and our custombeen refurbished in line with the new concept in 2017. with alcohol. If someone searches online for the answers er services department. The customer should feel at In our Uppsala store and the outlet on Sergels Torg in to alcohol-related questions, they should find Systemhome in all of these interfaces and should be able to Stockholm, we are also testing the option of enabling bolaget. The growth in digitisation offers another benefit move smoothly from one channel to another, however customers who visit the stores to collect an order also betoo: it enables a more sustainable supply chain where we they choose to interact with us. ing able to order the items carried in the store. We call it can increase traceability and thereby increase the trans“Everything for order”. The physical customer interaction parency of our customer information on supply chains. Whatever the channel, there are three steps to achievhas also undergone development in 2017 in the form of Systembolaget’s responses to customers’ new behaving an impressive customer interaction: what we call a “collection point” outside the Sergels Torg ioural patterns must always be made with due regard to store. All of these concepts are designed to meet the our mandate to limit the harmful effects of alcohol. If we 1. The first step involves meeting the customers’ basic changes in our customers’ requirements while simulta25 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS neously adhering to Systembolaget’s mandate. Offering 2017 2016 2015 tained its high index rating of 91.6. Levels of customer customers the option of collecting the goods they have satisfaction are generally lower for the digital contact ordered outside the store means, for example, that they Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) 84.3 84.1 83.9 interfaces than in other retail areas involving the stores no longer need to enter the store, thereby potentially and personal service. We are drawing up plans aimed CSI – social component 81.5 81.0 80.6 reducing the number of spontaneous purchases. at improving our website in the year ahead in order to improve the way we meet our customers’ requirements The results show that the CSI for 2017 has increased and offer a simpler, smoother customer interaction. Key ratios, results and activities by 0.2 points to a new record index level of 84.3, which means that we are approaching our target fig– customer interaction ure of 85. The new CSI level is due to a positive trend Direction and strategic initiain virtually all quality areas, not least those regarded CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX – CSI as most important by our customers. Our customers’ tive – a carefully selected range The way we interact with our customers has a considperception of the service they receive from our staff in erable influence on their perceptions of Systembolaget stores has reached a new record high index figure of The range is the core of Systembolaget’s offering. We – and hence on their perceptions of Systembolaget and 90.8 (+0.3), as has customers’ perception of our social must offer every customer in Sweden a range that our mandate. Customer satisfaction is consequently abresponsibility, where the index has risen by 0.5 to 81.5 meets their needs and we do so by providing a broad solutely vital in enabling us to limit the harmful effects of in 2017. Customers’ perceptions of our range have also range that is characterised by quality and developed alcohol on the long term. reached a new record high, with an index figure of 80.4 in accordance with brand-neutral, non-discriminatory, (+0.4) (see also table on page 27). and transparent principles. We are keen to continue We conduct a Customer Satisfaction Index survey in working in partnership with our suppliers to continue partnership with an external, independent company (CFI The highest ranked quality areas also include, as bedeveloping a range that increases customer satisGroup) three times a year in all of our stores in order to fore, the stores’ social responsibility. We are particularly faction, enables informed choices and mindful conmeasure levels of customer satisfaction. The interviews pleased by this, as it is about the extent to which our cussumption, and helps ensure an impressive customer reveal what is important to our customers and how well tomers see us taking responsibility for our selling rules. interaction. we are living up to their expectations. The stores receive the results at store level and continue their work within 95 per cent of our stores now have a CSI index rating of SYSTEMBOLAGET’S PURCHASING PROCESS relevant areas for improvement. Two of the key factors above 80, which is our minimum acceptable level. It is Our purchasing department tries out several thousand in achieving a high index figure are proactivity and cusvery important that the 23 stores below this level condrinks from all over the world every year. Factors such tomer interaction, and we are working hard to increase tinue their collective efforts to improve their customer as customer demand, season, festivities, and internaaccessibility in our stores and ensure that we have the interactions. We are, however, also seeing a successive tional trends affect the choice of drinks bought in for necessary expertise available when our customers need increase in the levels of customer expectation, so it is Systembolaget’s range. Our customers’ knowledge of help. The CSI index values range between 10 and 100. vital that we continue to develop, even in the stores and interest in drinks, sustainability and health have inwith the highest CSI index ratings. creased in recent years, increasing the demands made On three occasions in 2017, almost 49,000 customers on our range. Our goal is to adjust the products we were recruited in our stores and a total of 32,977 customOur website is the second most commonly used carry on our shelves in line with customer preferences, ers have participated in our Customer Satisfaction Index contact interface after the stores. The CSI here has quickly and in an optimal way. (CSI) survey, yielding a response rate of 68 per cent. increased to 75.5, while the ordering service has re26 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS On the shelves 2. Available for order range stock in our physical stores has obvious limitations, The available for order range includes items that can be but the entire range is available for order via systemCharacteristics 8 External analysis ordered from the drinks suppliers’ stocks and enables us to offer our customers an even broader range. The bolaget.se. Our customers can also order drinks for collection from agents and, in some areas, we are testing 7 1 items can be ordered in our stores, from the agents, trialling home deliveries. and at systembolaget.se. Items from the available for Quality control 6 2 Range strategies order range that prove particularly popular may, in Ensuring our ongoing ability to offer our customers a time, become part of the fixed range. relevant product range requires us to work continuous5 4 3 ly on developing our range. Beer and red wine are our Sampling tenders Launch plan 3. The temporary range two biggest categories and ensuring a strong range in Systembolaget’s temporary range is divided into three these categories is vital. Managing requests for tender categories: small consignments, seasonal items, and local and small-scale items. We provide information in order to increase our customThe illustration shows the steps in Systembolaget’s ers’ knowledge of the products and make it easier for purchasing process. Temporary Range – Exclusive (TRE) comprises small them to make informed choices. We have clarified our consignments of products with very limited availabiliinformation during the year so that our various labelling RANGE BREAKDOWN ty. The range has a relatively high price level. schemes, for example, are now described and clarified. Systembolaget’s range is divided into the fixed range, Our “New items” information is popular and we place a which comprises approximately 2, 500 items, and the Temporary Range – Seasonal (TRS) comprises products little extra emphasis on these items in our communicaavailable for order range, which comprises around 13,500 that are available for a limited period of time because tion to make it easier for the customer to find them. We items. This breakdown is based on Systembolaget’s ambithey are associated with a particular festival or tradition. will continue to emphasis relevant and accessible facts tion, wherever possible, to meet our customers’ different about the range in order to guide the customer. needs. We also, in addition to these two ranges, offer a Temporary Range – Local and Small-scale (TRLS) comtemporary range and the option of private imports of prises craft products, produced in limited volumes, CSI FOR RANGE AND OFFERING items from other countries. The temporary range comand available in up to ten stores within a radius of 150 We monitor how well our range and offering live up prised on the order of 1,500 items at the end of the year. kilometres from the producer. to our customers’ expectations through our Customer Satisfaction Index surveys, which have shown a steady Read on to find out a little more about our various ranges. AVAILABILITY improvement in recent years. Systembolaget has a nationwide sales network of 441 2017 2016 2015 1. The fixed range stores and just over 450 agents. The range carried by The fixed range accounts for 95 per cent of our sales an individual store is based on demand in that specific Customer Satisfaction Index 80.4 80.0 80.2 and is designed to meet demand from the majority store, in order to ensure that the right product reaches (CSI), Range and offering of our customers. There is a security, continuity and the right customer. Every store receives a range mix Customer Satisfaction Index long-term approach to the range composition that also adapted in line with customer demand in these specific 91.6 91.6 91.8 (CSI), Ordered items ensures its breadth and depth. The allocation of the stores, irrespective of the size or location of the store. range to the individual stores is done in a brand-neutral Customer Satisfaction Index 89.4 89.0 89.1 way and is based on customer demand. Systembolaget’s ability to keep all of its products in (CSI), Knowledgeable personnel 27 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS RANGE SUSTAINABILITY trend in the number of organic items in the fixed range in more countries than Fairtrade, which only certifies Sustainability is important to Systembolaget, both in over the past three years is shown in the table below. products from developing countries. terms of our mandate and in line with our customers’ expectations. We will, therefore, continue to develop Organic range 2017 2016 2015 Systembolaget is working to increase the number of and expand our range of organic and ethically certified ethically labelled items in its fixed range, and by the Number of items 428 373 289 products. Equally, the increasing percentage of lightend of 2017, we had 43 ethically labelled items. The weight glass bottles and other types of packaging with The term, range, refers to the items in our fixed range. goal for 2018 is 50 ethically labelled items. a smaller environmental footprint are helping ensure that our range becomes more sustainable. Switching to organic cultivation is not something a proOur ethical range has posed challenges in 2017. Argenducer can do overnight: it takes several years to switch tina, which is a major producer of wines in this range, In 2017, after discussions with our owners, Systembolafrom conventional to organic cultivation. We have has suffered two bad harvests in a row, resulting in an get implemented a change to our agreement with the extended our evaluation period for organically and increase in the price of these products, and demand State regarding our purchasing process and product ethically labelled products in order to ensure greater for the items has consequently fallen. selection. The agreement has been clarified and now security for producers during the process and, in the states explicitly that Systembolaget shall take special long term, create a good range of organic products. 3. Our climate-friendly packaging sustainability criteria into account in conjunction with All drinks were previously guaranteed six months on Packaging accounts for the biggest share of Systemits drinks purchasing. The clarification demonstrates our shelves, but the guaranteed periods for organic bolaget’s indirect environmental impact. the importance of sustainable development to Systemand conventionally cultivated drinks are now 12 and 9 bolaget and that it is an area on which we must focus. months, respectively. Production of heavy glass bottles in particular imposes a heavy burden on the environment, and SystembolaSee below for details of some of the important comSystembolaget clearly labels its organic products, get is working to persuade more suppliers to switch to ponents of our sustainable range. both in the stores and on the systembolaget.se weblightweight glass bottles. We label these bottles, along site. We have also conducted information campaigns with PET and returnable bottles, as climate-friendly 1. Our organic products in-store and on omsystembolaget.se. bottles in our stores. Lightweight glass bottles curFor a number of years now, as part of our efforts to rerently account for around 30 per cent of sales of still duce our organic footprint, Systembolaget has invest2. Our ethical products wine (750 ml). Reducing the climate impact of our ed in meeting the substantial customer demand for One way of improving working conditions in the suppackaging is one of the sustainability issues that our organic products. Seven years ago, we set ourselves ply chain is to increase the range of ethically certified customers regard as important, but to date, there are a goal of organic products accounting for 10 per cent items. Systembolaget currently labels wines from two relatively few customers who specifically choose the of our sales by 2020. By early 2016, we had already different ethical certification programmes, namely climate-friendly labelled products for climate-related achieved this goal, but we have not subsequently set Fairtrade and Fair for Life Social & Fair Trade (Fair reasons. This poses a communications challenge. any new goals in respect of the number of items in our for Life). We have chosen these labelling schemes range. What we are working on, instead, is optimising because they are third party-certified, because they Systembolaget will continue to focus on packaging and improving our organic range, and our goal is now contribute to fair trade, and because they guarantee with the aim of helping, wherever possible, to ento include organic alternatives in as many of the range a premium that ensures both financial and increased courage the trend towards more environmentally and segments as possible. We now have organic alternasocial security for the people working with cultivation. climate-friendly packaging solutions. tives in just under half of our product segments. The Fair for Life is currently open to offering certification 28 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS In 2017, we laid the foundations for a long-term collaboration with the industry on the climate issue in accordstrategic work with sustainability labelling must, therefore, also take a number of other factors into account: Key ratios, results and activities ance with the Paris Agreement. We have collectively signed a joint statement of intent, not just with regard • what, for example, does calling a product “sustainable” – a carefully selected range to packaging, but in relation to climate control issues actually mean? An organic label does not, for example, ORGANIC PRODUCTS’ SHARE OF SALES in general. See page 53 for further information. We rein and of itself reduce the need for transport. Nor does Systembolaget had already achieved its organic goal for gard collaborations with other industry organisations as it enhance working conditions or reduce the environ2020 – that organic products should account for 10 per an important part of our sustainability work in relation mental impact of glass bottle production. We want to cent of our sales – by 2016. We have, nonetheless, conto the UN’s global goals (see also page 123 Key ratios, take an holistic, big picture approach to the sustainatinued to follow up on the percentage of our total sales results and activities Key ratios, results and activities bility issue, so we must, therefore, ask ourselves what for which organic products account this year. In future, Key ratios, results and activities Key ratios, results and role the different labelling schemes can play. however, we will concentrate on ensuring that organic activities Key ratios, results and activities Key ratios, alternatives are available in as many segments of the results and activities Key ratios, results and activities). • we are also aware that a sustainability-certified prodrange as possible. The range and share of sales, when uct is not always more sustainable than a non-cercombined, show the extent of our efforts to offer organic 4. Our alcohol-free range tified product. Some certification organisations, for alternatives – and our customers’ interest in them. Demand for alcohol-free products is generally increasexample, only operate in countries where conditions ing, and this is reflected in the development of our are generally worse, and a French wine, for examOrganic products’ share of sales 2017 2016 2015 alcohol-free range, which is something we are very ple, could hence never be awarded a Fairtrade label. pleased to see. Alcohol-free alternatives can, in many But this does not mean that it has been produced Volume as a percentage of total sales 12,6 11,6 9,3 respects, be described as the most sustainable health less sustainably than a Fairtrade-labelled wine. The We also follow up on other results in this area, includswitch that our customers can make. We are now worksame is true of organic labelling. There are many ing the development in customer trends and how well ing to further improve the quality of this range. wine producers who meet the organic cultivation our organic products communication is reaching our requirements, but who are not certified. The way we customers. SUSTAINABILITY LABELLING approach these situations is an important issue in the Systembolaget currently uses a great many environmencontext of our communication. tal and social sustainability labelling, many of which focus on a specific aspect of sustainability. Increased social • what will our customers want? Which sustainability and environmental awareness amongst our customers labelling schemes will be in demand in future? These imposes extensive demands on us, on our range, and are important issues for us if we are to remain to the on how we communicate with our customers to enable fore in this area. them to make sustainable choices. We welcome this challenge, which requires a rethink on our part, because • how should we indicate sustainability on our prodit means we can make a genuine difference. ucts? We currently label sustainable products in three different ways: organic products, ethical products, Taking an unequivocally positive view of sustainability and climate-friendly products. What we label and how labelling would, however, mean that we were not takwe communicate this labelling is an ongoing issue for ing full responsibility for our impact on society, and our us and one where development is vital. 29 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS SYSTEMBOLAGET’S SUPPLY CHAIN Systembolaget’s operations are global and our supply chain is complex. The majority of our over 700 active drinks suppliers have subcontractors and they, in turn, have subcontractors of their own. All of which means that there are a great many people working to produce 5b B A A A A A A and deliver the drinks we sell. The other is an agricultural cooperative that is owned by 800 farmers whose lands may be spread over a wide geographical area and vary hugely in size. 5a I TA LY One is a corporate group of six wine producers, three of whom produce the wines used in this particular wine. X SWEDEN A 4 B X The Italian company buys wines from two different producers. 1 X X X X Systembolaget buys a bottle of X wine from a Swedish supplier. X GERMANY 2 X 3 X The Swedish supplier has imported But the actual wine comes from an the wine via a bottling plant in Italian company that buys in and Germany. blends bulk wines from different producers. 30 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS The other is an agricultural cooperative that is owned “Suppliers take full responsibility for their supply chains, Social sustainability by 800 farmers whose lands may be spread over a wide geographical area and vary hugely in size. and everyone working in our products’ supply chain is working under good conditions.” in the supply chain And that takes us all the way from the grape to the glass. The fact that our supply chain is so complex means that This is an ambitious goal and achieving it will require a great deal of work. Our suppliers’ understanding of we feel an extra responsibility and endeavour to ensure and responsibility for complying with our purchasing sustainability at every link in the chain. Our goal is to terms’ sustainability requirements play a major part in Why this is important sell high quality drinks produced under good working conditions by workers with good conditions of employour plan for the future. The suppliers must also be able to demonstrate that they are working systematically ment. on these issues. Systembolaget’s operations are global and our supply chain is complex. The majority of our over 700 active Systembolaget’s operations must support and respect When drawing up the strategic objective for 2030, we drinks suppliers have subcontractors and they, in turn, internationally recognised agreements on human tightened up the requirements on our suppliers, reinhave subcontractors of their own. All of which means rights. We have a responsibility for ensuring that huforced our sustainability policies, and concretised three that there are a great many people working to produce man rights, including children’s rights, are respected main processes for establishing a sustainable supply and deliver the drinks we sell. throughout the supply chain, and we work systematichain. The three processes are: cally to exert influence in this area and monitor compliAn advanced supply chain can look like this (see also ance. Our endeavours to ensure sustainability through• The incident management process, which applies to the illustration on page 30): out the supply chain are not just an important part of all suppliers across the range. The process includes a our responsibility, they are also a way for us to make a third-party audit, when necessary. • Systembolaget buys a bottle of wine from a Swedish real difference. Find out more about our human rights supplier. work on page 104. • The “At risk country” process, which applies to all suppliers in the Fixed-Fixed Range (FFR) in System• The Swedish supplier has imported the wine via a bolaget’s “at risk countries”. The process includes bottling plant in Germany. an annual mapping programme, visits to producers, • But the actual wine comes from an Italian company Direction and strategic a situation analysis on the suppliers’ sustainability maturity, and systematically conducted audits in that buys in and blends bulk wines from different producers. initiatives accordance with the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). FRAMEWORK FOR LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY • The Italian company buys wines from two different WORK • The “High risk country” process, which applies to producers. Systembolaget’s framework for long-term sustainability suppliers of all ranges in Systembolaget’s “high risk work is based on the UN’s 17 global goals, Agenda 2030. countries”. The process includes an annual mapping O ne is a corporate group of six wine producers, The goal of our supply chain work is to ensure that by programme, working with self-assessment forms, and, three of whom produce the wines used in this par2030: when necessary, BSCI audits. ticular wine. 31 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS • Our ongoing work places an additional focus on our • The UN’s Global Compact ers to comply with our purchasing terms and external suppliers, because we believe that we can both extend • The OECD’s guidelines for multinational companies Code of Conduct. The situation analysis results in both and deepen our reach by working hand in hand with our an internal and an external action plan which may, for suppliers on these issues. Our partnerships with the supWe apply the same Code of Conduct as the other Norexample, include various types of training activities and pliers include training courses, advisory services, and dic alcohol retail monopolies. By working together on a round table discussions. support. Our goal is for them to be able to carry the work range of issues, we enhance our potential for influencon out to their own producers, farms, and workers, and ing conditions in our respective supply chains. There are two stages to the situation analysis. The supplito take full responsibility for their link in the supply chain. ers are initially asked to complete a questionnaire, and a Our purchasing policy and our purchasing terms Systembolaget representative will then follow up on this SUPPLY CHAIN REQUIREMENTS Systembolaget updated its purchasing policy and purthrough a face to face meeting. The situation analyses in Systembolaget’s external Code of Conduct and associchasing terms in 2017, strengthening and clarifying the 2017 initially focused on the 83 “at risk” suppliers, 80 of ated monitoring system were devised by the Business requirements for both Systembolaget and our partners. whom completed the questionnaire. Three of these have Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). stated, on their own initiative, that they no longer wish to All of our employees in the purchasing and range units supply Systembolaget. The three suppliers who did not The Code of Conduct has formed part of the general have taken part in internal workshops on the subject complete the questionnaire have also stated that they will purchasing terms agreement between Systembolaget of sustainability during the year in order to improve cease to be Systembolaget suppliers. and all of its suppliers since 2012. By accepting the our own performance in this area. We are successively purchasing terms, our suppliers undertake to comply getting better at integrating sustainability work into One insight we gained from this year’s survey was that with the Code’s requirements. The principle governing our ongoing range and procurement work, and those our suppliers are keen to receive support in the form compliance with the Code of Conduct means that every buyers who work with purchases from “at risk” countries of tools for following up on our sustainability requiresupplier is responsible for the working conditions of are now working on a continuous and close basis with ments. Another was that one in four “at risk” country their respective subcontractors – throughout the supply the Sustainability Manager for the country in question. suppliers were not even aware that they are operating chain. Systembolaget takes a systematic approach to in a country defined by Systembolaget as an “at risk” ensuring compliance with the requirements, including Situation analysis of suppliers’ sustainability maturity country. This means that our communication in this area third party audits, visits to producers, field trips, and Systembolaget’s goal is for our suppliers to secure good must become clearer. dialogues and cooperation with our suppliers. conditions for those working with the products we sell. As part of this work, we introduced a survey of a numRISK ANALYSIS AND AUDITS Systembolaget’s Code of Conduct is based on, amongst ber of suppliers in 2017, namely those suppliers in our Our audit selection model other things, the following international agreements on Fixed-Fixed Range (FFR) who operate in “at risk” counSystembolaget applies an audit selection model drawn working conditions and human rights: tries and all suppliers operating in “high risk” countries. up in 2015. The selection process looks like this: The programme is the first step in producing a situation • The UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights analysis that will give us an overall picture of the level of • We start by mapping our entire fixed range, which • The UN’s Conventions on the Rights of the Child and sustainability work by our suppliers. We want, for examcomprises around 2,500 products and accounts for on the abolition of all types of discrimination against ple, to know which of our suppliers have a Sustainability approximately 95 per cent of our sales. The aim is to women Manager, which have conducted a risk analysis, and the see how many of the products are produced in “at • The ILO’s (International Labour Organization) convensort of things with which they require help. The situation risk” countries. In 2017, just over 500 of the products tions on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work analysis is also an important tool in helping our suppliin our fixed range were classified in this way. 32 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS • We then map these products’ principal producers and our Swedish supplier and provides expert assistance conducted a more stringent risk analysis of the countheir subcontractors – the farms – and ask whether and information in order to ensure that the action plan try’s 20 regions since 2015. We have audited suppliers, any other audits and certifications are carried out. is addressed. producers and farms, but are not seeing the same qualThis source data is then used to produce an overall ity of results as when we have worked with other “at assessment of the producer that also takes into ac• A secondary audit is then carried out, no later than risk” countries. Systembolaget is, therefore, currently count previous BSCI audit results, any incidents, farm one year after the first audit. examining ways of developing and improving our work structure, and qualitative and quantitative sustainaspecifically in Italy. bility assessments. If a supplier is in breach of Systembolaget’s requirements, we are entitled to terminate the agreement WORKING WITH INCIDENTS • We then, on the basis of the above assessments, conwith them, but Systembolaget’s goal is to bring about Systembolaget sometimes receives reports of abuses or duct on site audits of the producers and farms for the improvement and it is consequently very rare for us to shortcomings at producers who are not undergoing an products where we believe there is an increased risk terminate a business relationship as long as we are seeaudit process. These reports are known as incidents and of deficiencies in production conditions. ing results from the improvement work and as long as trigger Systembolaget’s incident management process. the producer continues to undergo our audits. This may also happen at producers who are in the process As things currently stand, therefore, suppliers from counof being audited, because an audit is just a snapshot. tries not classified as “at risk” are never systematically The rules governing Systembolaget’s audit process inSystembolaget follows up on reported incidents, wherselected for audits as they are eliminated in the first stage clude a Zero Tolerance concept. A Zero Tolerance deviever they may occur and has an incident management of our evaluation model (due diligence). Deviations from ation is a deviation that is regarded as unacceptable and process for reported incidents and which we implement Systembolaget’s terms naturally primarily occur in “at classified as a serious breach of contract. A producer in close consultation with our Swedish suppliers. risk” and “high risk” countries, but deviations do also who is responsible for this kind of deviation will not be occur in countries deemed to pose a lower risk. These accepted as a producer of any items in Systembolaget’s Incident follow-up work in South Africa are picked up in our incident management process. range until the deviation has been permanently rectiSystembolaget has been working with sustainability isfied. In 2017, we handled our first Zero Tolerance cases, sues in South Africa for many years now. In 2016, we were When producers fail to live up to our requirements all from South Africa. notified of a number of potential deviations from our It is relatively common for deviations from the Code of Code of Conduct by several South African producers. Conduct or purchasing terms to be identified in proItaly as an “at risk” country ducers undergoing their first audit. Systembolaget’s Italy is, as many people will know, a major player in the Systembolaget engaged third party auditors to follow follow-up process looks like this: wine industry. Wine production in Sicily alone exceeds up on the potential deviations from the Code of Conthat of the whole of South Africa, and Italian wines duct, and a substantial number of potential deviations • Once the audit report has been published by the account for over 20 per cent of the products in Sysfrom the Code of Conduct were investigated at 35 prothird-party auditor, we convene a follow-up meeting tembolaget’s fixed range. So when Italy became an “at ducers or farms. with our Swedish supplier at which the deviations risk” country in Systembolaget’s 2015 “at risk” country identified in the audit report are discussed. analysis, it meant that the number of producers on our Several of the incidents reported were deemed, after “at risk” country list effectively doubled. the independent audit, to be groundless or to lack • The producer is requested, via our Swedish supplier, proof. Accusations of illegal dismissal, a lack of freeto produce an action plan within 60 days. SystemAddressing the challenges posed by Italy is important dom of association, improper evictions, and criticisms bolaget then engages in an ongoing dialogue with to Systembolaget, and we have, amongst other things, that workers were using pesticides without protective 33 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS gear are just some of the incidents dismissed on the New partnership with IUF Code of Conduct. Starting in 2017, this Code of Conbasis of the audit results. The auditors did, howevIn 2017, Systembolaget launched a partnership with duct will no longer be used in that the Code of Conduct er, find evidence of illegal wage deductions and of the international trade union organisation, the IUF (The has been updated and confirmation of acceptance is a sub-minimum wages being paid. In some of these International Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Resmandatory component of Systembolaget’s purchasing cases, the irregularities have been rectified, and in taurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers Associagreements. others, action plans have been drawn up. The audit ations). The partnership aims to improve working condialso highlighted substantial deficiencies in the homes tions in the alcohol industry, which includes those who SITUATION ANALYSIS FOR MONITORING SUPPLIwhere some of the workers live on farms and at producproduce and those who cultivate the raw materials for ERS’ SUSTAINABILITY MATURITY ers. The standard may be very low, albeit not illegal in the products that Systembolaget sells. The IUF acts as Systembolaget has developed a new strategic key ratio South Africa, but improvements are now being made a link between Systembolaget and a multiplicity of local in 2017 to monitor suppliers’ sustainability maturity. We and new housing is being built. The progress is, howtrade unions, which often receive valuable information have begun a situation analysis during the year that is ever, uneven. on incidents at farms, directly from the workers. The scheduled for completion in early 2018. partnership with IUF creates a simple pathway by means A number of so-called Zero Tolerance regulatory breachof which this information can reach Systembolaget, enFollow-ups will then be conducted annually and one es of Systembolaget’s Code of Conduct were detected abling us to interact with and guide the producers and or two rounds of training activities for suppliers are during Systembolaget’s follow-up audits in South Africa support the trade unions. planned for 2018. The situation analysis and key ratio in 2017 (see also details of the audit results on page 35). applies to all suppliers of products in our fixed range, The Swedish trade union, Unionen, in the form both which currently accounts for around 95 per cent of If you would like to know more about this audit, we reof Systembolaget’s own union branch and Unionen’s total sales. Suppliers’ sustainability maturity will, as of fer you to the report entitled “How Systembolaget has international department, plays an active and proactive 2018, be one of the five strategic goals for sustainable followed up its Code of Conduct work in South Africa”, role in the partnership. The first official working meeting enterprise adopted by the Board. which is available from omsystembolaget.se. was held in Stockholm in November, and a meetings schedule for 2018 has been drafted. Systembolaget has UPDATED SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME ENHANCED INCIDENT MANAGEMENT POTENTIAL also, in connection with this work, decided to sign up Systembolaget’s social sustainability programme aimed New search algorithm picks up incidents for Global Deal – an initiative that aims to improve the at improving suppliers’ sustainability maturity has been In 2016, Systembolaget addressed the issue of improvdialogue between labour market parties and national updated in 2017. The update saw some activities adding our ability to discover incidents, even in countries governments in order to improve conditions of employed to the programme and others brought forward or deemed to have a lower risk level, without losing focus ment and productivity. strengthened. See below for a sample of the activities on those countries classified as “at risk”. In 2017, we already carried out or planned for the 2017-2018 period. launched a search algorithm which will, we hope, help us do precisely that. In simple terms, the algorithm Key ratios, results and activities • Systembolaget has increased the number of producer picks up websites where the content is potentially of and farm audits. interest to us, here at Systembolaget. The idea is that ELECTRONIC CONFIRMATION OF CODE OF Systembolaget will, for example, find out when a local CONDUCT NO LONGER A KEY RATIO • 65 site visits to producers in Italy, South Africa, Argennewspaper in Mexico reports on an incident at a brewSystembolaget has previously used this key ratio to tina and Chile were carried out in 2017. These visits to ery. The algorithm was adjusted in the autumn of 2017 measure the percentage of suppliers, both new and producers are designed to enhance Systembolaget’s in order to refine the search results. existing, who have confirmed their acceptance of the risk assessment work and to complement the annual 34 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS mapping of products in FFR from identified “at risk” of Conduct. 12 of the incidents reported in the autumn When we speak of suppliers evaluated, we refer to procountries already conducted, and are carried out by of 2016 remain on the books for continued follow-up ducers and subcontractors. These may be farmers who personnel from the Sustainable Supply Chain unit. audits in 2018 as they cannot, as yet, be regarded as cultivate grapes for juice suppliers, etc. In 2015, when Systembolaget intends to increase the number of fully resolved. Major improvements have, however, we spoke of the percentage of suppliers, we referred visits to producers to around 100 in 2018, with the taken place at all producers and farms in 2017. solely to producers. emphasis on Italy. As the number of audits have increased, we have reThe process for inclusion of the farm level in producer • An online training course focusing on our Code of viewed the categorisation of statistics produced by audits was updated in 2017. In the past, a link was made Conduct and social responsibility was launched in the audits. We are increasingly often finding overlaps to a specific farm reported in the annual mapping of 2017. The course became mandatory on 1 September between the human rights and working conditions catthe supply chain, but this monitoring system proved and suppliers were required to have completed it by egories, and believe that the efficiency of our follow-up unsustainable because the farms change from one 1 December 2017. The course is also available in a revised work will be enhanced if we take an overall approach year to another. The new routine spotlights randomly and adapted English language version that the suppliers to these areas as part of our audit work. Starting in selected farms linked to a producer using a standard can pass on to their producers. A new online course 2017, therefore, we have switched to addressing the model based on sales volumes. focusing on environmental issues will be launched in impact of and deviations from the Code of Conduct the spring of 2018, and will be made obligatory. in the fields of human rights and working conditions This change is the reason why such a large percentage hand in hand with the impact of and deviations from of the planned audits did not occur, but in return, new • Systembolaget has also introduced a sustainability the Code in the field of social conditions. farms have also been added for producers currently check in conjunction with launches for new fixed range undergoing an audit. The short interval that previousproducts from identified “at risk” countries. This applies ly applied with regard to the time of year when the Based on the BSCI 2.0 whether the product enters the fixed range via our ten2017 2016 2015 audit was conducted, namely during the harvest, has Code of Conduct dering process or via the available for order range. now been expanded to include two occasions during Number of suppliers participating the year. This enables a larger number of audits to be 186 55 12 AUDIT RESULTS in an evaluation of social conditions carried out. We use this key ratio to measure the outcome of the Number of suppliers with a signifaudits and to compare the results of the original audit icantly negative impact on social 136 49 10 A shortage of qualified auditors was, however, a comwith those of the follow-up audit, one year later. This conditions monly recurring problem during the year. According shows us whether the producers have improved their to Amfori BSCI, no general improvement in this area working conditions and whether they are continuously Number of suppliers with a less is expected before 2020, and Systembolaget has, critical negative impact on social 182 52 12 working to secure human rights in their supply chain. therefore, initiated procurement processes with four conditions We have conducted almost 200 third party audits in auditing companies during the year, two of which are accordance with BCSI 2.0 in 2017. Number of identified significant new to Systembolaget. The hope is that this will indeviations with regard to social 317.5 216.0 46.5 crease the number of available auditors and enable an We have also conducted a number of incident investiconditions in the supply chain improved workflow. gations, which entail a third-party auditor conducting Number of identified less critical targeted audits focusing on information received renegative deviations with regard to 1,827.5 649.5 172.5 There were also a number of cases when producers garding alleged deviations from Systembolaget’s Code social conditions in the supply chain elected to certify themselves in accordance with 35 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS SA8000 which, under our risk assessment scheme, All cases were addressed in a way that enabled the negates the need for any follow-ups in accordance Zero Tolerance status to be rescinded, resulting in a with BSCI. return to normal with the producers being processed in accordance with our normal routines for ensuring a The comparison figure for the number of normal desustainable supply chain. viations noted in conjunction with an audit has fallen from 14.4 in 2015 to 9.8 in 2017. The number has, in other words, been almost halved, and this is despite an increase in the number of audits carried out. One of the explanations for this positive trend may be that producers are working more actively with these issues. The areas that stand out for positive reasons at a more detailed level include the improvements we have seen in relation to wages and working hours. This may, however, also be due in part to the greater number of audits carried out in Italy than was the case in previous years. We have seen a massive improvement in the weighted total between 2016 and 2017 with regard to significant deviations. The weighted total compares the number of identified deviations with the number of audits carried out, and this would tend to support the theory that producers are generally working at a more fundamental level with these issues. An improvement of 30 per cent was noted amongst those producers and farms who were re-audited in 2017, achieving full compliance with the Code of Conduct within just one round of audits. We have, however, noted eight instances of Zero Tolerance deviation spread over six producers and their farms in 2017. All of the cases were identified in South Africa and, in practice, exclusively entailed verbal and physical abuse. Follow-up audits were carried out in the autumn of 2017 and the producers have acted quickly, cooperated fully, and drawn up action plans. 36 Increase awareness of O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S alcohol’s risks and why CONTENTS Systembolaget exists S T R AT E G I C S H I F T # 2 : Increase awareness of alcohol’s risks and why Systembolaget exists Alcohol is not like other products. It can cause harm to individuals, to their nearest and dearest, and to society at large. Which is why Systembolaget is not like other retail chains. We do not exist to maximise our sales: we exist to limit the harmful effects of alcohol. 37 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Why this is important tention of Systembolaget’s monopoly. But the monopoly is also being challenged by e-commerce, for example, ALCOHOL AND EXERCISE CAMPAIGN In 2016, Systembolaget launched a communication and the debate on whether so-called farm sales should campaign looking at the ways in which alcohol impacts The more alcohol people drink in a society, the greater be allowed. This is why we need to inform our customthe effects of exercise with the aim of encouraging the problems in the form of accidents, violence and ers and other stakeholders of the risks associated with more people to think about when, how often, and what disease. The social problems in society affect not just alcohol and the benefits of Systembolaget’s monopoly. they drink. This is an area that interests both young and those who drink but those around them as well – such Our information mandate enables us to share our experold who are keen to live healthy lifestyles, and we have as all of the children who grow up in families where tise on the legal situation and alcohol policy, and their used films, research seminars and exercise events to one or both parents drink to excess.9 The goal of the consequences, and our work in this area takes a number share facts, tips and advice in this area. The campaign Swedish alcohol policy is, therefore, to limit total alcoof forms ranging from public information campaigns to continued in 2017 and Systembolaget is now regardhol consumption in society so that the harmful effects direct interactions with customers. ed as the primary source of expertise on alcohol and of alcohol, whether medical or social, are minimised. exercise, according to a survey carried out by YouGov, WORKING TO PREVENT ILLICIT RESUPPLY a market analysis company with a broad online conAccording to the World Health Organization (WHO), A young, growing body is more affected by alcohol than sumer panel. the three most effective tools for limiting alcohol an adult one. Young people are, furthermore, more likely consumption are regulating availability, pricing, and to expose themselves to risk and hazardous situations, ENGAGEMENT IN CUSTOMER INTERACTION marketing13. Without this type of regulation, we would in addition to which it has been scientifically proven that Every interaction with a customer here at Systemboladrink more and the harm caused would increase drapeople who started drinking at a young age are more get gives us the opportunity to inspire people to conmatically. A new study has calculated that if alcohol likely to develop problems with alcohol later in life14. This sume more mindfully through our range of alcohol-free were sold in ordinary stores, there would be 29,000 is why our countering illicit resupply campaign is so imand low alcohol products. We endeavour to ensure that more cases of violence per year in Sweden and up to portant. Walpurgis Night, Midsummer, and the final day our alcohol-free range is of the highest possible quality 1,400 more alcohol-related deaths.9 of the school year are all examples of the sort of high and are working continuously on the development of days and holidays when many young people make their our range. We are also working to increase awareness This is the background to Systembolaget’s clear social alcohol debut 8, 15. At the same time, we know that 64 per of the options that exist through our interactions, our mandate: to engage responsibly, and with a high standcent of those teenagers who drink would not try to get range, and our communication. Our “Changed my ard of service, in the retail sales of spirits, wines and hold of alcohol if they couldn’t get it via a friend or family mind” trolley at the checkout, where customers can strong beers, and to inform people about the harmful member 15. Which is why Systembolaget runs specific place items they have changed their mind about buyeffects of alcohol. The latter task requires research, a campaigns at these times, countering illicit resupply, ing, is one concrete example of this. clear programme of information work, and an ongoing in order to increase awareness of the risks of buying dialogue with different parts of society. alcohol for others. We also launched a new tool in 2017: the Drinks Planner. Our primary aim with this tool is to make it easier for the In 2017, our communication work included a continucustomer to calculate the amount of drink provided at Direction and strategic initiatives ation of our campaign to counter illicit resupply that larger dinners and events, but the Drinks Planner can began in 2016, and which is aimed at siblings. We have also increase awareness of what alcohol researchers – the benefits of Systembolaget worked with high profile siblings and tried to reach out mean by a standard glass, and of where the boundaries to the young adults’ target group in new ways, such as of risky consumption lie. Four out of every five Swedes currently support the rethrough influencers and native advertising. 38 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Direction and strategic initiato every Swedish Member of Parliament and placing advertisements in sixty or so regional and local daialcohol retail monopolies on issues of common interest. Our primary collaboration is with the other Nordic tives – increased social dialogue ly newspapers, talking about the consequences of farm sales. The measures attracted some criticism, countries, in that we conduct a joint programme of sustainability work, but we also have a number of joint along with claims that Systembolaget was trying to working groups working with such issues as quality If Systembolaget is to increase awareness of the harminfluence public opinion. Our aim was, however, to assurance of drinks, and issue-specific groups. ful effects of alcohol and why Systembolaget exists, inform people about why Systembolaget exists and an effective social dialogue is a must. Systembolaget of the consequences of permitting farm sales. If the Outside of the Nordic region, two other countries with has an information provision mandate that we take monopoly element of Swedish alcohol policy were whom we have an ongoing dialogue are the USA and very seriously indeed. We are, at the same time, keen to disappear, consumption – and hence, the harmful Canada. The Nordic and North American monopolies to learn how politicians, influencers, and the Swedish effects – would increase. You can find out more about meet every other year, at CEO level, to discuss policy public view topical alcohol issue, and Systembolaget Systembolaget’s view of the current situation under EU and similar issues. The most recent meeting was held consequently conducts an active programme of dialaw on the “Legal aspects of farm sales” memorandum in August 2017. logue, both inside and outside Sweden. (in Swedish) at omsystembolaget.se. Systembolaget also engages in a dialogue with stakeSYSTEMBOLAGET ON FARM SALES POLITICAL DIALOGUE holders and operators at EU level, including representThe idea of stopping by a farm in the Skåne countrySystembolaget attended several national political paratives of the Swedish Trade Federation and Swedish EU side and buying a bottle of locally produced wine to ty conferences in 2017. Farm sales of wine and beer Commissioners. The group meets annually to discuss take home is an attractive one for many people – and were the big issue at these conferences. Other issues, topical issues, and one such issue discussed in 2017 that’s understandable. Farm sales are, however, insuch as Systembolaget’s operations, opening hours, was the European Commission’s requirement for ingrecompatible with out monopoly. The EU has ruled that store openings, and efforts to counter illicit resale, dients lists on beer, wine, and spirits. a monopoly on retail sales of alcohol is permissible in were also discussed. We also met with many local and Sweden, but only on condition that we neither discrimnational politicians on an individual basis by offering THE ALCOHOL REPORT inate against nor favour any products, and Sweden in-store work experience that gives them the opportuThe first edition of Systembolaget’s new annual publicannot, therefore, allow certain Swedish manufacnity to spend a few hours working in one of our stores. cation, The Alcohol Report2, was published for the first turers to conduct farm sales without allowing other time in 2017. The aim is to provide an overall view of the European manufacturers to do the same thing. This Systembolaget’s focus during the Almedalen Week latest picture of alcohol and its risks in Sweden, and has, furthermore, been confirmed by two Government was on listening to our critics. Our activities included the publication includes texts on what we drink, how enquiries 16, 17. moderating a seminar during which politicians debatwe drink, where we buy alcohol, what drinks trends we ed such issues as alcohol advertising, chilled drinks in are following, and the harmful effects of alcohol. The We believe that this information was not presented stores, and extended opening hours. We also organised theme of this year’s publication was parents, children, clearly enough in 2017’s debate on farm sales and we two round table discussions, one of which was based and alcohol. accordingly decided that it was important to share on our new publication, The Alcohol Report. The other what we know on this issue so that people would discussion addressed our operations and our offering. The 2017 Alcohol Report was sent out to around one understand what a “yes” to farm sales would actualthousand decision-makers, voluntary organisations, ly mean. To this end, Systembolaget implemented a INTERNATIONAL COLLABORATION journalists, and official bodies. number of measures including sending a letter out Systembolaget has an ongoing dialogue with other 39 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Direction and strategic initiais also available for download at tonårsparlören.se. These inspirers hold different positions within Systembolaget and spend a number of their working hours tives mindfulness tools The Teenage Phrasebook is a popular tool amongst parents and, in addition, amongst those working with working with issues on behalf of IQ. They act as an important contact interface between Systembolaget locally-based preventative measures. In 2017, for exand local civil society, and spotlight interesting examSystembolaget and our independent subsidiary compaample, IQ expanded its partnership with municipal ples of success in this field throughout Sweden. ny, IQ, work in a number of ways to increase our customand regional ANDT coordinators (ANDT is the Govers’ mindfulness. The best chance of getting our mesernment’s Council on alcohol, narcotics, doping and THE “BÄSTA FESTEN” [BEST PARTY] STUDENT sage across is in settings in which we, as individuals, tobacco issues) by providing them with, amongst other INITIATIVE come into contact with alcohol in one way or another. things, information and presentation material based on There are 95 student unions and clubs in Sweden. In Which is why we are developing digital and analogue the Teenage Phrasebook. 2017, 22 of them took part in the “Bästa Festen” [Best tools that can reach people in specific situations. Party] project launched in 2016. The project entails Discussions about alcohol can be particularly chalthe unions and clubs working to change norms and IQ works in three different operating areas: know-how, lenging for asylum seekers and newly arrived parents attitudes when it comes to alcohol in student life. communication, and networks. The company’s manof teenagers, and IQ has, therefore, produced a broThe project is a platform for swapping experiences, date is to promote a smarter approach to alcohol. IQ chure entitled “Alcohol and teenagers – for parents”. generating ideas, and developing concrete tools and endeavours, through its expertise and communication, The brochure is available in easy to read Swedish, methods. All of the unions/clubs who took part have to create awareness, mindfulness and engagement in Arabic, Somali, Dari, Tigrinya, and English, and has drawn up or updated their alcohol policies and begun individual’s own drinking and that of other people. We been distributed to every county council in Sweden, developing action plans linked to their alcohol policy. have worked with a number of initiatives during the year. amongst others. Over 250,000 people have been reached by the project’s message. THE TEENAGE PHRASEBOOK “FOTBOLL UTAN FYLLA” [SOBER FOOTBALL] The longer young people wait to start drinking, the IQ has continued to work on its collaborative project, IQ’S DIGITAL STRATEGY smaller the risk that they will have problems with alco“Fotboll utan Fylla” [Sober Football] in 2017. The goal IQ’s ambition with regard to the changing media landhol later in life, which is why IQ publishes its book, The is to achieve a positive football experience for as many scape for its communication to increasingly promote Teenage Phrasebook18 every year. The Teenage Phrasepeople as possible by reducing levels of drunkenness in engagement and behavioural change – generated a book offers facts, arguments and tips for concerned football grounds. IQ is working in partnership with STAD realisation on the part of Systembolaget that realising parents. The primary focus is on alcohol, but The Teen(Stockholm prevents alcohol and drug problems), the this ambition necessitated a clearer digital strategy. age Phrasebook also covers a number of other issues Swedish premier league footballs clubs, AIK, Djurgården Work on this new digital strategy was completed in in connection with the teenage years. The hope is that and Hammarby, and with the police, the Friends Arena, 2017. The biggest change sees an increased focus on the book will make it easier to talk about alcohol at Tele2 Arena, and caterers at the various arenas. reaching out more specifically to individuals. Largehome and to postpone young people’s alcohol debut. scale, broad communication has enabled us to build IQ INSPIRERS good brand familiarity and helped increase public Copies of The Teenage Phrasebook were sent to all IQ Inspirers is a partnership between Systembolaget awareness. It is now time to make greater use of digital legal guardians of children born in 2003, in time for and IQ. In 2017, there were eight IQ Inspirers nationsolutions in a more individualised and efficient way, to Walpurgis Night and the end of the school year. The wide, who mainly work with local projects and initiprovide concrete tips and advice that more specifically book, which is published in both Swedish and English, atives that promote a smarter approach to alcohol. target the individual. 40 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS ALCOHOL INDEX over several surveys in succession. This group drink comprised unregistered sales, with imports by travelSwedes’ attitudes to alcohol are an important issue for alcohol more often and in larger quantities. The group lers accounting for 12.5 per cent of the total, smuggled Systembolaget, showing us how well our information primarily comprises men (2/3), and just over half of this alcohol for 4.9 per cent, home-produced alcohol for work is proceeding. The Alcohol Index is a strategically group are below 34 years of age. Men in this group are 1.8 per cent, and online purchases for 1.3 per cent. important key ratio and gives a combined measuremore commonly workers or students. ment of people’s attitudes to alcohol in different situSwedes’ preferred alcoholic drink nowadays is wine, ations. The Alcohol Index is generated from responses WORKDAY INDEX and 41.6 per cent of the alcohol consumed in 2016 was to nine questions asking what people see as right or The Workday Index, which IQ has been compiling for wine. Strong beer accounted for 30.7 per cent, spirits wrong when it comes to alcohol. The questions are four years now, shows the public’s attitudes to drinking for 20.7 per cent, medium-strength beer for 5.5 per posed on a yearly basis to 2,000 people aged 16+. Our on workdays. The 2017 shows a gently rising trend tocent, and cider for 1.4 per cent. subsidiary company, IQ, is behind both the Alcohol Inwards a greater distancing from alcohol consumption dex and the report produced, and commissions Novus on workdays. Young people aged between 17 and 19 were also interto collect the data. A higher index value indicates a viewed within the framework of the Monitor Survey, more moderate attitude to alcohol. THE MONITORING SURVEY – ALCOHOL asking them whether they had personally bought alCONSUMPTION IN SWEDEN cohol at Systembolaget. 0.1 per cent answered in the The steep decline seen last year levelled off in the 2017 Systembolaget is tasked by the Government with conaffirmative. Alcohol Index, but the trend is still gently declining ducting annual measurements of the total volume of towards a more permissive attitude to alcohol. alcohol consumed in Sweden. The Monitoring Survey1 The results of the 2017 Monitor Survey are scheduled is conducted by the Swedish Council for Information for publication in May 2018. 2017 2016 2015 on Alcohol and Other Drugs (CAN) and entails complemented registered sales of alcohol in Sweden with Alcohol Index 62.0 62.6 65.2 other, unregistered acquisition sources. The survey is Direction and strategic initiaconducted on a rolling basis throughout the year by means of interviews with just over 18,000 people. tives – research and facts The biggest change can be seen in the younger men aged 16-29 and women aged 30-44 groups, with these Alcohol consumption in Sweden in 2016 totalled Alcohol research builds our knowledge of the ways in two groups showing the biggest reduction in their al9.0 litres per head of population aged 15 and above, which alcohol affects society and people. It results in cohol index by gender and age. This represents a break corresponding to a reduction of just over 1 per cent a greater insight into one of our biggest public health in the positive trend amongst younger men towards a from 2015. The reduction was due to a reduction in problems and of the ways in which this problem can more moderate attitude to alcohol, and the trend is purchases of smuggled alcohol. Imports by travellers be reduced. Systembolaget endeavours to be a knowlnow heading down. Women aged between 30 and 44 have also declined. edge hub in the alcohol sphere in Sweden, and alcohol have shown a lower index value for the second survey research is consequently an important part of Systemin succession. Total alcohol consumption declined by 8 per cent bebolaget’s mandate. We support research in a number tween 2007 and 2015, with Systembolaget accounting of different ways. The trend shows that the percentage with a permissive for 63.2 per cent of sales of alcohol consumed, restauattitude (an alcohol index of up to 50) is slowly conrants for 10.8 per cent, and cans of medium-strength RESEARCH tinuing to increase – a trend that has now continued beer from stores for 5.5 per cent. The remaining sales The independent Alcohol Research Council, comprising 41 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS alcohol researchers and social representatives, is an imWHO COLLABORATION CENTER published as a CAN report in the autumn of 2017.19 portant player in Systembolaget’s research work. The Lund is home to the WHO Collaboration Center for the Alcohol Research Council finances or partially finances implementation of health promotion, which is partially The study shows, amongst other things, that people a range of scientific studies every year. Financing is profinanced by Systembolaget. There are approximatewho buy boxed wines generally consume more wine vided for social scientific, public health, and medical ly 700 such centres worldwide, and the Lund one is than those who buy bottled wine. The groups with the research into alcohol, with special priority given to tasked with developing, collating, disseminating, and highest alcohol consumption are, however, still those preventative work in relation to alcohol-induced harm. implementing knowledge of health promotion work. who drink beer and spirits. The study also demolishes The goal is to improve treatment results for patients the myth that boxed wine is a “women’s thing” – no In 2016, Systembolaget decided to increase its Alcohol through improved lifestyle habits, and the focus is on gender-related differences were found in consumption Research Council subsidy from SEK 7 million to SEK 10 alcohol, tobacco, drugs, nutrition, physical activity, and of boxed wines. million, starting in 2017. The breakdown of the funding for co-morbidities. which researchers can apply was revised in conjunction SYSTEMBOLAGET’S ACHIEVEMENT PRIZE with the increase, and SEK 3 million is now allocated to reTARGETED RESEARCH PROGRAMMES Systembolaget awards its Achievement Prize to research areas identified by Systembolaget. In 2017, these Two studies financed by Systembolaget were completward leading researchers who have contributed new areas were alcohol and parents of young children, and ed and presented in 2017. know-how in the field of alcohol research. The prize of alcohol and young people. SEK 6 million is allocated to SEK 100,000 is designed to encourage research and free subsidies, which means that researchers can apply The first study, “What are the public health and safety enhance the opportunities for communication on the for grants in any area of alcohol-related research at all. A benefits of the Swedish government alcohol monopsubject of alcohol research. further SEK 1 million is earmarked for a junior researcher oly?”, was carried out by an international group of rewho received their doctorate a maximum of three years searchers and the aim was to investigate the effects of a The 2017 Achievement Prize winner was Thor Norström, ago. This is a new initiative that is being implemented to retail monopoly on public health. The study shows that who was awarded the prize for his systematic, expert encourage growth in the field of alcohol research. a deregulation of the alcohol monopoly would increase and extensive socio-scientific alcohol-related research, the availability of alcohol in Sweden which would, in and for the importance of his research findings to a reSystembolaget has also, to the same end, established turn, lead to an increase in both direct and indirect alcostrictive alcohol policy in Sweden. a research grant for junior researchers. The recipient is hol-related harm. It is, for example, estimated that there chosen by a jury of independent alcohol researchers. In would be 29,000 more cases of violence in Sweden ALCOHOL RESEARCH SEMINARS 2017, the grant was awarded to Jenny Rangmar, B.Sc., per year, 8,000 more cases of DUI, and 1,400 more Systembolaget organises open and free of charge semof the University of Gothenburg, who is researching alcohol-related deaths. The number of alcohol-related inars on a variety of themes throughout Sweden every alcohol-related foetal damage and the way this affects suicides would increase by 42 per cent.9 year. The aim is to disseminate knowledge of alcohol these individuals in adulthood. research across society. In 2017, the theme of the semThe second study, “Vilken roll har boxviner spelat för inars was parents, children and alcohol. Seminars on FINANCING UNIVERSITY CHAIRS den ökade vinkonsumtionen i Sverige?” [What role do the theme, based on the Alcohol Report, were held in Systembolaget partially finances a chair in clinical alboxed wines play in the increase in wine consumption Jönköping and Sundsvall in 2017. cohol research at the University of Lund. The chair is in Sweden?], studied the effect of boxed wines on alcurrently held by Hanne Tönnessen. We also, in assocohol consumption in Sweden. The study, which was ciation with the chair, finance Bertil Göransson’s travel launched in 2015, was carried out by researchers at the grant – a travel grant for young researchers. Karolinska Institute in Stockholm and the results were 42 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Key ratios, results and The number of people who want strong beer, wine and spirits to be sold in other stores has fallen to 18.7 per activities – increase awareness cent (-0.9%), while the number of those with no opinion either way has increased to 4.4 per cent (+0.2%). of alcohol’s risks and why The results show that, as was previously the case, Systembolaget exists support for the monopoly is stronger amongst women than men, in those aged 50+, and in those with tertiary education. The upturn shows that it continues to be OPINION INDEX – OPI important to remind people that limiting the availability A positive attitude towards Systembolaget on the part of alcohol helps improve public health. of the population of Sweden is important in terms of our ability to carry out our mandate in the long term, PROOF OF AGE CHECKS which is why we measure the percentage of Swedes Systembolaget does not sell to anyone under the age of who wish to retain Systembolaget and the monopoly 20, to anyone who is visibly intoxicated, or to anyone we on sales of strong beer, wines and spirits on a rolling suspect of illicit resupply. Control purchases are carried basis through our Opinion Index. out every year by “mystery shoppers” aged between 20 and 24 to ensure that we are complying with these Every month*, a nationally representative selection selling rules. Approximately 5,800 control purchases of 750 people aged 15 and above are asked, via Kanwere carried out in stores in 2017, and proof of age was tar SIFO, “Do you think that Systembolaget and the requested in 95.6 per cent of the control purchases monopoly on the sale of strong beer, wine and spirits carried out. should be retained, or would you prefer strong beer, wine and spirits to be sold in other stores”. A total of 9,000 interviews are conducted every year. Proof of age checks 2017 2016 2015 % 95.6 95.7 95.8 The OPI is reported quarterly. The results show that the percentage of approved Opinion Index (OPI) 2017 2016 2015 test purchases continues to be high and just under the target figure we had set for 2017 of 96 per cent. % 76.9 76.2 76.7 The marginal downturn from previous years corresponds to four more missed control purchases. One The 2017 figure for those wishing to retain Systembolapositive change is that proof of age was requested in get’s monopoly is 76.9 per cent, corresponding to an 99 per cent of control purchases for the 20-year old increase on both the index for 2016 and on the previage group. ous record high index from 2015, which means that we have all but achieved our goal for 2017 of 77 per cent. *No interviews during the holiday months of July, 1,500 interviews in August. 43 Creating optimum O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S conditions for CONTENTS achieving our goals S T R AT E G I C S H I F T # 3 : Creating optimum conditions for achieving our goals A great deal is expected of Systembolaget. Our special role means that our work with ethics and anti-corruption is particularly important, and this is also true of our efforts to reduce our environmental and climate impact. Our operations and our organisational ability must constantly improve and evolve if we are to live up to these expectations. Clear priorities and the ability to see the big picture are two important keys to success here. We must also be resource-smart – we must, in other words, be both cost-effective and sustainable. Our corporate culture is also critical to our success. Good performance environments enable our employees to excel, and ensure that more people feel that they are making a contribution, making a difference, and have increased job satisfaction. Creating the conditions for cooperation and engagement, both internally and externally, is important if we are to succeed. This is how we create the optimum conditions for our operations so that we can continue to fulfil our mandate. 44 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Securing the talent bolaget’s engine and direction in the strategic period ahead. This is a strategic approach that addresses how we want both Systembolaget and everyone who works in 2017 by clarifying and communicating issues in relation to responsibilities and roles. We have clarified the control structures, internal communication paths, pool here to be even better. Our objective here is to ensure more customers feels the benefits of our customer guarantee and that every employee is able to talk about and decision-making mandates within the stores. We have also drawn up new and explanatory role profiles for Area Managers, Store Managers, and Group why Systembolaget exists and the benefits we provide. Managers. Why this is important “Kraften i 5 000” is a continuation of Systembolaget’s • We realised, on the basis of a pilot study of our HR By developing ourselves, we make Systembolaget betprevious development programmes, Good Customer processes carried out in 2016, that Systembolaget ter and more successful. The competence of SystemInteraction, Good Leadership, and Next Level Leaderwas lagging behind the rest of the retail sector with bolaget’s employees is one of the keys to continuing ship – DGL 2.0. Personal leadership is central to “Kraften regard to operational training for newly appointed to impress our customers – and impressed customers i 5 000”. store managers. We also noted that store managers are vital if we are to retain our monopoly and the ability in particular were prone to high levels of both staff to fulfil our mandate. “Kraften i 5 000” has set goals that we want to achieve: turnover and sick leave. We consequently began to increased engagement and participation, increased analyse the need for a more in-depth, more compreSecuring the talent pool primarily means two things group efficiency, and stronger personal leadership. hensive introduction to running a store, in order to for us: finding the right people for us, as a company, We follow up on these goals by means of, amongst make life easier for newly appointed store managers. in conjunction with new recruitments, and ensuring other things, our Agerus employee satisfaction survey The analysis was completed in 2017 and resulted in that our existing personnel are happy in their jobs and every autumn. a decision to introduce new store managers to the are developing continuously as part of their everyday art of running a store through an introductory course activities. LEADERSHIP AT SYSTEMBOLAGET lasting approximately six weeks. The course structure Managers are responsible for creating conditions for will be announced in 2018. We believe that ensuring engaged employees is diffilearning and development by their colleagues. Managecult without good management, so Systembolaget has ment is a profession in its own right and a critical factor been working for many years now to develop a manin the success of Systembolaget as a whole. Leadership IMPROVED QUANTIFIABILITY agement structure tasked with promoting good perwithin Systembolaget is based on the core belief that The ability to take informed decisions based on reliable formances and ensuring goal fulfilment – and thereby every individual shall be encouraged to maximise their data is an important component of Systembolaget’s helping create the right conditions for our employees. potential to enable them, in turn, to help others maximefforts to secure the talent pool. We have increasingly ise their potential. We have accordingly implemented begun to make use of statistics and in-depth analyses a number of activities during the year with the aim of to quantify and analyse our successes and challenges Direction and strategic strengthening and developing our managers: as employers. We are now able, with the aid of a data analysis warehouse for personnel statistics implementinitiatives • In 2016, we implemented changes in our stores that ed in 2016, to extra more relevant data. were based on the strategic decision that no manKRAFTEN I 5 000” ager should be directly responsible for more than 17 We also began using a digital tool that creates visualis“Kraften i 5 000” [The strength of 5,000] is Systememployees. We have continued our work in this area ations of several of our key ratios in 2017. 45 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS TRAINING TO BOOST SECURITY cordance with the inclusiveness plan established for Together] and “100-klubben” [The 100 Club] initiative. Threats and violence are one of the biggest work 2015-2018. The plan has four focus areas: increasing Since this venture started in 2015, we have taken on environment risks for our employees in several of our diversity amongst our employees, creating an inclusive 89 people newly arrived in Sweden. Our goal is to take stores. In 2016 and 2017, we organised a new, oneclimate, integrating the inclusiveness perspective into on 100 people during a three-year period which ends day course for employees at those stores exposed to our shared methodologies and routines, and ensuring in December 2018. In 2017, we have taken on almost violence and threats. This one-day course was held on that everything we do in relation to our customers is 200 people who, for a variety of reasons, have found 23 occasions in 2017, and we will continue to provide inclusive. it difficult to enter the labour market. the course in 2018. Measures to increase diversity • We are preparing to offer work experience places to INCLUSIVENESS We are continuing to develop our recruitment process foreign university graduates in partnership with three Systembolaget is there for everyone in Sweden. Our in order to reach out to new groups of potential employother State-owned companies and one external party goal is to have a workforce with a wide variety of experees. In 2016, we identified important steps we could in 2018. The aim is to make use of their skills and to tise, experience and skills. Our working climate shall take in this respect, and we continued the work in 2017: make it easier for them to enter the Swedish labour be characterised by respect and understanding – a market through work experience places and networkworking climate that welcomes people from different • We have reviewed our imagery, not least in our advering opportunities. backgrounds and with different life experiences. tisements and on our systembolaget.se and omsystembolaget.se websites, in order to make them more Systembolaget’s employees shall reflect society as a Discrimination legislation was tightened up in 2017 and inclusive and to create recognition amongst people whole and we are, therefore, working to reduce exclucompanies are now obliged to work proactively in conwith different backgrounds. sion in the group of people with special needs. We are nection with the seven bases for discrimination: gender, continuing our collaboration with the Swedish Public gender identity, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability, • We have updated all of Systembolaget’s linguistic Employment Service which aims to offer work experireligion, belief, and age20. guidelines and now use a more direct language that ence placements and subsidised jobs to people with speaks directly to the readers. special needs. Our goal thereby is to learn more and, We have mapped what these changes mean for us and in the long term, to be able to permanently employ are now working to ensure that we comply with the leg• We have held workshops reviewing the entire recruitmore people with special needs. In 2017, Systembolaislation’s requirements. We are taking a two-pronged ment process. get has taken on around 70 employees every month approach to this work, integrating some aspects of it via various forms of subsidised employment. This corinto our systematic health and safety activities, and • Systembolaget has also participated in recruitment responds to a considerable improvement on figures analysing the HR processes designed to identify prefairs in partnership with the Swedish Public Employfrom 2015, which is positive. One big challenge we still ventative measures. ment Service with a view to reaching and attracting face, however, is that these jobs are often temporary potential employees, particularly those with a foreign and seldom result in actual recruitment. One measure We have also provided training for all of our managers background. we are implementing to rectify this problem is workand Health & Safety Reps on the subject of discrimiing with experts from the Swedish Public Employment nation legislation during the year, highlighting aspects • We have also continued our collaboration with the Service on the level of adaptation in our stores for linked to an inclusive climate. Swedish Public Employment Service, offering work employees with various physical and mental special experience placements and subsidised jobs within needs, and on the measures we can take to improve Systembolaget has continued, in 2017, to work in acthe framework of the “Sverige Tillsammans” [Sweden accessibility. 46 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS In 2016, we launched a partnership with Samhall to use Immigrants). The material has been amongst the here is to distinguish sexual harassment from other their manpower services to meet our need for janitors. most downloaded products on the training material incidents involving threats and violence. We have also This partnership has continued in 2017, and Systemsite, utbudet.se. Compulsory and upper secondary established new routines for handling these incidents bolaget was nominated during the year for Samhall’s schools have also shown an interest in the material as and initiated a programme to identify what sort of pre“Showing the Way” prize, which they award to compaa basis for discussing alcohol habits, Systembolaget, ventative measures we can take. nies and advocates who have done the most to open and why we exist. These initiatives allow us to increase up the labour market to people with special needs. awareness of our operations, help improve people’s Swedish language skills, increase integration, and, at Key ratios, results and Creating an inclusive climate the same time, ensure that more people in Sweden Increasing internal awareness of inclusiveness and feel welcome at Systembolaget. We also updated our activities of Systembolaget’s view of it is an important part of brochure about Systembolaget in 2017, translating it creating an inclusive environment throughout our into several languages, including Tigrinya and Dari. FOCUS-/PERFORMANCE REVIEWS workforce. Measures implemented in recent years We use this key ratio to follow up on the percentage of have increased awareness of our inclusiveness work Our range is another important element of our incluemployees who receive regular evaluation and followfrom 68 per cent to 90 per cent, but we still face chalsiveness work, and we currently have approximately ing up of their performance and career development. lenges when it comes to prejudices and exclusionary 17,500 items from over 100 countries and are continThe FOCUS/performance reviews are an important part jargon. In 2017, therefore, we organised a theme day uing our efforts to adapt our range. of creating sustainable performance environments, for all employees on the theme of values, at which we not least as the manager’s most important channel to discussed how we relate to other people and how we #metoo his or her colleagues is the personal encounter. benefit from our differences. #metoo has clearly shown that there is a general culture of silence in society. Systembolaget has always In 2017, the European Court issued a ruling stipulating had zero tolerance for sexual harassment, and as part that employers are entitled to prohibit various kinds of of our systematic health and safety work, we endeavreligious expression amongst employees who interact our to ensure that all of our employees feel safe and with customers, e.g. headscarves or veils and crosssecure in submitting a complaint. In 2017, we have es21. We have accordingly clarified our clothing policy, continued working with existing internal routines to making it clear that we accept religious head coverings make them clearer. amongst our employees. The work environment in Systembolaget’s stores can Customer inclusiveness be tough when it comes to threats and violence from Inclusiveness also means that all of our customers customers. Sexual harassment by customers is not a should feel welcome and seen, however they visit us. new phenomenon either, and zero tolerance obviousWe require, apps and other digital content, for example, ly also applies here. We launched a new category of to be adapted for use by people with special needs. health and safety incidents in November in order to gain a better picture of how common sexual harassIn 2017, we launched a package of training material ment by customers is, and to understand how these about Systembolaget for SFI courses (Swedish for incidents can be actioned when they occur. The aim 47 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS FOCUS review in 2017 Yes % No % Total no. FOCUS review in 2015 Yes % No % Total no. (number) (number) responses1 (number) (number) responses1 Head office personnel 391 91 38 9 429 Head office personnel 351 90 39 10 390 Store personnel 2 3,107 79 841 21 3,948 Store personnel 2 2,935 75 978 25 3,913 Total 3,498 80 879 20 4,377 Total 3,286 76 1,017 24 4,303 1 A total of 4,377 employees responded. 1 A total of 4,303 employees responded. 2 Also includes Store Managers and Area Managers. 2 Also includes Store Managers and Area Managers. Boundary: it is not, as yet, possible to break the figures down by gender within each category that has completed Boundary: it is not, as yet, possible to break the figures down by gender within each category that has completed a FOCUS review. a FOCUS review. The figure for the number of FOCUS/performance reviews is based on Systembolaget’s Agerus survey. The The figure for the number of FOCUS/performance reviews is based on Systembolaget’s Agerus survey. The employees employees personally answered a question about whether they had completed a FOCUS/performance review with personally answered a question about whether they had completed a FOCUS/performance review with their manager their manager during the year. during the year. Performance reviews are an important part of creating sustainable performance FOCUS review in 2016 Yes % No % Total no. environments. All Systembolaget employees shall have annual performance (number) (number) responses1 reviews in which we follow up on and assess our shared skills and individual Head office personnel 368 91 37 9 405 goals. We follow up on goals, goal fulfilment, and skills, and draw up individual development plans for all employees on the basis of the reviews’ findings. Store personnel2 2,946 76 907 24 3,853 Total 3,314 78 944 22 4,258 In 2016, Systembolaget simplified the templates for performance reviews, making it easier to conduct them and provide feedback. In 2017, we evaluate 1 A total of 4,258 employees responded. the new templates and organised a course addressing the best way to conduct 2 Also includes Store Managers and Area Managers. performance reviews. We also conducted interviews which revealed that many Boundary: it is not, as yet, possible to break the figures down by gender within each category that has completed a FOCUS review. people lacked knowledge of the actual purpose of the performance reviews and we are consequently planning to clarify the information and improve commuThe figure for the number of FOCUS/performance reviews is based on Systembolaget’s Agerus survey. The employees personally answered a question about whether they had completed a FOCUS/performance review with their manager nication on this issue in future. during the year. PERFORMANCE CULTURE This key ratio measures the extent to which employees believe that the preconditions exist in their workplace for them to perform well (want to, know how to, capable of, allowed to, should), and the individual’s perceptions of how their basic needs are being met (to contribute, to belong, to develop, to feel confirmed). These factors are basic requirements and preconditions for our ability to establish and maintain sustainable performance environments. 48 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Performance culture 2017 2016 2015 talk about risks, and draw up proposed action plans that SICK LEAVE PERCENTAGE will be actively implemented in the year ahead. The sick leave percentage is an important metric for % 81.5 77.9 77.1 determining the sustainability of our work environIn the first half of 2017, we conducted an Organisaments. We want our employees to be able to continue The results of this year’s employee survey show that tional Dialogue, in order to build up a picture of the working for us until they retire, and to want to do so. generally speaking, the organisation provides a good current situation in Systembolaget’s Operating Area, The total sick leave rate is measured using the Swedish performance and health environment. We have seen Sales (OAS). The aim of the Organisational Dialogue National Financial Management Authority (ESV) defia successive improvement in all values since 2013 was to obtain an honest picture of the current situation nition, which measures hours of sick leave relative to (74.2%), and year on year, we have seen a marked within the operating area and of any gaps between the total number of available hours during the same improvement in our performance culture, from 77.9 theoretical ambitions and actual conditions. period. per cent to 81.5. This is a significant increase from an already high level in comparison with our benchmark The organisational dialogue method is based on anonfigure of 72 per cent. (The benchmark comprises apymous interviews. Eight internal reporters interviewed Sick leave as a percentage 2017 2016 2015 proximately 110,000 responses from the survey supa total of over 100 employees, 70 per cent of whom % 4.8 5.0 5.1 plier’s total customer data base.) worked within OAS (both in stores and centrally). The remaining 30 per cent work in various different funcWe have actively worked on the development of our tions at head office. The total sick leave rate fell relatively sharply in 2017 performance culture during the year as part of the and the goal of a total sick leave rate of 4.8 per cent “Strength of 5,000” programme. Our aim, through The interviews revolved around OAS’ strategy and was achieved. Improvements have occurred in much the strength inherent in our 5,000 employees, is to operating plan and the conditions needed to achieve of the company and in the majority of roles. The most achieve increased engagement and an increased the goals. The insights gained were summarised and significant reduction was noted with regard to the longsense of participation, an increased group efficiency, passed on to the sales management team in the form term sick leave rates for store managers. and stronger personal leadership. We believe that our of a report. The sales management team then draw up results show we are on the right track. both a long-term and a short-term action plan. We have worked with or continued to work with a number of activities in 2017 in order to get to grips with sick It is incredibly important that our employees feel that The analysis identified four underlying issues where leave levels. they have the necessary preconditions to perform well action was needed, based on the current situation: at work and that they feel that their basic requirements • In 2016, we launched a project amongst our store manas employees are being met. The percentage of System• The need for better prioritisation. agers with the aim of identifying the underlying causes bolaget employees who are satisfied with their ability • Improve the position of store managers. of the long-term sick leave noted within the group. The to perform is high and continuing to increase. There • Better skills composition in the Sales chain and cen“healthiness factors” identified by the project are leadare, however, still employees who responded with low trally within the operating area. ership, support, and meaningfulness. The “sickness values for this key ratio, and we are keen to improve their • Overview of how OAS follows up on operations and factors” identified are workload (imbalance between situation. All of our managers are consequently workkey ratios. demands/control/social support), the complexity of ing actively with results dialogues within their working the store manager role, ergonomics, and threats and groups. During these dialogues, the participants analyse The insights gained from the Organisational Dialogue will violence. strengthens and areas where improvement is needed, also be incorporated into next year’s operations plan. 49 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS In 2017, we implemented a number of measures in relation Staff turnover 2017 2016 2015 percentage who terminate their own employment); to the “sickness factors”. In order to reduce the workload, 3. the percentage of employees whom we re-employ for example, we have clarified the store manager role and % 18.0 16.6 11.9 (after they have not worked at Systembolaget for its responsibilities through clear role descriptions. We three years). have also conducted a pilot project designed to achieve Staff turnover has continued to increase in 2017, albeit sustainable, ergonomic behaviour throughout the Uppsaat a slower rate than last year. The turnover continues to In 2017, we produced an exit questionnaire and offered la area. The ergonomics project was carried out in the be driven by an increase in the number of sales personeveryone leaving the company the chance to complete spring of 2017 and will be repeated in other stores. All of nel leaving the company, and this role now has a staff it, in order to find out why people choose to leave the activities form part of an overall action plan and are turnover rate of just over 20 per cent. Turnover has, Systembolaget. We have currently received over 300 scheduled for completion in 2018. however, decreased slightly amongst sales personnel responses, corresponding to a response frequency of under the age of 30, and it is sales personnel aged 54 per cent. • We also simplified the rehabilitation templates and between 30 and 49 who account for the increase. Staff checklists in 2017. The goal is to make it easier for manturnover has also decreased amongst store managers DIVERSITY STATISTICS agers and leaders to quickly initiate the long-term sick and head office employees. It should also be noted that One of Systembolaget’s goals is to increase the numleave process. We have also produced a digital visualfor the first time ever, the rate of staff turnover is higher ber of employees with foreign backgrounds so that isation, which is available on the company’s intranet, to amongst women than men. they represent the same percentage of our workforce provide support. The visualisation teaches managers as they do the population makeup of Sweden. We what they should do and which checklists should be Systembolaget is keen to ensure a wide range of skills have mapped this key ratio for three years now and used, depending on the employee’s position within the within the organisation, and if some groups have a little has changed. The impending replacement of the rehabilitation process. higher staff turnover rate than others, we risk losing Swedish Data Protection Act (PUL) with the EU-wide the breadth of our in-house skills. In 2016, therefore, General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will result • We have also further developed a number of key ratios we initiated a more in-depth analysis of the reasons for in a tightening up of the requirements for processing showing the sick leave rate status within the company, this staff turnover. This work continued in 2017: personal data. enabling us to implement more targeted measures. We are aiming to implement these key ratios in 2018. • We conducted an interview-based survey during the In the light of the minor changes from the results of year with the help of an external company, investigatthe previous years’ follow-up surveys, we have elected • We have completed a new corporate health care proing what our employees think of Systembolaget as an to focus on investigating what the new requirements curement process and have engaged both a new prinemployer. will entail and consequently conducted no mapping cipal supplier and complementary service suppliers. work in 2016 or 2017. Our aim in 2018 is to conduct • We defined three key ratios for measuring the effia diversity mapping process in accordance with the STAFF TURNOVER ciency of our recruitment process, within the frameGDPR requirements and will, in future, be reporting A healthy rate of staff turnover is an indicator that we work of our recruitment work: this key ratio on a regular basis. have sustainable performance environments. This key ratio was introduced in 2016 and the measurements 1. the percentage of temporary positions that become PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES (GENDER AND AGE have been made possible by our new analysis methpermanent positions; GROUP) ods. We are able to measure both total staff turnover 2. the percentage of terminations (including both the Systembolaget endeavours to ensure an even gender and the turnover for different groups of employees. percentage whose employment we terminate and the distribution and to have employees of all ages. The 50 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS results for 2017 – 64 per cent women and 36 per cent men – is close to the defi2016 Number of Women (%) Men (%) Aged <30 Aged 30-50 Aged >50 employees nition of a gender equal company (60/40) and we are seeing a slow but steady (%) (%) (%) progression towards a more gender-equal workforce composition. Sales personnel 4,512 64 36 37 45 18 Store Managers 456 58 42 6 73 20 In 2017 we began refining the breakdown in our survey by dividing head office (HQ) personnel into two categories: employees and managers. At managerial Janitors 19 89 11 5 11 84 level, we have also elected to divide the managers into HQ managers and Area Store personnel, total 4,987 64 36 34 47 18 Managers. The aim of the new breakdown is to improve our ability to measure whether the HQ employees gender breakdown at managerial level reflects the gender breakdown within the HQ Managers 386 59 41 7 68 25 respective sections of the organisation in the same way as we have previously done for our store personnel. The results show that although we are approachArea Managers 57 63 37 0 47 53 ing the definition of equal, the gender breakdown at managerial level does not HQ personnel, total 31 52 48 0 71 29 really reflect the gender breakdown of the workforce and we will, therefore, be taking a closer look in 2018 at why this difference exists and what measures we Systembolaget, total 474 59 41 6 66 28 can take to move in the right direction. Sales personnel 5,461 63 37 32 49 19 2017 Number of Women (%) Men (%) Aged <30 Aged 30-50 Aged >50 2015 Number of Women (%) Men (%) Aged <30 Aged 30-50 Aged >50 employees (%) (%) (%) employees (%) (%) (%) Sales personnel 4,725 65 35 38 44 18 Sales personnel 4,402 66 34 33 47 19 Store Managers 476 59 41 7 71 22 Store Managers 465 55 45 3 74 23 Janitors 13 85 15 0 8 92 Janitors 22 91 9 9 14 77 Store personnel, total 5,214 64 36 35 46 18 Store personnel, total 4,889 65 35 30 50 20 HQ employees 412 57 43 7 68 24 HQ employees 378 60 40 6 67 26 HQ Managers 58 60 40 0 47 53 HQ Managers 43 67 33 0 37 63 Area Managers 30 43 57 0 63 37 Area Managers 29 45 55 0 59 41 HQ personnel, total 500 57 43 6 66 28 HQ personnel, total 450 60 40 5 64 31 Systembolaget, total 5,714 64 36 33 48 19 Systembolaget, total 5,339 65 35 28 51 21 1 Breakdown by management category within HQ was not available in 2015. 51 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Ethics and antiventatively with corruption. These tools are presented in brief below. OUR PURCHASING AND EVALUATION PROCESS Systembolaget has a centralised and transparent purchasing and evaluation process (see illustration on corruption OUR INTERNAL CODE OF CONDUCT In 2015, we drew up an internal Code of Conduct for our employees as part of our anti-corruption work. page 26). We apply the same terms to all drinks suppliers, for example, and do not negotiate the structure of the purchasing terms with any individual supplier The Code of Conduct brings together the majority of or individual groups of suppliers. We have centrally Why this is important the internal regulations and policies that we apply in approved display and placement rules adhered to by a single, easily accessible document. It includes rules all of our stores. Systembolaget is obliged to act in a way that is compatigoverning corruption and impropriety, external conble with EU law regulations governing State-owned retail tacts, inclusiveness, and conduct in social media. Systembolaget’s Owner’s Directive stipulates that monopolies. In brief, this means that in conjunction both purchasing and evaluation must be conducted in an with the purchase and sale of alcoholic drinks, SystemIn the autumn of 2016, the new internal Code of Conimpartial and brand-neutral way. This is achieved by bolaget must apply objective and transparent rules in duct was established within the company in the form the following means: an impartial and brand-neutral way. These requirements of an e-training course. We set a goal of making the are due to our special role and our monopoly. course obligatory for all new recruits, and in 2017, we • Transparency – Systembolaget’s general purchasing also decided to ensure that all existing employees took terms for the purchase of alcoholic drinks are the the course. By the end of the year, 91 per cent of all Syssame for all suppliers, are public, and are amended Direction and strategic tembolaget employees had completed the course, as in line with previously determined norms. had Systembolaget’s Board of Directors. The e-learninitiatives ing course will be completed by all managers every • Objectivity – In Systembolaget’s range model, the other year in order to ensure that the Code of Conduct primary determinant of the items that make up SysSystembolaget works in a committed and structured remains fresh in their memory. tembolaget’s range is customer demand. way to maintain high ethical standards and to counter corruption throughout the value chain. We work to OUR EXTERNAL CODE OF CONDUCT • Brand neutral – the tender tasting procedures carried prevent regulatory breaches by means of established Systembolaget has an external Code of Conduct out by Systembolaget in conjunction with the purrisk assessment processes and with zero tolerance for drawn up by the BSCI organisation (Business Social chase of alcoholic drinks are conducted completely bribery and other forms of corruption. We reject any Compliance Initiative). The Code imposes requireblind. The people carrying out the testing have, in form of direct or indirect attempt to exert improper inments in 11 different areas, such as anti-corruption, other words, no idea which product is contained in fluence on our employees, either by suppliers or partthe work environment, occupational health and safety, which glass. ners. Our ambition, if a regulatory breach nonetheless forced labour, working hours, wages and freedom of occurs, is to make reporting it as simple and secure association, non-discrimination, special protection for ETHICS ADVISORS as possible, and to conduct a programme of incident young workers, and a ban on child labour.22 The Code Systembolaget has two ethics advisors in the form of management work that focuses on consequences and of Conduct is included in Systembolaget’s purchasing store managers with extensive experience of how we change. agreements with Swedish suppliers, who are tasked operate at Systembolaget. Employees can turn to these with ensuring that the Code of Conduct is also applied advisors to discuss ethical issues and dilemmas, with a Systembolaget has a number of tools for working preby their subcontractors. guarantee of anonymity. In 2017, we shifted responsibility 52 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS for the ethics advisors from HR to Compliance. The work committee by the company management. The aim is Reported incidents of 2017 2016 2015 of the ethics advisors was highlighted when they gave to ensure that Systembolaget’s management is familcorruption1 presentations of their work at head office and at two Area iarised both with incidents and reports, and with the Total number of confirmed inciManager meetings. proactive compliance work carried out. dents of corruption1 9 5 7 THE WHISTLEBLOWING SYSTEM OUR POLICIES Total number of confirmed Systembolaget has an external whistleblowing system In December 2017, all of Systembolaget’s policies, incidents where employees were to enable it to discover and manage any improprieties such as our business ethics policy, our inclusiveness subjected to occupational law-re9 5 7 lated disciplinary measures due at an early stage. This channel gives both employees policy, and our purchasing policy, were made a matter to corruption and external parties, such as suppliers, the chance to of public record, and the policies can now be viewed report serious improprieties anonymously in relation at omsystembolaget.se. The decision to make the poliTotal number of corruption to Systembolaget’s own employees. cies public is part of our efforts to be more transparent. incidents that resulted in the termi0 0 0 nation of commercial agreements due to breach of contract Two reports of improprieties were submitted to our ETHICS DIALOGUES AT MANAGERIAL LEVEL whistleblowing system in 2017 and are now being inIn 2016, we developed a new system for reporting Number of legal proceedings vestigated in accordance with our routines. the implementation of these dialogues in order to imresolved in a public court of law 0 0 0 prove the actual reporting, its quantifiability, and the or administrative court due to Applicable routines state that all whistleblowing followup work. In 2017 the new system was made ready incidents of corruption reports received shall be categorised and those refor use for the first time in the spring of 2018. maining as whistleblowing shall be reported to the 1 The key ratio measures incidents where we have discovered breaches by employees of the preventative routines that we have put in place to counter President by the Department Director. The cases are corruption. No incident was sufficiently serious that bribery was suspected. No reports were made to the police and the sanction comprised, instead, then processed by the directors and the Compliance Key ratios, results and activities disciplinary measures by Systembolaget in its role as an employer – a written Director is kept updated on a rolling basis. reminder. OUR COMBINED REPORTING CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION We have endeavoured, for a number of years now, to Systembolaget collates reports on suspected improWe use this key ratio to measure incidents when we create a transparent culture in which improprieties prieties through a number of channels, such as our have discovered breaches by employees of the preare highlighted and incidents reported. We saw, in whistleblowing system and our ethics advisors. From ventative routines that we have put in place to counter 2017, that this work had resulted in our picking up 2016, all reports on suspected improprieties are collatcorruption. more incidents than before. The results also showed ed by our Head of Compliance. Having a single person the importance of ongoing training in and information collate all the reports gives us a better overview of the about our riles and ethical dilemmas in order to enincidents and enables possible “trends” to be detected sure that a focus on these issues is retained throughat an early stage. It also ensures clearer ownership of out the organisation. Examples of the measures we the issue. have implemented during the year to strengthen our anti-corruption work are shown below. Our Head of Compliance compiles a report each year for submission to the Board’s ethics and sustainability 53 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS Measures to strengthen our anti-corruption work tomers and in ensuring our employees are proud to Our overall environmental plan will, in future, be divided • When an incident in relation to supplier influence or work at Systembolaget. And Systembolaget’s Owner’s into a number of different approaches: supporting purchases is deemed sufficiently serious, Directive and social mandate make it even more vital. • Make it easier for our customers to make sustainable a special working group may be convened to address choices. the problem. This was the case in the spring of 2016 af• Promote a reduction in the climate impact of packter an incident had been identified in one of our stores Direction and strategic aging. and an action plan with specific proactive measures • Ensure fundamental minimum environmental standwas drawn up and implemented across the company. initiatives ards on the part of our suppliers and producers. This work was followed up and evaluated in 2017. Rep• Engage in and promote industry partnerships. resentatives of Risk control have visited 50 stores and Systembolaget’s operations are global and our supply • Conduct an exemplary programme of internal envitalked to the employees about how they handle their chain is extensive. The majority of our over 700 active ronmental work. supplier contacts. Risk control felt that the employees drinks suppliers have subcontractors and they, in turn, had good familiarity with the rules and with how to act often have subcontractors of their own. Our indirect The first two approaches are described in more detail if a deviation from these rules is discovered. climate and environmental impact – from vineyards, in the section entitled Carefully selected range (see drinks production, transportation and packaging – is, page 26). • In 2017, we carried out an anti-corruption survey of Systherefore, substantial. tembolaget’s 100 biggest suppliers and all TRLS suppliENSURE FUNDAMENTAL STANDARDS ers (Temporary Range Local and Small scale). The survey We have, in partnership with the other Nordic alcohol Systembolaget’s Code of Conduct demands that proshowed that we are not getting our message across to monopolies, commissioned an environmental analysis ducers comply with a number of fundamental standards our smaller suppliers in the same way as to our larger of the environmental impact of our drinks, from cultivaon environmental issues. It was apparent from the 2016ones. The smaller suppliers are generally less familiar with tion to customer. The analysis shows that our indirect 2017 audit result that the environmental requirements do our purchasing policy and our external code of conduct. impact is primarily felt in three areas of the environment: not pose any significant challenge at the producer link in We will be implementing a number of activities aimed at air pollution, climate impact, and biological diversity the value chain. Systembolaget will, therefore, conduct smaller suppliers in 2018 in order to address this issue. thanks to increased land usage. The biggest climate its work within the framework of Amfori BSCI in 2018 impact in our value chain comes from the manufacture and subsequent years in a variety of ways, with the aim of packaging in general and glass in particular. The of strengthening the Code of Conduct’s chapter on enEnvironment and second largest climate impact comes from cultivation and production. vironmental issues. Our hope was that the BEPI initiative (an initiative within the framework of Amfori BSCI) would result in an increased focus on environmental issues, climate The environmental and climate impact of Systembolaget’s own operations in Sweden is small, in the overall but we have refrained from implementing BEPI in Systembolaget’s supply chain, due to the fact that so few context, but focusing on it is still important. Working people have signed up and that the current structure is Why this is important to reduce our own impact is a priority issue for us and our ability to promote environmental issues in other complex. parts of the value chain depends on us doing this. Our We have strengthened our Nordic collaboration in the Reducing our environmental and climate impact is a work in this area also creates a sense of pride in our form of an updated 5-year plan that focuses on the engiven for us. It is also a prerequisite for satisfied cusemployees. vironment, and where we have identified four key areas 54 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS that we will promote together: packaging, transport, a desire to reduce our climate footprint. We will, FOSSIL FUEL-FREE TRANSPORT IS OUR LONG-TERM water, and biological diversity. The focus in 2018 will through this statement of intent, set goals based on GOAL be on packaging, and activities as part of this work will our respective companies’ preconditions before NoTransports have a relatively substantial environmental include a packaging seminar for our suppliers. vember 2018. The goals shall be quantifiable in line impact throughout Systembolaget’s value chain. Syswith the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, GHG, which is an tembolaget does not own any means of transport, and It is vital, if we are to generate the conditions in which internationally recognised standard for calculating and the further down the chain from our operations that our suppliers take additional responsibility for the enreporting greenhouse gas emissions. We will start totransportation occurs, the harder it is for us to influence vironment, that we share our know-how and our tools, day – 10 November 2017. Our ambition is that in one transport choices. What we can influence, however, is and we have now developed an e-learning course foyear’s time, in November 2018, every single one of us the transportation that occurs closer to us, such as supcusing on environmental issues as part of this work. The will have reported our goals to a shared platform and pliers’ transports, via their distributors, to our stores. The course will be launched in the spring of 2018, when it taken the next step in our efforts to reduce our own same is true of the transportation we buy in for goods will become mandatory for all suppliers. The course impact and make a difference. ordered from our available for order range and deliveries looks at the environmental impact of Systembolaget’s to our agents. Our new procurement strategy for the products and at what can be done to reduce one’s own We want to be companies that integrate sustainability coming years will have an increased focus on identifying environmental impact. into our business strategy and create scope for responsolutions that will reduce the climate impact of these sibility in our business models in relation to and focusing transports. Our long-term goal is for all drinks transports ENGAGEMENT IN AND PROMOTION OF ENVIRONon our customers, the climate, people and the environwithin Sweden to be fossil fuel-free by 2030. MENTAL ISSUES IN THE DRINKS INDUSTRY ment. In the long term, we aim to compare ourselves In 2016, Systembolaget, in partnership with the industry with and act as role models for other industries.” OUR OWN CLIMATE IMPACT organisations, the Swedish Brewers’ Association and In 2017, we mapped the energy usage by our stores the Swedish Spirits and Wine Suppliers’ Association REDUCING PLASTIC BAGS USAGE and also mapped our travel – a process that resulted (SVL), invited industry CEOs to a full-day discussion on A new legislative requirement to reduce plastic bag in a number of suggested measures that are now being the theme of business and the environment. A broad usage was introduced in June 2017, which has helped evaluated. Systembolaget has a new climate goal for working group was then formed, comprising 11 industry increase our focus on how much plastic we use at our own operations, namely that emissions from purrepresentatives. Together, they have built a deeper and Systembolaget. Every year, our customers fill over 120 chased energy, coolants, and leased vehicles shall be broader collaboration that has resulted in a joint statemillion baskets in our stores, which translates to a lot of zero by 2023. We will implement measures that will be ment of intent, undertaking to work together to reduce plastic bags. We reduced plastic bag purchases during identified and evaluated annual from a total sustainabilthe industry’s climate footprint. The statement of intent the year by 3.6 million, corresponding to a reduction of ity perspective in order both to achieve this goal and to was signed by the industry organisations’ Chairmen and 41 tonnes of plastic. Our goal is to reduce our sales of obtain the optimum solutions in every respect. Systembolaget’s President at this year’s CEO day event, plastic bags by a further 50 per cent or so by 2020. which was held in November 2017. In 2018, the working group will be drawing up a help and support package We are now drawing up an action plan detailing ways in Key ratios, results and activities designed to enable the various parties to deliver sucwhich we can reduce our plastic bag sales and thereby cessfully on the statement of intent. achieve our goal. The work will involve both developing CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS FROM OUR OWN alternative bags and communicating with our customers OPERATIONS “We, whether we are large or small operators in the in order to bring about behavioural changes. We have reformulated the climate impact key ratio Swedish drinks industry, share with Systembolaget that measures carbon dioxide emissions from our own 55 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS operations since 2017. The new key ratio includes direct CO2 emissions from the company’s leased veoffice in Stockholm, the Learning Centre on Skarpö, and one store in Gothenburg and one in Strömsund. Direction and strategic hicles and indirect CO2 emissions from the operations electricity and heating use. There were no emissions from these facilities in 2016. The legislative changes that came into force on 1 Janinitiatives uary 2017 meant that we are now obliged to submit Our long-term ambition is to be an effective going CO2 emissions from our own 2017 2016 reports for additional facilities, and are consequently operations, total no. tonnes concern with a reasonable rate of cost development, drawing up new routines for following up on stocks of maintaining a high standard of quality while simultaElectricity consumption 3,236 3,513 and leaks of coolants in 2018. neously achieving the yield requirement. Coolants1 0 0 Emissions from travel in vehicles leased by the comSystembolaget is financed by means of surcharges on Internal trips using leased vehicles 347 342 pany increased marginally by five tonnes of carbon goods sold. These surcharges are based on the handioxide equivalents between 2016 and 2017. We have Total CO2 emissions 3,583 3,855 dling costs of the goods, assuming efficient and rationidentified substantial potential for improvement in this al operations. The surcharge calculated is objective, Reduction/increase in tonnes area with regard to choice of fuel and will, therefore be transparent, and equal for all, and is non-negotiable. of CO2e in comparison with the -272 reviewing our policies and internal regulations for vehiprevious year The revenues generated by Systembolaget’s retail cles in 2018. Our goal is to have switched to exclusively sales include alcohol tax, which is a State-imposed The base year for our new climate goal is 2016 fossil fuel-free leased vehicles by 2023. This ambition excise duty. Changes to alcohol tax rates affect Sys1 Reported one year in arrears presupposes innovations in the development of fossil tembolaget’s revenues, as do the cost of the goods fuel-free vehicle fleets. This is an important trend and sold, and a change in alcohol tax must not, therefore, The above climate impact is also reported as part of one in which we are keen to participate and thereby have any impact on the gross profit. The alcohol tax our follow-up work based on the GHG protocol, which contribute to a reduction in climate impact. accrues to the State. we present in greater detail on page 106. Systembolaget has three financial key ratios that are Emissions from our own operations fell by 7 per cent in 2017. Emissions from our electricity consumption also fell during the year, thanks to the steps we have Finance included in the strategic key ratios for which goals are set, namely the equity/assets ratio, the return on equity, and cost-effectiveness. begun taking to improve efficiency, and we will be continuing with both these and new activities with a view Why this is important The equity/assets ratio is calculated as adjusted eqto achieving our goal of zero emissions from our own uity as a percentage of the Balance Sheet total. The operations by 2023. The activities aimed at reducing Systembolaget is not driven by selling targets or profit owner’s goal is for an equity/assets ratio of 20-30 per energy consumption in all of our operating premises maximisation. Our primary goal, as mandated by our cent. The equity/assets ratio is affected by changes in are continuing. owner – the State – is, instead, to be of benefit to society. equity relative to other Balance Sheet items, such as Our secondary goal is to deliver a yield requirement that financial assets and inventories. Projects and initiatives Our reporting cycle for coolant means that we report is predetermined by our owner. The revenues generated that result in increased efficiency for Balance Sheet these figures one year in arrears. Under the provisions by the operations shall, therefore, both cover costs and items, such as stock management, may, therefore, of legislation in force in 2016, we had four facilities for generate a return for the State. It is strategically imporresult in an increase in the equity/assets ratio. The aim which we were obliged to submit reports: our head tant, in achieving this, that we act in a resource-smart way. 56 O U R T H R E E S T R AT E G I C S H I F T S CONTENTS of the equity/assets metric is to show what percentage execution of the company’s mandate. The operations is to adapt overheads in different periods to changes of the assets are financed with the company’s equity: shall, therefore, be conducted in a cost-effective manin quantities sold. The 2017 Annual General Meeting to show, in other words, how sensitive the company is ner. By this, we mean that the company’s costs shall be approved a new calculation basis for the key ratio and to interest rate changes. The company currently has no covered and the State shall receive a reasonable return a target level of less than or equal to 2.3. The cost efloan financing and its liquidity is good, and the interest in accordance with the specified yield requirement. fectiveness on 31 December 2017 was 2.2 (2.3), which rate sensitivity is, therefore low. Cost-effectiveness is calculated as the ratio between is slightly below the target level set. total overheads and quantities sold. The goal is for The return on equity is calculated as the operating profthis key ratio to be equivalent to or less than 2.3 over 2017 2016 2015 it/loss for the period (rolling, 12 months) as a percenttime. Systembolaget may not conduct its operations Equity/assets ratio, % 27.8 28.2 28.3 age of the average adjusted equity. The term, average in a way that maximises profits, nor may it actively proadjusted equity, refers to the average of the opening mote sales, and the effectiveness metric is, therefore, Return on equity, % 17.2 17.5 11.6 and closing equity for the year, plus the capital share intended solely to ensure cost-effectiveness. Cost-effectiveness (factor) 2.2 2.3 of untaxed reserves. The return on equity should, in the long-term correspond to the ten-year bond yield (average calculated for the financial year) plus 7 percentage Key ratios, results and activities points. The owner’s yield requirement, together with other economic key ratios, forms the basis for the prinEQUITY/ASSETS RATIO ciples used when preparing the budget. Systembolaget On 31 December 2017, the equity/assets ratio was 27.8 does not attempt to increase sales and its budget work per cent (28.2). The Owner’s Instructions state that the consequently focuses on ensuring optimum cost utiliequity/assets ratio shall be 20-30 per cent for the full sation, based on an anticipated gross profit, in order to year. The equity/assets ratio normally varies over the achieve the yield requirement. course of the year. The Owner’s Instructions also state that the dividend RETURN ON EQUITY should, if permitted by the dividend provisions of the The return on equity shall, according to the Owner’s Swedish Companies Act, total the equivalent of 80-100 Instructions, correspond over time to the average 10 per cent of the profit/loss for the year after tax. If the year government bond yield, plus 7 percentage points, return exceeds the yield target figure, consideration is which, on 31 December 2017, corresponded to 7.6 per given to whether the surplus should be reversed to the cent (rolling, 12 months). Systembolaget’s return on operations in order to generate the maximum possible equity on 31 December 2017 was 17.2 per cent (17.5). social benefit in line with the mandate and mandate The change from the previous year was primarily due goals. See page 93 for the suggested appropriation to increased staff overheads. of profits for the year. COST EFFECTIVENESS The company’s operations shall be conducted in a This key ratio refers to a new owner’s goal and is premanner that enables us to ensure the high-quality sented once yearly. The aim of the effectiveness metric 57 CONTENTS Financial reporting 58 Economic performance FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Economic performance SALES bolaget’s fixed range increased to 43 (31). Sales totalled 2015 and 2017 account for around 1-2 per cent of this Systembolaget’s sales in 2017 totalled SEK 29,355 million SEK 615 million (610 m), corresponding to an increase of overall increase. This development is expected to con(28,469 m), corresponding to a year-on-year increase of 0.8 per cent. tinue over the next few years, resulting in a continued 3.1 per cent. Sales of wine totalled SEK 15,409 million increase in sales volumes in all product groups. Some (14,873 m), corresponding to an increase of 3.6 per cent, Interest in the alcohol-free range continues to increase, changes from developments in recent years are, howwhile sales of strong beer increased by 2.2 per cent to with sales of alcohol-free products increasing by 5.8 per ever, apparent with regard to the breakdown between SEK 7,028 million (6,874 m). Sales of spiritous drinks incent and totalling SEK 182 million (172 m). This is a trend product groups. These changes are primarily influenced creased by 2.8 per cent and totalled SEK 5,810 million that Systembolaget is keen to promote and we are now by changes in alcohol tax, prices and trends: (5,651 m), while sales of cider and mixed drinks increased able to offer a total of 66 (59) alcohol-free items in our by 3.1 per cent to SEK 760 million (737 m). The increase fixed range. • Growth is thought to be strongest in the cider and in revenues exceeded the increase in sales by volume, mixed drinks and strong beer product groups. due to a continued shift in purchasing patterns towards more expensive products. Alcohol-free • Sales of spiritous drinks have increased slightly, revers3.4 Strong ing the decline seen over the past 4-5 years. Volumes are Sales volumes increased slightly, year-on-year, to 483.0 beer expected to increase to the same level as in 2016-2017. Cider and million (479.3 m) litres, corresponding to an increase of 242.0 mixed drinks 0.8 per cent. The increase is attributable to the growth in 19.0 • Wine sales are expected to increase in tandem with Sweden’s population, to mixing effects between product population growth. groups, and to the number and mix of retail days differing Spirits from one year to another. 19.2 • Sales of alcohol-free drinks are expected to increase, Wine 199.5 but not at the same rate as that seen in recent years. Sales of organic products increased by 14.0 per cent to This is primarily attributable to the fact that the retail SEK 4,145 million and comprised 14.2 per cent of total Drinks sales in 2017, million litres. sector as a whole has expanded its range to meet cussales in SEK million. There were a total of 428 (373) ortomer demand. ganic products in Systembolaget’s fixed range at the end FUTURE SALES DEVELOPMENT of the year. Sales have developed in a relatively stable manner in The trend towards more expensive products in all prodrecent years, with an annual increase in revenues of uct groups is expected to increase in the next few years, The number of ethically labelled products in Systemaround 2-4 per cent. The increases in alcohol tax in albeit not quite as rapidly. Organic products have expe59 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS rienced strong growth in recent years and this growth CASH FLOW profit totalled SEK 22.0 million (54.6 m). The profit for is expected to continue in the years ahead. The cash flow from operating activities totalled SEK 529 the previous year was affected by the sale of a property million (306 m), with the year-on-year change primarily owned by AB K14 Näckströmsgatan which yielded a preOPERATING PROFIT due to changes in working capital. The cash flow from tax profit of SEK 33.3 million. The net profit is otherwise Systembolaget shall operate in a commercial way, and investment activities totalled SEK -918 million (-638 m) primarily attributable to intercompany rental revenue. shall focus on cost effectiveness, without promoting and comprised net investments in financial assets of sales. Systembolaget posted an operating profit of SEK -739 million (-499 m) and net investments in tangiLEGAL ISSUES SEK 270 million (217 m), with the increase primarily due ble fixed assets of SEK -179 million (-139 m). The investA report entitled Privat införsel av alkoholdrycker (Prito an increase in the gross profit to SEK 3,700 million ments in tangible fixed assets primarily comprised the vate imports of alcoholic drinks) was published in the (SEK 3,591 m), coupled with a marginal increase in total construction of new stores and renovation of existing summer of 2014. The Government Committee behind operating expenses. Selling expenses increased to SEK ones. Systembolaget has elected to invest its surplus the report had been tasked with: 2,767 million (2,746 m) due to a reduction in depreciliquidity in interest-bearing instruments in 2017 to a ation resulting from a lower investment rate in recent greater extent than in 2016. The cash flow from financial • determining which types of measures were currently years, coupled with an increase in the stores’ personnel activities totalled SEK -246 million (-182 m) and compermitted and prohibited with regard to e-commerce costs as a result of increased sales, annual pay reviews, prised a dividend of SEK 43 million (16 m) from AB K14 and home deliveries of alcoholic drinks; and an increase in the number of stores, and rising pension Näckströmsgatan corresponding to the company’s net costs resulting from changes to indexing and a non-reprofit, and Systembolaget’s payment of a dividend of • identifying which such measures should, with regard curring cost of SEK 57 million attributable to insurance SEK -289 million (-198 m) to the owner. to Swedish alcohol policy and the obligations that for pensioners. Administration costs increased to SEK derive from Sweden’s membership of the EU, be per669 million (634 m), largely due to increases in personFINANCIAL POSITION mitted and prohibited. nel costs, while information costs in relation to SystemShareholders’ equity on 31 December 2017 totalled SEK bolaget’s mandate fell due to the reuse of information. 1,605 million, corresponding to a year-on-year decrease Finnish regulations in the area of distance selling of The operating margin was 0.9 per cent (0.8). of SEK 7 million. The change comprised the net profit alcoholic drinks have been reviewed by the Court of for the year less the dividend paid to the owner, which Justice of the European Union as part of the so-called NET FINANCIAL ITEMS AND PRE-TAX PROFIT totalled SEK 298 million. Alkotaxi case. The Court issued its ruling on 12 NovemThe pre-tax profit was SEK 353 million (368 m). Net fiber 2015, confirming that the member states are permitnancial items totalled SEK 58 million (47 m), SEK 30 milSUMMARY OF THE SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES ted to implement alcohol policy measures designed to lion (26 m) of which comprised interest income, while IQ-initiativet AB (IQ) works to help promote a smarter approtect public health, including the imposition of bans SEK -14 million (6) comprised changes in value. Interest proach to alcohol that results in a reduction in the harmful on distance selling of alcoholic drinks. In the autumn expenses totalled SEK -1 million (-1 m). A dividend of SEK effects of alcohol. IQ informs, inspires, challenges, and of 2016, the Swedish government presented a draft bill 43 million (16 m) was received from Systembolaget’s acts as a platform for good examples of alcohol-prevenentitled “The regulation of distance selling of alcoholic subsidiary company, AB K14 Näckströmsgatan, during tion measures. IQ is financed by Systembolaget with an drinks“ in order to clarify the regulations in this area. The the year and exceeded the previous year’s dividend annual budget of SEK 35 million (35 m). The pre-tax profit memorandum also stated that the Court of Justice of due to the sale of a property. The market valuation of for the period was SEK -0.2 million (0.0 m). the European Union ruling in the Alkotaxi case had been Systembolaget’s investments has performed slightly taken into account. In the autumn of 2017, the Governnegatively during the year due to current interest rate AB K14 Näckströmsgatan manages Systembolaget’s ment notified Parliament that it intended to present a bill trends. operating properties. On 31 December 2017, the pre-tax on the matter. Systembolaget does not know when the 60 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS bill will be presented by the Government or debated by Commercial operators now operate in a different way Parliament, or when any amended legislation is schedand on a different scale in the digital arena than is the uled to come into force. case in the physical arena, where Systembolaget’s monopoly is more clearly regulated and easier to uphold A report entitled “The regulation of alcoholic ice cream and maintain. Unless measures are taken to modernise and other products”24 was also presented in the sumlegislation and take the new reality into account, this mer of 2017. The report proposes that alcoholic prepawill pose challenges, both to Systembolaget and to the rations that resemble alcoholic drinks may only be sold long-term retention of Sweden’s restrictive alcohol polby Systembolaget. Systembolaget has supported the icy. Systembolaget also needs to defend its information report’s proposal in its position paper. The proposal is provision operations and functionality, its brand, and its currently being processed in the customary manner by intellectual property if – bearing in mind our socio-pothe Swedish Government Offices. litical mandate and brand neutrality requirements – we are to avoid being associated with or appear to be the In the late summer of 2017, politicians and social comsource of alcohol advertising or commercial services. mentators returned to the question of whether Sweden Systembolaget must do this while developing its digital should introduce farm sales that would permit Swedish offering and product range – in line with both our obalcohol producers to sell alcohol directly to the conjective and mandate and with changes in the outside sumer. The issue has been investigated further and world – and retaining our focus on the customer. the results show that it is not possible for Sweden to combine Systembolaget’s monopoly with the right for SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE CLOSING DAY Swedish producers to sell alcohol directly to consumNo significant events, over and above the regular operers16. Research has also shown that Systembolaget’s ations, have occurred after the closing day. monopoly is beneficial to public health9. Systembolaget is, therefore, continuously developing both its local and small-scale product offering and the rest of its range, in order to continue to be one of Swedes’ most trusted companies. This work, coupled with a responsiveness to customer demand, has yielded results, and the local and small-scale range of beers, for example, increased from around 320 to just over 900 products over the past three years. Items from the local and small-scale range are generally available nationwide and this, coupled with the fact that Systembolaget has at least three employees in every local authority area in Sweden, makes Systembolaget an important enabler of a healthy drinking culture and a vibrant industry throughout Sweden. 61 Risk and sensitivity analysis FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Risk and sensitivity analysis Systembolaget’s objective for its risk management is an Management and ISO 31000. Processes, categorisation, liability insurance. These policies are managed by operation in which the risks to which the company are and organisational breakdown of risk management Systembolaget’s security unit with the assistance of an exposed to are identified at an early stage and managed within Systembolaget are clarified in the framework insurance broker. Systembolaget also takes out collecin line with the degree of impact that they can have on ultimately approved by the Board on a yearly basis. tive agreement insurance against occupational injuries. the company and its mandate. Systembolaget’s risk These policies are managed by Systembolaget’s HR management work shall, furthermore, be an integral Systembolaget carries out a company-wide risk analysis department. part of its operational governance and shall help enevery year. The risk analysis aggregates the risks from sure that the owner feels secure in the way in which the operating areas and departments for evaluation by Several of these types of insurance cover are a statutory Systembolaget fulfils its mandate and manages its risks. managers and key individuals within the operations and requirement for businesses and Systembolaget has also by the company management team with regard to the elected to take out additional insurance cover, over and RESPONSIBILITY way in which the risks affect the company at an overall above the statutory requirement, in order to guarantee Responsibility for risk management within Systemstrategic and operational level. the well-being, safety and security of our employees bolaget complies with the lines of defence described and the company. by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Operational risks are reported and followed up on a Treadway Commission (COSO). Line Managers and prosix-monthly basis by the company management and CRISIS AND CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT cess owners consequently have primary responsibility Board of Directors through the Audit Committee. The The crisis and continuity management methodologies for managing their risks and are, therefore, by definition, principle that underlies the risk evaluation work is that are spread across risk control and the security unit, with risk owners. Risk controllers support the risk owners and Systembolaget’s risk acceptance and tolerance levels the security unit responsible for crisis management. control and review compliance with Systembolaget’s are generally low, particularly with regard to threats to the Established fora exist in which incident, risk, crisis, and risk management framework. The internal audit, which safety and health of employees and the general public, continuity management are discussed and developed is audited by an external company, is tasked by the or risks to the company’s existence, mandate or brand. in order to strengthen the work in this area. Crisis manBoard of Directors with reviewing the efficiency and agement and continuity plans are tested and updated fitness for purpose of the risk management framework INSURANCE every year as far as is practically possible. and the operations’ risk management work. Systembolaget chooses to take out various insurance policies as part of its efforts to reduce the company’s RISKS PROCESS risk exposure. Systembolaget’s insurance programme The areas in which Systembolaget’s risk exposure is The risk management methodology within System­ includes property and consequential loss insurance, greatest, including risks from a sustainability perspecbolaget harmonises with COSO Enterprise Risk liability insurance for general liability, and product tive, are presented on the following page. 62 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS RISK AREA DESCRIPTION COMMENTS RISK AREA DESCRIPTION COMMENTS Reputation Existing legislation and the structure Systembolaget is In­ Systembolaget’s monopoly means Systembolaget works of alcohol advertising may open the working to bring about dependence that there is always a risk that stakecontinuously to raise door to uncertainty about the identity a change in the way in holders will, in a variety of ways, levels of awareness of the advertiser. This poses a chalwhich the brand is used attempt to influence the company’s amongst our employlenge to the brand, which may generin the media. purchasing processes and, hence, ees and to inform our ate a lack of trust in Systembolaget’s the product range. stakeholders ensure objective and the way in which the clarity with regard to our company handles its mandate. purchasing routines and terms and conditions. External Social development in Sweden is Systembolaget is factors helping to give rise to uncertainty working continuously Systembolaget also about Systembolaget’s ability to to achieving ongoing continuously reviews the manage our customers’ increasingly improvements in its fitness for purpose of its elevated expectations of the ways customer interactions purchasing process. in which Systembolaget makes its in order to proactively products available. address the changing TransparSystembolaget operates in an indusSystembolaget condemand picture. ency in try in which traceability and transducts annual mapping the supply parency in the supply chain have processes to identify risk Legislation One of the preconditions for SystemSystembolaget’s legal chain not, historically speaking, been reareas. bolaget’s monopoly is that Swedish department continuousgarded as necessary. In some cases legislation in this area is cohesive ly examines and reviews the lack thereof may also, due to the Systembolaget also reand consistent, and that it is strictly the legal context in nature of the products, constitute a views its system support supervised. There is currently a lack which Systembolaget competitive advantage for certain in order to ensure more of clarity in both the legislative and operates. subcontractors. This may make it effective follow-up work. supervisory respect, which creates difficult for Systembolaget and, uncertainty in the context in which to some extent, Systembolaget’s Systembolaget operates. suppliers, to ensure transparency at every link in the supply chain. Working The type of retail operations that Systembolaget has conditions Systembolaget conducts are exposed strengthened its secuto the risk of robbery. Threats and inrity department and is cidents of violence against employees reviewing employees’ are also, unfortunately, not unknown awareness levels and within the company. Uncertainty conexposure to threats and sequently always exists with regard violence. to whether the security-enhancing measures in place within the company are sufficient to address this issue. 63 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS RISK AREA DESCRIPTION COMMENTS RISK AREA DESCRIPTION COMMENTS Complex Systembolaget operates in an enviSystembolaget is Second-­ Alcohol doesn’t just harm the Systembolaget works supply ronment with complex supply chains increasing its annual hand harm person who drinks: it harms those to limit the harmful chains and a complex business model with supplier and producer around them, and children are pareffects of alcohol by an extensive spread of purchases audits in order to gain an ticularly vulnerable in this context. selling responsibly and from numerous regions and counincreased insight into the Approximately 100,000 children are providing information on tries. This means that the volumes products sold. growing up with at least one parent the risks associated with per business are not great, reducing who abuses alcohol. Between 100 alcohol. Systembolaget Systembolaget’s degree of influence Systembolaget is reviewand 200 children are still being born provides information on and offering less potential for moniing its system support with foetal alcohol damage every the omsystembolaget. toring compliance with sustainability in order to ensure more year in Sweden, and 7 out of every se website, publishes requirements. efficient follow-up work. 10 school teachers have, at some the Alcohol Report, and point, suspected that their pupils’ holds seminars, and Compliance The large number of suppliers and subSystembolaget is parents are drinking to excess2. finances research and with the contractors results in a diversified supworking to increase research conferences. Code of plier basis, which creates problems of skill levels, to clarify the Conduct scale in the follow-up work. The comrequirements imposed, pany’s equal treatment policy also to improve its follow-up means that all suppliers, irrespective work, remedial actions Financial risks, such as interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks are limited at Systemof size, must comply with the same and consequence activibolaget. Systembolaget is self-financing thanks to, amongst other things, a high rate requirements. These areas create ties, in order to increase of stock turnover that matches the purchasing and payment terms. uncertainty regarding the compliance compliance with our of our external Code of Conduct with Code of Conduct. Systembolaget has no interest-bearing liabilities. Sales are paid for in cash or by our sustainability requirements. credit card and Systembolaget consequently has no significant accounts receivable. The drinks suppliers are responsible for the importation of alcoholic drinks Increased Challenges to Systembolaget’s moThe Swedish retail and for reporting alcohol tax. Systembolaget’s purchases are primarily made in alcohol-­ nopoly can impair our ability to fulfil monopoly on the sale of Swedish kronor and the company’s exposure to exchange rate and currency risks related our mandate to reduce the harmful alcoholic drinks without a harm effects of alcohol at both an individprofit interest is, in itself, a is consequently very low. For additional information on financial risk management, ual and a societal level. Increased means of addressing the see Note 12, Financial instruments. alcohol consumption would result risks entailed by increased in both increased sick leave and alcohol consumption. increased policing and health care Availability is limited costs etc., to society. through the number of retail outlets, and opening hours, and through selling rules that are guided by a requirement to sell responsibly at all times. 64 Corporate Governance Report FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Corporate Governance Report Systembolaget AB is wholly-owned by the Swedish tion Index, the Alcohol Index, and Alcohol consumption goals, the financial goals, and the strategic goals for State. The ownership is administered by the Governin Sweden. The financial goals comprise the equity/assets sustainable enterprise. Other issues discussed included ment through the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs ratio, the return requirement, the dividend requirement, Systembolaget’s digitisation agenda, the home delivery and the responsibility for Systembolaget’s management and a cost-effectiveness metric. trial, and other issues of relevance for the company. The and control is shared between the owner, the Board of owner exercises its rights as a shareholder at the Annual Directors and the President. The agreement between Systembolaget and the State General Meeting. was clarified in the autumn of 2017 such that it now explicitly states that Systembolaget shall take specific susThe owner tainability considerations into account in conjunction with its drinks purchasing. The clarification manifests the importance of sustainable development and that it Corporate governance principles Systembolaget’s corporate governances is conThe owner’s expectations of Systembolaget are specified is something upon which Systembolaget must focus. ducted principally on the basis of: in the agreement between Systembolaget and the state, in • the Swedish Companies Act the Owner’s Directive, in the State’s ownership policy, and Systembolaget’s mandate is to engage responsibly • other applicable Swedish legislation in the guidelines for State-owned companies. The agreeand with a high standard of service, in the retail sales • the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code) ment and the Owner’s Directive specify the bases for the of spirits, wines and strong beers, and to inform people • the State’s ownership policy, which also includes company’s operations with regard to the social mandate, about the harmful effects of alcohol. The aim is to help guidelines for external reporting and guidelines the requirement for financial efficiency, and any other improve public health by limiting the harmful effects of for remuneration and other conditions of employrequirements with regard to the company’s operations. alcohol. The monopoly means that Systembolaget is ment for senior executives The owner determines the objectives of the company’s the only company permitted to engage in retail sales • the agreement between Systembolaget and the State operations through the Articles of Association, while the of strong beer, wines and spiritous drinks in Sweden. • the State’s ownership directive for Systembolaget ownership policy establishes the owner’s expectations of (the Owner’s Directive) the company as one of the State-owned companies, and Meetings are held on a rolling basis, approximately • the State’s ownership goals the owner issues instructions to the Board of Directors four to five times a year, between representatives of • the Articles of Association of Systembolaget through the Owner’s Directive. The the owner and Systembolaget’s Chairman of the Board • the formal workplans for the Board of Directors owner has set three mandate goals for Systembolaget, and President. Areas discussed during these meetings and the Board-appointed committees together with a number of financial goals, in the Owners include the work of the Board of Directors, operational • the instructions for the President Directive. The mandate goals take precedence and their monitoring and follow-ups, the Annual General Meeting, • internal steering documents goal fulfilment is measured using the Customer Satisfacmonitoring of key performance indicators, the mandate 65 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The Annual General Meeting The 2018 Annual General Meeting The 2018 Annual General Meeting will be held on 26 April 2018 in Stockholm. The Annual General Meeting shall, under the terms of the State’s ownership Notices convening the Annual General Meeting will be sent out in March 2018. policy, be held no later than 30 April every year. Members of Parliament are entitled, upon application, to attend the Annual General Meeting and the general public shall also be afforded the opportunity to attend. The Board of Directors is responsible for issuing a notice convening the Annual General Meeting to The Board of Directors the shareholder no later than four weeks and no earlier than six weeks before Systembolaget’s Board of Directors is responsible, under the provisions of the the Meeting. Swedish Companies Act, for the organisation of the company and the adminThe 2017 Annual General Meeting istration of the company’s affairs. According to the State’s ownership policy, the Board of Directors in companies where the State has an ownership interest shall ensure that the companies are operated in a model way within the scope of Systembolaget’s 2017 Annual General Meeting was held on 26 April in Stockholm the legislation, the company’s Articles of Association, the owner’s instructions and was open to the public. The owner was represented by Permanent Secretary, and the State’s ownership policy. Some of the work involved in ensuring public Agneta Karlsson, from the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs. confidence in Systembolaget’s operations entails the drawing up of relevant policy documents and conducting annual evaluations of existing policies, which The resolutions approved by the shareholder at the Annual General Meeting are published on Systembolaget’s website. included the following: • Re-election of Kenneth Bengtsson as the Chairman of the Board • Re-election of the following Members of the Board: Thord Andersson, Crister OWNER Fritzson, Kerstin Wigzell, Håkan Leifman, Viveca Bergstedt Sten, Frida Johansson The Owner’s Directive and Metso and Robert Damberg, and the new election as a Member of the Board the agreement with the State of Cecilia Halle • Directors’ fees payable to Members of the Board elected by the Annual General EXTERNAL AUDIT ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOMINATION PROCESS The State’s ownership policy Meeting, members of the company’s Board-appointed committees, and Auditors THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS INTERNAL AUDITS • New Owner’s Directive • Approval of the “Guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employment THE REMUNERATION for senior executives of Systembolaget AB” proposed by the Board of Directors THE AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE • Adoption of the Income Statement and the Balance Sheet THE ETHICS AND • Allocation of the company’s profits SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE • Granting of discharge from liability for the Board of Directors and the President • The minutes of the Annual General Meeting are available on the omsystemTHE PRESIDENT bolaget.se website. 66 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The nomination process for the Composition of the Board and an even gender distribution shall be sought. The ownership policy states that the gender makeup of the Board of Directors The Articles of Association prescribe that the Board Board shall comprise at least 40 per cent of either sex. of Directors shall comprise a minimum of six and a The starting point when nominating a Member shall be The appointment of the Board complies with the nommaximum of nine Members appointed by the General the Board’s expertise requirements and Board Members ination process described in the State’s ownership Meeting. The employee organisations are also entitled shall always possess industry know-how or other experpolicy. The nomination process is coordinated by the to appoint Members of the Board. The Code and the tise of direct relevance to the company. The Board must Ministry of Finance. The skills requirement is analysed State’s ownership policy directs that the composition of also be able to work strategically with issues relating to on the basis of the company’s operations, situation and the Board shall, with due regard for the company’s opersustainable enterprise. future challenges, and the existing composition of the ations, developmental stage, and conditions in general, Board and Board Member evaluations carried out. The be fit for purpose and characterised by diversity and To be considered for a seat on the Board, individuals owner has applied the diversity principles set forth in breadth with regard to areas of expertise, experience must possess high-level competence in the compathe ownership policy in their work with the nomination and background. Diversity aspects such as ethnic and ny’s ongoing commercial operations, and expertise in process. cultural background shall also be taken into account commercial development, industry know-how, financial issues, and sustainable enterprise, or other relevant areas. The Members of the Board must also be able to dedicate the amount of time and display the level of commitment required for the role, and must, in addition, Deviations from the Code display a strong sense of integrity, good judgement, and Systembolaget applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code with the following deviations: the ability to work in the best interests of Systembolaget. The selection is made from a broad recruitment base in Code regulation Deviation Explanation/comments order to take advantage of the skills possessed by both men and women, and those possessed by people with 1.1 Publication of information on the shareNot The aim of this regulation is to give the sharedifferent backgrounds and experiences. holders’ right of initiation published holders plenty of time to prepare for the Annual General Meeting and to have issues included in Systembolaget’s Board of Directors comprises nine the notice convening the Annual General Meeting. Members appointed by the Annual General Meeting. There is no reason to observe this regulation in a Four of these Members are women and five, men. The wholly State-owned company. Board also includes two employee representatives and 2. The company shall establish a Nomination No The preparation of nomination committee issues two Deputy Members appointed by the employees’ orCommittee to represent the company’s shareNomination in State-owned companies is carried out by the ganisations. Three of the employee representatives are holders in conjunction with the election and Committee Government in the manner detailed in the State’s women and one, a man. None of the Members of the determination of remuneration of the Board of has been ownership policy. Board are part of the company management. All Board Directors and Auditors of the company. established Members shall be regarded as independent in relation to the company and the company management. 67 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS PRESENCE AT BOARD MEETINGS, 2017 PRESENCE AT AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETINGS, 2017 Name Function Presence Note Name Function Presence Note Kenneth Bengtsson Chairman 9/9 Viveca Bergstedt Sten Chairman 6/6 Thord Andersson Member 9/9 Thord Andersson Member 6/6 Robert Damberg Member 9/9 Pia Fagerström Member 3/4 Resigned on 26 April 2017 Resigned seat at the Annual General Crister Fritzson Member 5/6 Pia Fagerström Member 2/2 Meeting on 26 April 2017 Appointed on 26 April 2017 (elected at the Board Cecilia Halle Member 2/2 Crister Fritzson Member 9/9 Meeting following election on 26 April 2017) Appointed at the Annual General Cecilia Halle Member 7/7 Meeting on 26 April 2017 PRESENCE AT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEETINGS, 2017 Håkan Leifman Member 8/9 Name Function Presence Note Frida Johansson Metso Member 8/9 Kenneth Bengtsson Chairman 4/4 Viveca Bergstedt Sten Member 9/9 Appointed on 26 April 2017 (elected at the Board Robert Damberg Member 3/3 Kerstin Wigzell Member 8/9 Meeting following election on 26 April 2017) Employee Håkan Leifman Member 1/1 Resigned on 26 April 2017 Maria Nilsson representative 9/9 Kerstin Wigzell Member 1/1 Resigned on 26 April 2017 (Member) Employee The October meeting was a per capsulam meeting Berit Morén representative 9/9 (Member) PRESENCE AT ETHICS AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE MEETINGS, 2017 Employee Karin Larsson representative 8/9 Name Function Presence Note (Deputy Member) Appointed on 26 April 2017 (elected at the Board Employee Kerstin Wigzell Chairman 3/3 Meeting following election on 26 April 2017) Nils Undall-Behrend representative 8/9 (Deputy Member) Appointed on 26 April 2017 (elected at the Board Håkan Leifman Member 2/3 Meeting following election on 26 April 2017) Appointed on 26 April 2017 (elected at the Board Frida Johansson Metso Member 2/3 Meeting following election on 26 April 2017) 68 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The owner’s representative submitted a rationale • working in consultation with the President to set the the best interests of the company and the owner. The for the composition of the Board and the proposed agenda for Board Meetings; Board shall, if Systembolaget is faced with particularly change at the 2017 Annual General Meeting. The Board • checking that the Board’s decisions are implemented; important decisions, such as major strategic changes of Systembolaget was deemed to possess the relevant • ensuring that the work of the Board is evaluated to the company’s operations, coordinate its position, expertise required for the operation of the company annually. through the Chairman, with representatives of the and to possess a high level of expertise in the comowner. The coordination shall occur well in advance pany’s commercial operations, commercial develThe Chairman consults with the President on strategic of any decision. opment, retail trade, sustainability issues, financial issues as they arise, and represents the company on issues, sustainable enterprise, and alcohol and public issues relating to corporate governance. The Chairman The Board is responsible for setting goals for System­ health policies. The composition of the Board was also has certain additional obligations which are specibolaget’s sustainability work, for ensuring that the also, with regard to the company’s operations, develfied in the rules of procedure for the Board of Directors. goals are integrated into the company’s business opmental phase, and conditions in general, deemed strategy, and for ensuring that the sustainability work to be fit for purpose, to be characterised by diversity is reported in accordance with the Global Reporting and breadth with reference to the Members’ compeThe work of the Board Initiative (GRI) international reporting standard, and tence, experience and background, and to achieve the otherwise in accordance with the owner’s policy. Five Government’s goal of an even gender breakdown as The Board has adopted a formal work plan which specof Systembolaget’s eleven strategic goals adopted by mandated in the ownership policy. ifies how the work is to be divided between Systemthe Board have been classified as strategic goals for bolaget’s Board, the owner, the committees and the sustainable enterprise over the next few years. These Systembolaget’s President and Chief Financial Officer atPresident. The work plan is reviewed annually and was are: the Customer Satisfaction Index, which shall tend the Board Meetings. Systembolaget’s Senior Legal adjusted and adopted in 2017 at the Meeting held by not fall below an index value of 85, the Proof of Age Counsel is the Secretary to the Board. Other members of the newly formed Board in April of that year. The work Checks, which shall not fall below and index value of the company management attend as required. plan states that the Board, as a rule, shall hold at least 96, the Performance culture, which shall not fall below five meetings per financial year in addition to the Board an index value of 82, the Suppliers’ sustainability maMeeting that is held following elections. turity, where all suppliers shall demonstrate a clear unThe Chairman of the Board derstanding of their responsibility in the supply chain, The Board is responsible for the optimal administration and that Systembolaget’s direct climate impact (from The Chairman shall, pursuant to the provisions of the of the company and for ensuring that the company’s purchased energy, operating and company vehicles, Swedish Companies Act, lead the work of the Board mandate is executed efficiently and that the operations and coolants) shall be zero by 2023. The Board is also and ensure that the Board carries out its duties. The are conducted in a manner conducive to sustainable responsible for ensuring that Systembolaget complies Code states that the Chairman of the Board shall also development – economically, socially and environmenwith relevant guidelines on environmental considerabe responsible for: tally. The Board is responsible for ensuring that Systemtions, human rights, working conditions, anti-corrupbolaget is run in an exemplary manner in accordance tion, and business ethics. • ensuring that the work of the Board is conducted effiwith applicable regulations, and that the operations ciently and is well-organised; enjoy public confidence. All Board Members are responsible to an equal degree • ensuring that the Board receives sufficient information for the work of the Board unless otherwise approved and source data on which to base its decision-making The Board is also responsible for the organisation of at a Board Meeting or in the Board’s formal work plan. work; the company and the administration of its affairs in 69 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS A collection of documents (“Laws, steering documents and so on, for Systembolaget AB”) has been prepared THE WORK OF THE BOARD IN 2017 The Board held a total of nine Board Meetings in 2017. Directors’ fees and fees for to support the Board in its work. The collection includes certain legislative texts pertaining to the operThe usual follow-up work, both on the company’s economic performance and on the social and envicommittee members ations, documents issued by the EU, company-related ronmental aspects that arose during the course of the Directors’ fees and fees for work in committees specialdocumentation, owner-related documentation and operations has been carried out on an ongoing basis ly established by the Board are approved by the Annual agreements, investment regulations, Systembolaget’s by the Board. This follow-up work took the form of the General Meeting. The fees shall, under the terms of the current strategic plan, Systembolaget’s Code of Conpresentation of strategic key performance indicators, State’s ownership policy, be competitive but not marduct, policies, internal guidelines and regulations, and the equity/assets ratio, and the return on shareholders’ ket-leading. information on Systembolaget’s subsidiaries. equity, cost-effectiveness, following up on the strategic goals for sustainable enterprise and the owner’s Conflicts of interest within the Board are avoided in accordance with the requirements specified in the mandate goals, as well as Board memoranda on topical issues. In March, the Board met with the company’s Evaluation of the work of the Swedish Companies Act (ABL 8:23). All Members of Systembolaget’s Board of Directors work actively auditors, without the presence of the management, as prescribed by the Code. Collectively, this information Board with the issues that it is incumbent upon the Board has afforded the Board the opportunity to monitor the The Code, the State’s ownership policy and the formal to address and otherwise with issues referred to it operations’ results on an ongoing basis, including with work instructions for the Board of Directors all manfor consideration. The Board meets annually with the regard to sustainable enterprise. Aside from the ongodate that the Board shall, by means of a systematic and company’s auditors. ing monitoring of strategic key performance indicators, structured process, carry out an annual evaluation of the issues addressed by the Board included: the work of the Board. It shall be incumbent upon the The structure of the Board’s work is laid down in the Chairman of the Board to ensure that such evaluation Board’s work plan, which is adopted annually. The work • the Responsibility Report; work is carried out. The evaluation addresses both plan forms the basis for the planning of the Board’s • real estate issues (strategic decisions on opening or the processes employed in the Board’s work and the work and stipulates the point during the financial year closing stores); performance of the Board itself, including the way in when special areas of responsibility shall be addressed • the digitisation agenda, the sustainability agenda, and which the Board handles relevant economic, environby the Board. other strategic issues; mental, and social issues. • issues relating to the new ethics and sustainability STRATEGIC PLAN committee; This year’s evaluation was carried out with the support The Board of Directors draws up the strategic plan • the home delivery trial; of an external consultancy firm. The evaluation was which establishes the way in which Systembolaget • issues relating to Systembolaget’s pricing model; carried out by means of questionnaires answered by prioritises its investments, resources and activities • issues relating to the Alcohol Research Council; the Members of the Board and some members of the during the strategic period. The strategic plan extends • the management talent pool and succession planning; company management, and through interviews with four years forward in time and is revised every third and the Members of the Board. Interviews were also held year. The strategic plan in force in 2017 was adopted • skill development for managers and employees. with some members of the company management. at the Board Meeting in June 2016 and refers to the The questionnaire that the Board and some members years from 2017 to 2020. See page 18 for additional of the company management answered included information on the strategic plan. 70 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS questions on such issued as working climate and coof the company’s internal controls, internal and exterbers Kerstin Wigzell and Håkan Leifman were members operation, skills, the work of the Board, and the role of nal audits, and risk management. of the Committee until the Board Meeting following electhe Chairman. The results of the evaluation of the work tion in April 2017, at which time they resigned and Robert of the Board have been presented to the Board in the The Audit Committee is also tasked with familiarising Damberg was elected as a new member of the Remunerform of a Board memorandum and been discussed at itself with the auditing of the annual accounts, and ation Committee. None of the members of the Remunera Board meeting. with reviewing and monitoring the impartiality and ation Committee are part of the company’s management. independence of the Auditors and with paying particuSystembolaget’s President attends the Committee’s In November 2017, the Chairman of the Board notified lar attention, in this context, to whether the Auditors meetings and the HR Director attends, as necessary. the Government Offices of Sweden of the results of the perform any other services for the company, over and evaluation, in accordance with the State’s ownership above auditing engagements. RESPONSIBILITIES policy. The Government Offices of Sweden’s ongoing The Remuneration Committee is tasked with preparing work with the nomination process also includes ongoing THE WORK OF THE COMMITTEE IN 2017 issues relating to remuneration and other terms of emevaluations of the Boards of State-owned companies. The Audit Committee has held six meetings during the ployment for senior executives. The Committee may, year. The committee carries out ongoing follow-up work within the framework of the guidelines adopted by the on the company’s financial performance and a number Annual General Meeting, independently negotiate with The Audit Committee of strategic key performance indicators of its operathe President and the Vice President with regard to retions. Systembolaget’s auditors have also presented muneration and other conditions of employment. DeciCOMPOSITION significant accounting and audit issues, as well as insions on remuneration and other terms of employment Systembolaget’s Audit Committee in 2017 comprised ternal control and process issues. Issues in connection for the President and the Vice President are, however, Members of the Board Viveca Bergstedt Sten (Chairwith such subjects as internal and external audits, risk the preserve of the Board of Directors. man of the Committee), Crister Fritzson, Thord Ananalysis, investment regulations, compliance, whistledersson and Cecilia Halle. Cecilia Halle was elected blowing, procurement of external auditors, following up The Remuneration Committee is also entitled, in coat the Board Meeting following election in April 2017, on and the status of the new business system project, operation with the President, to independently recruit when she replaced Pia Fagerström, who was a member operational IT procurement, the pensions fund, policies and negotiate remuneration and other terms of emup until this date. None of the members of the Audit and the Responsibility Report. The Chairman of the ployment for senior executives other than the PresiCommittee are part of the company’s management. committee provided the Board of Directors with regular dent and the Vice President. Decisions on contracts of Systembolaget’s CFO and its Senior Legal Counsel, information on the Committee’s work. employment for senior executives (with the exception who is also the Secretary to the Committee, and the of the President and the Vice President) shall ultimately auditors participate in the Audit Committee meetings, be taken by the Remuneration Committee. as, when necessary, does Systembolaget’s President. The Remuneration Committee THE WORK OF THE COMMITTEE IN 2017 RESPONSIBILITIES COMPOSITION The Remuneration Committee has held four meetings The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the Systembolaget’s Remuneration Committee comprised during the year. The Committee has, in customary right to address certain issues, and to take decisions three members in 2017 until the Board Meeting following fashion, drawn up proposed guidelines for terms of emon the same, and has, furthermore, tasked the Comelection in April, and two members after that date. The ployment for senior executives of Systembolaget. The mittee with otherwise preparing issues relating to Chairman of the Board, Kenneth Bengtsson, is also the Committee has, furthermore, addressed issues relating System­bolaget’s financial reporting and the efficiency Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Board Memto pay reviews, pensions, the company management’s 71 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS salary trend, evaluation of the work of the President of the company, and the annual evaluation and updating of certain policies. The President and senior executives THE PRESIDENT The Ethics and Sustainability The President is responsible for the ongoing adminCommittee istration of the company’s operations and leads the operations pursuant to the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act, other legislation and regulations, COMPOSITION Government guidelines and the Owner’s Directive, In March 2017, the Board decided to establish an the Code, the Articles of Association and within the additional committee – an ethics and sustainability framework laid down by the Board of Directors in the committee. The Ethics and Sustainability Committee instructions for the President, etc. The President, in comprised three members in 2017: Kerstin Wigzell, consultation with the Chairman, prepares information Håkan Leifman and Frida Johansson Metso. None of and documentation to support the work by the Board the members of the Ethics and Sustainability Committee are part of the company’s management. Systemand to enable the Board to take well-founded deciMagdalena Gerger sions. The President also reports to the Board on the bolaget’s Purchasing Director and Systembolaget’s Magdalena Gerger took over as President of Syscompany’s performance. Senior Legal Counsel, who is also the Secretary to the tembolaget in May 2009. Her previous positions Committee, attend the Committee’s meetings. The HR include those of Vice President of Arla Foods, Director attends as necessary. Systembolaget’s management Divisional Manager within Nestlé Ltd in the UK. She is also a former Member of the Board of IKEA. RESPONSIBILITIES The Ethics and Sustainability Committee is tasked with and steering structure Born: 1964 preparing and monitoring issues in relation to SystemOther directorships: Member of the Boards of Systembolaget’s company management comprises, in bolaget’s sustainability work. The Committee’s primary Investor AB and Ahlsell AB. addition to the President, six persons. The company task is to act as a preparatory body and the Committee Principal education: Graduate in Business management meets every other week and the work is has no decision-making powers. Administration, MBA, Stockholm School of headed up by the President who, in consultation with Economics, and leadership and management the management, takes decisions in relation to the THE WORK OF THE COMMITTEE IN 2017 training. operating activities. The Ethics and Sustainability Committee held three Independence: Neither the President nor any meetings during the year. The Committee has, persons closely associated with her has any sigThe decisions by the President and the management amongst other things, addressed issues relating to nificant shareholding in or ownership of compaare based on the guidelines and instructions adopted the Code of Conduct, the company’s strategic goals nies with which Systembolaget has significant by the Board of Directors and it is on this basis that the for sustainable enterprise, the environmental work, commercial links. President and management compile, amongst other occupational health and safety, compliance, and the things, source data for the various managers within annual evaluation and updating of certain policies. 72 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Systembolaget. These source data delimit the scope President is strongly supported by both the Board and ing that the company has good internal controls and of the operating activities and take the form of interthe company management. formalised routines that ensure compliance with esnal steering documents, such as internal regulations tablished principles for financial reporting and internal and process, operational, steering, and information models. External audit control. The responsibility also includes ensuring that the company’s financial reporting is prepared in accordance with statutory requirements, applicable acThe auditor shall, under the provisions of the Swedish counting standards, and other external requirements. Guidelines for remuneration Companies Act, audit Systembolaget’s annual acThe most important features of the company’s systems counts and bookkeeping, and the administration by for internal control and risk management in conjuncand other terms of employment the Board of Directors and the President. The auditor tion with the financial reporting are described below. is engaged by and reports to the General Meeting and for senior executives may not allow him or herself to be guided by the manSystembolaget has established formalised processes agement or the Board. for internal and external reporting. The external finanSystembolaget follows, in every significant respect, cial reporting of Systembolaget comprises interim the Government’s guidelines on remuneration and Deloitte AB was appointed as the auditors of Systemreports, financial statements and the annual Responterms of employment for senior executives in Statebolaget at the Annual General Meeting, with Authorsibility Report. owned companies. Systembolaget also complies with ised Public Accountant, Didrik Roos, as the auditor in the normative provisions in the Code on remuneration charge for the period up to and including the 2018 CONTROL ENVIRONMENT for senior executives, which stipulate that the comAnnual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting The basis for Systembolaget’s internal control company shall have formalised and transparent processes also approved the payment of auditors’ fees to Deloitte prises the control environment, together with the for deciding on the remuneration payable to senior AB, in accordance with approved invoices. organisation, decision-making paths, authority and executives. See Note 5 of the financial reports for full responsibility. The control environment is documentdetails of guidelines and remuneration. It was also announced at the Annual General Meeted and communicated in steering documents, such as ing that the Riksdag Board has, in accordance with a policies, internal regulations, work routines and manresolution dated 22 March 2017, appointed three Lay uals, and the fundamental values communicated and Assessment of the President Auditors, namely Maria Plass, Jörgen Hellman and operated upon by the Board and the company manLennart Axelsson, together with three Deputy Lay agement. Systembolaget has internal functions for risk The Board shall, under the provisions of the Code, Auditors, namely Niklas Karlsson, Andrea Völkler and control, security and compliance. Internal audits are carry out a continual assessment of the President’s Amir Adan, for the period up to and including the next carried out by an external company. performance and shall specifically address this issue, Annual General Meeting. at least once a year. An assessment was carried out Steering documents include the formal work plans for in the autumn under the leadership of the Chairman of the Board and examined the following elements of the President’s performance: goal fulfilment, media Internal control the Board, including the Board-appointed committees, the Instructions for the President, and the Financial authorisations for the company’s employees. analysis, and a verbal assessment in the form of a disThe Board of Directors is responsible, pursuant to the cussion by the Board. The results of the assessment provisions of the Swedish Companies Act and the One example of an important control structure is the were very good across the board and revealed that the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, for ensurstrict application of the duality principle, whereby no 73 CONTENTS one person alone shall administer the entire processtion to the business plan, budget and set goals. Other receive ongoing financial reports in order to monitor ing chain and two mutually independent institutions members of the Accounts & Administration Departthe operations’ development in relation to the business shall be used in conjunction with the valuation of fiment monitor the administrative processes within the plan, budget, and established goals. The Audit Comnancial assets. organisation, including processes relating to VAT and mittee also receives regular reports on the results of tax accounting, internal and external entertainment, external and internal audits, and on the operations’ risk RISK ASSESSMENT and compliance with authorisation and delegation management activities. Systembolaget conducts an annual, company-wide regulations. risk analysis. The stages of the risk analysis are as follows: Identify, evaluate, prioritise, manage and moniThe Board receives the results of the financial results tor. The risks are identified and evaluate by managers and key performance indicator monitoring on a rolling and key persons within the organisation, and by the basis throughout the year. Some areas are also presentcompany management. The risk analysis is prepared ed to the Board in greater depth, such as indicators, key and approved by the company management and the performance indicators, and projects. A dialogue is held Audit Committee. Management of the highest priority with the Owner four times a year on Systembolaget’s risks is then assigned to operations managers and are fulfilment of its mandate. followed up annually by the company’s management and the Audit Committee. The prioritised, company-wide risks form the basis for the internal audit plan. The internal audit is indeA financial risk analysis is carried out every other year. pendent and is conducted by an external company. The financial risk analysis assesses every item in the BalSystembolaget’s external auditors not only audit the ance Sheet and Income Statement on the basis of speannual report, but conduct ongoing reviews. cific criteria, namely materiality, the complexity of the valuation, previous errors, and the potential for fraud. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION Systembolaget’s internal communication process enThe assessment of the risk of errors in the financial sures that information is disseminated in a structured reporting is also carried out on an ongoing basis as way throughout the organisation. Steering documents, part of the day-today operations through the various such as policies, internal regulations, work routines and control activities carried out. manuals are, for example, available via Systembolaget’s intranet. Work routines are also communicated CONTROL ACTIVITIES via employee training programmes. The control activities are structured to prevent, identify and rectify errors in the financial reporting. SystemOur external reporting – interim reports, financial bolaget’s substantial liquid transactions and those that statements, and the annual Responsibility Report – is could potentially impact the results are, for example published on the omsystembolaget.se website. analysed daily. Business Control works in partnership with operations managers to monitor the way in which MONITORING Systembolaget’s operations are developing in relaThe company management and the Board of Directors 74 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The Board of Directors Kenneth Bengtsson, Chairman Thord Andersson Robert Damberg Crister Fritzson Born: 1961 Born: 1961 Born: 1982 Born: 1961 Principal education: Upper secondary school Principal education: B.Sc. (Sociology), ÖrePrincipal education: International studies in Principal education: B.Sc. (Market Economeconomics course graduate and internal bro University, and B.Sc. (Market Economics), sociology and political science at the Linnaeics) from MIS in Stockholm. training courses within the ICA system. IHM Business School, Gothenburg. us University and Uppsala University. Other positions held: President and CEO Other positions held: Chairman of the Boards Other positions held: Senior Consultant at Other positions held: Member of the Board of SJ AB, Member of the Boards of Net of Ahlsell AB, Clas Ohlson, the Ersta Diakoni ÅF Infrastructure and corporate consultant of Visit Linköping, District Chairman of the Insight AB, Samtrafiken i Sverige AB, Almega charitable organisation, Eurocommerce and with own company. Member of the Board of Östergötland branch of the Swedish Green Tjänsteförbunden, Svensk Turism AB, the the World Childhood Foundation. Member of Örebrokompaniet. Party, Political Secretary to Linköping municConfederation of Swedish Enterprise, and the Boards of Herenco and Synsam. ipality. the Railway Industry’s Collaboration Forum. Elected: 2011 Chairman of the Association of Swedish Train Elected: 2014 Elected: 2016 Positions previously held: Operations Operating Companies and CER the ComPositions previously held: President & CEO Manager for the Vänersamarbetet economic Positions previously held: County Council munity of European Railway. of ICA AB, 2001–2012, Chairman of the Board association, CEO of Apel AB, Unit Manager Commissioner, Uppsala County Council, Elected: 2012 of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, for the Örebro Regional Development Coun2014–2016, Political Secretary, 2011-2014 2010–2013, and Chairman of the Board of the cil with responsibility for trade & industry and to Uppsala County Council, Green Party Positions previously held: CEO of Boxer, Swedish Trade Federation, 2005–2010. infrastructure, Information Manager at E.ON spokesman, 2010, Chairman of the Swedish President & CEO of Teracom Group. ChairSweden, Marketing Manager for the Capio Youth Temperance Organisation, UNF, 2005man of the Boards of PlusTV Finland and corporate group, Chairman of the Board of 2009. Boxer Danmark. Inkubera AB and Member of the Boards of ALMI Invest Östra Mellansverige AB, SKB, and Svensk kärnbränsle AB. 75 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The Board of Directors Cecilia Halle Frida Johansson Metso Håkan Leifman Viveca Bergstedt Sten Born: 1969 Born: 1984 Born: 1963 Born: 1959 Principal education: B.SC in Local GovPrincipal education: Registered PsycholoPrincipal education: Ph.D. (Sociology) Principal education: LL.B. Stockholm ernment Administration, specialising in gist, Uppsala University. from Stockholm University. University, B.Sc. (Economics and Business international organisations, at Uppsala Administration), Stockholm School of Other positions held: Psychologist at the Other positions held: Director of the University. Economics Transcultural Centre, Stockholm County Swedish Council for Information on AlcoOther positions held: Senior Advisor and Council, Member of the Swedish Liberal hol and Other Drugs (CAN), Member of the Other positions held: Author and lecturer. Group Manager for the Public Health & Party Board since 2011, Member of the Board of SAD (the Swedish Association Member of the Boards of the Swedish Red Medical Care Unit of the Ministry of Health Stockholm Municipal Council since 2010, for Alcohol & Drug Research), Member Cross Center for Tortured Refugees, and & Social Affairs. Chairman of the National and of the Mind Foundation and of the of Svenska Spel’s Science Council, the Eknö Hemman, and an expert member of Expert Group for improving accessibility Stockholm Social Welfare Board. Swedish Standards Institute’s supervisory the Vinge Advokatbyrå Expert Panel. in cancer care. Sweden’s representative council. Elected: 2016 Elected: 2014 in the EU’s High-Level Expert Group on Elected: 2014 health. Positions previously held: Assistant OpPositions previously held: Senior Legal erations Manager at the Red Cross Centre Positions previously held: – Counsel & Corporate Secretary of PostNord Elected: 2017 for Tortured Refugees, Chairman of the AB, Senior Legal Counsel of LetsBuyit.com, Positions previously held: Under-SecreSwedish Liberal Party Youth Association, Senior Legal Counsel of Amadeus Scantary the Public Health & Medical Care Unit LUF, 2007–2010. dinavia. Member of the Boards of Svensk of the Ministry of Health & Social Affairs. Kassaservice AB and Strålfors AB. Member Special Advisor to the Global Cooperation of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise Unit, Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Corporate Legal Reference Group. 76 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The Board of Directors Kerstin Wigzell Born: 1945 Principal education: Behavioural and Social Sciences at Stockholm University Other positions held: Vice Chairman of Swedish Pensions Agency. Member of the Boards of the University of Linköping and the National Swedish Police Board’s Ethics Council. Member of the Board of the Swedish Agency for Health and Care Services Analysis. Elected: 2009 Positions previously held: Director General of the Swedish National Board for Youth Affairs and the National Board of Health and Welfare, Director General of the National Swedish Social Insurance Board. Chairman of the Boards of Stockholm Academy of Dramatic Arts, and the Swedish Research Council for Health, Working Life and Welfare. 77 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS The Board of Directors – employee representatives Maria Nilsson, Member Berit Morén, Member Karin Larsson, Deputy Nils Undall-Behrend, Deputy Born: 1965 Born: 1957 Born: 1958 Born: 1954 Principal education: Social Sciences Principal education: Two-year upper secPrincipal education: Upper secondary Principal education: Upper secondary courses at upper secondary school, and ondary school course, Staff Nurse. school courses in health care. school science courses, and mechanical the College of Printmaking Arts in Stockengineering. Other positions held: Employed as a Other positions held: Employed as a memholm. salesperson since 1979. Personnel and ber of the sales team since 1989. Member Other positions held: Employed since Other positions held: Employed since Consultation Contact for the Stockholm of the Board of Systembolaget’s Staff 1982, Store Manager since 1991. 1988. Chairman of Systembolaget’s Staff sales region. Member of the Board of the Association, Chairman of the Salespersons’ Appointed: 2015 Association, SPF Unionen, Chairman of Stockholm Salespersons Club. Club, Jönköping, Member of the Board the Stockholm brand of the Unionen trade of the Pension Foundation, Coordinating Appointed: 2011 union. Work Environment Representative (SAMO) for Systembolaget. Appointed: 2015 Appointed: 2012 78 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Company management Magdalena Gerger, President Marie Nygren, Vice President, Tobias Frohm, Human Resources Director Charlotte Hansson, Chief Financial Officer Communication, and Purchasing Director Born: 1964 Born: 1965 Born: 1969 Born: 1965 Employed: 2009 Employed: 2011 Employed: 2015 Employed: 2007 Education and previous positions: B.Sc. Education and previous positions: Education and previous positions: M.Sc. (Economics and Business Administration) Education and previous experience: B.Sc. Human Resources Specialist degree from from the University of Gothenburg School and MBA, Stockholm School of Economics. (Economics and Business Administration), Linköping University. of Business, Economics and Law. Stockholm University. Ms Gerger’s previous positions include Mr Frohm’s previous positions include Ms Hansson has previously worked as those of Marketing Director at Arla Foods Ms. Nygren’s previous positions include those of HR Director at Lernia AB, HR Lead the CFO of Cision AB and of the service and Divisional Manager at Nestlé Ltd in those of CEO of Adara (subsidiary of Sweden at Accenture and a Manager at company, Addici AB. She has also worked the UK. Apoteket AB), Purchasing & Supply Chain Consultus Leadership Partner AB. in a variety of positions within the Modern Director at Coop Sweden and CEO at Times Group (MTG). See page 72 of the Corporate Governance Stor&Liten AB. Report for further information about the President. 79 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Company management Hans Jungland, Sales Director Eva Listi, IT Director Malin Sandquist, Senior Legal Counsel Born: 1965 Born: 1962 Born: 1972 Employed: 2003, in this role since 2017 Employed: 2016 Employed: 2012 Education and previous positions: Internal Education and previous positions: Studied Education and previous positions: LL.B. at training at executive level. chemistry, biology, law and economics Uppsala University and internal and exterat Stockholm University, and internal and nal training at executive level. Mr Jungland’s most recent position was as external training at executive level. Departmental Manager for Store DevelopMs Sandquist has previously worked as a ment at Systembolaget, prior to which he Ms Listi joined Systembolaget from Postlawyer, most recently as a joint owner of was the Sales Director of Systembolaget’s Nord AB and the position of Deputy CIO Advokatfirman Hammarskiöld & Co. Northern Sales Region. He has previously and Director of IT Planning & Transformaworked as a Departmental Manager/ tion. She also formerly held the position of Category Manager at Coop, and a Sales CIO at Ericsson and has, additionally, held Director at Stor&Liten AB. a number of senior IT positions at AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Pharmacia. 80 Ten year overview FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Ten year overview 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Profit/loss (SEK m) Net sales (including alcohol tax) 29,335 28,469 27,645 26,431 25,709 25,099 24,416 24,111 23,360 21,296 Net sales (excluding alcohol tax) 17,511 17,034 16,379 15,901 15,589 15,003 14,368 14,004 13,337 11,905 Gross profit/loss 3,700 3,591 3,488 3,382 3,303 3,201 3,115 3,051 2,961 2,699 Operating profit/loss 270 217 179 370 168 270 159 339 424 9 Net financial items 58 47 -3 56 208 58 119 –24 109 714 Profit before tax 353 368 256 324 317 248 278 315 533 723 Net profit/loss for the year 282 289 198 251 287 180 223 223 406 687 Financial position (SEK m) Fixed assets 3,439 2,797 2,300 2,520 2,258 1,921 1,697 1,916 2,296 2,213 Current assets 2,424 3,075 3,517 3,236 3,205 3,222 3,339 3,257 2,823 2,398 Shareholders’ equity 1,605 1,612 1,521 1,574 1,610 1,411 1,390 1,469 1,591 1,386 Liabilities 4,258 4,260 4,297 4,182 3,853 3,732 3,646 3,704 3,528 3,225 Balance Sheet total 5,863 5,872 5,817 5,756 5,463 5,143 5,036 5,173 5,119 4,611 Cash Flow (SEK m) Cash flow from operating activities 529 306 480 632 456 574 343 537 762 184 Cash flow from investment activities -918 -638 -117 –416 –530 –318 138 –204 34 446 Cash flow from financing activities -246 -182 -251 –287 –90 –159 –332 –345 –201 –868 Cash flow for the year -635 -514 112 –71 –164 97 149 –12 595 –238 Strategic key performance indicators Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) 84.3 84 84 83 82 81 79 78 78 77 Proof of age checks, % 95.6 96 96 97 96 95 94 94 93 90 Opinion Index (OPI), % 76.9 76 77 74 72 71 68 66 66 64 Total sick leave, % 4.8 5.1 5.3 4.9 Climate impact of own operations, CO2e 3,583 3,855 Return on shareholders’ equity, % 17.2 18 12 14 18 13 16 15 27 46 Equity/assets ratio, % 27.8 28 28 31 31 29 28 28 31 30 Cost-effectiveness 2.2 2.3 Alcohol Index 62.0 63 65 62 66 Total consumption, litres of pure alcohol per head of population aged 15+ 9.0 9.2 Systembolaget’s share of consumption, % 63.2 62 Other key performance indicators Trading margin, % 12.6 12.6 12.6 12.8 12.8 12.8 12.8 12.7 12.7 12.7 Operating margin, % 0.9 0.8 0.6 1.4 0.7 1.1 0.7 1.4 1.8 0 Stock turnover rate, multiple 21.8 22.7 22.9 23.5 23.9 24.7 24.5 25.7 25.4 23.2 Average number of employees 3,611 3,551 3,425 3,347 3,280 3,172 3,192 3,127 3,043 3,013 1 All key performance indicators are reported to one decimal place, as of 2017. 81 Financial reports and Notes to the Accounts FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Finansiella rapporter och noter Finansiella Income Statement rapporter och noter Statement of comprehensive SEK M Note 2017 2016 income Net sales 2 29,355 28,469 Cost of goods sold -25,655 -24,878 SEK M Note 2017 2016 Gross profit/loss 3,700 3,591 Net profit/loss for the year 9 282 289 Other comprehensive income – – Selling expenses 3, 4, 5 -2,767 -2,746 Total comprehensive income for the year 282 289 Administrative costs 3, 4, 5 -669 -634 Other operating income 6 7 6 Other operating expenses -1 0 Operating profit/loss 270 217 Income from participations in Group companies 7 43 16 Income from other securities and receivables 7 15 32 classified as fixed assets Other interest income and similar P/L items 7 0 0 Interest expenses and similar P/L items 7 0 -1 Profit/loss after financial items 328 264 Appropriations 16 25 104 Profit/loss before tax 353 368 Tax 8 -71 -79 Net profit/loss for the year 9 282 289 82 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Balance Sheet ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES SEK M Note 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 SEK M Note 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Fixed assets Shareholders’ equity 15 Restricted equity Tangible fixed assets Share capital (360,000 shares) 360 360 Buildings and land 11 30 32 Statutory reserve 72 72 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 11 412 414 Total restricted equity 432 432 Construction work in progress 11 71 50 Total tangible fixed assets 513 496 Non-restricted equity Profit/loss brought forward 891 891 Financial fixed assets Net profit/loss for the year 282 289 Participations in Group companies 9 0 0 Total non-restricted equity 1,173 1,180 Deferred tax receivables 8 30 28 Total shareholders’ equity 1,605 1,612 Other long-term securities holdings 12 2,886 2,261 Other long-term receivables 12 10 12 Untaxed reserves Total financial fixed assets 2,926 2,301 Tax allocation reserve 16 32 57 Total fixed assets 3,439 2,797 Total untaxed reserves 32 57 Current assets Provisions Inventory 13 1,169 1,272 Pension provisions 17 0 Receivables Long-term provisions 17, 18 85 80 Accounts receivable 8 7 Short-term provisions 17 0 Current tax receivable Total provisions 85 80 Receivables from Group companies 0 0 Other receivables 5 28 Long-term liabilities Prepaid costs and accrued income, Group companies 9, 14 7 7 Long-term liabilities to Group companies 9 84 72 Prepaid costs and accrued income 14 135 131 Other liabilities 23 23 Total receivables 155 173 Deferred tax liabilities 8 0 Total long-term liabilities 107 95 Short-term investments 12 376 271 Cash and bank balances 12 724 1 359 Current liabilities Total current assets 2,424 3,075 Accounts payable 3,657 3,678 TOTAL ASSETS 9 5,863 5,872 Current liabilities to Group companies 9 1 2 Current tax liability 12 3 Other liabilities 165 154 Accrued costs and prepaid income 19 199 191 Total current liabilities 4,034 4,028 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9 5,863 5,872 83 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Change in shareholders’ equity Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Profit/loss Total share­ Statutory Net profit/loss SEK M Share capital brought holders’ equity reserve for the year forward for the year Opening balance, 1 January 2016 360 72 891 198 1 521 Transfer to non-restricted reserves 198 -198 Net profit/loss for the year 289 289 Dividend paid to the owner -198 -198 Closing balance, 31 December 2016 360 72 891 289 1,612 Opening balance, 1 January 2017 360 72 891 289 1,612 Transfer to non-restricted reserves 289 -289 Net profit/loss for the year 282 282 Dividend paid to the owner -289 -289 Closing balance, 31 December 2017 360 72 891 282 1,605 84 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Cash Flow Statement SEK M Note 2017 2016 Operating activities Profit/loss before tax 353 368 Adjustment for items not included in the cash flow Depreciation and write-downs 162 196 Capital gain/loss 6 1 Other -33 -88 Cash flow from changes in working capital Change in inventory 103 -111 Change in receivables 21 -12 Change in liabilities -2 69 Change in financial receivables/liabilities from/to subsidiaries 10 -21 Cash flow from operating activities after changes in working capital 620 402 Tax paid -91 -96 Cash flow from operating activities 529 306 Investment activities Acquisition of tangible fixed assets -179 -139 Acquisition/sale of financial fixed assets -739 -499 Cash flow from investment activities -918 -638 Financing activities Dividend paid to the owner -289 -198 Dividend received from AB K14 Näckströmsgatan 43 16 Cash flow from financing activities -246 -182 Cash flow for the year -635 -514 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,359 1,873 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 22 724 1,359 85 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Note 1 — Accounting principles The following is a presentation of the significant accounting principles applied during the preparation of Bases for preparation tembolaget as the operations are conducted within one business segment and one geographic market. the annual accounts. AMOUNTS Pensions The functional currency, i.e. the currency of the primaThe company’s defined benefit pension undertakings General ry economic environment in which the Parent Company conducts its operations, is the Swedish krona. The have, in accordance with the simplification rule in RFR2, been calculated and reported on the basis of Swedish krona is the reporting currency. The amounts The Parent Company, Systembolaget AB, is a wholthe Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act, which in the financial reports have been rounded off to the ly-government owned company whose registered deviate from the provisions of IAS 19. nearest million Swedish kronor (SEK m), unless otheroffices are in Stockholm and which is registered wise stated, and the amounts in parentheses constiin Sweden. The address of the head office is KungDevelopment costs tute values for the comparison year. strädgårdsgatan 14 and the postal address is SE-103 All development costs in respect of, for example, busi84 Stockholm, Sweden. ness systems, are carried as expenses in accordance DATES with the exemption in respect of IAS 38.57 in RFR 2. Income Statement-related items refer to the period The annual accounts for the 2017 financial year were from 1st January to 31st December and Balance Sheet approved for publication by the Board of Directors and Untaxed reserves items refer to 31st December. the President on 22 March 2018 and will be submitted The amounts allocated to untaxed reserves comprise to the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2018. Systaxable temporary differences. The deferred tax liabiliANNUAL ACCOUNTS tembolaget does not, as of 1 January 2012, prepare ty attributable to the untaxed reserves in the company The annual accounts have been prepared in accordany consolidated accounts in accordance with chapt. is not reported separately due to the link between acance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and rec7, §3a of the Swedish Companies Act. Systembolaget counting and taxation. ommendation RFR 2 issued by the Swedish Financial conducts operations that are related to the retail sector Reporting Board. RFR 2 entails the application by operations, but which are not captive, via two sepaLeasing Systembolaget AB of all standards and statements israte, wholly owned subsidiaries – IQ-initiativet AB and All leasing costs are reported, in accordance with the sued by IASB and IFRIC, as approved by the European AB K14 Näckströmsgatan. All of the subsidiary compaexemption in respect of IAS 17:20-32 and 36-48 of RFR Commission for application within the EU. This shall nies are deemed both individually and collectively to 2, as operational leasing. be done to the extent possible within the framework of have no material importance and Systembolaget AB’s the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and with reference annual accounts for the legal entity provide a true and fair view of the company’s position and results. to the link between accounting and taxation. Future standards EXEMPTIONS FROM IFRS The future standards, amendments and interpretations Operating segments that will or may affect the accounts in 2018 or thereafIFRS 8 Operating segments is not applicable to Syster are presented on the following page. 86 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS IFRS 15 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSIFRS 16 LEASES on the closing day. Exchange rate differences arising TOMERS The standard will replace IAS 17 Leases and associated in conjunction with conversion are reported in the InThe standard addresses the reporting of revenues interpretations. The standard requires lessees to enter come Statement. from contracts and from sales of certain non-financial as liabilities fixed minimum lease payment for non-terassets. It will replace IAS 11 Accounting for Construcminable agreements and to report a corresponding tion Contracts and IAS 18 Revenues, and associated leasing asset. The standard shall be applied from 2019 Revenue recognition interpretations. The standard shall be applied from 1 but is not, as yet, EU-approved. January 2018. Systembolaget has, pursuant to the provisions of the The Swedish Financial Reporting Board has proposed Swedish Alcohol Act, a monopoly on the retail of alcoSystembolaget’s revenues are generated, in every the incorporation of an equivalent of the current exempholic drinks in Sweden. This monopoly has a socio-posignificant respect, by the sale of drinks to consumtion for financial leasing agreements into RFR 2, which is litical purpose and entails restricting the availability ers. Sales are recognised as revenue in conjunction the exemption rule currently applied by Systembolaget. of alcohol. In these circumstances, Systembolaget’s with the sale of the product to customers. Sales are retail sales are reported as its primary activity. Other paid for in cash or by credit card. Systembolaget is of IMPORTANT ESTIMATES AND ASSESSMENTS operations – which are not critical to Systembolaget’s the opinion that the recognition of these revenues will Systembolaget makes estimates and assumptions with retail operations and which could be conducted by not be affected by the new standard. Systembolaget regard to the future, based on the latest available and another business – are reported separately (in acmay, in future, acquire new types of revenues, but as is most reliable information and on historic experience. cordance with the requirements of the owner’s direcapparent from the annual accounts, the scale of other Changes to preconditions may entail adjustments to tive) and are regarded as non-operating income and types of revenue is currently negligible. the reported amounts for assets and liabilities in the expenses. This classification has been adjudged to next financial year due to the fact that the actual results provide the most accurate picture of Systembolaget’s IFRS 9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS can differ from the reported amounts. primary activity. Revenues from Systembolaget’s retail The standard will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: sales include alcohol tax, which is a State excise duty. Recognition and Measurement. It includes regulations When applying the company’s accounting principles, Changes to the rate of alcohol tax affect both Systemgoverning the classification and valuation of financial the company management makes various assessments bolaget’s revenues and the cost of goods sold, and assets and liabilities, the impairment of financial instruthat can have an effect on the reported amounts in the changes to the rate of alcohol tax consequently have ments, and hedge accounting. The standard shall be Income Statement and the Balance Sheet. The risks that no effect on the gross profit. applied from 2018. Systembolaget has deemed to exist for the company are described under Risks and sensitivity analysis. Revenue is recognised when the income can be reliaSystembolaget’s financial instruments primarily combly calculated and when it is likely that the economic prise investments in the form of securities holdings, benefit associated with the transaction will accrue cash and cash equivalents, and accounts payable. Foreign currencies to the company. Income is valued at the fair value of Systembolaget currently has no loans, accounts regoods and services sold, excluding VAT. ceivable or other receivables that total significant Transactions in foreign currencies are converted to the amounts. There is also, at present, no hedge accountfunctional currency at the exchange rate applicable Income is generated, in every significant respect, by ing. Systembolaget is of the opinion that the reporting on the transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities the sale of drinks to consumers. Sales are reported as of the current types of financial instrument will not be expressed in foreign currencies are reported in the income in conjunction with the sale of the goods to the affected by the new standard. Balance Sheet after conversion at the rate applicable customer. Sales are paid for in cash or by credit card. 87 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Interest income is recognised as revenue over a relevant almost exclusively operational leasing agreements and and at the tax rates approved or announced on the period, applying the effective interest method. Effective it reports all leasing agreements as operational leases closing day and which are expected to apply when the interest is the interest that discounts the estimated fuin accordance with the exemption in RFR 2. tax receivable in question is realised or the tax liability ture cash flows exactly over the anticipated term of the is settled. The tax rate is 22 per cent. Current tax and financial instrument to the instrument’s reported value. deferred tax are reported in the Income Statement. Lessees State subsidies The company has signed leasing agreements that, in Information on related parties every significant respect, relate to rental payments for Subsidies are reported at fair value when a reasonable premises. The leasing charge is carried as an expense Systembolaget defines related parties as Group comcertainty exists that the subsidy will be received and linearly over the leasing period, which is the period panies, pension funds, State-owned companies in that the Group will comply with the terms and condifor which Systembolaget has contractually agreed to which the State has a controlling influence, and sentions associated with the subsidy. Subsidies intended lease an asset. ior executives, Members of the Board and close family to cover costs – in Systembolaget’s case, wage submembers of the same. Systembolaget applies IAS 24, sidies of minor value only – are reported net in the Related Party Disclosures, and disclosures regarding Income Statement presentation of staff overheads. Income tax transactions with State-owned companies in which the State has a controlling influence hence only need to Reported tax comprises the combined sum of current be made if the value of the transactions is substantial. Cost accounting and deferred tax calculated on the basis of the profit/ loss for the period. Current tax is the tax that is payaInformation is provided when transactions have ocThe Income Statement is presented by function and costs ble or receivable during the current period, including curred with a related party, irrespective of whether are accordingly classified on the basis of their function. adjustments to current tax for previous periods. and is remuneration was disbursed. The term, transactions, calculated for the taxable result for a period, including refers to the transfer of resources, services or underThe cost of goods sold primarily comprises the puradjustments to current tax for previous periods. Curtakings. Transactions with related parties are conductchase of goods for resale. Selling expenses include rent tax is calculated and valued on the basis of the ed on an arm’s length basis. costs arising from the store operations, largely comtax rules and tax rates applicable on the closing day. prising personneland premises-related costs. Administrative expenses include costs arising from the Deferred tax is calculated using the Balance Sheet Tangible fixed assets central administrative functions at the head office. method whereby temporary differences, i.e. differences between the reported and fiscal values of assets and A tangible fixed asset is reported as an asset in the liabilities, give rise to deferred tax liabilities or tax reBalance Sheet when the historical cost can be reliably Leasing ceivables. Deferred tax liabilities are calculated on the calculated and when it is likely that the future ecobasis of all fiscal temporary differences while deferred nomic benefits associated with the asset will accrue Leasing agreements where the lessor, in every signifitax receivables are reported to the extent that it is likely to Systembolaget. cant respect, retains the economic risks and benefits that a future fiscal surplus will exist, against which the associated with ownership, are classified as operatemporary differences can be offset. Deferred tax is Tangible fixed assets are valued using the cost method tional leasing. The company’s leasing agreements are calculated and valued in accordance with the tax rules at the historical cost less accumulated depreciation 88 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS and any accumulated write-downs. Expenses attributAsset Useful life reversal occurs. The reversal increases the reported able to the improvement of the assets’ performance, value of the asset. The reported value may not exceed over and above its original level, increase the reported Buildings 17-33 years the value that would have been reported, after deprevalue of the asset. Expenses attributable to repairs and Machinery, fixtures and fittings 3-5 years ciation, if no write-down had ever occurred. maintenance are capitalised on a rolling basis. In-store renovations 7 years Intangible assets 5 years Remuneration to employees Intangible assets Expenses attributable to improvements in another party’s premises are depreciated over a period of between Remuneration in the form of salaries and pensions Additional development costs, for example for busi7 and 20 years. Land is not depreciated. are reported as operating expenses during the period ness systems, have been carried as expenses since when the employee performs the services to which 2012 in accordance with the exemption in respect of The residual value and useful life of each asset is rethe remuneration refers. The expense is classified as a IAS 38.57 in RFR 2. Development costs reported before viewed as of every closing day and adjustments are selling expense or administrative expense, depending 2012 have been reported as intangible assets when the made, if necessary. on the nature of the employee’s duties. following criteria are met: PENSIONS • the intangible asset is identifiable; Write-downs The company has both defined benefit and defined • Systembolaget has control of the assets; contribution pension plans, primarily within the col• the asset generates future economic benefits; and An impairment test is carried out, as of every closing lective agreement-based ITP occupational pension • the asset’s historic cost can be reliably calculated. day, to determine whether there is any indication of a plan, but also has in-house pension plans. The defined write-down requirement with regard to the reported contribution plans are financed by the payment of The reported value includes expenditure arising from values. If such indications do exist, the recoverable premiums to insurance companies or administration the purchase of services and materials. Intangible asamount is calculated, namely whichever is the higher companies. The defined benefit pension plans are sets are valued using the acquisition method at their of the fair value less selling expenses and the useful primarily secured via Systembolaget’s Pension Fund historical cost, less any accumulated depreciation and value of the asset, i.e. the current value of the estiand through provisions made in the Balance Sheet. any accumulated write-downs. mated future cash flows that the asset is expected to The provisions reported in the Parent Company’s generate. A write-down is effected when the reported Balance Sheet refer primarily to non-vesting pension value exceeds the recoverable value for an asset and undertakings, i.e. they are contingent on continued Depreciation is capitalised immediately in the Income Statement. employment. They are not covered by the provisions of the Swedish Securing Pension Commitments Act Tangible fixed assets and intangible assets are depreA calculation is carried out on every closing day to and hence may not be secured via pension funds, nor ciated linearly over the useful life of the asset, which determine whether there is any indication that a premay they be reported in the Balance Sheet under the is the period during which Systembolaget expects vious write-down, either wholly or in part, is no longer Pension Provisions heading, and are, instead, reported to make use of the asset for its designated purpose. justified, and in such cases, the recoverable value of under the “Long-term provisions” heading. Depreciation is based on the acquisition value after the asset is calculated and a Asset Useful life Builddeductions for any residual values. The depreciation ings 17–33 years Machinery, fixtures & fitting 3–5 years A defined benefit pension plan is a pension plan that is based on the following useful life periods: Rebuilding in stores 7 years Intangible assets 5 years specifies the pension benefit amount an employee 89 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS will receive after retirement, based on age, duration of service, and pensionable salary. The company has Financial instruments Settlement date accounting is applied for those financial assets classified as financial assets valued an obligation to disburse the agreed remuneration at fair value via the Income Statement and financial Financial instruments comprise every type of agreeto current or former employees Systembolaget and assets that can be sold. Transaction date accounting ment that gives rise to a financial asset in a company, the company, in every significant respect, carries the is applied for other categories of financial assets and or to a financial liability or equity instrument in another actuarial risk and the investment risk. The calculation liabilities. company. They include cash and cash equivalents, of the pension undertaking is based on the salary and accounts receivable, accounts payable and financial pension level obtaining on the closing day. The PRI Subsequent valuation is effected either at the fair investments. bases for valuation are those used to calculate the value or at the amortised cost by application of the pension liability that relates to defined benefit ITP effective interest method. The valuation method used RECOGNITION IN AND ELIMINATION FROM THE occupational pension plan pensions. The Swedish is determined by the category to which the respective BALANCE SHEET Securing Pension Commitments Act’s bases for valinstruments belong. The fair value is the amount which Financial instruments, i.e. financial assets and finanuation and the Swedish Financial Security Authority’s could, on the valuation date, be received from the sale cial liabilities, are reported in the Balance Sheet when instructions for calculating pension liabilities, FFS of an asset or paid in conjunction with the transfer of Systembolaget becomes a party to the instrument’s 2007:24, in accordance with the 2017 bases, are used a liability by means of an orderly transaction between contractual terms and conditions. as bases for valuation for other defined benefit penmarket operators. sion liabilities. Financial assets are eliminated, either wholly or in part, The amortised cost is the historical cost less repayment from the Balance Sheet when the contractual rights The company also has defined contribution pension of the nominal amount and reduction due to writeto the cash flows cease or when virtually all risks and plans, primarily within the ITP occupational pension downs and less or plus accumulated depreciation. An benefits associated with the ownership of the financial plan. In defined contribution pension plans, the comimpairment test is carried out on every closing day to asset have been transferred. pany’s undertaking is limited to the amount that the determine whether objective grounds exist to demoncompany has agreed to contribute, which means that strate the existence of a write-down requirement. The Financial liabilities are eliminated, either wholly or in the employee carries the actuarial risk and the investwrite-down is calculated as the difference between the part, from the Balance Sheet when the financial liament risk. Fees payable to defined contribution penreported value and the current value of the estimated bility is ended, i.e. when the commitment is fulfilled, sion plans are reported as an expense over the period cash flows and is reported in the Income Statement. cancelled or ceases. during which the employee works for the company. CLASSIFICATION VALUATION SEVERANCE PAYMENTS Financial instruments are classified in accordance When financial instruments are reported for the first Severance payments are reported when Systembolawith the table below. The Group classifies its financial time, they are valued at fair value. Transaction costs get is obliged either to terminate an employment beinstruments into one of the following categories: loan directly attributable to the acquisition of the financial fore the normal date, in accordance with a detailed receivables and accounts receivable, financial assets asset or liability are added to the fair value for those formal plan without any realistic possibility of a recall, valued at their fair value via the Income Statement, or financial instruments that do not come under the heador to pay compensation in conjunction with an offer financial liabilities valued at their amortised cost, which ing of financial assets and liabilities valued at fair value designed to encourage voluntary redundancy. are described below. The classification is based on the via the Income Statement. purpose for which the instrument has been acquired. 90 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS FINANCIAL ASSETS VALUED AT FAIR VALUE VIA THE FINANCIAL LIABILITIES VALUED AT AMORTISED COST income is recognised. Adjustments of goods held in INCOME STATEMENT This category includes accounts payable, which are stock to their net sales value, together with losses on The category, financial assets valued at fair value via reported in the Balance Sheet when the counterparty goods held in stock, are reported in the Income Statethe Income Statement, has two sub-groups, namely has performed as agreed and a contractual obligation ment in the period when the adjustment or loss occurs. financial assets held for trading purposes and financial to pay exists, even if an invoice has not been received. assets identified in conjunction with the first reporting Financial liabilities are valued on an ongoing basis after instance as an instrument valued at its fair value via the being recognised for the first time at the amortised Provisions Income Statement. A financial asset is classified in this cost, using the effective interest method. category if the expectation is that it will be sold in the A provision is defined as a liability that is uncertain with short term or if the company management classifies CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS regard to the due date or the amount. Provisions are it as such. Remaining financial assets are identified in Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank reported in the Balance Sheet when the Group has an this category when reported for the first time. balances and short-term liquid investments with a existing legal or informal undertaking as a result of an maximum term from the acquisition date of 90 days event that has occurred, and for which it is likely that Changes in the value of financial assets valued at fair and which can easily be converted to a known sum a disbursement of resources will be required to clear value via the Income Statement are reported in the and which are only exposed to an insignificant risk of the commitment and the amount can be reliably estiIncome Statement. fluctuations in value. mated. Provisions are valued at the amount that is the best estimate of the amount, which, on the closing day, LOAN RECEIVABLES AND ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE NET PROFIT AND NET LOSS is required to clear the existing commitment. When the Loan receivables and accounts receivable are finanThe result of financial assets valued at fair value in the effect of the point in time at which payment is made is cial assets that have fixed or fixable payments and Income Statement is recognised under Net financial significant, the current value of anticipated future cash which are not quoted on an active market. Loan reitems. The result of financial assets and liabilities reflows is calculated. Provisions are reviewed as of every ceivables and accounts receivable are valued, in conported at amortised cost are reported in the Income closing day and, if necessary, adjusted to reflect the junction with subsequent valuations, at the amortised Statement when the asset or liability is eliminated from current best estimate. cost through the application of the effective interest the Balance Sheet or written down. method. Changes in the value of loan receivables and accounts Inventory receivable are reported in the Income Statement when the financial asset is eliminated from the Balance The inventory has been valued at whichever is the lowSheet, in conjunction with write-downs and through er of the historical cost and the net sales value. The periodisation. historical cost is calculated using the first in, first out method (FIFO) and the net sales value is the estimated The category also includes accounts receivable and sale price less selling expenses attributable to the sale. other receivables, which are reported in the Balance The inventory comprises goods for resale. Sheet when the invoice has been raised. Receivables have, after individual valuation, been booked in the The reported value of goods held in stock that are sold amount that they are expected to yield. is capitalised in the period when the corresponding 91 FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Financial instruments Cash Flow Statement The Cash Flow Statement demonstrates the inflow and Types Category Valuation outflow of monies attributable to the operating activities, investment activities and financing activities, and Financial assets which has occurred during the period. Financial assets valued at fair value The Cash Flow Statement is prepared using the indiOther long-term securities holdings Fair value via the Income Statement rect method, whereby the result is adjusted for: • transactions that have not entailed the inflow or outLoan receivables and accounts Other long-term receivables Amortised cost flow of monies; receivable • accrued or prepaid items that refer to previous or Accounts receivable and accrued Loan receivables and accounts future periods; and Amortised cost income receivable • any income and expenses where the effects on the cash flow are attributable to investment or financing Financial assets valued at fair value activities. Short-term investments Fair value via the Income Statement Cash and cash equivalents Financial assets valued at fair value via the Income Statement Fair value Events after the balance sheet date Financial liabilities Events after the balance sheet date are defined as events that occur during the period from the balance Financial liabilities valued at sheet date to the day when the financial reports are Accounts payable and accrued costs Amortised cost amortised cost approved for publication. Systembolaget adjusts the amounts in the financial reports as instructed by the Board of Directors for events, positive or negative, that confirm the circumstances Contingent liabilities that existed on the closing day. If, however, events occur existing commitment that is not reported as a liability that indicate circumstances that arose after the closing A contingent liability is reported when a possible or provision because it is not likely that a disbursement day, the financial reports are not adjusted. Information commitment exists deriving from events that have ocof resources will be required, or because the size of on the events that are so significant that its omission curred and whose incidence is only confirmed by one the commitment cannot be calculated with sufficient could affect the financial decisions that users take on or more uncertain future events, or when there is an reliability. the basis of the financial reports is, however, provided. 92 Proposed appropriation of profits and signatures FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTENTS Proposed appropriation of profits and signatures The Board of Directors proposes that the profits available for allocation, comStockholm, 15 March 2018 prising SEK 1,173,073,089, be appropriated as follows: Dividend (SEK 784.1 per share) 282,260,403 Kenneth Bengtsson Carried forward 890,812,686 Chairman Total 1,173,073,089 It is proposed that the dividend be disbursed on 10 May 2018. Thord Andersson Viveca Bergstedt Sten Robert Damberg Member Member Member The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the proposed dividend payment is justifiable with reference to the requirements laid down in chapt. 17:3, §§ 2 and 3 of the Swedish Companies Act, and with reference to the requirements Crister Fritzson Cecilia Halle Frida Johansson Metso that the nature of the operations, their scope and their inherent risks make Member Member Member of the shareholders’ equity in the company. The dividend is also deemed justifiable from the point of view of Systembolaget’s consolidation requirements, liquidity, and position in general, and is compatible with the owner’s Håkan Leifman Kerstin Wigzell requirements and expectations. Member Member The Board of Directors and the President hereby affirm that the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accountBerit Morén Maria Nilsson ing principles and that they provide a true and fair view of the company’s Employee representative Employee representative position and results. The undersigned also affirm that the accounts have been prepared on the basis of the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority recommendation, RFR2 Reporting for legal entities, and that they provide a true and fair view of the company’s position and Magdalena Gerger results. It is further affirmed that the Directors’ Report provides a true and fair President view of the performance of the company operations, their position and their result, and that it describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by Our audit report was submitted on 15 March 2018 the company. Deloitte AB Didrik Roos 93 CONTENTS Sustainability notes and other information 94 About our Responsibility Report S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS About our Responsibility Report The Responsibility Report integrates our annual actaining guidelines for sustainability reporting. Systemthe organisation and to apply only those GRI indicacounts and our Corporate Governance Report with bolaget has chosen to report in accordance with the tors that provide added value for our sustainability our Sustainability Report. The reporting is structured GRI Core level. This is now the tenth year in succession management. We have, therefore, removed the LA10 in line with our strategic plan’s three strategic shifts: that Systembolaget has reported in accordance with GRI indicator regarding skills management including GRI guidelines and our reports have been produced in programmes for upgrading employee skills and pro1. Continue to impress our customers accordance with GRI G4 since 2014. The most recent moting lifelong learning, from this year’s sustainability report was published on 31 March 2017. This report has, report in order to focus, instead, on following up on our 2. Increase awareness of alcohol’s risks and why as in previous years, been subject to review by Systemskills management work, based on Systembolaget’s  Systembolaget exists bolaget’s external auditors. See the Auditor’s review overall approach. The EN27 GRI indicator has also been report in respect of the Sustainability Report (page 122). removed as the primary result of its inclusion com3. Creating optimum conditions prised descriptions of measures designed to reduce The financial reports for 2017 comprise Systembolaget the environmental impact of packaging, which is not The new ownership policy, which came into force AB only, while the Sustainability Report for the 2017 strategically quantifiable for us at the moment. It is in the 2017 financial year, enabled us to use a set of financial year comprises the operations of Systemcurrently more relevant for us, with regard to packregulations other than the GRI (Global Reporting Initibolaget AB and the wholly owned subsidiary company, aging, to follow up on and present details of the iniative) guidelines for preparing a sustainability report IQ-initiativet AB, which are material from a sustainabiltiatives we have launched with a view to finding ways in order to accommodate the ongoing trend towards ity perspective. Sustainability data that falls outside of reducing our climate footprint in this area through a more integrated reporting approach. System­bolaget of the information mandate of IQ-initiativet, or which industry collaboration. Our company-specific key perhas accordingly produced a more integrated report in refers to Systembolaget’s other subsidiary companies formance indicator for following up on CO2 emissions 2017 than was the case in previous years, with the aim is not, however, included as these data have no materihas been revised to distinguish emissions from our of describing our work in line with the strategic plan al significance in relation to Systembolaget as a whole. own operations, which primarily result from energy for 2017-2020, in which sustainability-related integraconsumption and internal travel, as these are the areas tion forms an integral part. We have been inspired by Systembolaget currently conducts its measurement where we have the greatest potential for influencing the Integrated Reporting (IR) framework produced by and monitoring of work in relation to sustainability the outcome (see also page 56). The GRI indicators the IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) issues at company level. In cases where the GRI guideLA15 on labour practices and HR11 on human rights with regard to the way in which strategy and business lines encourage reporting per region, therefore, the have been presented collectively as influence on and models are linked to our value creation. We regard IR as region corresponds to Sweden as a whole. deviations from social conditions, which we describe a principle-based framework, however, rather than as in greater depth in the section on social sustainability reporting regulations, and have, therefore, also continSystembolaget has reported 9 indicators and 13 comin our supply chain (see page 31). ued to prepare our sustainability report in accordance pany-specific key performance indicators for 2017. with GRI. We are keen to continue, wherever possible, reporting The same section also presents a key performance indinon-financial key performance indicators that reflect cator that is new for this year, namely our suppliers’ susGRI is a global network that issues regulations conthe monitoring and follow-up work carried out within tainability maturity. This is a strategic key performance 95 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS indicator and we are, at present, in a start-up phase that Contact person at Systembolaget is focusing on analysing the current situation. Press Manager, Lennart Agén Tel. (switchboard): 08-503 300 00 We have, however, stopped monitoring the percentage of suppliers who have confirmed their acceptance of our Code of Conduct electronically in that confirmation of acceptance of the Code is a mandatory part of our purchasing agreements and this kind of key performance indicator consequently provides no added value. A number of strategic indicators, such as the Alcohol Index and the average alcohol consumption have been addressed through our integrated reporting this year, but are outside the scope of the GRI index. Measurement and calculation methods are, where necessary, described in conjunction with the respective indicator. The compilation and quality assurance of the sustainability reporting’s company-specific key performance indicators and GRI indicators is conducted by Systembolaget’s GRI Coordinator. Target figures and comparative figures are reported, where relevant. All monitoring data for our carbon dioxide emissions is, as has been the case since 2015, calculated in line with the Green House Gas Protocol (GHG protocol). Any amendments to comparison figures from previous years’ reports are noted under the indicator in question. Systembolaget’s annual internal audit not only focuses on areas within our anti-corruption work, but also examines a number of different areas within the operations every year, as described in greater detail in the Corporate Governance Report (see page 73). 96 Materiality analysis S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Materiality analysis Systembolaget conducts an annual materiality analysis. The analysis is designed to enable us to build MORE Ensure that alcohol is not sold to minors up a picture of the issues where Systembolaget can Inform people about the harmful effects of alcohol exert the greatest influence and of the issues that Help ensure more mindful consumption the company’s external and internal stakeholders are Satisfied customers most keen to see us report. The materiality analysis Combat bribery and corruption jointly weights the issues that Systembolaget regards Working to promote good working conditions and as strategically important and those issues that our human rights for people working in the supply chain stakeholders regard as being of the greatest imporReducing the climate footprint of transports and tance. There is no particular internal order of priority packaging between the various fields in the table. Good working and performance environment for Importance to stakeholders Systembolaget’s employees The materiality analysis is based on ongoing dialogues Environmentally sustainable cultivation and Offering organic products with our most important stakeholders. In May 2017, a production (water, energy, other resources) Increasing diversity and an inclusive climate large-scale online dialogue was conducted with: • our customers (a nationally representative selection Reducing the operations’ climate footprint of people aged 15+ – just over 1,000 responses); Recycling waste • all Systembolaget managers – department managers, unit managers, sales managers, area managers and store managers; • our 100 biggest suppliers. We have an ongoing dialogue and reconciliation process with our owners in the field of sustainable enterprise. The results of this year’s dialogues differ only very slightly from those in previous years. The list is headed by issues associated with Systembolaget’s LESS purpose – to limit the harmful effects of alcohol. This is followed by working conditions and work environImportant to Systembolaget and potential to exert influence ments in the supply chain, the work environment for LESS MORE 97 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS our employees, and efforts to counter corruption. Stakeholder dialogues are conducted on a rolling basis Environmental issues are generally regarded as less throughout the year in various forms, and the most important that those listed above, but their importance significant ones in 2017 are presented in the section has increased from previous years’ levels. Offering ordetailing our stakeholder engagement (see page 99). ganic products is ranked bottom of the environmental issues, but is still regarded as important. The area that our customers, managers and suppliers all regarded as least important, relatively speaking, was diversity, but is an area that both our owner and we, ourselves, regarded as being a high priority. The same stakeholder survey also showed that levels of awareness of Systembolaget’s sustainability work continue to be relatively low nationwide. Issues related to limiting the harmful effects of alcohol and relating to the range of organic products are, however, exceptions to this rule. At an overall level, we identified our most important stakeholder groups many years ago, based on our social mandate and our operations. Identifying the most significant subgroups within these groups is an ongoing process for us in order to ensure we can build relevant networks and platforms for our stakeholder dialogues. In 2017, for example, we identified a need for more dialogue with global trade unions in relation to our efforts to establish a sustainable supply chain. The partnerships we consequently forged with IUF (the International Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers Associations) and Global Deal are examples of how we endeavour to establish new networks and platforms for expanding the dialogue with our stakeholders. 98 Stakeholder engagement S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Stakeholder engagement We are engaged in ongoing dialogues with the following stakeholder groups: ownSociety Information on The Alcohol Report is produced in order to provide an overall ers, customers, employees, suppliers, and society as a whole. We conduct questhe harmful picture of alcohol in Sweden. The theme of this year’s report was tionnaire-based surveys at least once a year and also hold roundtable discussions effects of alcohol, children and parents. The report compiles statistics, the and carry out surveys based on need and specific subject areas. The results of alcohol latest research, and interviews, based on both product range and mandate-related questions. The Alcohol Report was sent our questionnaire-based surveys and dialogues are used in, amongst other things, out to around 1,000 interested politicians, opinion formers, and Systembolaget’s strategic work, and form the basis for our strategic key ratios. We interested parties. Media activities and seminars were also used usually conduct some form of stakeholder mapping work to ensure we target the to tell people about the report and its content. right stakeholders within the stakeholder groups, in line with the occasion and the dialogue objective, in order to determine which stakeholders are likely to be able Alcohol research is an important component of Systembolaget’s mandate and we contribute to scientific work in this area by to make a contribution. The dialogues conducted in 2017, together with a brief financing research and disseminating research findings. description of what these dialogues led to, are presented below. Attitudes to The Alcohol Index is based on an attitude survey conducted by Stakeholder Important key Examples of dialogues and what we have done to address these alcohol IQ every year since 2010. 2,000 people are surveyed every year group issues key issues and the results are representative of the Swedish population. Society Challenges to Systembolaget conducts ongoing dialogues on the subject of the The Teenage Phrasebook is a recurring annual dialogue. Examthe monopoly monopoly, and Systembolaget’s role and task in the context of ples of other dialogues during the year include our “Fotboll utan Swedish alcohol policy, with decision-makers, amongst others. This Fylla” [Sober Football] project and the student campaign, “Bästa occurs during both face-to-face meetings and in other settings, festen” [The Best Party]. such as a variety of seminars and the political parties’ conferences and events. One topical issue in 2017 was that of farm sales and Brand A representative selection of men and women aged between Systembolaget’s range of local and small-scale products. monitoring 18 and 74 are asked, twice every year, for their views on Systembolaget and the role of alcohol in society. The survey takes We also offer in-store work experience for elected political the form of an online panel and comprises just over 3,000 representatives and other decision-makers, during which we also interviews. engage in dialogues about how our operations could improve. Inclusiveness Launch of SFI (Swedish for Immigrants) material in SFI schools in work various locations nationwide. We have also held roundtable discussions during the year with the relevant authorities, CAN (the Swedish Council for Information IQ’s work with the Teenage Phrasebook in several languages. on Alcohol and Other Drugs), and industry organisations on the subject of illegal importation of alcohol. Supervision We conduct regular dialogues with supervisory authorities in areas of relevance to our operations, such as the Public Health Opinion Every month, a nationally representative selection of people Agency of Sweden, the Swedish Consumer Agency, the Swedish surveys aged 15+ are asked “Do you think that Systembolaget and the Competition Authority, the National Food Administration, the Almonopoly on the sale of strong beer, wines and spirits should be coholic Beverages Product Range Board, and Swedish Customs. retained, or would you prefer strong beer, wines and spirits to be sold in other stores” by the Kantar Sifo survey organisation. The aim is to find out what our customers think about our monopoly. A total of 9,000 interviews are conducted every year. 99 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Customers Good service We conduct a Customer Satisfaction survey (CSI) three times a Owner Sustainable Owner dialogue, Annual General Meeting, seminars. Dialogues year, recruiting customers in virtually all of our stores, to enable enterprise on Systembolaget’s efforts to ensure respect for human rights us to continue developing our offering and the just over 120 and on Systembolaget’s environmental work. One issue we million customer interactions that take place in our stores. A total highlighted specifically during the year was our ability to clarify of around 33,000 interviews are conducted annually in cooperour agreement with the state regarding the ability to impose susation with an external, independent company (CFI Group). The tainability requirements in the product selection. The agreement survey reveals what is important to our customers and how well was updated in the autumn of 2017 as a result. we are living up to their expectations. Employees Skills and Ongoing “Focus” discussions with employees. These are the Customer We want to ensure that we live up to our customers’ expectations development managers’ and employees’ most important tool for jointly setting interaction of good service and a responsible interaction every time they goals, talking about expectations, and developing both employinteract with Systembolaget. This is why we conduct annual ees and the operations. The goals are followed up on and revised measurements of the customer experience in physical stores continuously in the day to day operations. If we are to impress (CSI), the digital store (ordering service), from our agents, at our customers, it is vital that we continuously develop both systembolaget.se, in our Search & Find app, at our drinks ourselves and our skills. auctions, and from our Customer Services (via phone, email, Facebook or online chat service). Performance Work with Good Leadership (DGL) and Agerus employee surveys. terms Systembolaget’s annual Agerus dialogue is carried out every Informed Customer insight surveys on the subject of alcohol and health. autumn in working groups. The dialogue is based on the results alcohol We have continued to run our communication programme on the of the survey carried out within the group, where everyone is consumption way in which alcohol influences the effect of exercise in 2017. We asked to answer a number of questions posed in an online queshave shared facts, tips and advice in this area with the help of tionnaire. The dialogue helps us identify measures that we can films, research seminars, and exercise events. use to generate optimum conditions for achieving our goal of “An impressive customer interaction”. Owners The alcohol Owner dialogue and Annual General Meeting. We have an policy ongoing dialogue with our owners to ensure that we live up to Ethics Ethics dialogues designed to keep ethical issues front of mind mandate their expectations and requirements. Areas discussed during the and to create a dialogue on the ethical dilemma throughout the year include the work of the Board, operational monitoring and organisation. follow-up work, the Annual General Meeting, and monitoring of key performance indicators, mandate goals, financial goals, and We have also conducted an anti-corruption survey this year the strategic goals for sustainable enterprise. Systembolaget’s when we asked both our employees and our suppliers how we digitisation agenda, the home delivery trial, and other issues of can keep getting better at protecting brand neutrality. The aim of relevance to the company have also been discussed. the survey was to investigate suppliers’ and employees’ views on whether Systembolaget is run in an equality for all and non-disStrategic Owner dialogue and Annual General Meeting. The AGM apcriminatory way and whether they, as employees or suppliers, goals proved the goal level for the cost-effectiveness metric during the feel able to take our regulations on board. year. The cost-effectiveness metric is designed to work with efficiency enhancing measures in our efforts to ensure rationalised operations within our company. 100 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Employees Work Work Environment Committee and collaboration agreements. Suppliers Ongoing We held a number of supplier meetings during the year. We also environment Systembolaget has a Work Environment Committee that meets collaboration held two workshops to obtain supplier input on our efforts to issues four times a year at which time employer and personnel repredevelop new key performance indicators and a new scorecard sentatives (from different trade unions) get together to address that will help both Systembolaget and our suppliers to establish strategic work environment issues. Both parties are responsible a smoother, more sustainable purchasing and supply process. for highlighting important issues. Systembolaget is careful to Other meetings have addressed such issues as our work on a keep the trade unions informed of ongoing developments in the new range model and a variety of sustainability challenges. work environment sphere and the contribution of the unions is, in turn, important in terms of the end results. It is equally imporThe Supplier Barometer survey is conducted once yearly in tant that the unions provide information and sound the alarm October. We ask our 100 biggest suppliers for feedback on our if something is not working, in order to enable the company to ongoing work and their perceptions of the partnership with act. One issue addressed by the Work Environment Committee Systembolaget. The results deliver insights for our ongoing during the year was the central risk assessment process, and as improvement work. a result, we have developed and clarified how and when central risk assessments should be carried out. The company’s procureFollowing up We carry out situation analyses of our suppliers to establish their ment of corporate health care system has also been monitored on suppliers’ degree of sustainability maturity. The analyses are evaluated and by the Committee. The procurement resulted in us changing sustainability the aim is to implement a number of targeted training activities our corporate health care system and signing agreements with a maturity in 2018 in the areas where we have identified the greatest need number of complementary operators. and demand amongst our suppliers. The meetings with the suppliers have also provided Systembolaget with feedback on Suppliers Environment Climate footprint is one of the biggest shared challenges faced the improvements that Systembolaget could make in order to and climate by the drinks industry. To this end we have, amongst other integrate sustainability aspects throughout our operations more things, formed a working group comprising representatives of effectively in such areas as communication, purchasing model, Swedish Spirits and Wine Suppliers’ Association (SVL) and the product range, and labelling. Swedish Brewers’ Association, together with 11 member companies. Over the course of the year, we drew up a joint proposal for Producers Sustainability We have conducted around 200 third party audits during the the ways in which each of us can, in line with our various preconwork, incl. year, some of which were shadowed by Systembolaget. We have ditions, play a part and help ensure that the industry accepts its working also, in parallel with this work, carried out a number of producer climate responsibility. The next stage involved formalising this conditions visits and organised meetings to facilitate additional dialogue in in the form of a joint statement of intent that was presented and and health Italy, for example. signed on 10 November at a joint environmental strategy day. Stakeholder Working In August 2017, we signed an agreement with IUF (the InternaWorking Compilation of and communication on the “How Systembolaget organisaconditions tional Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, conditions has followed up on Code of Conduct work in South Africa” tions in and health Tobacco and Allied Workers Associations). The aim of the and health report. the supply collaboration is to enable us to reach a greater number of local chain trade union organisations and to find out about more incidents in the supply chain. The Swedish trade union, Unionen, in the form both of Systembolaget’s own union branch and Unionen’s international department, is also involved in this work. Systembolaget has also, in connection with this work, decided to sign up for Global Deal – an initiative that aims to improve the dialogue between labour market parties and national governments in order to improve conditions of employment and productivity. 101 Our work with the UN’s global sustainability goals S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Our work with the UN’s global sustainability goals The world’s leaders have signed up to 17 global sustainability goals in order to abolAgenda 2030 goals Systembolaget’s goals for 2030 ish extreme poverty, reduce inequality and injustice in the world, promote peace and justice, and solve the climate crisis. The goals are integrated and indivisible, 3. Good health and We have, by means of research, collaboration, communicaand balance the three dimensions of sustainable development – the economic, well-being tion and responsible sales, approached the realisation of our the social and the environmental. The goals apply in all countries and to all people. vision of a society in which alcoholic drinks are enjoyed with Find out more at un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/. due regard for health, so that no one is harmed. State-owned companies shall, within the framework of their operations, analyse 5. Gender equality We achieved gender equality at every level in the company the sustainable development goals set forth in Agenda 2030 in order to identify and ensured equal rights and opportunities with regard to the most relevant goals to which the company can, through its operations, exert recruitment, skill development, working conditions, and the and influence and make a contribution. Companies are also expected to identify opportunity to combine parenthood and work many years business opportunities that help achieve the UN’s global sustainability goals. ago. Systembolaget has conducted an in-depth analysis of the places in our supply Our suppliers have full responsibility for their supply chains chain where we can exert the greatest influence and where we have the potential and there is no discrimination amongst those working in the to achieving the global goals. We have, on the basis of the analysis, identified 7 supply chain behind our products. goals where we can make a real difference and have then, on the basis thereof, formulated our own overall goals for 2030 for the various links in our supply chain. 8. Decent work and Systembolaget is one of Sweden’s most attractive employers. economic growth Our suppliers have full responsibility for their supply chains and everyone working in the supply chain behind our products has decent working conditions. 10. Reduced We reflect the differences in society well and have generinequalities ated the preconditions for everyone’s equal right to and opportunity for work, irrespective of age, gender, functional variation, ethnicity, origin and religion. Our suppliers have full responsibility for their supply chains and there is no discrimination amongst those working in the supply chain behind our products. 102 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Agenda 2030 goals Systembolaget’s goals for 2030 • Goal 14 (“Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development”) 12. Responsible Our suppliers take full responsibility for their supply chains consumption and and the products we sell are produced with due regard for • Goal 15 (“Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosysproduction sustainable resource usage and otherwise with knowledge of tems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse and consideration for the consequences for people’s health land degradation and halt biodiversity loss”). and the environment. If we are to achieve both the short-term and long-term shifts that are our goal, Our customers have good access to information on the prodwe must identify developmental partnerships with other relevant operators, ucts’ environmental footprint and on how they can, through both locally and globally. This will also ensure that goal 17 (“Implementation and their purchases, contribute to increased sustainability. global partnership”) remains at the heart of our work in future. 13. Climate action Our own operations and all transport bought in are fossil fuel-free. We have managed to radically reduce the climate impact of our entire production chain with the help of our customers and in collaboration with our suppliers, distributors, and other partnerships. 16. Significantly reduce We work proactively to counter all forms of corruption and all forms of corruption act as role models, both internally and externally. and bribery Systembolaget’s value chain is fully transparent, which has helped reduce the risk of corruption. The nature of our operations has resulted in us also choosing, in the context of our work in line with goal 12, “Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns”, to incorporate a long-term programme of work linked to the following goals: • Goal 6 (“Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all”) • Goal 7 (“Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all”) 103 Our human rights work S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Our human rights work Systembolaget’s operations shall support and respect risk of our operations infringing these rights. currently regard as the greatest risks and the places in internationally declared human rights throughout the our value chain where these risks arise, and provides value chain. The declaration of human rights means that Systembolaget has an overall policy governing our details of where you can find out more about what we people shall be treated well in every country in the world. commercial ethics responsibility. It includes our human are doing about them. rights undertaking which is also posted publicly on our Systembolaget’s operations affect human rights, both website. Our external Code of Conduct and Internal We have still to carry out a more detailed analysis of the in our extensive supply chain and within our own operCode of Conduct, both of which are presented in greatrisks in our value chain from various human rights perations, and as a consequence of the products we sell. er detail in this Report (see page 52) are two of the other spectives. We humbly admit that this is a complex area Levels of awareness of this impact amongst both the central steering documents for our work in this area. in which we have a great deal to learn, and where a great company management and the Board are high nowadeal of work remains to be done, and we have, therefore, days, and risks are regularly monitored and discussed. In 2017, Systembolaget launched a more in-depth enlisted the help of established frameworks to support us Responsibility has been clearly delegated to internal programme of activities and analysis of our impact in our analysis work and as part of our efforts to address functions whose day to day work entails reducing the on human rights. The following table reveals what we these issues in a structured and goal-orientated way. Where is this relevant? Find out Systembolaget’s own more, Framework Article Supply chain operations Customers Society page The UN’s Universal 1. All human beings are born free and equal in Discrimination in the Discrimination in the Treat all customers Reduce exclusion in the 31 Declaration of Human dignity and rights. workplace workplace with consideration workplace 45 Rights and respect 23 Protection against discrimination is one of the An inclusive climate cornerstones of human rights work. Diversity The UN’s Universal 3. Everyone has the right to life, liberty and We sell products that 37 Declaration of Human security of person. pose a risk to the health Rights and safety of third 5. No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, parties inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. 104 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Where is this relevant? Find out Systembolaget’s own more, Framework Article Supply chain operations Customers Society page The UN’s Universal 4. No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; Forced labour 31 Declaration of Human slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited Rights in all their forms. The UN’s Universal 23. Everyone has the right to just and favouraWorking conditions Working conditions 31 Declaration of Human ble conditions of work, to just and favourable 45 Rights remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, ILO to equal pay for equal work, and to secure and healthy working conditions. Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests The UN’s Universal 25. Everyone has the right to a standard of Health and safety Health and safety in the We sell products that We sell products that 37 Declaration of Human living adequate for the health and well-being in the workplace workplace. pose a risk to health. pose a risk to the health 31 Rights of himself and of his family. Motherhood and and activities that and safety of third 45 childhood are entitled to special care and can have an indirect parties, of domestic assistance. impact on health. violence, and of traffic accidents. The UN Convention on 6. Every child has the inherent right to life, Risk of child labour Children of colleagues/ Children who are 31 the Rights of the Child survival and development. and working conemployees indirectly affected by 37 ditions for young alcohol misuse. 19. Every child has the right to a safe and seworkers. cure upbringing. Avoid the consumption Children of seasonal of alcohol by children 32. Every child has the right to be protected workers are at risk and young people from work that is hazardous or interferes with of uncertain living the child’s education. conditions. 105 Carbon dioxide emissions reported in accordance with the GHG protocol S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Carbon dioxide emissions reported in accordance with the GHG protocol In 2015, Systembolaget initiated a more explicit monifor this key performance indicator, with the ambition The year-on-year decrease in Scope 2 is primarily toring of its emissions, based on the Green House Gas of reducing our emissions from purchased energy and due to our ongoing programme of increasing energy Protocol (GHG protocol). We have included the GRI coolants, and from leased vehicles, to zero by 2023. efficiency (see also page 56). EN15 and EN16 indicators in our sustainability reporting ever since, in order to report our climate impact in We apply the calculation methodology referred to accordance with the GRI protocol. within the GHG protocol as “operational control”. The calculations use the global warming potential (GWP) The EN15 indicator applies to the area of the GHG proof the Kyoto gases, based on the Intergovernmental tocol referred to as Scope 1, while EN16 comes under Panel on Climate Change, IPCC’s Fourth Assessment Scope 2. Scope 1 shows estimated direct carbon dioxReport, 2007. ide emissions from the operations, for example from cars leased by the company. In Systembolaget’s case, Calculation of CO2 Scope 2 calculates indirect carbon dioxide emissions emissions, based on the 2017 2016 2015 from the operations’ electricity and heat consumption. GHG Protocol There is also a Scope 3, which calculates all other Scope 1 indirect emissions, but the GHG protocol states that Systembolaget’s own 283 285 302 reporting these other indirect emissions is optional. vehicles and heating of the By far the biggest share of our Scope 3 emissions Learning Centre comprises carbon dioxide emissions from packaging, which is currently not strategically quantifiable for us, Scope 2 and we have, therefore, elected not to report Scope Electricity consumption, 5,5011 6,655 7,574 3 this year. own operations Our ambitions and governance when it comes to reducing our negative climate impact are presented Total, CO2e (tonnes) 5,783 6,940 7,876 in the section on page 54 entitled “Environment and 1 If our electricity consumption for 2017 were to be calculated in accordance with climate”. This section also describes our strategic key the method referred to in the GHG protocol as “location based”, which is based performance indicator for carbon dioxide emissions, on IEA (2016), our carbon dioxide emissions from energy consumption would, instead, total 3,081 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents. which has been revised in 2017 and now only includes our own operations. We have set a new climate goal 106 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Greenhouse gas GWP GreenCO2e/ Greenhouse gas GWP GreenCO2e/ Greenhouse gas GWP GreenCO2e/ emissions in 2017 house year emissions in 2016 house year emissions in 2015 house year gases/year (tonnes) gases/year (tonnes) gases/year (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) Carbon dioxide, CO2 1 3,204 3,204 Carbon dioxide, CO2 1 3,419 3,419 Carbon dioxide, CO2 1 3,567 3,567 Methane, CH4 25 0.01 0.13 Methane, CH4 25 0.00 0.12 Methane, CH4 25 0.00 0.10 Nitrous oxide), N2O 298 0.01 2.09 Nitrous oxide), N2O 298 0.01 2.11 Nitrous oxide), N2O 298 0.01 2.24 Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide 1 2,577 2,577 1 3,518 3,518 1 4,306 4,306 equivalents, CO2e equivalents, CO2e equivalents, CO2e Total 5,783 Total 6,940 Total 7,876 107 GRI Aspect Boundary table S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS GRI Aspect Boundary table Systembolaget has identified 13 company-specific key performance indicators for 2017, along with 9 GRI indicators for monitoring the material sustainability aspects, which we have grouped within our three strategic shifts. Boundaries and results for these indicators are shown in the table below. COMPANY-SPECIFIC KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND GRI INDICATORS IN OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Strategic shift Area Boundary – the point in our value chain that GRI indicator Company-specific key Result, Goal the area is important performance indicator 2017 2017 *= Strategic key performance indicator Continue to impress The customer interaction The entire local community PR5 Customer Satisfaction 84.3 84.5the customers (everyone in Sweden) (Customer satisfaction) Index (CSI)* 85.0 CSI – social component 81.5 Carefully selected range The entire local community Organic products’ share 12.6 10.0 (everyone in Sweden) of sales (%) Social sustainability in the Material at both producer and cultivation level, LA15 and HR11 in combination Suppliers’ sustainability supply chain but also in evaluating whether the suppliers (Social responsibility in the maturity* (agents) take responsibility for these issues supply chain) Increase awareness Engage with our The entire local community SO1 Opinion Index (OPI)* 76.9 77.0 of the risks associated customers and other (everyone in Sweden) (Our influence on society) (The percentage who with alcohol and why stakeholders on the want to retain SystemSystembolaget exists benefits of Systembolaget bolaget for public health reasons) Increased social dialogue Tools that help increased Proof of age checks (%) * 95.6 96.0 mindfulness Research and facts 108 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Strategic shift Area Boundary – the point in our value chain that GRI indicator Company-specific key Result, Goal, the area is important performance indicator 2017 2017 *= Strategic key performance indicator Optimise conditions Securing the talent pool Throughout Systembolaget’s operations LA11 Performance culture* 81.5 78.2 (Focus – performance reviews) Our approach to diversity is based on the fact LA12 that we exist for all Swedes. The area is also ma(Inclusiveness) terial with regard to securing our talent pool. Throughout Systembolaget’s operations Sick leave rate (%) * 4.8 4.8 Throughout Systembolaget’s operations Staff turnover (%) 18.0 Ethics and anti-corruption The area is material both within the organisation SO5 9 and in the supply chain (Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken) Environment and climate The direct climate impact of our own operations EN15 (direct sources) Climate impact of own 3,583 is the area where we have the greatest opportuEN16 (indirect sources) operations (net CO2e nity to exert influence and also has an important emissions)* signal value, even if it’s scale is not material Finance Throughout Systembolaget’s operations. Equity/assets ratio* 27.8 20-30 Return on shareholders’ 17.2 9.0-10.0 equity* Cost-effectiveness* 2.2 ≤ 2.3 109 GRI-index S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS GRI-index This sustainability report complies with the Global 2017 operational year, Systembolaget has grouped its mance indicators that Systembolaget has adjudged Reporting Initiatives (GRI) guidelines, version G4, material sustainability disclosures within five aspects relevant to its operations on the basis of the company’s and has been verified by Deloitte AB. Systembolaget, of the GRI index. most important sustainability aspects. Information on in accordance with the Core option, reports at least Aspect Boundaries and others can be found in the inone indicator or company-specific key performance The list of contents includes all sustainability aspects dex or via a reference to the location of the information indicator per material sustainability aspect. For the and the indicators or company-specific key perforin question. General standard disclosures G4 9 Report the scale of the organisation, including: • Total number of employees Systembolaget’s business model 14 • Total number of operations Income Statement 82 Strategy and analysis Page • N et sales Balance Sheet 83 • Q uantity of products or services provided Note 2 – Net sales G4 1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the President’s 6 • Total assets G4-10 Total number of 115 organisation (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) Statement • B eneficial ownership employees about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the • S ales and revenues by countries or regions that make up 5% or organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability more of total revenues • Costs by countries or regions that make up 5% or more of total costs • Employees Organisational profile Page G4 3 Report the name of the organisation Note 1 – Accounting 86 G4 10 • Report the total number of employees by employment contract G4-10 Total number of 115 principles and gender employees • Report the total number of permanent employees by employG4 4 Report the primary brands, products and services Systembolaget’s 14 ment type and gender business model • Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers G4 5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters Note 1 – Accounting 86 and by gender principles • Report the total workforce by region and gender G4 6 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates Note 1 – Accounting 86 Deviation: it is not possible to obtain figures for contract personnel principles from our system in that we use our payroll system, Heroma, which G4 7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form Corporate Governance 65 only shows Systembolaget employees, in our calculations. We Report currently have no means of reporting contract personnel in a corresponding manner, and contract personnel are consequently G4 8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, Systembolaget’s 14 excluded in order to eliminate the risk of misleading reporting. sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) business model G4 11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Comment: 100% of the workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements G4 12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain Social sustainability in 30 the supply chain 110 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Identified Material Aspects and their Boundaries Page G4 13 Report any significant changes during reporting period regarding Systembolaget’s 14 G4 17 • L ist all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated finanAbout our 95 the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, business model 31 cial statements or equivalent documents Responsibility Report including: Social sustainability in • Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s con• Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including the supply chain solidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not facility openings, closings, and expansions covered by the report • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation G4 18 • E xplain the process for defining the report content and the Materiality analysis 97 • C hanges in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply Aspect Boundaries chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and • E xplain how the organisation has implemented the termination Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4 14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is G4 19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining Materiality analysis 97 addressed by the organisation report content Comment: Systembolaget does not use the precautionary apG4 20 • For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the GRI Aspect 108 proach as a control concept per se, but we operate in accordance organisation, as follows: Boundary Table therewith in many cases, e.g. the risk analyses and their follow-ups report whether the Aspect is material within the organisation conducted in order to identify, evaluate, compile and report risks, if the Aspect is not material for all entities within the including sustainability-related risks. Risk management is followed organisation, select one of the following two approaches and up annually. report either: the list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for G4 15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social which the Aspect is not material, or: charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the company the list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for subscribes or which it endorses which the Aspects is material • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Comment: Systembolaget has been a member of the Business Boundary within the organisation Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) organisation since 2011 and a Global Compact member since 2013. In August 2017, an agreement G4 21 • For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside GRI Aspect 108 was signed with IUF (the International Union of Food, Agricultural, the organisation, as follows: Boundary Table Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, Tobacco and Allied Workers AssociaR eport whether the Aspect is material outside of the tions). Systembolaget also decided to become a member of Global organisation Deal during the year. I f the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is G4 16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) material. In addition, describe the geographical location where and national or international advocacy organisations in which the the Aspect is material for the entities identified organisation • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary • holds a position on the governance body outside the organisation • participates in projects or committees • provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues G4 22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in About our 95 • views membership as strategic previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. RestateResponsibility Report ments may result from: Comment: Systembolaget is, for strategic reasons, a member of Mergers or acquisitions the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), the Swedish Change of base years or periods Trade Federation, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Nature of business SNS Centre for Business and Policy Studies, the Swedish CommuMeasurement methods nication Association, the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering G4 23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the About our 95 Sciences (IVA), and of the SIDA (Swedish International DevelopScope and Aspect Boundaries Responsibility Report ment Cooperation Agency) Swedish Leadership for Sustainable Materiality analysis 97 Development (SLSD) network. 111 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Stakeholder engagement Page Governance Page G4 24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholder 99 G4 34 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including Corporate Governance 65 organisation engagement committees of the highest governance body. Identify any commitReport tees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmenG4 25 Report the basis for identification and selection of Materiality analysis 97 tal and social impacts stakeholders with whom to engage G4 26 • Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, Stakeholder 99 including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder engagement Ethics and integrity Page group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was G4 56 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms Ethics and 52 undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation proces of behaviour such as codes of conduct, codes of ethics) anti-corruption G4 27 • Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through Stakeholder 99 stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has reengagement Comment: An internal Code of Conduct was adopted in 2015. sponded to those key topics and concerns, including through its There is also an External Code of Conduct, Employee Policy, and a Commercial Ethics Responsibility Policy. reporting • Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Report profile Page Specific standard disclosures G4 28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) About our 95 for information provided Responsibility Report Indicators and company-specific key performance indicators per aspect Page G4 29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) About our 95 Responsibility Report ECONOMIC IMPACT G4 30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) About our 95 DMA Sustainability management disclosures regarding financial Finance 56 Responsibility Report key performance indicators G4 31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its About our 96 Company-specific Equity/assets ratio Finance 57 contents Responsibility Report key performance G4 32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen About our 95 indicator Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option Responsibility Report Company-specific Return on Equity Finance 57 Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, key performance if the report has been externally assured indicator G4 33 Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard Audit Report and 117 Company-specific Cost-effectiveness Finance 57 to seeking external assurance Review Report in key performance Report the relationship between the organisation and the respect of the Annual indicator assurance providers Accounts, Auditor´s review 122 report in respect of the Sustainability Report, Corporate Governance 69 Report 112 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Company-specific Opinion Index (measures Swedes’ attitudes to Increase awareness 43 Aspect: Environment and climate key performance Systembolaget) of alcohol´s risks and indicator why Systembolaget DMA Sustainability management disclosure of initiatives to mitiEnvironment and 54 exists gate the operations’ environmental impact climate Company-specific Customer Satisfaction Index – social component (provide The customer 26 Company-specific Climate impact of own operations (CO2e net) Environment and 56 key performance information about the harmful effects of alcohol) interaction key performance climate indicator indicator Company-specific Proof of age checks % (ensure that alcohol is not sold to Tools that contrib43 EN15 Carbon dioxide emissions calculated in accordance with the GHG protocol 106 key performance minors) ute to increased Green House Gas Protocol, Scope 1, Own vehicles and Teachindicator mindfulness ing Centre heating EN16 Carbon dioxide emissions calculated in accordance with the GHG protocol 106 Green House Gas Protocol, Scope 2, Electricity consumption, Labelling of Products & Services/Monitoring customer satisfaction own operation DMA Sustainability management disclosure of routines to The customer 24 monitor customer satisfaction interaction and DMA Sustainability management disclosure of initiatives to The customer 26 product range reduce the environmental impact of the product range and interaction and Company-specific Customer Satisfaction Index (monitoring customer satisfaction) The customer 26 supply chain product range key performance interaction Company-specific Organic products’ share of sales (% by volume) A carefully selected 28 indicator key performance range PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of The customer 26 indicator surveys measuring customer satisfaction interaction SOCIAL IMPACT Aspect: Social sustainability in the supply chain Aspect: Increase awareness of the risks associated with alcohol and why Systembolaget exists in order to DMA Sustainability management disclosure with regard to Social sustainability 31 limit the harmful effects of alcohol working conditions and compliance with human rights in in the supply chain DMA Sustainability management disclosure regarding the Increase awareness 38 the supply chain operations’ social impact of alcohol’s risks Company-specific Suppliers’ sustainability maturity – situation analysis Social sustainability 34 and why key performance in the supply chain Systembolaget indicator exists LA15 and HR11 in Evaluation of working conditions and compliance with human Social sustainability 35 Society combination rights in the supply chain with regard to significant and in the supply chain potential negative impact, and measures taken SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Increase awareness 38 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs of alcohol´s risks and why Comment: The goal of the Swedish alcohol policy is to limit Systembolaget total alcohol consumption in society so that alcohol-related exists harm, whether medical or social, is reduced as much as possible. Systembolaget consequently has a clear social mandate: to engage responsibly and with a high standard of service, in the retail sales of spirits, wines and strong beers, and to inform people about the harmful effects of alcohol. Achieving the latter objective requires clear information provision and an ongoing dialogue with different elements of society. 113 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Aspect: Securing the talent pool DMA Sustainability management disclosure on how we develop Securing the talent 45 ourselves and our skills pool LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Securing the talent 48 career development reviews pool Deviation: A breakdown by gender within every category of those employees who have received performance reviews is not currently possible in our system. We are reviewing whether this is of value from an inclusiveness perspective and, if it proves to be so, examining the system engineering opportunities for reporting by roll with a gender breakdown. Company-specific Performance culture Securing the talent 48 key performance pool indicator Company-specific Total sick leave, % Securing the talent 49 key performance pool indicator Company-specific Staff turnover, % Securing the talent 50 key performance pool indicator LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Securing the talent 50 employees per employee category, according to gender, age pool group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Deviation: In light of the minor changes from previous years’ monitoring of nationality, we have chosen to focus on investigating what the new requirements entailed by the introduction of GDPR (General Data Protection regulation) will mean, and have not charted this area in 2017. We are coordinating the measures being taken to secure the transition from PUL (the Swedish Data Protection Act) to GDPR so that we can feel secure in our legal position, and will endeavour to conduct a diversity mapping process in accordance with GDPR in 2018. Aspect: Ethics and anti-corruption DMA Sustainability management disclosure on risk assessment Ethics and 52 procedures in ethics and anticorruption anti-corruption SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions take Ethics and 53 anti-corruption 114 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Number of employees, 2017 Refers to all employees, as of 31 December 2017 NUMBER Permanent employees All employees Permanent employees Fixed term employees Full-time employees Part-time employees Full-time employees Part-time employees Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Sales personnel 1,668 3,057 4,725 1,382 2,620 4,002 286 437 723 256 274 530 1,412 2,783 4,195 236 264 500 1,146 2,356 3,502 SA North* 991 1,539 2,530 824 1,319 2,143 167 220 387 150 121 271 841 1,418 2,259 141 118 259 683 1,201 1,884 SA South* 677 1,518 2,195 558 1,301 1,859 119 217 336 106 153 259 571 1,365 1,936 95 146 241 463 1,155 1,618 Store Managers 196 280 476 195 279 474 1 1 2 196 277 473 0 3 3 195 276 471 0 3 3 SA North* 99 127 226 98 126 224 1 1 2 99 124 223 0 3 3 98 123 221 0 3 3 SA South* 97 153 250 97 153 250 0 0 0 97 153 250 0 0 0 97 153 250 0 0 0 Janitors 2 11 13 2 11 13 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 11 13 0 0 0 2 11 13 SA North* 1 5 6 1 5 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 5 6 0 0 0 1 5 6 SA South* 1 6 7 1 6 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 6 7 0 0 0 1 6 7 HQ personnel, 40 48 88 40 48 88 0 0 0 40 48 88 0 0 0 40 48 88 0 0 0 Managers of whom, 13 18 31 13 18 31 0 0 0 13 18 31 0 0 0 13 18 31 0 0 0 Unit Managers of whom, 17 13 30 17 13 30 0 0 0 17 13 30 0 0 0 17 13 30 0 0 0 Area Managers HQ personnel, 177 235 412 170 227 397 7 8 15 168 221 389 9 14 23 161 217 378 9 10 19 employees Contract personnel Systembolaget, total 2,083 3,631 5,714 1,789 3,185 4,974 294 446 740 660 820 1,480 1,423 2,811 4,234 632 805 1,437 1,157 2,380 3,537 IQ 1 7 8 1 6 7 0 1 1 1 7 8 0 0 0 1 6 7 0 0 0 Total 2,084 3,638 5,722 1,790 3,191 4,981 294 447 741 661 827 1,488 1,423 2,811 4,234 633 811 1,444 1,157 2,380 3,537 * Sales Area Comment: The percentage of men has increased amongst fixed term employees. The percentage of permanent employees has fallen slightly and the number of full-time positions has decreased slightly amongst permanent employees. The fact that we have many fixed term and part-time employees is due to the fact that we have sales peaks at the end of the week and cannot occupy weekend personnel levels throughout the week. These conditions are common within the retail sector. 115 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Number of employees, 2017 Refers to all employees, as of 31 December 2017 PER CENT Permanent employees All employees (%) Permanent employees (%) Fixed term employees (%) Full-time employees (%) Part-time employees (%) Full-time employees (%) Part-time employees (%) Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Sales personnel 35 65 35 65 85 40 60 15 48 52 11 34 66 89 47 53 12 33 67 88 SA North* 39 61 38 62 85 43 57 15 55 45 11 37 63 89 54 46 12 36 64 88 SA South* 31 69 30 70 85 35 65 15 41 59 12 29 71 88 39 61 13 29 71 87 Store Managers 41 59 41 59 100 50 50 0 41 59 99 0 100 1 41 59 99 0 100 1 SA North* 44 56 44 56 99 50 50 1 44 56 99 0 100 1 44 56 99 0 100 1 SA South* 39 61 39 61 100 0 0 0 39 61 100 0 0 0 39 61 100 0 0 0 Janitors 15 85 15 85 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 15 85 100 0 0 0 15 85 100 SA North* 17 83 17 83 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 17 83 100 0 0 0 17 83 100 SA South* 14 86 14 86 100 0 0 0 0 0 0 14 86 100 0 0 0 14 86 100 HQ personnel, 45 55 45 55 100 0 0 0 45 55 100 0 0 0 45 55 100 0 0 0 Managers HQ personnel, 43 57 43 57 96 47 53 4 43 57 94 39 61 6 43 57 95 47 53 5 employees Contract personnel 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Systembolaget, total 36 64 36 64 87 40 60 13 45 55 26 34 66 74 44 56 29 33 67 71 IQ 13 88 14 86 88 0 100 13 13 88 100 0 0 0 14 86 100 0 0 0 Total 36 64 36 64 87 40 60 13 44 56 26 34 66 74 44 56 29 33 67 71 * Sales Area Boundary: We do not report consultants/contract personnel, or personnel within outsourced IT operations. We have not broken down the percentage of men and women by region because we do not break down our figures in this way. Our operations are located solely in Sweden and we therefore regard Sweden as our sole region. 116 Audit and review S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Audit Report To the Annual General Meeting of Systembolaget AB, ities in accordance with these standards are described terially inconsistent with the annual accounts. In this corporate identity number 556059-9473 in greater detail in the section entitled “Auditor’s procedure we also take into account our knowledge responsibility”. We are, in accordance with generally otherwise obtained during the audit and assess whethaccepted auditing standards in Sweden, independent er the information otherwise appears to be materially Report on the Annual Accounts in relation to Systembolaget AB, and have otherwise misstated. complied with professional ethical requirements in OPINION accordance with these standards. If we, based on the work performed concerning this We have audited the annual accounts of Systembolainformation, conclude that there is a material misstateget AB for 2017, with the exception of the Corporate We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained ment of this other information, we are required to reGovernance Report on pages 65-80. The company’s is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our port that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. annual accounts are presented on pages 3, 8, 15 and audit opinion. 57-93 of this document. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OTHER INFORMATION AND THE PRESIDENT In our opinion, the annual accounts have been preThe audit of the annual accounts for the financial year The Board of Directors and the President are responsipared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Acfrom 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 has been ble for the preparation and fair presentation of annual counts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, carried out by a different auditor who has submitted accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual Acthe financial position of Systembolaget AB as of 31 an audit report dated 23 March 2017 with unmodified counts Act. The Board of Directors and the President December 2017 and its financial performance and cash opinions in the Report on the Annual Accounts. are also responsible for the internal controls that they flows for the year in accordance with the Swedish Andeem necessary for preparing annual accounts that nual Accounts Act. Our opinion does not include the INFORMATION OTHER THAN THAT CONTAINED IN are free from material misstatement, whether due to Corporate Governance Report on pages 65-80. The THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS fraud or error. statutory administration report is consistent with the The Board of Directors and the President are responother parts of the annual accounts. sible for the other information. The other information In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated acis presented on pages 4–7, 9–14, 16–56 and 94-128. counts, the Board of Directors and the Managing DirecWe therefore recommend that the Annual General tor are responsible for the assessment of the company’s Meeting adopt the Income Statement and the Balance Our opinion on the annual accounts does not cover and the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. Sheet for Systembolaget AB. this information and we do not express any form of They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going assurance regarding this other information. concern and using the going concern basis of accountBASES FOR OPINIONS ing. The going concern basis of accounting is however We conducted our audit in accordance with InternaIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts, not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing tional Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally acour responsibility is to read the information identified Director intend to liquidate the company, to cease opercepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilabove and consider whether the information is maations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 117 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estiReport on other legal and about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstatemates and related disclosures made by the Board of Directors and the President; regulatory requirements ment, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an OPINIONS auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasona• conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of DiIn addition to our audit of the annual accounts, we ble assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not rectors’ and the Managing Director’s use of the going have also audited the administration of the Board of a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual Directors and the President of Systembolaget AB for with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards accounts and consolidated accounts. We also draw a 2016 and the proposed appropriation of the compain Sweden will always detect a material misstatement conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as ny’s profit or loss. when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or to whether any material uncertainty exists related to error and are considered material if, individually or in events or conditions that may cast significant doubt We recommend to the general meeting of shareholdthe aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to on the company’s and the Group’s ability to continue ers that the profit be appropriated in accordance influence the economic decisions of users taken on as a going concern. If we conclude that a material with the proposal in the statutory administration rethe basis of these annual accounts and consolidated uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention port and that the members of the Board of Directors accounts. in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in and the President be discharged from liability for the the annual accounts and consolidated accounts or, financial year. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exerif such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our cise professional judgement and maintain professional opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated BASIS FOR OPINIONS scepticism throughout the audit. We also: accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit We conducted the audit in accordance with generally evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s reaccepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our respon• identify and assess the risks of material misstatement port. However, future events or conditions may cause sibilities under those standards are further described of the annual accounts, whether due to fraud or error, a company and a Group to cease to continue as a in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indedesign and perform audit procedures responsive to going concern; pendent of the parent company in accordance with those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in The risk of not detecting a material misstatement content of the annual accounts and consolidated accordance with these requirements. resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting accounts, including the disclosures, and whether from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts repWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the resent the underlying transactions and events in a is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our override of internal control; manner that achieves fair presentation. opinions. • obtain an understanding of the company’s internal We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS control relevant to our audit in order to design audit matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit. AND THE PRESIDENT procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, We must also inform of significant audit findings durThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on ing our audit, including any significant deficiencies in for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the effectiveness of the company’s internal control; internal control that we identified. 118 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed AUDITOR’S REVIEW OF THE CORPORATE of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and GOVERNANCE REPORT requirements which the company’s type of operations, thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reaThe Board of Directors is responsible for the Corporate size and risks place on the size of the parent compasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is Governance Report on pages 65-80 and for ensuring ny’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and in accordance with the Companies Act. that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual position in general. Accounts Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance Our review has been conducted in accordance with organisation and the administration of the company’s with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden FAR’s auditing standard, RevU 16 The auditor´s examaffairs. This includes among other things continuous will always detect actions or omissions that can give ination of the corporate governance statement. This assessment of the company’s financial situation and rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed means that our examination of the corporate governensuring that the company’s organisation is designed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not ance statement is different and substantially less in so that the accounting, management of assets and the in accordance with the Companies Act. scope than an audit conducted in accordance with company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled International Standards on Auditing and generally acin a reassuring manner. The President shall manage As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the ongoing administration according to the Board cepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise the examination has provided us with sufficient basis of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among professional judgement and maintain professional for our opinions. other matters take measures that are necessary to fulscepticism throughout the audit. The examination of fil the company’s accounting in accordance with law the administration and the proposed appropriations of A corporate governance statement has been prepared. and handle the management of assets in a reassuring the company’s profit or loss are based primarily on the Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the manner. audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures persecond paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts formed are based on our professional judgment with Act are consistent with the other parts of the annual AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY starting point in risk and materiality. This means that accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordOur objective concerning the audit of the administrawe focus the examination on such actions, areas and ance with the Annual Accounts Act. tion, and thereby our opinion about discharge from relationships that are material for the operations and liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a where deviations and violations would have particular Stockholm, 15 March 2018 reasonable degree of assurance whether any member importance for the company’s situation. We examine of the Board of Directors or the President in any maand test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, Deloitte AB terial respect: actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. Didrik Roos • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omisAs a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ Authorised Public Accountant sion which can give rise to liability to the company, or proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned • has in any other way acted in contravention of the statement and a selection of supporting evidence in Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act, or the Artiorder to be able to assess whether the proposal is in cles of Association. accordance with the Companies Act. 119 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of Systembolaget AB, corporate ID no. 556059-9473 ENGAGEMENT AND DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for 2017 on pages 4–7, 12–14, 16–56 and 95-127, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. FOCUS AND SCOPE OF THE REVIEW Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. OPINION A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm, 15 March 2018 Deloitte AB Didrik Roos Authorised Public Accountant 120 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Review Report in respect of the Annual Accounts To the Annual General Meeting of Systembolaget AB, corporate identity number 556059-9473. On behalf of the Swedish Parliament’s Board of Administration, we have examined the administration and internal controls of Systembolaget AB in the 2017 financial year. We have examined significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances in the company in order to be able to determine whether the company has been managed in an appropriate and financially acceptable manner and whether the company’s internal controls are adequate. Our examination did not reveal any circumstances giving cause for objection. We have also examined whether the company, its management and Board observed the guidelines laid down by the government with specific reference to Systembolaget AB and to State-owned enterprises in general. This examination also failed to reveal any circumstances giving cause for objection. Stockholm, 15 March 2018 Lennart Axelsson Jörgen Hellman Maria Plass 121 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Auditor’s review report in respect of Systembolaget AB’s Sustainability Report To Systembolaget AB in accordance with ISAE 3000 Engagements Other than The conclusion based on our limited assurance enAudits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. gagement consequently does not provide the same INTRODUCTION A limited assurance engagement consists of making level of assurance as a conclusion based on an audit. I have been engaged by the Board of Directors of enquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the Systembolaget AB to perform a limited assurance preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying My review is based on the criteria chosen by the Board engagement related to Systembolaget AB’s Sustainanalytical and other review procedures. The orientation of Directors and executive company management, ability Report for 2017. The company has defined the and scope of a limited assurance engagement differs which are defined above. I consider these criteria to scope of the sustainability report on page 2. from and is considerably less than the orientation and be suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability scope of an audit engagement conducted in accordReport. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ance with the IAASB standards for auditing and quality AND THE EXECUTIVE COMPANY MANAGEMENT control and with generally accepted auditing practices. I believe that the evidence we have obtained during FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT my limited assurance engagement is sufficient and The Board of Directors and the executive company The audit company applies ISQC 1 (International Standappropriate to enable me to provide a basis for the management are responsible for the preparation and ard on Quality Control) and hence has a multifaceted opinion expressed below. presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance system of quality control that includes documented with applicable criteria, which are specified on page 95 guidelines and routines in respect of compliance with OPINION of the Sustainability Report, and which comprise those business ethics requirements, professional conduct Based on my review, nothing has come to my attensections of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (isstandards, and applicable legislative and other regution that causes me to believe that the Sustainability sued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) applicable latory requirements. I am, in accordance with generally Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared to the Sustainability Report, and the specific reporting accepted auditing standards in Sweden, independent in accordance with the criteria presented above by the and measurement principles developed and issued in relation to Systembolaget AB, and have otherwise Board of Directors and the executive company manby the company. This responsibility also includes the complied with professional ethical requirements in agement. internal controls deemed necessary for the preparation accordance with these standards. of a Sustainability Report that contains no material misStockholm, 15 March 2018 statements, whether due to error or to fraud. The review activities conducted in conjunction with a limited assurance engagement do not enable us to Deloitte AB AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY state with the same level of assurance that we were My responsibility is to express a conclusion on the made aware of all of the important circumstances Didrik Roos Sustainability Report, based on our review. that could have been identified in conjunction with an Authorised Public Accountant My limited assurance engagement has been performed audit. 122 Glossary S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Glossary ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION for the next two years, as is the case for BEPI, after The global “at risk country” analysis is updated every Consumption of alcoholic beverages, recalculated which it will be known simply as “amfori”. three years. The World Bank’s “at risk country” list is as litres of 100 per cent alcohol, per person aged 15 used to analyse countries added to the producer list and above. The term, alcoholic beverage, refers to a ANDT: THE ANDT COUNCIL during the intervening period. This “at risk country” beverage with an alcohol content in excess of 2.25 per The Government’s Council on alcohol, narcotics, doplist also forms the basis for identification of high risk cent by volume (the Swedish Alcohol Act, 2010:1622). ing and tobacco issues acts in an advisory role to the countries in accordance with the following definition: Government and provides information on research a high-risk country is a country with a rating that is less ALCOHOL INDEX and survey results among others, of relevance for the than 20% in accordance with the World Bank’s “at risk The Alcohol Index is a combined measurement of implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the country” list. people’s attitudes to alcohol in different situations. The strategy. higher the index on a scale of 0-100, the more moderate AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES the attitude to alcohol. The Alcohol Index is generated “AT RISK COUNTRIES” The number of hours worked divided by the normal using the responses to nine questions on what people Systembolaget applies a global “at risk country” number of hours worked per year. think is right and wrong when it comes to alcohol. The analysis from Verisk Maplecroft. The analysis covers questions are put to 2,000 people aged 16 and above 99 countries whose products are included in SystemBSCI once a year. Data collection is carried out by Novus. bolaget’s range. The analysis weights and summarises BSCI, The Business Social Compliance Initiative, whose the following three primary indicators to produce an registered offices are in Brussels, is a European, comALCOHOL TAX overall risk assessment ranking of between 0 and 10 mercial collaboration initiative for companies keen to Alcohol tax is an excise duty levied by the Government. (where 0 is the highest risk and 10 is the lowest risk): improve working conditions in the global supply chain. Changes to the alcohol tax rate affect both System• Country Risk (which comprises 7 indicators) bolaget’s income and its cost of goods sold, and • Industry Risk CAN changes to the alcohol tax rate consequently have no • Commodity Risk The Swedish Council for Information on Alcohol and effect on the trading margin. Other Drugs. “At risk countries” meet at least one of the following AMFORI BSCI parameters: CFI The sustainability initiative that Systembolaget has • The country’s combined risk indicator value is less Claes Fornell International CFI AB, which carries out signed up to the Business Social Compliance Initiathan 50. our Customer Satisfaction Index surveys. tive (BSCI) – will, as of 2018, be restructured as amfori • The country’s risk indicator value for at least one of BSCI. This is occurring as part of the integration prothe seven indicators included in Country Risk is lower CLIMATE IMPACT FROM SYSTEMBOLAGET’S OWN cess approved by the FTA, Foreign Trade Association than 2.5. OPERATIONS (commercial focus), BEPI, Business Environmental • The country’s risk indicator value for at least one of We have reformulated our climate impact key perforPerformance Initiative (environmental focus) and BSCI the three primary indicators Country Risk, Industry mance indicator, as of 2017, to measure carbon diox(social focus). BSCI will continue as the product name Risk and Commodity Risk) is lower than 2.5. ide emissions from our own operations. The goal is 123 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS for emissions from purchased energy, coolants, and DMA been structured in cooperation with the OECD and leased vehicles to be zero by 2023. The climate impact GRI abbreviation that stands for Disclosure Management ILO. Agenda 2030 includes a specific goal relating to of our own operations is followed up annually. Approach and relates to the management of a compadecent labour conditions and inclusive growth. Global ny’s sustainability work, linked to selected indicators Deal is a step towards achieving that goal. COMPLEX SUPPLY CHAIN and company-specific key performance indicators. Systembolaget buys products from around 100 differGRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE ent countries. We always buy via Swedish suppliers FINANCIAL POSITION A global network that issues a framework with guide– currently around 700 in number. Our suppliers often Total shareholders’ equity on the closing day. lines for sustainability reporting. have subcontractors/producers who may, in turn, have subcontractors of their own. It is not uncommon for a FFR FARM SALES producer to have as many as tens of different farmers The abbreviation, FFR, stands for the Fast Fast Range Entails a local wine, spirits or beer producer engaging linked to their operations, or for raw materials to be and entails a listing period of 12 months and distribuin the sale of in-house produced drinks to visitors or purchased as semi-finished goods for combination tion in at least 10 stores. local customers, directly at the farm or factory, but into a finished product – which is then bought in by us. also means that everyone who manufactures alcohol GDPR – GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATION being entitled to sell directly to consumers. This is true CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX – CSI GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) is a data of both foreign and Swedish operators in both urban The CSI measures how satisfied customers are with protection regulation that replaces the Swedish Data and rural areas. Systembolaget. The total index is an average value obProtection Act (PUL). GDPR is the law in all EU member tained from responses to the three following questions: states, while PUL only applied in Sweden. One of the INCIDENT MANAGEMENT • How satisfied or dissatisfied are you with the Systemmain innovations is that the Swedish Data Protection The term, incident management, refers to a systematic bolaget store, overall? Authority can impose high punitive fines and the fact approach to working with suspected breaches of our • How well does the Systembolaget store live up to your that personal data incidents must be reported within Code of Conduct on the part of producers. We may expectations? 72 hours. be made aware of incidents via a number of different • How close to or far from ideal do you think that the channels, both internal and external, and they are not Systembolaget store is? GLOBAL COMPACT limited to any identified “at risk country” or product The customers’ answers, which are given on a scale A UN initiative and framework for sustainable enterrange from which the product in question derives. from 1 to 10, are converted to a figure between 10 and prise. Global Compact is based around ten principles 100. Systembolaget engages CFI to conduct the survey. within the following four areas: human rights, labour INCOME/NET SALES The survey base comprises a total of 48,000 randomly conditions, the environment, and anti-corruption. Income/net sales comprises income from goods sold selected customers, spread over all of the stores. The and service provided that form part of SystembolaCSI is measured and reported three times a year. GLOBAL DEAL get’s core operations. In November 2017, Systembolaget elected to sign up DGL for the Global Deal, an initiative that aims to improve INFLUENCERS Good Leadership – a development programme within the dialogue between labour market parties and An influencer works to sell products, using influence as Systembolaget designed to develop a management countries’ governments in order to improve labour a market force. They create close digital relationships approach that promotes good performance and enconditions and productivity. Global Deal was initiated with their followers by presenting themselves in social sures goal fulfilment. by Sweden’s Prime Minister, Stefan Löfven, and has media and these relationships act as a marketing tool. 124 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS INFORMED CHOICE economic goals specified in the Owner’s Directive, are deemed to be in line with our Code of Conduct. For us, working to promote informed choice means which was adopted at the Annual General Meeting held Producers who implement these initiatives are not offering products with a lower alcohol content and in on 24 April 2017. systematically monitored by Systembolaget. Our smaller packs, and products that take into account enquantitative assessment examines the number of certivironmental considerations and working conditions in PERFORMANCE CULTURE fications and audits that other customers have made of the supply chain. Performance culture measures the extent to which the producer in question where we have a systematic employees feel that their job provides the conditions risk assessment model. MYSTERY SHOPPERS that enable them to perform (want, know, can, may People aged between 20 and 24 who make control and should) and the individual’s perception of the way STOCK TURNOVER RATE purchases in our stores to check whether we are comin which their basic requirements are met. Measured Purchase value divided by the average stock value at plying with a proof of age check selling rules. once a year by means of a company-wide employee retail price. survey. NATIVE ADVERTISING SUPPLIER QUALITY INDEX – SQI Marketing that takes the form of advertisements that PROFIT MAXIMISATION The Supplier Quality Index is a jointly weighted index look like and are perceived as editorial article content When the primary purpose of an organisation’s operof a number of quality parameters of significance to where they are presented. ations is to generate the maximum possible profit for achieving customer benefit. the owner. OPERATING MARGIN TOTAL SICK LEAVE Operating profit/loss as a percentage of income. PROOF OF AGE CHECKS The total sick leave is measured using the Swedish The proof of age checks measure how often proof National Financial Management Authority’s definition OPINION INDEX – OPI of age was requested as a percentage of the total and measures hours lost to sick leave in relation to the The Opinion Index measures the percentage of the number of control purchases. The control purchases total number of available working hours during the Swedish population who wish to retain Systembolaget are carried out by people aged between 20 and 24. same period. and the monopoly on retail sales of strong beer, wines Systembolaget commissions Better Business to carry and spirits. The survey base is asked to respond to the out these checks. A total of just over 5,800 control TRADING MARGIN following question: Do you think that Systembolaget purchases are made every year in stores. Proof of age Gross profit/loss as a percentage of income. and the monopoly on the sale of strong beer, wines and checks are carried out daily and are reported every spirits should be retained, or would you prefer strong month. beer, wines and spirits to be sold in other stores? Systembolaget engages Kantar Sifo to conduct the QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE SUSTAINABILITY survey. A total of 750 randomly selected individuals ASSESSMENT aged 15and above are interviewed every month with There are a large number of sustainability initiatives the exception of July (no interviews) and August (1,500 and certifications operated by other parties within interviews). The Opinion Index is reported quarterly. our supply chain and which we are keen to take into account and include in our assessment of a producOWNER’S GOAL er’s sustainability maturity. Our qualitative assessment The owner’s goal comprises the mandate-related and takes into account other sustainability initiatives that 125 CONTENTS Definition of alternative key performance indicators RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY The operating profit/loss for the period (rolling, 12 months) of SEK 282.3 m, as a percentage of the average adjusted shareholders’ equity of SEK 1,643.3 m = 17.2 per cent. Shareholders’ equity is adjusted for the standard tax rate, 22 per cent, on untaxed reserves. The average is calculated on the basis of the adjusted shareholders’ equity on 31 December 2016, SEK 1,656.4 m, and on 31 December 2017, SEK 1,630.0 m. This key performance indicator is an objective set in the Owner’s Directive for Systembolaget. COST EFFECTIVENESS Cost-effectiveness is calculated from the ratio between total overheads (adjusted for non-recurrent items), SEK 3,442 m, relative to quantities sold (number of packagings sold weighted for the respective product groups’ estimated processing time), 1,540 million pcs, = 2.2. This key performance indicator is an objective set in the Owner’s Directive for Systembolaget. OPERATING PROFIT The operating profit is calculated from the gross profit, SEK 3,700 m, plus other operating income, SEK 7 m, less other operating expenses, SEK 1 m and less operating expenses, SEK 3,426 m, = SEK 270 m. EQUITY/ASSETS RATIO Adjusted equity, SEK 1,630.0 m, as a percentage of the Balance Sheet total, SEK 5,862.8 m, = 27.8 per cent. The equity is adjusted for the standard tax rate, 22 per cent, on untaxed reserves. This key ratio is an objective set in the Owner’s Directive for Systembolaget. 126 List of references S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS List of references No. Reference name 1 CAN Monitor Alkoholkonsumtionen i Sverige 2016/Alcohol consumption in 13 World Health Organization Global status report on noncommunicable diseases Sweden, 2016 14 R. W. Hingson et al Age at Drinking Onset and Alcohol Dependence 2 Alkoholrapporten 2017/2017 Alcohol Report, Systembolaget AB 15 CAN survey Många unga skulle låta bli att dricka om närstående slutade langa/ 3 Förtroendebarometern/Confidence Barometer, Medieakademin Many young people would not drink if their friends and family stopped buying for them 4 ServiceScore 16 Swedish Government Inquiry, SOU 2010:98, on Gårdsförsäljning/Farm Sales 5  Svensk Hållbarhetsranking/Swedish Sustainability Ranking, survey conducted by Dr Tony Apéria (Ph.D. Business & Economics), at Stockholm University 17 Swedish Government Inquiry, SOU 2009:22, on En ny alkohollag/A new Alcohol Act 6 Publishing prize in the Films marketing a company category (http://publish18 Tonårsparlören/The Teenage Phrasebook, IQ-initiativet AB ingpriset.org/vinnare-2017/) 19 CAN study of boxed wines, Vilken roll har bag-in-box spelat för den ökade vinkon7 World Health Organization Global status report on alcohol and health 2014 sumtionen i Sverige?/What role has bag-in-box wines played in increased wine consumption in Sweden? 8 Article on alcohol debuts https://polisen.se/Arkiv/Nyhetsarkiv/Gavleborg/ Du-trafffar-mig-pa-Valborg/ 20 Discrimination legislation (www.do.se) 9 T Stockwell et al What are the public health and safety benefits of the Swedish 21 EU rulings on religious expression by employees (http://www.do.se/om-do/ government alcohol monopoly? pressrum/aktuellt/aktuellt-under-2017/arbetsgivare-kan-krava-neutralitet-efter-eu-domar/) 10 The Swedish Alcohol Act 22 BSCI Code of Conduct 11 CAN, Trender i dryckesmönster – befolkningens självrapporterade alkohol-vanor under 2000-talet/Trends in drinking patterns – the population’s self-reported 23 Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, Ds 2016:33 Reglering av distanshandel alcohol habits in the 21st century med alkoholdrycker/Regulation of distance selling of alcoholic drinks 12  Alkoholen som samhällsproblem/Alcohol as a social problem, SOM Institute, 2015 24 Swedish Government Inquiry, SOU 2017:59, Reglering av alkoglass m.fl. produkter/Regulation of alcoholic ice cream and other products 127 Financial calendar and contacts S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y N O T E S A N D O T H E R I N F O R M AT I O N CONTENTS Financial calendar Contacts 26 April 2018 2017 Annual General Meeting Contact person at Systembolaget: Press Manager, Lennart Agén, tel (switchboard) 08-503 300 00 27 April 2018 Interim Report, January-March 2018 Street address 16 July 2018 Interim Report, January-March 2018 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 14, Stockholm, Sweden 26 October 2018 Interim Report, January-September 2018 Postal address: Systembolaget AB SE-103 84 Stockholm Sweden 128
