Communication on progress (COP) for Scania CV AB From the core values to global management systems and the way Scania conducts its business, Scania is committed to upholding the ten principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact relating to human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. We are embedding its 10 principles in our operations, in our supplier and other business relationships and take actions that advance societal goals. This Communication on Progress (COP) is Scania’s annual disclosure to stakeholders about the company’s efforts to implement the principles of the UN Global Compact. Scania joined the UNGC in 2012. Scania has one primary channel to report sustainability information, our integrated Annual and sustainability report. The Annual and Sustainability Report report 2017 put focus on Scania’s efforts to drive the shift towards a sustainable transport system and Scania’s contribution to society – delivering sustainable transport solutions by improving customer profitability. The report addresses sustainability issues both on strategic and in-depth level. It reflects how sustainability drives and has impact on our business, long-term organisational strategy, risks, and opportunities. Content is written both for business partners, employees and for other engaged stakeholders, CSR specialists and analysts. On some topics the report is complemented with information on our webpage. The report is available at www.scania.com/sustainability. It is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Reporting Guidelines, we aim to fulfil the “In accordance – Core” criteria of the GRI standards. The report is also aligned with the Volkswagen Group guidelines on sustainability reporting, and is self-declared. This year as well you can find our GRI-index with references on how each GRIindicator relates to a UN Global Compact principle: http://www.scania.com/group/en/section/sustainability/gri-index/ . A description of the transport industries relation with the Sustainable Development Goals and examples on Scania’s contribution can be found in the report but also an extended version on: https://www.scania.com/group/en/delivering-on-the-sdgs-through-sustainabletransport/ On this link Mr. Henrik Henriksson, Scania’s President and CEO expresses Scania´s continued support for the Global Compact. https://www.scania.com/group/en/committed-to-high-principles/ In addition, the table on the following pages indicates where to find information, in the report and on the web about how Scania works with the respective principles of the UN Global Compact. UN Global Compact principle Reference Committed to high principles Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and Responsible sourcing respect the protection of internationally Making it happen, page 28-35 Sustainable every step of the way proclaimed human rights. Doing things right Principle 2 make sure that they are not Responsible sourcing Making it happen, page 28-35 complicit in human rights abuses. Sustainable every step of the way Doing things right Labour Committed to high principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the Sustainability KPIs, page 131 Making it happen, page 28-35 freedom of association and the effective Doing things right recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of Responsible sourcing forced and compulsory labour; Making it happen, page 28-35 Doing things right Principle 5 the effective abolition of child Responsible sourcing labour; and Making it happen, page 28-35 Doing things right Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination Making it happen, page 28-35 in respect of employment and occupation. Doing things right Committed to high principles Environment Making it happen, pages 32-35 Principle 7 Businesses should support a Energy and resource efficient operations precautionary approach to environmental Sustainability KPIs, page 130 Doing things right challenges; Making it happen, pages 32-35 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote Energy and resource efficient operations greater environmental responsibility; Sustainability KPIs, page 130 Sustainable every step of the way Doing things right Principle 9 encourage the development Making it happen, pages 32-35 and diffusion of environmentally friendly Sustainability KPIs, page 129 Driving the shift, page 12 technologies. Our approach to sustainable transport, pages 16-17 Making it happen, pages 24-27 Anti-corruption Committed to high principles Principle 10 Businesses should work Making it happen, pages 32-33 against all forms of corruption, including Business ethics extortion and bribery. Sustainability KPIs, page 131 Doing things right
