Sustainability Report 2017 Rubrik Chili con care 2 Contents Table of contents About Alfa Laval 3 Message from our CEO 4 Our business 6 Strategy and governance 8 Sustainability targets 9 Growth drivers 10 Essential topics 11 Innovation and key technologies 12 Contributing to UN Global Goals 14 Business opportunities Energy efficiency 16 Environmental legislation 18 Water 20 Environment 22 Employees 24 Health and safety 26 Supply chain 28 Business integrity 30 Sustainability reporting 32 Risks and risk management 33 About the report Alfa Laval’s separate sustainability report covers the 2017 calendar year and focuses on material topics and activities in line with stakeholder concerns. The report describes the policies, risks and results of the company’s material topics regarding the environment, social issues, employees, human rights and anti-corruption. Alfa Laval has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2011, and complies with its ten principles for responsible business. This report is Alfa Laval’s annual Global Compact Communication on Progress about how we live up to, and work with, these principles. Data and sustainability information for previous years are available online. Please visit www.alfalaval.com/about-us/sustainability/ Contact Catarina Paulson Head of Corporate Social Responsibility catarina.paulson@alfalaval.com Auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders in Alfa Laval AB (publ), corporate identity number 556587-8054. Engagement and responsibility Opinion It is the Board of Directors and the Managing Director who are responsible A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. for the sustainability report for the year 2017 on pages 3-36 and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Stockholm 8 March 2018 The scope of the examination Håkan Olsson Reising Joakim Thilstedt Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant standard RevR 12 The auditor's opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. About Alfa Laval 3 To optimize the performance of our customers’ processes – time and time again Alfa Laval is a leading, global provider of first-rate products in the areas of heat transfer, separation and fluid handling. With these as its base, Alfa Laval aims to help enhance the productivity and competitiveness of its customers in various industries throughout the world. We define their challenges and deliver products and solutions that meet their requirements – mainly in energy, the environment, marine and food. Three industry-based divisions: Food & Water, Energy and Marine, with a shared supply chain Presence in over 100 countries Alfa Laval’s sales and aftermarket organization operates in more than 100 countries – either directly or in collaboration with external partners. The company’s production structure is also global, with 40 large facilities in Europe, Asia, the US and Latin America. Additionally, Alfa Laval has more than 100 service centres distributed worldwide to meet customer needs. Net sales Number of employees at year-end Ten largest markets MSEK Order intake MSEK %* United States 6,082 16.6% 40,000 20,000 China (incl Hong Kong) 5,104 13.9% 35,000 Nordic 3,270 8.9% 30,000 15,000 Korea, South 2,918 8.0% 25,000 Mid Europe 1,784 4.9% 20,000 10,000 Japan 1,753 4.8% 15,000 Adriatic 1,700 4.6% 39,746 35,634 35,314 17,417 16,941 16,367 10,000 5,000 South East Asia 1,576 4.3% 5,000 Benelux 1,243 3.4% 0 0 15 16 17 15 16 17 India 1,217 3.3% * Percentage of total order intake 4 Message from our CEO Setting the industry standard “ Our customers demand high standards – both regarding our products and services, and the We expect to triple the number of way we work. Our solutions support our customers to improve product launches in 2018, compared their energy efficiency and reduce their environmental impact. with the last three years.” Driving technological development Creating better everyday conditions way we act whilst achieving our business We work closely with our customers to drive for people goals, and form the foundation for our technological development and launch new At Alfa Laval, we are committed to creating sustainability work. The Principles are products that contribute to improved customer better everyday conditions for people. We governed by the ten principles of the UN productivity, profitability and sustainability. see great opportunities to contribute to the Global Compact, to which we have been a During 2017, we have continued to work UN Sustainable Development Goals, and signatory since 2011, as well as the OECD on our product launch plan for the next three our products can make a positive impact Guidelines for Multinational Corporations years. We expect to triple the number of in many areas. Ensuring access to safe and the UN Guiding Principles on Business product launches in 2018, compared with the food, increasing energy efficiency and and Human Rights. last three years, across our three divisions. cutting transport emissions on land and Late 2017, we started the introduction sea will be important steps to achieving the Safety – a top priority of our new product platform for gasketed goals by 2030. Three areas that create Safety of our employees is and will always plate heat exchangers. We are very proud long-term growth opportunities for Alfa be our very first priority. Despite this, that our new industrial product range have Laval are energy efficiency, the cleaning of accidents still occur. We understand that the features that achieve higher energy efficiency, wastewater and our solutions that enable work to ensure a safe working environment better reliability and greater serviceability. customers in the marine industry to reach must continue with full commitment. A new Our focus on innovation continues and by tougher environmental legislation, which Health and Safety Strategy towards 2020 will the end of the year, we had more than are highlighted on pages 16-21. increase our focus on health and safety by 3,000 patents in our portfolio. Our four Business Principles define the improving machine protection, development Message from our CEO 5 “ We will focus on opportunities to further leverage on the positive effects that our products and solutions can create for our customers.” of clearer procedures, and improving safe as well as the level of detail requested has demands on ballast water and exhaust gas behaviour. increased. Continuous improvements at from ships are two areas where legislation our own facilities are a key focus. During has created new markets, and Alfa Laval Energy and carbon emission targets 2017, we have developed an anti-bribery has solutions that are at the forefront of both Our environmental strategy towards 2020 and anti-corruption training programme these areas. includes targets for energy, carbon emissions, which will be launched in 2018. The training We have achieved a great deal in 2017 water, chemicals and waste. Even though we will be mandatory for all white-collar employees. and I would like to thank all of our employees, have managed to turn the trend regarding We continued to implement Alfa Laval partners and inspirational customers who energy use, we are still deviating from our Business Principles at our suppliers’ facilities, made this a successful year. We have target. To ensure that we reach our target by with particular focus on China and India, significant possibilities to support our 2020, we have included energy consumption where we invited suppliers to workshops customers to improve their energy and carbon emissions as a part of the to raise awareness of sustainable and efficiency and reduce their environmental approach in all our manufacturing sites. responsible business. impact. I look forward to reporting on our We are increasing the use of renewable continued progress during 2018. electricity, and will analyse the financial and Looking forward environmental impacts of switching to solar We will focus on opportunities to further or other renewable energy sources for each leverage on the positive effects that our Lund, February 2018 new site we build. A new factory in China will, products and solutions can create for our for instance, be equipped with solar panels. customers. In the short term, we expect interesting developments in the marine Focus areas in 2017 industry. The industry is changing at an We experienced greater interest from ever-increasing pace, especially when it Tom Erixon customers and investors in sustainability comes to new demands concerning energy President and CEO during the year. Both the number of queries and environmental protection. For example, 6 Our business Our business We help create better everyday conditions for people by offering efficient and environmentally responsible products and solutions in the areas of heat transfer, separation and fluid handling. In 2017, Alfa Laval was reorganized to create faster customer interaction. The organization has three 52,549 industry-oriented Business Divisions: Food & Water, Total assets, MSEK Energy, and Marine. 16,367 Employees >100 Production & service operations 874 R&D investments, MSEK 258,556 Energy consumption, MWh Our business 7 Energy Division The Energy Division has customers in a 35,314 Net sales, MSEK range of sectors, including oil and gas extraction, processing and transportation, refinery, petrochemicals and power generation. The division’s main technology is heat transfer and Alfa Laval is cooling some of the world’s tallest buildings. 4,589 Operating income, MSEK Food & Water Division >3,000 Patents The Food & Water Division has customers in various sectors, including food, pharmaceuticals, biotech, edible oils, breweries, dairy and body care products. The division also specialises on water and waste treatment. Its offering includes different types of heat transfer and separation products as well as flow 72,590 management products, such as pumps and valves. Carbon emissions, tonnes CO2e Economic value distributed Marine Division 4 5 6 3 The Marine Division’s customers include ship-owners, 1 yards, manufacturers of diesel engines, as well as 2 companies that work with oil and gas extraction at sea. Its offering includes heat transfer equipment, high speed separators and pump systems, as well as several 1 Suppliers (purchases) 53% 2 Employee (salaries & remunerations) 33% different environmental-related products and systems. 3 Shareholders (dividends) 6% 4 Public Sector (taxes) 5% 5 Investments 2% 6 Payments to providers of capital 1% 8 Innehåll Strategy and governance EN CY ENV IR O AR TRA T Our Business Principles define the way we should act in society NS EN P NM whilst achieving our business goals. The four Business Principles – Alfa Laval’s social, environmental, business integrity and transparency – form the Business B U SI N basis for our sustainability work. Our approach is to focus on the Principles areas where we have identified the highest risks and where we can ES L IA have the greatest influence. S IN C T EG SO R IT Y Social – Respect for human rights optimize our customers' use of natural Respect for human rights is fundamental. resources. Read more on pages 14-23. Ensuring good working conditions is an up annually. Group Management is essential part of this work and we have Transparency – Our commitment responsible for implementing the Business zero tolerance of child and forced labour. to open dialogue Principles, including setting and reviewing One of our primary priorities is to prevent Alfa Laval’s ambition is to build trust targets for improvements. Our Managing workplace accidents in all our premises. through open dialogue with our various Directors have the responsibility to Our vision is a workplace free from stakeholders, including sustainability translate the Principles and associated accidents and work-related ill health. opportunities and challenges. Read more policies into local rules and procedures. Read more about this work in the health about our stakeholder dialogues and mateLine Managers ensure that their employees and safety section on page 26. riality assessment on page 11. understand the Principles and receive the necessary training to implement them. An Business Integrity – High ethical Governance independent internal audit function provides standards Our Business Principles together with support in monitoring compliance. Our performance is governed by high ethical other policies guide our employees in their standards and the principle is based on everyday work. Many international Alfa Laval’s DNA following all relevant laws where we operate. guidelines form the source of the Business The Alfa Laval DNA provides guidance on how Read more about our focus on anti-bribery Principles including the OECD’s Guidelines employees should act to drive organic growth. and anti-corruption on page 30. for Multinational Enterprises, the United The DNA reflects our new strategic direction Nations Guiding Principles on Business and forms the basis for our relationships Environment – Optimizing the use of and Human Rights and the United Nations with everyone we meet in our daily natural resources Global Compact. business – colleagues, customers and We work to use energy and water efficiently The Board is responsible for monitoring partners. The DNA includes our purpose, in our production and service operations. the implementation of the Business offering, commitment including Business Equally important is our ability to provide Principles. A sustainability plan with focus Principles, and drivers. Sustainability is products, service and solutions that can areas is agreed at Board level and followed incorporated into our business purpose. Sustainability targets 9 Targets and target achievements Alfa Laval’s environmental and social targets aim to drive efficiency and behavioural change to achieve higher results in the long term. The graphs presented are a selection of the Groups’ sustainability targets. Progress on Alfa Laval’s sustainability targets is presented in more detail within each section of the report. Environmental targets by 2020 Energy consumption Carbon emissions Water consumption Target: Reduce energy consumption by 10% Target: Reduce carbon emissions by 15% Target: Reduce water consumption by 10% between 2015 and 2020. between 2015 and 2020. between 2015 and 2020. MWh Tonnes CO2e m3 300,000 80,000 800,000 70,000 700,000 250,000 60,000 600,000 200,000 50,000 500,000 150,000 40,000 400,000 30,000 300,000 100,000 252,270 258,027 258,556 68,789 71,931 72,590 619,892 642,156 668,381 20,000 200,000 50,000 10,000 100,000 0 0 0 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 Energy consumption increased by 2.5% Carbon emissions increased by 5.5% compared Water consumption increased by 7.8% compared compared to 2015. The increase is mainly to 2015. Increased manufacturing in China, a to 2015. Two of the main reasons for increased attributable to increased production. country with generally high emission factors for water consumption are increased testing in electricity generation, influenced the outcome. several of our sites and refurbishments in India. Social targets by 2017 Accidents Lost Working Days Absenteeism Target: Reduction of Lost Time Injury by 50% Target: Reduction of Lost Working Days by Target: Reduction of absenteeism by 8% between 2013 and 2017. 50% between 2013 and 2017. between 2013 and 2017. Number Number % 250 5,000 2.5 208 2.21 200 2.10 200 4,000 2.01 166 2.0 1.77 150 3,000 101 89 100 2,000 1.44 1.5 50 1,000 4,951 4,886 4,015 2,689 2,774 0 0 1.0 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 Reduction of Lost Times Injury by 57% Reduction of Lost Working Days by 44% The absenteeism increased by 46% compared compared to 2013. The improvements are a compared to 2013. We did not reach our target to 2013. We are working on a root-cause result of many activities among them behavior partly due to a few injuries that required long analysis to better understand the increase in based safety and the “three prioritized risks” term rehabilitation. absenteeism. program. The charts present the like-for-like figures to enable relevant comparisons. Read more about our targets and ambitions within health and safety, employee satisfaction, career development and diversity on pages 24-27. Read more about our progress and other environmental targets on page 22. 10 Innehåll Structural changes create demand The world is changing and with change comes new opportunities. Global trends in the area of food, transport and energy, are creating new opportunities for growth. These structural changes include: the search for more sustainable methods of energy generation due to rising energy needs; a growing middle class that is creating greater demand for processed foods; environmental legislation imposing increasingly stringent requirements on emissions to air and water; and international trade creating a need for marine transport solutions. Energy Environment The world’s energy needs are continuing to grow. There are Human impact on the environment is driving new and increasingly two ways to manage this challenge: increase the total energy stringent laws. In parallel with this, a sustainability mindset has generation and make greater use of technologies that enable also evolved and is encouraging companies to take voluntary greater efficiency or recycling of the energy generated. steps that contribute to environmental improvement. Alfa Laval Alfa Laval Alfa Laval offers products and solutions for oil and gas exploration, Alfa Laval has a wide range of products for managing various power production, renewable fuels, refinement and much more. environmental challenges such as reducing energy use and the Alfa Laval products play an important role in efforts to make the treatment of wastewater – both in municipal water treatment world’s industrial processes more energy efficient. plants and in industrial processes. Food World trade The growing middle class and urbanization are two global International trade helps to connect a world where raw materials megatrends that are continuing at an undiminished rate. This is, are extracted in one country and processed in another, before for example, contributing to increasing demand for ready-made final products are transported to customers around the globe. food and the development of more efficient supply chains with the capacity to reduce waste. Alfa Laval Alfa Laval has provided the marine industry with equipment Alfa Laval for 100 years – from engine room separators for cleaning fuel, Alfa Laval’s history began in 1883 with the development of a to heat exchangers for generating freshwater and pumping separator for separating cream from milk. Since then, hygienic systems for efficient loading and unloading. Alfa Laval offers applications in the food industry have been expanded to include various solutions that reduce impact on the environment, heat exchangers, pumps and valves. These products meet the including systems for treating ballast water or reducing the strictest hygiene requirements and can help to optimise the use sulphur content in ship exhaust gas. of raw materials. Alfa Laval can also help to reduce waste by offering cooling solutions for transport and storage. Essential topics 11 Focusing on the essential Employee Working development conditions Health & Energy Nonsafety efficiency discrimination Supplier Environmental Antiassessment legislation Water corruption Material topics Carbon The topics highlighted are a Waste Compliance result of stakeholder analysis emissions and business prioritization. Three of these represent business opportunities and are highlighted in this report. Prioritizing our sustainability work Our prioritized sustainability topics customers and other stakeholders. Our is essential to ensure that we A materiality assessment was conducted material topics are: occupational health focus on our most important and together with the non-profit organization BSR and safety, fair working conditions, antirelevant topics. Understanding in 2016. The assessment included interviews corruption, energy use, carbon emissions, what is mat­erial to our business and surveys with customers, employees, water consumption and waste management. and our stakeholders is integral to suppliers, academia and investors. The aim It is important for Alfa Laval to attract talent Alfa Laval’s work with sustainability. was to identify the sustainability topics where and work with career development, diversity, we can make the greatest positive difference. equal opportunities and non-discrimination Stakeholder engagement During 2017, the assessment was including non-harrassment. Compliance Engaging with our stakeholders provides complemented with an analysis based on includes environmental and socio-economic important input that influences our decision the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The compliance, competition law and data making, and helps us continuously improve analysis gave us a more comprehensive protection. A responsible supply chain and and make progress towards our business overview that also identified relevant key good relationships with suppliers are central and sustainability goals. We engage in both performance indicators. to Alfa Laval’s commitment to provide formal and informal dialogue with our These assessments have highlighted customers with the most innovative and stakeholders. We have regular contact with the key role Alfa Laval’s products and optimal solutions. our customers and every third year we services play in helping our customers conduct a brand study, which provides us achieve their energy efficiency, climate and Sustainability and business opportunities with an in-depth understanding of how our water goals. This was ranked as important, Alfa Laval develops products and services customers perceive our company. Employees both internally and externally – internally that help our customers' processes to can give feedback directly to their managers because of the business opportunities become more sustainable by enhancing or through annual employee surveys. Our created for the company, and externally their productivity and competitiveness shareholders participate in Annual General because our products and solutions can help while reducing their environmental impact. Meetings and investors are invited to our customers reduce energy use and carbon We always strive to make our products annual capital markets days. We have emissions, and clean water. more efficient, which also reduces costs for regular contact with our suppliers and invite our customers. Read more about three of many of them to supplier conferences and Responsible business our business opportunities: energy efficiency, workshops. We have open dialogue with We believe that sustainability and responsibility water cleaning and the way our products can the communities in which we operate, in our own processes are important in our help customers in the marine industry meet including collaboration with universities. ambition to be a long-term partner for our environmental legislation on pages 16-21. 12 Innovation and key technologies Innovative solutions Research helps Alfa Laval develop innovative solutions that support us, our partners, and our customers in the transition to a resource-efficient society. “ Developing new products to improve health and safety aspects, both Each Business Unit at Alfa Laval has an from internal and customer perspectives. R&D organization responsible for deAt Alfa Laval, we have more veloping innovative product solutions Products that make processes that support us, our partners, and our more resource efficient than 3,000 patents. One customers in the transition to a reAll new products are optimized from a product range where Alfa source-efficient society. Our R&D holistic life cycle perspective and the Laval has many patents is in organizations have 646 employees. We environmental impact is verified using a life the gasketed plate heat exfocus on how we can best use technolocycle analysis (LCA) before release. Since gy and new solutions to execute our the beginning of 2015, Alfa Laval has changers. The next-genstrategy and provide customer value. performed more than 180 LCAs, which eration range is filled with Trends such as digitalization and build knowledge on how to optimize our ground-breaking solutions technology development are transforming products from an environmental perspecthe efficiency of industrial processes. The tive. Our ambition is that each new product that set new standards in challenge is to continue to meet customer should have a lower environmental impact thermal efficiency, mechandemands for products and services that than its predecessor. ical reliability and ease of enhance their productivity, while also Research and development investments serviceability. promoting energy efficiency and safety. are between 2 and 2.5 per cent of net sales New products are developed within crossper year. By the end of 2017, Alfa Laval had Filip von Friesendorff, functional projects. We perform risk analyses more than 3,000 patents in its portfolio. Group Patent Manager Three technologies with world-leading positions Alfa Laval’s operations are based on three key technologies – separation, fluid handling and heat transfer – which play a crucial role in several industrial processes. All three advanced technologies are processes that can be found in the natural world. Separation It may seem unlikely that crabs can survive on sludge and other less-than-appetising food sources on the ocean floor. The marsh crab actually has tufts on its legs that allow it to extract water from clay using these hair-like structures. The crab filters out the clean water and absorbs it into its body. It is all a matter of separating substances and ensuring that waste and other less desirable elements can be transformed into something useful. Alfa Laval The same natural process is used in Alfa Laval’s separators and decanters. They can separate liquids, solid particles and gases from each other, which enables the extraction of valuable substances from something seemingly worthless. One of our customers uses our technology to extract biofuel from used cooking oil. Discarded cooking oil is a waste product that is difficult and expensive to dispose of. The challenge with biodiesel production is to transform the heterogeneous cooking oil into a qualitative end-product. These technological solutions have resulted in longer operating times, better returns and less waste. Innovation and key technologies 13 Fluid handling The crocodile’s heart is a highly advanced type of pump. The right chamber of the heart is equipped with special cardiac valves that function as a type of vent. When the vents are closed, approximately one-third of the crocodile’s blood is circulated through one of the main arteries and out into the minor arteries. This enables the crocodile to redirect the flow of blood back through the left chamber and past the lungs while it is under water and no oxygen is available. Many of the crocodile’s enemies probably wish the creature did not have such amazing control of its heart and muscles. Alfa Laval The same natural process used by the crocodile is used in Alfa Laval Fluid Handling Technology. Many breweries use Alfa Laval pumps, valves and other fluid management techniques to brew beer. While brewing beer is a traditional craft, the process can also be refined using ultramodern technology – carefully controlled methods and processes that place demands on the equipment involved. And this is precisely what the breweries behind a number of award-winning beers are doing. By the time the beer finally reaches the bottle or barrel, it has passed through seven products from Alfa Laval. The result is less waste and a superior quality. Heat transfer The birds have a fantastic heat exchange system. The secret lies in their legs, where the blood vessels are divided into two fine-mesh nets. The arteries, which guide the blood into the legs, are located close to the veins that carry cold blood back up toward the body. In other words, this is where the heat exchange happens: the heat from the blood in the arteries is transferred to the cold blood in the veins, which flows back into the body and keeps the bird warm. Alfa Laval The same natural process used by birds to regulate their body temperature is used to regulate and ensure the perfect indoor climate in many buildings around the world. Alfa Laval heat exchange technology is used in the Paris Opera and the Louvre, Burj Khalifa in Dubai, and Turning Torso in Sweden. Each building has its own specific requirements that must be taken into consideration. One building may require a cooling system, another a heating system. But what these buildings have in common is their need to establish the right balance between the two – with meticulous precision. 14 Contributing to UN Global Goals Contributing to UN Global Goals The United Nations has adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals for 2030, known as Global Goals, that world leaders have pledged to achieve. Our core business strongly relates to many of the Global Goals. Alfa Laval’s offering includes products and solutions that can reduce human impact on the environment and directly contribute to the improvements needed to achieve a number of the Goals. In this report we highlight how some of our products and solutions have supported our customers to reach environmental legislation, improve energy efficiency and clean water. Read more examples on www.alfalaval.com Examples of how Alfa Laval's products contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 2 Alfa Laval products 3 Alfa Laval delivers and solutions improve efficient, hygienic equipment shelf life, reduce waste that delivers sustainable and make food production performance to the hygienic and safe. pharmaceutical industry. 6 Alfa Laval offers a 7 Alfa Laval products 9 Alfa Laval invests wide range of technoloare involved throughout the heavily in R&D, launches gies to treat wastewater renewable production between 30-40 new contributing to clean process, from heating and products per year and water across the globe. cooling to mixing and has over 3,000 patents. separation. Contributing to UN Global Goals 15 11 Alfa Laval provides 12 Alfa Laval’s ambition 13 At our customers 14 Alfa Laval offers a solutions for energy is to make every new plants, our diverse products whole range of products in efficient district heating product more efficient improve energy efficiency the areas of energy and and cooling – often using than its predecessor in a which lower the need for environment, mainly for waste heat as well as life cycle perspective. fossil fuels and help customers in the marine thermal storage solutions. reduce carbon emissions. industry. 17 Alfa Laval has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2011. 16 Energy efficiency Energy efficiency The world’s demand for energy continues to increase. Alfa Laval offers heat exchangers that are more efficient than alternative technologies. Higher efficiency not only reduces costs, but also carbon emissions. In most processes, heat transfer solutions are required for heating, cooling, ventilation, evaporation or condensation, which can all be achieved efficiently using Alfa Laval heat exchangers. Energy efficiency 17 Reused heat in Germany -20,000 In Hamburg, the surplus heat from a copper producing plant will be transferred to district tonnes CO2 / year heating in an energy efficient manner by using Alfa Laval gasketed plate heat exchangers. The reuse of surplus heat corresponds to 160,000 MWh per year, which is used to heat 3,400 apartments and is estimated to annually reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 20,000 tonnes. Energy efficiency in a refinery -14,600 A large refinery in Sweden decided to install an Alfa Laval Compabloc heat exchanger to enhance their energy efficiency. Compabloc is a fully welded plate heat exchanger with tonnes CO2 / year great flexibility and high efficiency. The installation will give the refinery annual energy savings of more than EUR 2 million and reduce carbon emissions by 14,600 tonnes. Efficient server room cooling -35% Data centres consume large amounts of energy for cooling and a typical centre may use enough electricity to power around 180,000 homes. Alfa Laval Arctigo LSV air coolers are specifically energy use designed for server room cooling. They operate with low fan speed, low air velocities and minimal pressure differences along the route of the airflow. One of the benefits of low speed ventilation is that it consumes 35-40 per cent less energy compared with conventional technology. Sustainable Development Goals By improving the energy efficiency of industrial processes, Alfa Laval products contribute to the achievement of several of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Energy efficiency is mentioned in the achievement of Goal 7, 9, 11 and 12. Reducing the use of fossil fuels also contributes to Goal 13. 18 Environmental legislation Environmental legislation The marine industry is changing at an everincreasing pace, especially when it comes to new demands concerning environmental protection. Alfa Laval strives for sustainable solutions that ensure our customers’ legislative compliance without impacting their operations. Environmental legislation 19 Combatting invasive species Around the world, invasive species cause significant damage to local marine ecosystems. This makes the transport of organisms in ships’ ballast tanks a major threat. Alfa Laval PureBallast resolves the issue without chemicals, using UV light to neutralize the organisms present in the ballast water. Energy efficient, PureBallast 3 offers superior performance in all water salinities and even waters with low clarity. Ensuring cleaner emissions Marine regulations concerning exhaust gas emissions have become significantly stricter in recent years. Stringent limits for sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions are in place in Emission Control Areas, and tough global limits will enter into force in 2020. By cleaning exhaust gas before it leaves the ship’s funnel, the PureSOx scrubber system lets vessels control emissions without having to switch to a more expensive fuel. Cleaning up oily waste Bilge water treatment is required by law to avoid oily waste polluting marine waters. Alfa Laval PureBilge is a high-speed separation system that cleans the large volumes of oily water on vessels at sea – without using chemicals, adsorption filters or membranes. Thanks to its centrifugal separation technology, PureBilge performs continuously even in the roughest sea conditions. Pure Thinking Sustainable Development Goals Pure Thinking is Alfa Laval’s concept for helping marine customers meet environmental legislation. Alfa Laval Our products contribute to a more pursues reliable solutions that meet legislative sustainable marine environment, requirements, but which are also workable and helping to achieve Sustainable sustainable on board. Our Marine Division offers a wide Development Goal 14 “Life Below range of technologies that address today’s environWater”, Goal 13 “Climate Action” and mental challenges, including prominent products like Goal 6 “Clean Water and Sanitation”. Alfa Laval PureBallast, PureSOx and PureBilge. 20 Water Water According to the UN, almost one-fifth of the world’s population lives in areas experiencing water scarcity. Most industrial processes use water and generate waste that needs to be treated to meet tough legislation requirements and to maintain a licence to operate. Alfa Laval offers a complete spectrum of technologies for water and waste treatment. Water 21 Tap water triumph 4 million To meet the long-term water shortage in Karachi, Pakistan, one of the largest housing authorities in Asia chose to use Alfa Laval’s innovative desalination solution that turns seawater into fresh m3 water saved / year potable water. The seawater is heated to the point of evaporation, and the resulting vapours are then condensed into freshwater. The solution is now producing more than 4 million cubic metres of drinkable water yearly for over 100,000 homes and businesses in Karachi. Process water recovery 90% The Rix Creek mine is an open-cut coal mining operation in New South Wales, Australia, that produces raw coal and semi-soft coking coal for the steel and power industries. As reused water part of Rix Creek’s sustainability strategy to help combat local water scarcity, Alfa Laval G2 decanter centrifuges were installed to dry coal tailings and reduce water consumption. The centrifuges recover and reuse 90 per cent of the plant’s process water. Recovering wastewater 4 million Membrane bioreactors (MBR) treat over 4 million cubic metres of wastewater every day around the world. Alfa Laval’s MBR technology is unique as it is based on membrane filtration m3 water saved / day modules incorporating patented hollow sheet technology. This technology has been used in several French cities to clean wastewater – including one city where the effluent is used for irrigation and another where the processed water is reused to flush toilets. Sustainable Development Goals Our products contribute to achieve Sustainable Development Goal 6 “Clean Water and Sanitation”, Goal 9 “Industry, innovation and infrastructure”, Goal 11 “Sustainable cities and communities” and Goal 12 “Responsible Consumption and Production”. 22 Environment Environment Alfa Laval works to optimize the use of natural resources in both our own and our customers' operations. As part of this commitment, we work continuously to reduce our energy and water use, as well as improve our waste management processes, in our production and service operations. The Alfa Laval Environment Policy and Environmental Strategy towards 2020 applies to the entire Group. Environmental targets 2020 with baseline 2015 Reduce carbon Reduce energy Reduce water No banned Recycling emissions by 15% consumption by 10% consumption by 10% chemicals 85% of waste Energy and carbon emissions those sites where electricity is produced increased by 7.8 per cent compared to 2015 Even though we have managed to turn the from coal or other fossil fuels. To ensure for the Alfa Laval Group. Two of the main trend regarding energy use, we are still not in we reach our carbon emissions target by reasons for increased water consumption line with our target for 2020. To ensure that 2020, we have a strategic plan to increase are increased testing in several of our sites we reach our target by 2020 we implemented the proportion of renewable electricity and refurbishments in India. Our goal is to specific measures during 2017. Energy used. As the first step, we will start buying annually reduce water use by 2 per cent and consumption and carbon emissions are green electricity credits, where it makes to concentrate on those sites in regions now part of the strategic approach in all our environmental and financial sense to do where there is water scarcity. The sites we manufacturing sites, which represent more so. If a new site is built, we will analyse the are prioritizing are located in India, China and than 85 per cent of the total energy use of financial and environmental impacts of certain areas of the USA. the company. From 2018, all manufacturing installing on-site solar power as the main sites will have energy use as one of their source of electricity. For example, our new Chemicals and recycled waste key performance indicators. We will also factory in Kunshan, China, will be Alfa Laval has a robust material and implement a company-wide project to equipped with solar panels. chemical selection process for its products switch to LED lighting starting 2018. In and we work to reduce the use of addition, we have established a crossWater management substances of very high concern and to company energy group, which will focus on Our main production processes do not eliminate chemicals listed as banned in sharing best practice to reduce energy use require significant amounts of water. Most our Black and Grey list. The list follows the throughout our manufacturing sites. of the water consumed is used in the regulations in our area of business and There is a very strong correlation testing of our products and in their therefore sometimes goes beyond the between energy use and emissions in servicing. The water consumption requirements of national legislation. By Energy consumption Carbon emissions Water consumption Target: Reduce energy consumption by 10% Target: Reduce carbon emissions by 15% Target: Reduce water consumption by 10% between 2015 and 2020. between 2015 and 2020. between 2015 and 2020. MWh Tonnes CO2e m3 300,000 80,000 800,000 70,000 700,000 250,000 60,000 600,000 200,000 50,000 500,000 150,000 40,000 400,000 30,000 300,000 100,000 252,270 258,027 258,556 68,789 71,931 72,590 619,892 642,156 668,381 20,000 200,000 50,000 10,000 100,000 0 0 0 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 Energy consumption increased by 2.5% compared to Carbon emissions increased by 5.5% compared to Water consumption increased by 7.8% compared to 2015. The increase is mainly attributable to increased 2015. Increased manufacturing in China, a country with 2015. Two of the main reasons for increased water production. generally high emission factors for electricity generation, consumption are increased testing in several of our influenced the outcome. sites and refurbishments in India. Environment 23 “ To reach our 2020 targets, we needed to increase focus on energy and CO2 emissions in our manufacturing plants. During the year we developed a new strategy for Operations where energy is a key performance indicator and we will increase investments in renewable electricity sources. Mikael Tydén, Head of Operations 2020, the target is to eliminate the use of by 2020 (base year 2015). In 2017, goods sea. To drive the change, each product chemicals listed as banned on Alfa Laval’s transportation emissions per tonne-kilometre group has the responsibility to run projects Black and Grey list. The use of chemicals were 106 gram CO2 compared with 92 to reduce air transport. listed as banned decreased with 30 per cent gram/tonne-km in 2015. The value of carbon compared to 2016. The decrease is mainly emissions per tonne kilometre gives us a Strategy throughout the value chain due to a change of method for removing normalized measure of how effective we Alfa Laval believes that the greatest paint in service centers. By removing the are at reducing the environmental impact environmental gains can be achieved in paint mechanically, dichloromethane has of our goods transportation. We monitor customers' operations. Our products and been phased out. We will continue to work the weight, distance and mode of transporsolutions can help customers to become systematically to control the use of chemicals tation for 19 major product lines. more energy efficient. They can also help and are also developing our reporting and Our progress is currently not satisfactory. to reduce water consumption, boost follow-up process. The reason for the increase in carbon productivity, optimize the use of input Alfa Laval has a target to recycle 85 per emissions from goods transport is related to goods and ensure compliance with cent of waste by 2020. In 2017, Alfa Laval an increased transport need and increased prevailing environmental legislation. For this operations recycled more than 70 per cent use of air freight compared to sea freight. reason, our new environmental strategy of waste. The increased need for transport was mainly focuses not only on our own environmental due to more transportation to China and goals but on the entire value chain, including Goods transport the type of products delivered during 2017 how our products help our customers to We strive to reduce the environmental entailed a higher need for air transport. achieve their environmental goals. impact of transportation and our target is Our main challenge is to change the to reduce carbon emissions by 15 per cent transportation method from air to land and The value chain and environmental areas in focus R&D Sourcing Sell Make Deliver Service New products: Suppliers: Offering: Production: Transportation: Workshops: – Lower impact of – Chemicals – Energy – Energy – Lowering carbon – Energy new products – Environmental – Carbon emissions – Carbon emissions emissions from – Chemicals – Chemicals Management System – Water usage – Chemicals transportation – Water (EMS) – Resource efficiency – Waste – EMS – Audits – Water – Certification 24 Employees Employees Our vision is to create better everyday conditions for people by offering efficient and environmentally responsible products and solutions in the areas of heat transfer, separation and fluid handling. This means that Alfa Laval employees have many opportunities to make a difference in the world. Career development classroom setting. 20 per cent is from offered through the learning portal in 2017. We believe that a company can only grow various types of developmental relationDuring the year, we launched the if its co-workers grow. When it comes to ships with more experienced colleagues, training programme EDGE with focus on personal development at Alfa Laval, our managers or mentors. 70 per cent is from competence development for project employees are in the driving seat. Being a challenges faced during the individual’s managers. The aim is to further strengthen “ multi-faceted company with a diverse range day-to-day work. our competitiveness in customer project of products within various application management. More than 170 project areas, industries and countries means that managers have participated in the we can offer many different career paths. 13-week programme, which includes a mix We are proud of our of classroom, virtual training and on the job Alfa Laval is committed to creating an brand and what it activities leading to new ways of working. atmosphere in which our employees can 100 managers have participated in a grow – every day and everywhere. We stands for and do not shorter training on sustainable change. strive to secure that we always have the knowledge and skills needed to fulfil our compromise on our Diversity promotes growth strategic objectives and bring value to our Business Principles.” Alfa Laval is an international company with customers. At Alfa Laval, we apply our five a global presence. At year-end 2017, 93 Learning Principles: nationalities were represented within the Martina Skansjö, Senior Vice President Group. Our vision is to create an inclusive Human Resources 1. L  earning is a process workplace where diversity is essential in 2. L  earning is about creating insight helping to achieve company objectives 3. L  earning drives performance Training and maximize the potential of individuals 4. E  mployees have the main responsibility The formal training programme includes a and the organization as a whole. There are for the learning process broad range of courses, some of which are several reasons why Alfa Laval strives for 5. M  anagers should support and be offered locally and others as part of a central diversity. We want the composition of eminvolved in the learning process programme. In 2017, the central programme ployees to reflect the geographic markets included 1,050 courses, 420 of which were where we operate, and diversity promotes The fact that we see learning as a process Internet-based. These courses can either creativity and innovative thinking. means that we apply the 70-20-10 model be held in a real-time group settings or as Our ambition is to recognize women when it comes to employee training and independent study programmes that allow with executive potential at an early stage to development. Ten per cent of what an the participants to determine the location reduce the gap between the proportion of individual learns is to come from formal and pace of the training. More than 7,500 women at management level and the training programmes, either online or in a employees participated in the courses number of women in the company as Employees 25 Female employees Female managers 7,500 Employees participated in the 20.2% The proportion of female employees in the company was 20.2% (19.9). 19.9% The proportion of female managers was 19.9% (17.3). formal training programme 93 Nationalities represented within the Group 11% 0 Employee Cases of Turnover discrimination whole. The proportion of female employees encourages mobility within the Group. above the benchmark within our industry. in the company was 20.2 per cent (19.9) Alfa Laval’s Development and MentorOur employees feel proud, energized, and the proportion of female managers ship programme – Impact – supports the optimistic and confident about the future was 19.9 per cent (17.3). Alfa Laval works career development of female leaders success of Alfa Laval. Moreover, our to expand the recruitment base for female within the company. The programme employees feel there is a clear direction management positions by employing a includes both training sessions and ten and understand what they need to do. greater proportion of female graduates. months of mentoring where we connect Another ongoing initiative is focused on emerging leaders with experienced Attracting the right people increasing the number of level four managers from Group Management or Top For the fifth year in a row, Alfa Laval has been managers from under-represented Management. The participants come from voted one of Sweden’s best companies to countries. different parts of the organization and the work for. The employer branding company programme provides a platform to expand Universum, conducts an annual survey Equal opportunities connections. We run the programme every among companies with 50+ employees. Alfa Laval uses an open internal recruitment second year and 12 employees took part Each participating company’s own process – available positions are published in the programme in 2017. employees assess their employer on a on the intranet and all employees are welcome wide range of criteria. In Italy, Alfa Laval to apply. This open process creates an inclusive Employee Satisfaction received similar recognition, rated as the environment with equal opportunities for During 2017, we conducted a global Alfa 4th best employer among mechanical and professional development. In 2017, 67 per Laval Employee Survey. The results from the engineering companies by the organizations cent of the level three managers were hired survey were very positive in terms of employee Statista and Panorama. internally. Open internal recruitment also engagement. Alfa Laval was significantly 26 Health and safety Health and safety Fatalities Indicators Fatalities LTIF 2017 2017 2016 2016 5 10 Total Like-for-like Total Like-for-like 7.8 7.7 4 8 Lost Time Injury 1) 135 89 136 101 5.6 3 6 Lost Time Injury Frequency 2) 4.7 3.6 4.7 4.5 4.7 4.7 Lost Working Days 4,496 2,774 3,294 2,689 2 4 Lost Working Days Frequency 3) 163 111 121 125 1 2 2 1 Absenteeism (%) 4) 2.00 2.10 1.93 2.21 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 Figures include all entities. Total figures include all Alfa Laval entities and like-for-like figures include sites in the 2013 baseline. Fatalities Lost Time Injury Frequency 1) Number of reported accidents including travel accidents 3) Days lost per million working hours due to accidents 2) Number of accidents per million working hours 4) Days lost due to any form of illness (including LTIs) Health and safety 27 “ People's behaviour makes a significant difference in the safety of our premises. The implementation of Behavioural Based Safety in India has significantly contributed to reducing injury cases and improved employee engagement on our health and safety excellence journey. Sanjay Marne, HSE Manager, India Operations Alfa Laval’s safety vision is “We 2017 compared to 2013. Our goals were return home safely – every day”. not reached in 2017 due to the tragic This vision means that our accident that led to two fatalities. The total number of LTIs was reduced to 135 and ambition is to have a workplace the like-for-like number of accidents was that is free from accidents and 89. The total number of LWD reduced to work-related illnesses. 4,496 and the like-for-like figure was 2,774. For the period 2018-2020, our goal is to At Alfa Laval, we work to continuously reduce LTIs by 30 per cent at Group Level improve our Occupational Health and and at site level. For those sites with zero Safety (OHS) performance. We have a LTIs, the ambition is to maintain zero. global Occupational Health and Safety Policy to ensure that our workplaces have high standards of safety and Performance across our business well-being. Our work is supported by During 2017, the work on health and OHS management systems, including a safety has focused on tools and training. safety manual which all sites should We are working with a method known as implement and follow. All Alfa Laval’s 3PR (three prioritized safety risks) at our facilities are expected to comply with facilities. The aim is to help our employees local legislation and regulations. understand how important their behaviour and attitude toward risk are when it comes Two fatalities in 2017 to reducing the number of accidents. By Tragically, Alfa Laval had two fatalities focusing on the three most important risks during 2017, which resulted from an at each facility, our employees can prioritize Priorities to improve health and safety accident at a liquid nitrogen tank in the the behaviours that need to change in debonding process. The accident should order to reduce accidents. We have priorSafe behaviour not have happened, and we are working itized those sites that have had the to ensure it never happens again. largest number of LTIs and seen that the The three areas that will continue to focus on behavioural change have made a be in focus are to prioritize investments in positive impact on reducing injuries. protective equipment, improving safe In 2017, absence among Alfa Laval’s behaviour and development of clearer employees due to illness or work-related procedures. accidents increased to 2.10 per cent. The increasing absence rate indicates that we Health and safety targets need to step up our work to reduce the We continued to work towards our health number of work related accidents, but Clear procedures Protective equipment and safety goals of a 50 per cent reduction also better understand the root causes of in Lost Time Injury (LTIs) and a 50 per cent illnesses that prevent our employees from reduction in Lost Working Days (LWD) by working. 28 Supply chain Sustainability throughout the supply chain Alfa Laval is a global company with more than 40 production sites and distribution centres in Europe, Asia and America. We strive to ensure that our suppliers live up to our corporate responsibility standards – the Alfa Laval Business Principles. Responsible sourcing and anti-corruption practices, and the list improve according to agreed action plans We operate in several regulatory environments of chemicals referred to as the Black and are phased-out in a responsible manner. and consistently respond to our stakeholders’ Grey list were included. The scorecard also demands concerning the transparency and measures the number of suppliers that have Dedicated resources to ensure sustainability performance of our suppliers. an Environmental Management System. improvement We expect our suppliers to act ethically The Supplier Risk and Compliance Council and in full compliance with the applicable Risk assessment and auditing sets the annual improvement plans and rules in every country they do business in. Our highest priorities are to improve the allocates resources accordingly. The Council With suppliers in many countries around health and safety, labour conditions and the has the responsibility to verify that the supply the world we can never be complacent or working environment of our direct suppliers’ chain lives up to the Business Principles and completely satisfied with our progress, and employees in high-risk countries and industries. ensures continuous improvement. Master we work continuously to improve our To ensure that we prioritize the suppliers that auditors conduct supplier audits and support performance. By imposing sustainability pose the highest risk of breaches to our in supplier development activities. They also requirements on our direct suppliers, we Business Principles, we work with three levels have the responsibility to train and certify encourage them to develop their capacity of risk assessment as illustrated below. auditors and to escalate non-compliance in to meet stricter demands and therefore Audits are conducted by various internally the organization. Purchasing managers are also become more sustainable. certified auditors and external third-party responsible for the continuous development auditors. We review how well our suppliers of our suppliers, including the implementation Performance beyond compliance comply with our Business Principles and of our Business Principles. The Alfa Laval Business Principles play an work together to prepare an improvement During the year, we conducted 97 supplier integral role in our sourcing process. At Alfa plan. Our audit platform highlights six areas audits to assess social or environmental Laval, all employees in the procurement with deviations that we define as critical: impacts. A number of suppliers in India fell organization are required to undergo child labour, young labour, forced labour, under our threshold level score in 2017. mandatory training on anti-bribery and antifreedom of association, health and safety, This was mainly due to the inadequate corruption as well as our Business Principles. fire protection and environment. Deviations implementation of the new legislation on In total, more than 270 employees within the in these areas will require immediate pollution control launched in 2016. We purchasing organization have been trained. correction if Alfa Laval is to commence have not faced supply chain disturbances All managers in the purchasing organization or continue relationship with a supplier. due to the absence of permits but it is of have gone through a six hour in-depth Suppliers with serious breaches are given a outmost importance to secure compliance. training on supplier Business Principles. limited time to implement the necessary During 2017, China enforced new The purchasing organization uses improvements. During 2017, we have policies regarding sustainability that led to scorecards. During the year KPIs based finalized an escalation process to ensure that a number factory closures. Some of our on supplier compliance with anti-bribery those suppliers that continuously fail to second-tier suppliers were impacted which Assessing supplier risk Country risk Product & production process risk Governance & policies Risk related to human rights breaches or bribery/ Risk related to occupational health and safety Risk based on analyses and screenings of the corruption in the country where the supplier is or environmental impacts associated to supplier supplier’s available documentation of CSR policies based. production processes. and governance. Supply chain 29 “We can see that our work is driving improvements at many of our suppliers but we are also humble in China and India, this is where we concentrate our efforts. Alfa Laval conducts various initiatives to increase the level of understanding in these countries. More than 200 suppliers in China and India took part in these initiatives in 2017. The suppliers that participated made faster progress after the vision to achieve “conflict-free” deliveries to our customers. We implemented a supplier communication platform in 2016 to increase the efficiency in communicating, training and reviewing supplier responses. Until now we have communicated with almost 800 suppliers through this platform to in realizing that we have their reviews and showed a better understanding of the fact that these improvements ensure compliance with our requirements. more to do.” can also be good for their business. Modern Slavery Act In 2017, more than 360 suppliers have The continued prevalence of forced labour been trained on our Business Principles and human trafficking is a serious global issue Peter Börjesson, Vice President including human rights issues. Alfa Laval with many victims, and Alfa Laval has a zeroOperations, Purchasing also works to highlight best practice. We tolerance within its organization and supply consider compliance with our Business chain. Alfa Laval is committed to upholding in turn affected our suppliers. The affected Principles as an important criteria when human rights and support the principles suppliers were screened and asked for selecting our Supplier of the Year Award. In contained within the Universal Declaration of appropriate actions. 2017, Alfa Laval gave the award to a Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles We have also completed a desk-top supplier in China specifically for making on Business and Human Rights, the OECD study of our 750 largest suppliers to significant improvements in complying with Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the analyse whether they have externally the Alfa Laval Business Principles. ILO Core Conventions on Labour Standards. available information and documents The Alfa Laval Business Principles include supporting our Business Principles. Conflict minerals human rights, freedom of association, child The Dodd Frank Act requires companies to labour, forced labour, discrimination and Increasing supplier understanding conduct due diligence to ensure that the working conditions. Alfa Laval’s Modern Slavery A key factor to create improvements in our minerals used in its products are not sourced Act Statement is available on our webpage. supply chain is improving the suppliers' from mines financing armed groups that are During 2017, we included the concept of in-depth understanding of our Business guilty of human rights violations. We published Modern Slavery in our internal and supplier Principles. As we see the highest risk of a policy on conflict minerals in 2013 on our training as well as in the monitoring, auditing finding breaches to our Business Principles website and have since then worked with and follow-up activities with suppliers. Desk-top study Screening Training 750 100% 366 Suppliers included in sustainability New suppliers screened using Suppliers have been trained desk-top study. environmental and social criteria. in our Business Principles. 30 Business integrity Business integrity ABAC-policy Business Principles Whistle-blowing system CY ENV EN IR O AR TRA T NS EN P NM Alfa Laval’s Business B U SI N Principles ES IA L S IN C T EG SO R IT Y All employees have received information on One of Alfa Laval’s Business Principles is A group-wide whistle-blowing system enables Alfa Laval’s policies and procedures regarding Business Integrity. stakeholders to report suspected breaches of anti-corruption. our Business Principles anonymously. Business integrity 31 • Group ABAC Policy Top level commitment • Commercial Ethics Council • Corporate Governance sign-off • Annual risk assessment Risk assessment • Risk assessment in supply chain • Risk mitigation actions Proportionate procedures • Supplier contracts include ABAC clause • ABAC information available on the intranet Communication & training • ABAC e-learning • Agent and distributor due diligence guidelines Due diligence • Due diligence on mergers and acquisitions • Internal audit Monitoring & review • Whistle-blowing function • Annual Corporate Sustainability Reporting Operating our business with integrity Bribery Act and is based on a “prevent, detect ers to report suspected breaches of our is essential to ensure that we live up and correct” methodology. The process is Business Principles. Both internal and to the expectations of our stakebased on an annual risk assessment carried external stakeholders can report breaches holders. Our stakeholders should out by the various companies in the Group. anonymously without repercussions. be able to depend on us to conduct It also includes an analysis of the different actions taken to mitigate these risks. The Focus on training our business in a responsible and international scope of Alfa Laval’s sales means During 2017, we have further reinforced fair manner. our ABAC policy. Information on Alfa that we are active in several countries where there is a high risk of bribery. Alfa Laval uses Laval’s policies and procedures regarding Compliance with legislation Transparency International Bribery Risk anti-corruption is available to all employBusiness integrity at Alfa Laval includes Perception Index to assess geographic risk. ees. We have now provided training for all compliance with all applicable laws – including The Commercial Ethics Council, chaired employees involved in sales and procureenvironmental and socio-economic legislation by the CEO, is responsible for ensuring that ment. In total, more than 5,500 employees regarding anti-bribery and anti-corruption, we have appropriate policies and processes have been trained in ABAC. During the anti-competition and conflict of interests. in place to ensure compliance. All managers year, we developed a training in nine During 2017, we have continued to implement are responsible for ensuring compliance languages, which will be launched in 2018. our processes to ensure we follow policies with our ABAC policy and, if necessary, The training will be mandatory for all in all these areas. In 2017, Alfa Laval has implementing local ABAC guidelines. Line white-collar employees. had no cases related to non-compliance with environmental or socio-economic managers are reminded about their legislation resulting in fines. responsibility to implement all corporate policies each year through an annual Anti-bribery and anti-corruption sign-off. Internal audits are conducted Alfa Laval has a zero-tolerance approach regularly and are intended to ensure that to bribery and corruption. Our Anti-Bribery appropriate processes are in place and and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) programme functioning properly. A group-wide builds on the six steps outlined in the UK whistle-blowing system enables stakehold32 Sustainability reporting Sustainability reporting This report is Alfa Laval’s Communication on Progress (COP), a report on performance in relation to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles. Alfa Laval’s reporting is inspired by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Reporting Principles Alfa Laval has conducted a materiality tions, service centres, offices and test Since 2011, Alfa Laval has been a signatory assessment to identify the most relevant centres, but excludes new acquisitions. to the UN Global Compact, a strategic policy topics to its business. The analysis of initiative for businesses that are committed material aspects and key performance Reporting on progress to aligning their operations and strategies indicators was based on the GRI. The External sustainability reporting is with ten universally accepted principles in sustainability information in this report conducted annually. the areas of human rights, labour, refers to the 2017 fiscal year and covers environment and anti-corruption. the Alfa Laval Group – including operaGlobal Compact Index Principle Page reference Human rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 1 8, 24-31 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 2 8, 28-31, 33-35 Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right Principle 3 8, 24-31, 33-35 to collective bargaining Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 4 8, 24-31, 33-35 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 5 8, 24-31, 33-35 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 6 8, 24-31, 33-35 Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principles 7 8, 22-23, 28-35 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principles 8 8, 22-23, 28-29 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principles 9 8, 10-23, 33-35 friendly technologies Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Principle 10 8, 30-31, 33-35 Risks and risk management 33 Risks and risk management Identifying, evaluating and having a process to manage potential risks is paramount to the success of Alfa Laval. Risk management company’s stakeholders. To mitigate the are risks associated with an unpredictable The Alfa Laval Group internal control and impact of an incident or crisis the Alfa event that threatens to harm the organizarisk management is described in the Laval companies have issued a Business tion and its stakeholders. The Alfa Laval Corporate Governance Report in the Continuity Management (BCM) Policy. The Crisis Management Board supervises and Annual Report. Alfa Laval recognizes that policy states the processes that are supports the Crisis Management procecertain products and services will be implemented to prevent or minimize the dures. When an event is classified as critical for continued success because they impact of an incident or crisis. This critical, a crisis management team is generate a large proportion of value for the includes risk mapping, business impact appointed with the appropriate responsibilbusiness. The potential risks associated analysis, loss prevention including both an ities and competence. The main objectives with a failure of a critical process related to emergency response plan and a disaster are to protect the lives and health of these products or services could result in a recovery plan. employees, customers and the public, as decreased value or damage to the Alfa Laval clearly recognizes that there well as to safeguard the environment. Risk Explanation Mitigation (including related policies) Legal and compliance risks Non-compliance The global and diversified nature Policies, procedures and training programmes are in place with socioeconomic of Alfa Laval’s business means that to ensure that legal risks relating to its business activities or environmental the Group is required to adhere to are identified and that decisions are made on the appropriarequirements a variety of laws and regulations. te level. In addition, the legal counsels support the business Failure to meet socio-economic or in identifying and handling legal risks. A whistle-blowing environmental requirements could system is in place where employees can report any lead to legal and financial consebreaches of laws or Alfa Laval policies anonymously and quences, and negatively impact without repercussion to the reporter. reputation. Anti-bribery and Alfa Laval employees may fail to The Alfa Laval Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy is anti-corruption comply with anti-corruption laws applicable to all employees within the Group. The policy – potentially leading to a loss of sets procedures for preventing, detecting, reporting and business, financial penalties and investigating acts of bribery and corruption. The emphasis reputational damage. is on following the policy, which is annually signed off by the company's top 200 managers, as well as on training to ensure an understanding of the risks associated with improper behaviour. Fair competition and Infringements of applicable compeThe Fair Competition Policy provides guidelines to assist antitrust tition rules may result in Alfa Laval employees with how to adhere to competition law/antitrust having to pay fines and damages, laws, rules and regulation. Employees working with sales or and loosing goodwill. purchasing are obliged to comply with this policy. Export control Breach of export control associated The Alfa Laval Export Control Policy defines roles and regulations with trade sanctions can lead to a responsibilities in the Group for compliance with applicable loss of business, financial penalties laws and regulations on export control and trade sanctions. and reputational damage. Alfa Laval has specially appointed export control officers and classifies products, and implements processes and systems, to support compliance. 34 Risks and risk management Risk Explanation Mitigation (including related policies) Material source or Alfa Laval uses metals that may Alfa Laval supports the US Securities and Exchange Comtype originate from conflict areas. We mission’s rules and other initiatives concerning conflict also manufacture products for minerals. Alfa Laval published a Conflict Minerals Policy customers with specific compliance in 2013. Due diligence is conducted in our supply chain to demands due to industry standards, reduce the risk that minerals originating from the Demofor example marine, food and pharcratic Republic of Congo region are from conflict sources. maceutical customers. Alfa Laval Supplier Risk & Compliance unit has processes in place to identify sourcing risks and monitor potential highrisk suppliers. The Alfa Laval Regulatory Operations team monitors emerging legislation to ensure adherence in prioritized compliance areas. Supply chain risks Business Principles Deviations could have an adverse Alfa Laval works with a responsible supply chain approach deviation in the impact on people, the environment where all suppliers sign contracts to agree to abide by the supply chain and society that could damage our Alfa Laval Business Principles. Suppliers are assessed reputation. based on risk (country/process) and high-risk suppliers are audited. All employees working with purchasing and many of our suppliers are trained by Alfa Laval in supply chain responsibility. Human Rights The risk that the human rights of Alfa Laval's Business Principles build on the ten Principles breaches individuals linked to Alfa Laval are of the UN Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for multiviolated. For example, child labour, national enterprises, the UN Guiding Principles for Business forced labour and freedom of assoand Human Rights and incorporate the UK Modern Slavery ciation. Act. Suppliers sign off on these Business Principles in their contracts with Alfa Laval. High-risk suppliers are also audited against the Business Principles. Supply chain External factors such as fires, Alfa Laval has a flexible and global supply chain. The global disruption extreme weather, natural disasters, purchasing organization tracks risk issues that may impact water stress, war or a pandemic our supply chain to be able to adapt accordingly. illness could result in the disruption of supply and deliveries, revenues and profits. Production or product related risks Health & Safety Health and safety risks such as The Alfa Laval Occupational Health & Safety (OHS) Policy occupational diseases and acciguides our work together with our OHS Manual. The main dents. The risk that an employee purpose of the policy is to safeguard a healthy and safe is injured or killed in a workplace working environment to prevent accidents, occupational accident. diseases and ill health. We have a process to continuously monitor high-risk areas in our operations, train employees and enforce policies. Labour disputes Industrial disputes could lead to Alfa Laval has well-developed dialogue with local unions, action that could have a negative which reduces the risk of conflict and strike where Alfa impact on our ability to meet cusLaval is directly involved. It is however more difficult to tomer demands. protect the company against conflicts in other parts of the labour market, for instance within transportation. Alfa Laval minimizes these risks through preventive work at each site in line with company's global policies. Product failure during A product failing to meet quality or Alfa Laval strives to minimize these risks through an ISO customer use other expectations during customer certified quality assurance. Alfa Laval follows strict design use can risk the safety of our cusand validation rules for all products, and fully adheres to tomers. This can lead to customer industry-specific requirements. New products are develinjuries, claims and reputational oped within cross-functional projects where we perform risk damage. analyses to improve health and safety aspects. Alfa Laval also provides detailed instructions on the correct use and service of products. Risks and risk management 35 Risk Explanation Mitigation (including related policies) Damage or loss of The risks for business interruption Alfa Laval has over 40 large production sites around the production facility could have extensive consequences world and our manufacturing strategy strives to achieve for Alfa Laval and its customers. flexibility, which means that in the event of one unit being Fire, flooding or other natural disasaffected, others can cover the production. Some production ters could result in the temporary facilities are High Protected Risks (HPR) classified, which loss of a production facility. This signifies that all physical risks in and around the facility are could lead to reconstruction and documented and maintained within certain limits. These remediation costs and put customer facilities have state-of-the art fire and machinery protection deliveries and revenues at risk. systems and the responsible personnel have adequate security routines to ensure that these protection systems are maintained. For non-HPR classified production facilities, the aim is to reduce the risk for damage and business interruption. The Group Risk & Insurance organization is responsible for identifying potential threats and taking appropriate action to avoid or eliminate the most likely risks. Environmental risks Major environmental An incident with a significant The Alfa Laval Environmental Policy is applicable to the incident at a site amount of local environmental entire Alfa Laval Group. Environmental performance is mondamage could lead to negative itored and measured through Environmental Management impacts on people, fines and Systems. The sites representing 95% of production value reputational damage. in Alfa Laval are ISO 14001 certified. Smaller sites work according to Environmental Management Systems where risks are identified, and effective counter-measures are implemented. Water scarcity Water scarcity in the supply chain Alfa Laval production is not water intensive and most water or at our sites can constrain profacilities are closed loop. The Environmental Strategy for duction. 2020 includes targets for water reduction where we focus on facilities in areas with water scarcity risks. Climate change and The risk that the cost of energy or Alfa Laval does not use significant amounts of energy in its carbon emission cost carbon emissions increase due to production. To continuously improve, we have targets to climate legislation. both increase energy efficiency and to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. See the Environment chapter in this report. Use of hazardous Using hazardous chemicals could The Alfa Laval Group Black and Grey List is our primary tool chemicals lead to severe illness or have a serito control the use of chemical substances. This list comous negative impact on our environpiles substances that are classified as banned, restricted or ment or society. substances of concern. Alfa Laval Group’s Black and Grey list is based on EU legislations, such as REACH and RoHS, and global agreements such as POPs and IMO. The list is updated each year to reflect any legislative changes. Any deviations from the list shall be communicated to Alfa Laval. IT related risks Loss of intellectual Loss of intellectual property, Alfa Laval has compulsory trainings on Information Security property, financial or financial or personal data due to Awareness. Policies are in place to safeguard information personal data unauthorized access to Alfa Laval's confidentiality, such as the Access and Information Classicomputer systems. fication. All Alfa Laval IT agreements define the necessary Information Security components. All projects must also work according to our three Information Security checklists: Feasibility/Pre-study/Project. Additionally, a Software Review Template is sent to all potential suppliers to identify if there are any possible infringements in an early stage. Chili con care Keeping vegetables and fruit fresh as long as possible after harvest is a key issue for food producers all over the world. Not the least to minimize food waste. Take, for example, chili production. After drying in the fields, the hot spice has to be carefully kept in cold stores to stay aromatic. Achieving the right temperature and humidity is critical. As well as minimizing energy consumption. The obvious solution: technology and equipment from Alfa Laval. Our innovative spirit is leading the way in processing of chili. It’s a symbol for our care. Pure Performance. Food. Energy. Marine. Engineering. Chemicals. Environment. You name the industry. Alfa Laval is helping them to purify and refine their processes and products. Time and time again. Our equipment, systems and service are hard at work in more than 100 countries. Our driving force is to create better, more comfortable living conditions for all mankind. And, whenever possible, adding an extra spice to life. Alfa Laval in brief Alfa Laval is a leading global provider of specialized products and engineered solutions. The company’s equipment, systems and services are dedicated to helping customers optimize the performance of their processes. Time and time again. Alfa Laval helps customers to heat, cool, separate and transport products such as oil, water, chemicals, beverages, foodstuffs, starch and pharmaceuticals. Alfa Laval’s worldwide organization works closely with customers in 100 countries to help optimize their processes. More information on the Internet Alfa Laval’s website is continuously updated with new information, including contact details for all countries. Read more at www.alfalaval.com 100000238-1-EN 1803
