2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress Cover The Mekong River basin is a vital source of life for millions of people. It also has large hydropower potential. In 2017, we sharpened our risk assessment capabilities to determine which dam projects in the region we want to support. You can find out More information online: more about how we address sustainability reports.swissre.com/corporaterisks in our core business on pages 28–35. responsibility-report/2017/ In this report We describe our commitment as a responsible company and the actions we have taken. Contents Executive statement  2 Who we are and what we do  4 Our approach to corporate responsibility  8 Creating solutions for sustainability 18 Extending our risk intelligence  28 Being a responsible investor 36 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape 40 Reducing our environmental footprint 50 Engaging our people 60 Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance  70 The Swiss Re Foundation 74 Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich 76 Memberships, commitments, awards and index listings 78 Executive statement Dear stakeholders, We are pleased to present to you our 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report. With this publication, we want to show you how we understand and live up to our role as a responsible company. “We make the world more resilient” is Swiss Re’s vision. Hence we place particular emphasis on addressing longterm environmental, social and governance issues that may undermine sustainable progress. A couple of years ago, we reviewed which of these issues are the most relevant for our company and defined them as our Corporate Responsibility Topics. In the current edition, you can find a detailed overview of these topics, Walter B. Kielholz, Chairman of the Board of Directors showing their links to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and summarising the actions we have taken to meet the internal goals we have set for them. Climate change remains a top priority among our Corporate Responsibility Topics. This is why we have substantially expanded our Climate-related Financial Disclosures included in our 2017 Financial Report. We invite you to take a look at these in addition to the information presented in this report. As in previous years, our Corporate Responsibility Report serves as our disclosure document for two ongoing commitments we have made to the United Nations: the UN Global Compact and UNEP Principles for Sustainable Insurance. You will find both documents as fully linked reference tables in the Christian Mumenthaler, Group Chief Executive Officer online version of this publication. 2 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report The report is organised into chapters potentially sensitive dam projects in the SWISS RE FOUNDATION focusing on the main activities we Mekong River basin. Our public SONAR carry out to address our Corporate report again presented our insights on The Swiss Re Foundation Responsibility Topics: from offering various emerging risks. On the following in 2017 – Voices for Change re/insurance solutions for sustainability pages, we present a case study on Adopting a fresh approach, the 2017 risks to engaging our people. Below, antimicrobial resistance. edition of the Foundation’s Activity we would like to briefly summarise what Report showcases fewer initiatives we achieved in these areas in 2017. Asset Management is a core part of in greater depth and lets powerful how we create value, by generating photography tell more of the In our re/insurance core business, we attractive returns when investing underlying story. continued our close collaboration with the premiums we receive from our clients and partners to create various underwriting business. While Swiss Re innovative solutions that help them build has been a responsible investor for over resilience against natural catastrophe a decade, we took a key strategic step and weather risks (eg floods, during 2017 to switch to investment windstorms, extreme rainfall and benchmarks incorporating environmental, drought) and to cover risks associated social and governance (ESG) aspects with offshore wind farms. We also for our active listed equity and credit played a key role in launching the cat portfolios. To provide further insight on is relatively small in comparison with bond arm of the Pandemic Emergency this as well as our approach to integrating industrial companies. In 2017, we Financing facility, a pioneering World ESG criteria across the investment moved into Swiss Re Next, the new Bank scheme designed to prevent portfolio, we launched the publication office building we constructed at our diseases developing into fully-fledged “Responsible investments – Shaping Zurich headquarters. Sustainability has pandemics. Furthermore, we carried out the future of investing”. been a key topic of the project right from a pilot study to assess the social output the start and is woven into the building’s of our Life Capital Business Unit – a Our efforts to make the world more design and performance. As part of precondition to appraise the general resilient are more effective when we our commitment to the RE100 initiative, value insurance products create for engage in dialogue. “We’re smarter we also installed a solar plant at our customers. together” with you, dear stakeholders, Bangalore office. Last but not least, we as our clients, partners and other groups celebrated the ten-year anniversary In parallel to offering re/insurance in wider society. In 2017, we continued of our COyou2 Programme, which offers protection against a number of to address several of our Corporate our employees grants for carbonenvironmental and social issues, in our Responsibility Topics through this friendly acquisitions. risk management we seek to identify ongoing dialogue, holding many events and address risks that may undermine and producing a number of new We would like to close by thanking our sustainable progress, raise ethical publications. A major initiative looked employees for the strong commitment questions and/or increase loss potential. at the funding sources currently they have again shown to our company, As part of our Sustainability Risk available for our ageing societies and day in, day out. In this report, you Framework, we have started to develop how re/insurers could make a larger can also read what we at Swiss Re do a carbon risk model to support the contribution. All our dialogue activities to create a flexible and inclusive work worldwide reduction of greenhouse gas now benefit from the Swiss Re Institute, environment that inspires our people to emissions and contribute to limiting which combines Swiss Re’s own unleash their full potential. To achieve global warming to 1.5–2°C above preexpertise with world-class research. our vision of “making the world more industrial levels. The model’s initial part resilient”, we need people from many takes the form of a thermal coal policy As a responsible company, we are keen different backgrounds who feel applicable to all our lines of business. to minimise the environmental footprint passionate about the contribution they We also introduced clearer guidance on of our own operations, even though this can make together. Zurich, 15 March 2018 Walter B. Kielholz Christian Mumenthaler Chairman of the Board of Directors Group Chief Executive Officer Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 Who we are and what we do Our vision: We make the world more resilient. Swiss Re at a glance and innovation power to enable the in 2017 were: the United States, risk-taking upon which enterprise and the United Kingdom, Australia, China, The Swiss Re Group is a leading progress in society depend. Germany, Canada, Japan, Ireland, wholesale provider of reinsurance, Switzerland and France. They accounted insurance and other insurance-based Working with our clients and partners, for 79% of the Group’s total business forms of risk transfer. Dealing directly we help to protect assets and lives over the year. and working through brokers, our around the globe – for a resilient future. global client base consists of insurance Swiss Re Ltd, the Group’s holding companies, mid-to-large-sized Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, company, is a joint stock company, listed corporations and public sector clients. Swiss Re has operations across the in accordance with the International From standard products to tailor-made world. At the end of 2017, we had Reporting Standard on the SIX Swiss coverage across all lines of business, over 80 office locations in more than Exchange, domiciled in Zurich, and we deploy our capital strength, expertise 30 countries. Based on “net premiums organised under the laws of Switzerland. earned and fee income from policyNo other Group companies have holders”, our ten biggest markets shares listed. OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE Europe (including Middle East and Africa) Net premiums earned and fee income in 2017 (USD billions) 10.5 (USD 10.9 billion in 2016) Number of office locations* as of 31 December 2017 32 (28 in 2016) Number of employees (regular staff) as of 31 December 2017 8 630 (8 531 in 2016) * Counting each location with offices once; not counting data centres 4 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Our strategic framework You can get more information on our Our Group strategy helps us to meet our strategy in the 2017 Business Report at: financial targets and to make the world reports.swissre.com/2017/businessmore resilient. report/our-strategy.html Systematically Broaden and Optimise resources Emphasise allocate capital to diversify client and platforms differentiation risk pools/revenue base to increase to support capital streams access to risk allocation Americas Asia-Pacific Total 16.1 7.1 33.7 (USD 15.1 billion in 2016) (USD 7.2 billion in 2016) (USD 33.2 billion in 2016) 37 15 84 (39 in 2016) (15 in 2016) (82 in 2016) 3 740 2 115 14 485 (3 367 in 2016) (1 927 in 2016) (14 053 in 2016) Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Who we are and what we do The Swiss Re Group Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Life Capital Reinsurance provides clients and Corporate Solutions provides risk Life Capital manages closed and open brokers with reinsurance products, transfer solutions to large and mid-sized life and health insurance books. insurance-based capital market corporations around the world. Its It provides alternative access to the instruments and risk management innovative, highly customised products life and health risk pool, helping services. Reinsurance operates and standard insurance covers help to to generate stable returns and seize globally through two segments – make businesses more resilient, while attractive new opportunities. Property & Casualty and Life & Health. its industry-leading claims service provides additional peace of mind. Operational Group structure Group CEO Group CFO Group Finance Group CRO Group Risk Management Americas Group CUO Group Underwriting EMEA Group CIO Group Asset Management Asia Group COO Group Operations Regional Presidents Group CSO* Group Strategy Group Functions Corporate Reinsurance Life Capital Solutions Business Units * The Group CSO role will be merged with the Group CFO role effective 1 April 2018. 6 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS USD millions 2016 2017 Total assets 215 065 222 526 Total investments 155 016 161 897 Total liabilities 179 349 188 232 Total debt 11 351 10 581 Common shareholders’ equity 34 532 33 374 Total revenues 43 786 42 487 Premiums earned and fee income 33 231 33 705 P&C Reinsurance 17 008 16 667 L&H Reinsurance 11 527 11 980 Corporate Solutions 3 503 3 651 Life Capital 1 193 1 407 Total expenses –39 414 –41 962 Claims and claim adjustment expenses –12 564 –16 730 Life and health benefits –10 859 –11 083 Net income 3 558 331 ATTRIBUTION OF GROUP INCOME TO KEY STAKEHOLDERS USD millions (unless otherwise stated) 2016 % 2017 % Income before tax and variable compensation 4 773 100% 814 100% Variable compensation1 466 10% 351 43% Income tax expense 749 16% 132 16% US GAAP net income attributable to shareholders 3 558 331 of which paid out as dividend2 1 559 33% 1 650 203% of which share buy-back 1 006 21% 1 0163 125% of which added to retained earnings within shareholders’ equity 993 20% –2 335 1Aggregate compensation for all employees was CHF 2 165 million in 2017. See 2017 Financial Report, page 172. 2FY 2017 is estimated based on average year-to-date CHF/USD FX rates as of February 2018. The dividend is subject to AGM approval and the amount depends on the final number of dividend eligible shares and FX rates upon dividend payout. 3 Includes  shares bought back between 3 November 2017 and 16 February 2018 as part of the buy-back programme authorised at the AGM 2017. The total amount represents an estimate translated at the 2017 average CHF/USD exchange rate. The financial figures in the table at the The information in the lower table shows top provide information on the scale the distribution of Group income to key of the Swiss Re Group and income stakeholders (employees, government generated: total capitalisation broken and shareholders). down in terms of debt and equity, sales/revenues, operating costs and net income. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 Our approach to corporate responsibility We are committed to being a responsible company. Playing our part in enabling sustainable progress serves as a guiding principle for our actions. Our commitment to corporate OUR EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS responsibility Based on our commitment to Swiss Re has a long-standing corporate responsibility and enabling commitment to being a responsible sustainable progress, we have signed company. A key element in our up to a number of external charters understanding of what this means is and initiatives: the desire to play our part in enabling sustainable progress, for the benefit of ̤̤ EP100: see page 52 our clients and society at large. Taking ̤̤ Principles for Responsible this long-term view helps us to pursue Investment (PRI): see page 39 our vision of making the world more resilient and is embedded in our value ̤̤ RE100: see page 52 framework, which means ”doing ̤̤ Task Force on Climate-related business the Swiss Re way”. Financial Disclosures (FSB-TCFD): see page 35 and 2017 Financial Importantly, this commitment is also Report, pages 138–151 in our own best interest: it strengthens our capabilities to address both risks ̤̤ UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable and opportunities created by longerInsurance (PSI): for our Public term environmental and social Disclosure of Progress, see online challenges and, as a consequence, report to retain our licence to operate. ̤̤ UN Global Compact: for our Communication on Progress, see online report ̤̤ Carbon Disclosure Project (www.cdp.net) ̤̤ ClimateWise (www.cisl.cam.ac.uk/) 8 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report OUR VISION We make the world more resilient Our values mean doing business the Swiss Re way: Being open, honest and transparent in everything we do. Treating everyone with respect – both inside and outside the company. Taking the long-term view and playing our part in enabling sustainable progress – for stakeholders and society in general. Creating an inclusive culture that encourages diversity of thought and opinion. Our commitment to corporate responsibility: “Corporate responsibility” expresses Swiss Re’s commitment to being an open, honest and transparent organisation that treats all its stakeholders – employees, shareholders, clients, government agencies and the general public – with respect and integrity. In particular, we aim to take the long-term view and to play our part in enabling sustainable progress. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Our approach to corporate responsibility Board and senior management the development of Group risk policies responsibility and related strategic projects and coordinates communication, dialogue At Swiss Re’s highest governance level, and engagement efforts across the the task of overseeing implementation Group. In addition, it is responsible for of our commitment to corporate producing Swiss Re’s Corporate responsibility has been assigned to a Responsibility Report, which is reviewed committee of the Board of Directors: by senior management and approved It is one of the responsibilities of the by the Board of Directors. Chairman’s and Governance Committee to monitor the Group’s sustainability principles. Regarding the development and adoption of relevant policies and strategies, the role of the Board of Directors is to endorse them, while the Group Executive Committee approves them. Group Risk Management is responsible for maintaining a suitable risk policy framework, and the Business Units drive strategic implementation within their respective areas. On an operational level, various divisions, departments and units are involved in implementing Swiss Re’s commitment to corporate responsibility in daily business. The Sustainability, Emerging and Political RM unit drives 10 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Corporate Responsibility In 2016, we carried out a Priority: Topics with high stakeholder Map comprehensive review of the key expectations as well as high internal Corporate Responsibility Topics we are relevance. Require continuous high A key question for any company that facing as a global re/insurer and, on this attention and effort. understands corporate responsibility as basis, developed a graphic Corporate taking a long-term view and enabling Responsibility Map. Management: Topics recognised sustainable progress is what this means as being relevant and for which we in the context of its own business and Reflecting our two main insight sources have well-established management industry: which topics are “material” to and in line with current best practice, procedures. Stakeholder interest in achieving this goal? eg the recommendations of the them varies, though. Global Reporting Initiative In order to identify these material (www.globalreporting.org), this map Exploration: Topics with increasing Corporate Responsibility Topics, we use is structured along the two axes of relevance from an internal perspective both our internal risk expertise and ”Stakeholder expectations” and and an expected increase in stakeholder ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. “Relevance for Swiss Re” – in terms of inquiries. Warrant further analysis. the risks as well as opportunities. The  NLINE CONTENT O topics are positioned within three areas You can learn more about the internal expressing different stages of relevance risk expertise, stakeholder dialogue and and maturity: process we use to identify material Corporate Responsibility Topics in the online version of the report. reports.swissre.com/corporateresponsibility-report/2017/cr-report/ introduction/our-approach-tocorporate-responsibility/ourcorporate-responsibilitymap.html OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MAP Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 Our approach to corporate responsibility For all our Corporate Responsibility Topics we have set goals – some of them quantitative, others qualitative. On the following four pages, we briefly describe why these topics are important for Swiss Re, their principal links to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the internal goals we have set for them and what we achieved during the reporting year. OVERVIEW: OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOPICS, SDG LINKS, GOALS AND KEY ACHIEVEMENTS LINKS TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOPICS DEVELOPMENT GOALS* Advancing the climate transition In December 2015, nearly 200 governments agreed to strengthen the global response to the threat of climate change in the Paris Agreement. The private sector plays a key role in reaching the goals defined in Paris. Swiss Re advances the transition to a low-carbon economy from two angles: 1. Managing climate and natural disaster risk is at the core of what we do. Losses from floods, storms, earthquakes and other natural catastrophes impact the economies of entire countries and are therefore a key driver of the re/insurance business. Such losses are becoming more frequent and severe due to higher insurance penetration and the concentration of assets in exposed areas as well as climate change. By financing disaster risk mitigation and climate adaptation, we can strengthen the resilience of citizens, businesses, local and national economies and societies. 2. Advancing sustainable energy solutions is essential to combat global warming. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time satisfying the energy needs of a growing population will be one of the great challenges we face in the coming decades. We continuously invest in our renewable energy research and solutions to help our clients and the global community to develop and establish secure energy supplies for the future. Partnering for food security Meeting the demand for food for the growing world population – estimated to reach 9 billion by 2050 – will be challenging, as supply is constrained by such factors as climate change, depleted agricultural soils and the distribution of land, water and energy. Today, about 800 million people – one in 11 – are chronically hungry and malnourished. Swiss Re is a leader in agricultural insurance markets. We use our experience, expertise and financial strength to provide cutting-edge solutions to all stakeholders of the agricultural value chain. By insuring the agricultural sector, we play a vital role in combatting hunger and poverty. Funding longer lives People are living longer today than ever before, but the share of the working population is shrinking. The costs of funding retirement income, healthcare and long-term care in old age will increase dramatically. This could have significant financial consequences for individuals, insurers, employer pension funds and society in general. Swiss Re is the world’s largest reinsurer of mortality, and life and health reinsurance is part of our core business. We help clients create solutions that better support people across the different phases of ageing and retirement. Managing sustainability risks Sound risk management is essential for a re/insurer. Besides the core categories of our risk landscape (insurance, financial market and credit risk), we also pay attention to further significant risks we may be exposed to, including sustainability risks. We define sustainability risks as ethical concerns related to potential environmental and socio-economic impacts of our business transactions, and the reputational risks they may entail. The risk assessments we make through our Sustainability Risk Framework, an advanced risk management instrument, flow directly into our re/insurance and investment decisions. * Note: SDG 17 “Partnerships for the Goals” is important for most of our CR Topics. 12 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOALS PROGRESS ON OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOALS F  or general strategic objectives, see special section on our climate change strategy on page 16.  ased on our commitment made to the UN, advise 50 sovereigns B  y the end of 2017, had advised 66 sovereigns and subB and sub-sovereigns on climate risk resilience by 2020 and offer sovereings on climate risk resilience, offering protection them USD 10 billion of re/insurance protection against this risk. of USD 5.3 billion in total (page 23).  se our capacity and technical expertise to provide effective U W  e were involved in further offshore wind projects, mainstream risk covers for complex offshore wind farm projects. ones as well as an innovative site set up by the Danish Energy Agency to test more efficient technology (page 26). In cooperation with key stakeholders, create solutions to improve  ompleted a pioneering transaction protecting Taiwanese C food security by giving farmers protection against natural perils. aquaculture farms against extreme rainfall risk and made payouts to 14 000 Kenyan herders, saving approximately 70 000 livestock from drought (pages 22–24). T hrough our commitment to the Grow Africa Partnership, offer up M  et the target of our five-year commitment, helping to bring to 1.4 million smallholder farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa protection insurance protection to 1.5 million smallholder farmers in against weather risks by 2017. Sub-Saharan countries (page 23). U  se our capacity, technical expertise and natural offset of our C  ompleted a number of longevity transactions in recent years mortality business to offer our clients risk transfer solutions for their and, in 2017, launched a major campaign on how re/insurers longevity risk. can help fund the “ageing wallet”, with fact sheets on six major markets (page 43). C  onsistently identify potential sustainability risks in our business  tarted to develop a thermal coal policy and sharpened our S transactions and abstain from them if warranted. assessments of sustainability risks of dam projects in the Mekong River basin (page 32). Increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the Sensitive Business  ue to continuous fine-tuning of the SBR Assessment Tool and D Risk (SBR) process by advancing automation of sustainability risk increasing underwriter awareness, achieved a further fall of screening with our proprietary SBR Assessment Tool. transactions referred for an individual assessment (pages 30–31).  ngage with clients and industry partners on how to address and E F  ollowing publication of our brochure on the Sustainability Risk reduce sustainability risks in business transactions, especially in Framework in 2016, intensified dialogue with clients and other high growth markets. companies on sustainablity risks and related issues (page 45). Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Our approach to corporate responsibility OVERVIEW: OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOPICS, SDG LINKS, GOALS AND KEY ACHIEVEMENTS LINKS TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY TOPICS DEVELOPMENT GOALS* Investing responsibly Institutional investors such as re/insurers are naturally suited to invest responsibly because of their long-term view. Swiss Re systematically integrates environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations into the investment process through its three pillars approach: Enhancement (eg by applying ESG benchmarks), Inclusion (ie thematic investments) and Exclusion. Engaging our people We want to be an organisation where diverse talents come together globally to apply fresh perspectives and knowledge to “make the world more resilient”. Once a year, we seek feedback from our employees through the Employee Engagement Survey (EES). The EES is an opportunity to hear from our employees what engages them and what ideas they have to improve their experience at Swiss Re. Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance We consider good corporate governance as a key precondition to ensure sustainability throughout the Group’s activities and indispensable to maintaining long-lasting, valuable relationships with our stakeholders. We conduct business in a legal, fair, ethical and transparent way by adhering to best practices at all times, and apply the principles of our Code of Conduct across all company lines and regions. Reducing our environmental footprint As a knowledge company in the financial services sector, our environmental impacts through our own operations are limited. Nonetheless, we firmly believe it is important for a responsible company to minimise its environmental footprint, thus leading by example. Tackling our CO2 emissions and reducing energy consumption are key targets across the Group. Our pioneering initiatives include the Greenhouse Neutral Programme and the COyou2 Programme. Advancing access to insurance Access to insurance is an important contributor to economic development. However, 60% of the world’s population still remain excluded from appropriate insurance products. We work on advancing public awareness of the societal value of insurance and the role insurance plays in achieving sustainable economic development. We further evaluate our contribution on selected Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Navigating the digital transformation The digital transformation has the potential to radically transform the insurance industry. New analytical techniques such as smart analytics, Big Data and FinTech boost innovation and modernisation in product design, distribution, claims management and fraud detection. As Swiss Re develops its “digital DNA”, we are also advancing industry awareness of ethical challenges surrounding the digital transformation. Swiss Re Foundation: Empowering communities The Swiss Re Foundation reflects the social and humanitarian values of Swiss Re. It partners with social entrepreneurs, aid organisations, researchers, Swiss Re employees and clients to help communities increase their resilience. The Foundation’s initiatives address the causes and effects of risks in four areas – climate, natural hazards, water and society – both in emerging and developing countries and in regions where Swiss Re has offices. * Note: SDG 17 “Partnerships for the Goals” 14 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report is important for most of our CR Topics. OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOALS PROGRESS ON OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOALS Integrate ESG criteria systematically along our overall Made a big step forward by shifting our investment portfolio investment process. to ESG criteria and/or ESG benchmarks (pages 36–38). M  eet our investment target for green bonds of at least By the end of 2017, we were well advanced in meeting our USD 1.5 billion. target of holding at least USD 1.5bn in green bonds (page 37). C  ontinue to build an organisation of diverse people that have a According to EES scores, 84% of our employees feel Swiss Re passion to make the world more resilient. lives a diverse and inclusive culture. Gender diversity in senior management positions has remained constant since 2016 (page 61). Achieve a top-quartile employee engagement score (EES>71%). Per 2017, achieved an employee engagement score of 69% (page 61), C  ontinuously assess our corporate governance against regulatory Revised our Corporate Bylaws to anticipate developments and developments, best practice and new stakeholder demands. trends, enhanced our conflicts of interest framework as well as Board of Directors educational sessions and trainings (page 70). R  egularly update our compliance policies as appropriate, oversee L aunched new policy governance framework and policy effective implementation thereof and deliver meaningful training and management tool, and simplified Global Policies architecture. communication to our employees. Delivered mandatory compliance trainings for new and existing employees as well as risk-based tailored trainings (page 73). Keep per-capita CO2 emissions from our own operations at 2013 Achieved a reduction of our per-capita CO2 emissions by levels, which we had reduced by 49.3% in the ten years since 2003. 1.9% compared with 2013 (page 51). Reduce our energy intensity by an average 2% per year. Since 2013, achieved a total reduction of 24.3% (page 52).  btain 100% of power used for our own operations from renewable O At the end of 2017, covered 84% of our total power consumption sources by 2020. from renewable sources (page 52). Include our tier 1 and tier 2 vendors in the EcoVadis platform by Implementation completed for 13% of our tier 1 and 2 vendors, 2020. and ongoing or ready to start for 30% (page 56). A  dvance our understanding of the societal impact of insurance and Produced a sigma study on the value of re/insurance for develop metrics to measure our impact on stakeholders. development in emerging markets (page 46) and conducted a pilot analysis of the social output of our Life Capital Buiness Unit (page 27). R  efine our understanding of societal challenges related to the digital Started a reseach partnership on “Ethical and Legal Big Data transformation. Challenges in the Insurance Industry” with academic partners and contributed to a publication produced by the Chief Risk Officer Forum (page 46).  ontribute to resilient societies by increasingly engaging Swiss Re C Continuing to create new opportunities for our employees to employees with their skills and expertise. support the Swiss Re Foundation’s partners with their expertise, 14% of the project portfolio encompassed an employee engagement component at the end of 2017 (see the Foundation’s 2017 Activity Report, pages 26–27). Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Our approach to corporate responsibility CLIMATE CHANGE Content organisation Beyond the specific goals we have defined for our Corporate Responsibility Topics, we are committed to addressing them across the different areas of our business where they are relevant. These implementation areas are listed below and provide the basic chapter structure for our Corporate Responsibility Report: Business solutions Within our core business of re/insurance and asset management, we strive to develop innovative solutions that help tackle key environmental and social challenges. To achieve this, we work with our clients and partners in both the private and public sectors. Risk intelligence Climate change has been our most important sustainability issue for many We develop and apply tailor-made years: For a reinsurer, it constitutes a key topic because it will lead to an tools to extend the scope of our risk increase in the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as floods, management. This enables us to identify storms, excessive rainfall and drought. In combination with growing asset and appropriately address sustainabilityconcentrations in exposed areas and more widespread insurance protection, related and emerging risks in our core this will cause a steady rise in damage. Among our current Corporate business. Responsibility Topics shown on pages 11–15, two have a direct link to climate change: “Managing climate and natural disaster risk“ and “Advancing Investments sustainable energy solutions”. We integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria across our Since detecting the long-term threat posed by climate change almost investment portfolio. Our approach is 30 years ago, we have been an acknowledged thought leader on the topic. based on the three strategic pillars To tackle the issue, we pursue a comprehensive strategy with four pillars: Enhancement, Inclusion and Exclusion. The four pillars of our climate change strategy Stakeholder dialogue Through regular dialogue with our Advancing our knowledge and understanding of climate clients and other stakeholders, we change risks, quantifying and integrating them into our risk help develop effective responses to management and underwriting frameworks where relevant; sustainability and other key issues, Developing products and services to mitigate or adapt by raising awareness of both the risks to climate risk; and opportunities arising from them. Raising awareness about climate change risks through Operations: our own footprint dialogue with clients, employees and the public, and advocating We apply best-practice standards of a worldwide policy framework for climate change; resource management to our properties Tackling our own carbon footprint and ensuring transparent, and logistic operations as well as annual emissions reporting. guidelines to our sourcing activities. In doing so, we continually reduce Swiss Re’s direct environmental impact. Operations: our people Drawing on the know-how and experience of a diverse, multigenerational group of people, we want to ensure our employees can contribute to an organisation that WEBSITE For more information see is constantly looking for new ways to swissre.com/eca/our_climate_ improve the wellbeing of society – change_strategy.html where how we achieve results is as important as what we achieve. 16 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate governance and The present report also incorporates compliance Report profile our 2017 Communication on By adhering to the highest standards of Our Corporate Responsibility Report Progress for the UN Global Compact governance and compliance, we seek to covers the whole Swiss Re Group as it (www.unglobalcompact.org/). maintain effective checks and balances was organised on 31 December 2017, References to the Compact‘s ten between the top corporate bodies and ie the publicly listed holding company principles are incorporated into the to ensure the application of laws, rules Swiss Re Ltd, its three Business Units GRI Content Index, in line with UN and regulations, and ethical standards Reinsurance, Corporate Solutions and recommendations. in our business. Swiss Re’s commitment Life Capital, and all directly or indirectly to sustainability is fully integrated into held subsidiaries. Furthermore, we continue to report the Code of Conduct. against the Principles for Sustainable All the main chapters of the report Insurance, PSI (www.unepfi.org/psi). Active in society have received independent assurance Our Public Disclosure of Progress is Playing an active role in society beyond from PricewaterhouseCoopers. Their also available in the online version of our core business is important to us. assurance report is included on pages the report. Globally, we empower vulnerable 76–77. communities to become more resilient O  NLINE CONTENT to risk and, where we have offices, we O  NLINE CONTENT Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) More detailed information on reporting Content Index with UN Global encourage volunteering activities and scope, reporting period and publishing Compact COP references, and our support local institutions. PSI Public Disclosure of Progress. rhythm is available in the online version of the report: reports.swissre.com/ reports.swissre.com/corporateWithin these core chapters, the content corporate-responsibilityresponsibility-report/2017/ primarily reflects our current Corporate report/2017/cr-report/ cr-report/introduction/ourintroduction/our-approach-toapproach-to-corporateResponsibility Topics, displayed and responsibility/reportingcorporate-responsibility/ described on pages 11–15. (Please note report-profile.html frameworks.html that our activities as an active citizen in society are described in detail in the separate Activity Report published by Finally, we provide detailed Climatethe Swiss Re Foundation.) Reporting frameworks related Financial Disclosures, as recently Our 2017 Corporate Responsibility developed and recommended by a task O  NLINE CONTENT Report includes Standard Disclosures force of the Financial Stability Board A full, interactive overview showing of the G4 Guidelines of the Global (www.fsb-tcfd.org). where and how we have addressed our Reporting Initiative, GRI Corporate Responsibility Topics in 2017 is available in the online version (www.globalreporting.org), as far as CONTENT IN THE of the report: reports.swissre.com/ is practical for a business-to-business 2017 FINANCIAL REPORT You can view our Climate-related corporate-responsibilitycompany in financial services. You report/2017/cr-report/ Financial Disclosures in the “Corporate can find the GRI Content Index in the responsibility” chapter, pages 138–151. introduction/our-approach-tocorporate-responsibility/overviewonline version of the report. where-and-how-we-haveaddressed-our-cr-topics.html SUSTAINABILITY INDEX REPRESENTATION Swiss Re is a member of various sustainability indices, including the Dow Jones Sustainability World and Europe, FTSE4Good, Euronext Vigeo Europe 120, the MSCI ESG Leaders and MSCI Global Socially Responsible (2017) families. In May 2017, Swiss Re received the AAA rating on the MSCI ESG assessment. Our most important index listings and ratings are displayed on page 79. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Creating solutions for sustainability Our re/insurance solutions help address key environmental and social challenges. We focus on natural catastrophes and climate change, food security, renewable energy, funding longer lives and advancing access to insurance. By managing risks and covering losses, ̤̤ Insurance-linked securities (ILS) or cat re/insurance creates stability and bonds: We are a leading developer of enables economic growth. However, these products, which enable cedents some environmental and social to transfer large risks to the capital challenges can undermine sustainable markets. USD progress if left unaddressed. Helping our clients and society tackle such risks is a key part of our commitment as a Across our efforts, we seek to develop solutions that improve access to insurance 2.3 bn responsible company and of our vision to make the world more resilient. Currently, our focus is on the following protection, especially in emerging and developing countries. If governments and communities are financially protected against such risks as windstorms, Natural catastrophe themes: natural disaster and climate earthquakes, drought and flooding, they premiums in our P&C risks, food security, sustainable energy can better cope with the immediate and funding longer lives. We develop our consequences of a disaster. Reinsurance business solutions as part of our established risk modelling and underwriting activities Just as importantly, our solutions help (USD 2.5 billion in 2016) or by creating innovative new products to create the conditions for sustained in close cooperation with our clients and social and economic development, partners. as they help to safeguard investments, allow governments to stabilise budgets Thus, our solutions frequently include: and give people the financial stability ̤̤ Public-sector partners: Besides direct required to build and maintain businesses. insurers and corporate clients, we develop risk transfer solutions for, and in cooperation with, governments and various public-sector organisations; ̤̤ Index-based insurance products: We are a pioneer in creating innovative insurance solutions that use an index to determine payments; 18 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Natural catastrophes and losses larger than USD 20 million), climate change equivalent to approximately 14% of total premiums in this business segment. Natural catastrophes are a key risk in A residential area of Houston, TX our Property & Casualty (P&C) business. Even before 2017, both economic and flooded by Hurricane Harvey. The damage caused by floods, storms, insured losses caused by natural The 2017 North Atlantic earthquakes and other natural catastrophes had steadily increased hurricane season was the second catastrophes can affect millions of lives on average over the past 20 years. The costliest ever, underlining the and the economies of entire countries. key reasons are economic development, importance of understanding With hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria population growth, urbanisation and natural catastrophe and climate as well as other major catastrophes, a higher concentration of assets in risks. the year of 2017 was the costliest ever. exposed areas. Total worldwide economic losses from natural and man-made catastrophes This general trend will continue. But were over USD 337 billion – of these, crucially, economic losses will be further approximately USD 144 billion were aggravated by climate change. The NATURAL CATASTROPHE DATA insured. scientific consensus is that a continued rise in average global temperatures will In our 2017 Financial Report, we Over the whole year, Swiss Re’s have a significant effect on weatherprovide detailed quantitative combined estimated claims from large related natural catastrophes. According information on natural catastrophe natural catastrophes amounted to to the Special Report on Extremes perils: the four perils with the highest USD 4.7 billion. (SREX, 2012) and the Fifth Assessment expected annual losses (page 148) Report (AR5, 2014), published by and the liquidity requirements These figures underline the significant the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate stemming from four extreme loss benefits that access to effective Change (IPCC, www.ipcc.ch), a changing scenarios (“insurance risk stress re/insurance protection against natural climate gradually leads to shifts in the tests”, page 85). catastrophes creates for our clients and frequency, intensity, spatial extent, for society at large. In 2017, our clients in duration and timing of extreme weather P&C Reinsurance paid us USD 2.3 billion events. of natural catastrophe premiums (for Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Creating solutions for sustainability If climate change remains unchecked, In 2017, we agreed to conduct an ECA CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION the makeup of the main drivers will study for the city of Lishui in China as thus gradually shift, with climate change part of our cooperation with the Our solutions offering re/insurance accounting for an increasingly large Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale protection against extreme weather share of natural catastrophe losses. Zusammenarbeit (see page 21). events and weather volatility help communities adapt to climate change To assess our Property & Casualty by making them more resilient against such risks. business accurately and to structure Strengthening risk resilience: sound risk transfer solutions, we need 2017 highlights to clearly understand the economic impact of natural catastrophes and the In this section, we describe a selection effect of climate change. This is why of the innovative transactions and we invest in proprietary, state-of-the-art initiatives we were involved in during natural catastrophe models and 2017 to strengthen risk resilience. These regularly collaborate with universities transactions help address the following and scientific institutions. of our Corporate Responsibility Topics, often more than one at the same time: While the impact of climate change ̤̤ Managing climate and natural will increase gradually over the coming disaster risk decades, most of our business is ̤̤ Partnering for food security renewed and repriced annually, and our ̤̤ Advancing access to insurance risk models are refined every few years. Risks are normally covered for 12 They help our clients and their months (up to five years for cat bonds). communities become more resilient Thus, re/insurance premiums do not to the risks they face by ensuring that reflect expected loss trends over the adequate funding is in place when it coming decades. Rather, for is needed. underwriting and risk management purposes, our models provide an Reinsuring flood insurance in the US estimate of the current risk. But as In the US, the annual uninsured economic natural catastrophe losses continue impact from flooding is roughly to rise as a result of the different USD 10 billion, making it one of the most factors described above, our models common and costly natural disasters. will gradually factor in this trend. While the private flood insurance market is developing, the US Government has CONTENT IN THE been offering residential flood coverage 2017 FINANCIAL REPORT since 1968. Today, the National Flood In our Climate-related Financial Insurance Program (NFIP), which is Disclosures, we describe in detail how we identify the risks and opportunities managed by the Federal Emergency created by climate change and how Management Agency (www.fema.gov), we manage them (see pages 138–151). insures five million households. As the power and frequency of floods have been increasing over the last decade, insurance claims have risen beyond the In addition to providing re/insurance amount that policyholders pay into the covers, we offer our clients strategic programme. expertise and integral risk assessments of natural disasters and climate In response to this evolving threat, the adaptation. These include our Economics NFIP has sought to put the programme of Climate Adaptation (ECA) studies, on a more sustainable financial path. free access for our clients to Swiss Re’s Along with the establishment of a CatNet® tool and our expertise reserve fund, its strategy includes the publications. You can learn more about creation of a reinsurance programme the CatNet® tool at www.swissre.com/ with partners from the private sector. catnet and view a sample of our recent Swiss Re has been involved in this publications on page 49. initiative from the beginning and is one of its three original reinsurance providers. 20 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report The programme’s purpose is to cover Protecting aquaculture in Taiwan Swiss Re has been working closely losses from large and unexpected against extreme rainfall with the Chinese government as insured events such as severe floods In Taiwan, we helped develop the first well as regional and local authorities, caused by hurricanes. It proved its value parametric insurance solution for eg in urban Guangdong and rural in its first year by providing private aquaculture, jointly with Taiwan Fire & Heilongjiang, to develop new, innovative capital to help homeowners recover Marine Insurance. The programme will insurance solutions that help build from the devastation caused by offer protection against extreme rainfall resilience against these risks. They Hurricane Harvey. This coverage saved risk to 120 000 hectares of onshore typically involve parametric triggers US taxpayers USD 1 billion and helped fisheries in Ping Tung County, which such as cyclone wind speed or the prevent the programme from falling together produce 25 million kilogrammes amount of rainfall to determine payouts, further into debt. of grouper annually. ensuring that funds are quickly available to the insured authorities. Strengthening disaster resilience in Grouper is one of the expensive fish the Philippines breeds in Ping Tung County and In 2017, we agreed with the city It is estimated that each year an average represents a significant economic asset authorities of Lishui and our partner GIZ of 20 typhoons make landfall in the in Taiwan’s aquaculture industry. As the (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Philippines. The strongest of these 2009 typhoon season showed, Zusammenarbeit GmbH, www.giz.de/en/) storms create significant damage and however, fish ponds can suffer badly to provide support to an Economics can cause many fatalities. In 2013, from extreme rainfall. Flash floods due to of Climate Adaptation (ECA) study for Super Typhoon Yolanda (also known typhoons caused many fish ponds to the city. Swiss Re has many years of as Typhoon Haiyan elsewhere), which overflow then, destroying nearly 50% of experience with these studies, which was one of the strongest storms ever the fisheries in the process and causing assess the present and future climaterecorded at landfall, claimed large financial losses. related risks faced by a location or region approximately 6 000 lives and damaged and identify cost-effective adaptation a million homes in nine regions. Using meteorological data, this measures. The project was formally kicked innovative aquaculture insurance off towards the end of 2017. In view of the latent typhoon and other solution pays out automatically when natural disaster risks, the Philippine there is rainfall of more than 480 mm for Launching the cat bond arm of the government had already started to two consecutive days. It is the second Pandemic Emergency Financing change its strategic approach a couple programme we have helped develop for Facility of years earlier in the wake of the 2009 the Taiwanese agricultural sector, in When the Ebola disease broke out in typhoon season, which had caused response to the government’s initiative West Africa in 2014, it took the losses of USD 4.4 billion (equivalent to to transfer agricultural risks to international community several months 2.7% of GDP). It introduced new re/insurers. Allowing for quick payouts to mobilise the resources required to legislation marking a move from disaster through its index-based trigger, the provide effective support to the affected response to disaster risk reduction and scheme helps to improve the sector’s communities. To address this problem, preparedness, and started to implement resilience. It has attracted strong interest the World Bank (www.worldbank.org) a three-tiered Disaster Risk Financing and demand from the fish farming decided to set up a rapid response and Insurance strategy. community in Taiwan, and it is hoped mechanism called the Pandemic that it will benefit further Asian countries Emergency Financing Facility (PEF) The three tiers refer to the national, in the future. and mandated Swiss Re to help support subnational and household level. At its development. the national level, the government Strengthening risk resilience negotiated a contingent credit line with in Lishui, China The central goal of the PEF is to release the World Bank to provide immediate Lishui is a scenic city in Zhejiang emergency funds quickly enough to liquidity in the aftermath of a natural province in eastern China, located prevent a disease outbreak from turning disaster. In 2017, protection was added in a mountainous area close to the East into a fully-fledged pandemic, thus at the subnational level for the most China Sea. Like many other Chinese potentially saving many lives. Its exposed provinces. Supported by the cities, it has been growing at rapid innovative design combines funding World Bank, Swiss Re and other speed recently and is developing into a from the re/insurance market (using partners, the government bought a regional centre of tourism. Further index-based products) with the parametric earthquake and typhoon developing these urban zones proceeds from catastrophe bonds cover offering up to USD 200 million is a strategic goal for the Chinese issued by the World Bank. Swiss Re of protection to 25 provinces along government, but many of them are Capital Markets acted as joint structurer the eastern edge of the Philippine located in areas facing high natural and sole book runner for the PEF archipelago. The risk has been fully disaster risks. As they accumulate transaction, which was completed in ceded to local and national re/insurers, greater concentrations of people, assets 2017. It is the first time ever that including Swiss Re, who will quickly and technology, these cities become pandemic risk is being transferred to provide provincial governments with even more vulnerable to the potential the capital markets to protect lowliquidity in the event of a disaster. effects of extreme weather events, a income countries. trend further reinforced by climate change. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 Creating solutions for sustainability Herding provides many people in the Greater Horn of Africa region with their livelihoods, but faces serious drought risks. In 2017, the KLIP programme, which we support, made payouts to 14 000 Kenyan herders, thus saving an estimated 70 000 livestock sustaining 100 000 people. The PEF covers six viruses and protects Payouts to Caribbean governments of an event. Swiss Re has been acting the world’s most vulnerable countries Caribbean countries are heavily exposed as the facility’s lead reinsurer right from that are eligible for funding from the to natural catastrophes such as tropical the start. World Bank’s International Development cyclones, earthquakes and excessive Association. Financing is released on rainfall. Funding initial relief measures The original CCRIF structure has seen the basis of publicly available health and maintaining vital government some important changes over the years. data as reported by the World Health functions after a disaster creates a In 2014, coverage was extended from Organization (WHO). The PEF’s significant funding challenge for these tropical cyclones and earthquakes “insurance window” (re/insurance and small developing economies. to include excessive rainfall. The facility cat bonds) will offer total coverage of was restructured into a segregated USD 425 million for an initial period of When hurricanes Irma and Maria hit portfolio company (SPC) to allow for three years. Donor contributions from the Caribbean in 2017, they caused total risk segregation, and renamed the governments of Japan and Germany significant damage and triggered accordingly. In the ten years from its help finance the cost of premiums. payouts of USD 30.8 million and inception until 2017, it has made USD 23.6 million, respectively, from a 36 payouts to 13 member governments, regional insurance facility called CCRIF totalling USD 130.5 million. All payouts WEB CONTENT You can find general information about SPC. Originally set up in 2007 by 16 were made within 14 days of the end cat bonds – also called insurance-linked regional governments as the Caribbean of the respective event. securities (ILS) – at Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility www.swissre.com/investors/ils/ (CCRIF) under the technical guidance of Payout to Kenyan herders affected the World Bank, it was the world’s first by drought multi-country risk pool. Its objective was Droughts are responsible for to provide governments quick access to approximately 75% of livestock deaths in emergency funding by using parametric the Greater Horn of Africa region, policies that are automatically triggered repeatedly leaving herders, their families according to the physical characteristics and entire communities destitute. To 22 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report OUR COMMITMENTS … to the United Nations Many of our recent efforts to expand insurance protection cover losses from natural catastrophes and weather volatility (eg drought or excessive rainfall). As climate change is predicted to increase these losses, such transactions also help communities to strengthen their climate resilience. Furthermore, we have found that partnering with public sector clients, especially national and regional governments, is an effective way to USD develop solutions. Building on these experiences, we made a significant commitment to 5.3 billion the United Nations at its Climate Summit in September 2014. Personally addressing the government leaders present at the summit, our then Group CEO Michel M. Liès made the following pledge: “By the year 2020, Swiss Re commits to having advised 50 sovereigns and sub-sovereigns Total amount of on climate risk resilience and to have offered them USD 10 billion against climate protection this risk.” offered to sovereigns We have agreed with the United Nations to report publicly on the and sub-sovereigns progress we make on this commitment. By the end of 2017, we had advised 66 sovereigns and sub-sovereigns on climate risk resilience since 2014 and offered them a total of USD 5.3 billion in re/insurance protection. (USD 3.9 billion by 2016) ... to the Grow Africa Partnership In 2012, we made a commitment to the Grow Africa Partnership (www.growafrica.org), an initiative launched by a number of organisations to promote public-private collaboration and investment in 1.5 million African agriculture. As most smallholder farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa have had no access to insurance protection to date, addressing this problem is crucial to protect families’ livelihoods, facilitate economic development and reduce poverty. Smallholder farmers benefiting from Our commitment to to the Grow Africa Partnership has centred on the following three goals: the Grow Africa Partnership by 2017 ̤̤ Give farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa access to tools such as weather and yield index insurance products; (1 million by 2016) ̤̤ Invest in resources equivalent to about USD 2 million per year to support the development of sustainable agricultural risk management markets; ̤̤ Provide agricultural insurance for up to 1.4 million smallholder farmers. Working together with different partners, we helped to bring weather insurance to 1.5 million smallholder farmers in 12 Sub-Saharan countries by the end of our commitment in 2017. While developing commercially viable schemes continues to face significant challenges, in particular regarding the creation of effective distribution networks and overcoming market fragmentation, we entered into some promising new programmes in 2017. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 Creating solutions for sustainability protect pastoralists against this To offer governments at the national, persistent threat, we helped to launch regional and local level easier access the Kenya Livestock Insurance Program to protection against these risks, we (KLIP) in 2016, the first-ever government recently developed and launched livestock insurance scheme in Africa. Swiss Re rainX, an index insurance tool. In contrast to classical indemnity It is an index-based scheme that uses insurance, which requires policyholders satellite imagery to assess the state to prove the extent of any losses of grazing conditions by measuring incurred, index insurance relies on deviations in the colour of ground external, verifiable and quantifiable vegetation. When a certain threshold data or parameters. is reached, the insured herders automatically receive a lump sum Our rainX tool offers customised payment, allowing them to provide protection against two types of risk: their livestock with feed and water. heavy rain and subsequent flooding, and lack of rain (also called meteorological In 2017, six counties suffered drought droughts). To feed the tool, we use daily conditions that triggered the programme. rainfall data with a high spatial resolution As a result, the government paid out provided by a number of independent about USD 5.3 million to a total of and public satellite sources. The 14 000 pastoral households, or threshold values that trigger a payment approximately USD 380 on average. It are calculated on the basis of historical is estimated that the funds helped save values as well as forward-looking 70 000 livestock, primarily cows, modelling. goats and camels, which in turn sustain approximately 100 000 people in The rainX tool enables us to offer our the area. clients such solutions quickly and effectively, and allows for scalability The partners behind the programme of coverage and payout patterns. include the Kenyan Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries (www.mygov.go.ke), the World Bank Group (www.worldbank.org), several local insurers and the International Livestock Research Institute (www.ilri.org) in Nairobi, with Swiss Re acting as the main reinsurance provider. Launching our rainX tool Drought and flood increasingly affect communities and agriculture across the globe, frequently causing substantial damage and destroying livelihoods. What’s more, in areas where such events are a recurring phenomenon, the need/burden to finance recovery efforts often falls on taxpayers. This reduces purchasing power and slows down economic activity, thus further aggravating the situation. 24 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Offshore wind farm technology keeps evolving. Swiss Re Corporate Solutions is continuously enhancing its understanding of the associated risks and, in 2017, agreed to provide insurance protection to a Danish pilot project set up to test more cost-effective foundations and other innovations. Sustainable energy solutions Swiss Re Corporate Solutions takes a special interest in offshore wind as it has Sustainable energy sources play a both the large capacity and the technical crucial role in reducing CO2 emissions expertise to help manage the associated and securing future energy supplies. risks. We are continually enhancing our Given our strategic focus on climate understanding of these risks and share change, we are keen to support energy our insights with our clients as well generation from renewable sources. But as other insurers. As a result, we are now as sustainable energy projects increase considered a “lead market” for offshore in scale and complexity, so do the wind risks. In the last five years, Swiss Re risks associated with them. However, Corporate Solutions has participated innovative risk transfer solutions can in numerous offshore wind projects, help reduce these risks and drive including wind farms, standalone investment in the sector. offshore substations and standalone export cables. Offshore wind is considered one of the most promising renewable energy In 2017, we were involved in a number sources. But like renewable energy in of new offshore wind farm projects, general, it presents very complex risks. including the two described below: Unlike traditional lines, there is no long loss history to refer to. Underwriting such risks is therefore challenging from an insurance perspective. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 Creating solutions for sustainability Nissum Bredning Vind Offshore Life & health insurance and Wind Farm funding longer lives This is a innovative 28 MW project in northwestern Denmark, close to the Life and health (L&H) insurance products harbour of Thyborøn. It was set up by the play a crucial role in creating stability Danish Energy Agency (www.ens.dk) for individuals and society. They provide as a pilot project to test new offshore financial security in the event of death or technologies and integrated design. Its illness, give access to medical treatment two developers are Nissum Bredning and offer dependable income in Vindmøllelaug (www.nbvind.dk) and retirement. We help primary L&H insurers Jysk Energi (www.jyskenergi.dk), who and other clients from the private had placed the winning bid following and public sector to manage such risks the Danish Energy Agency’s tender. efficiently, thanks to our specialist knowledge of mortality, morbidity and A key innovation tested by the project longevity trends. is a new “gravity jacket foundation” concept developed by Siemens. Longevity and health insurance Foundations generally account for remained two of our strategic priorities 20–30% of an offshore wind project’s in the L&H business. The demand for construction costs, and this new longevity solutions is expected to grow technology allows to reduce these. The further as demographics shift. We keep project also features a new cable and investing in research and development turbine concept with a higher voltage to improve our ability to predict mortality of 66kV, which will result in lower costs and longevity trends. for cabling and reduced transmission losses. The DEA expects that, together, Demand for commercial health insurance the innovations to be tested at Nissum solutions has also been growing, driven Bredning will bring significant savings by several major demographic and regarding both construction and socio-economic trends. These include: operating costs, and have a positive the greater healthcare needs of ageing impact on the levelised cost of electricity societies; rising healthcare expectations (LCoE). of the new middle class, especially in growth markets; and healthcare finance Trianel Windpark Borkum II reform, particularly in mature markets. Swiss Re Corporate Solutions also We offer a variety of health reinsurance supports phase 2 of Trianel Windpark solutions to meet these needs, from Borkum II, the first purely communal short-term protection against the risk of wind farm in the North Sea volatility in medical expenses for insurers (www.trianel-borkum.de/en/twb-ii/). or employers to very long-term It is located around 45 kilometres protection against the financial impact north of the German island of Borkum. of disability or critical illness. With a planned capacity of 203 MW generated by 32 turbines, it is expected CONTENT IN THE to power more than 140 000 homes 2017 BUSINESS REPORT Learn more about a partnership we and save 290 000 tonnes of CO2 entered in the UK to help recovering per year. The owners include cancer patients, pages 34–37. 17 German municipalities as well as the electric utility of the City of Zurich (www.ewz.ch). Construction of the windpark was decided in 2017 and is expected be completed in 2019. 26 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Longevity solutions Social output analysis for With life expectancy rising, pension Life Capital schemes face the risk that they will not be able to meet all their commitments. Increasingly, stakeholders are asking Longevity transactions cover this companies to provide information on risk by insuring the schemes’ liabilities their social output, impact and social in case their members live longer value. In response to this development, than expected. In previous Corporate we launched a pilot project to assess Responsibility Reports, we have the “social output” of our Life Capital described a number of landmark Business Unit, which is responsible for longevity transactions completed in developing Swiss Re’s primary life and recent years with different clients health business. Looking at the results in the UK: of particular activities such as policies ̤̤ The Scottish & Newcastle Pension sold and number of people reached, Plan (19 000 members) social output analysis sets the preliminary ̤̤ The Aviva Staff Pension Scheme stage for measuring “social outcome” (19 000 members plus partners) (which is defined by the changes ̤̤ One of AkzoNobel’s pension funds achieved in the target population’s lives) (17 000 members) and, ultimately, “social impact”, or the ̤̤ The LV= pension fund (more than progress made towards pre-defined 5 000 members) goals. ̤̤ The Royal County of Berkshire Pension Fund (11 000 members). The analysis showed that Life Capital scores well on several output indicators In 2017, we completed further longevity as it is growing, eg in terms of transactions but, for confidentiality employment and partnership reasons, are unable to publish any opportunities created, number of details on them. You can read more policyholders and claims paid. Research about our recent efforts to raise the conducted by third parties also showed topic’s public profile on page 43. that Life Capital protects a certain number of customers that belong either to a “financially stretched“ or “urban adversity“ socio-demographic group. In the two books assessed, these groups represented approximately 30% of the total. Providing insurance to them is likely to help reduce the risk of falling into the poverty trap. Building on this data, we plan to establish a methodology to assess social impact, ie the overall value that insurance creates for individuals – socially vulnerable ones, in particular – and to apply this where possible. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 Extending our risk intelligence We address sustainability, emerging, political and regulatory risks in our core business transactions. For this, we have developed specific tools and know-how. SUSTAINABILITY RISKS Risk management is an integral part of us identify and assess all of them. This Swiss Re’s business model and key to allows us to determine the specific risks We define sustainability risks as the controlled risk-taking that underpins we think we should avoid – because ethical concerns related to potential our financial strength. It is embedded of their potential to increase losses, for environmental and socio-economic throughout our business and ensures ethical reasons, or both. impacts of our business transactions, that the Group and the three Business and the reputational risks they may Units have the necessary expertise, entail. frameworks and infrastructure to Our Sustainability Risk support good risk-taking (see 2017 Framework Financial Report, pages 68–69 and 75–91). In a market environment, profitable business activities create economic Sound risk management is essential for value. Occasionally, however, they may a re/insurer. Tight control of our also adversely affect the environment exposures guarantees that we can fulfil and certain vulnerable groups. If such our role in society as ultimate risk-taker impacts are ignored, they may pose a and be a reliable partner to our clients threat to societies’ long-term sustainable when they need us. The core categories development. of our risk landscape comprise insurance risk (property and casualty, life and For companies this situation can create health) as well as financial market and dilemmas. A specific business transaction credit risk. In addition, we consider may be economically beneficial and in it essential for a responsible company compliance with all legal and regulatory to pay attention to further significant requirements, yet may have significant risks we may be exposed to, especially environmental or social downsides. in the longer term. Swiss Re recognises that such dilemmas exist and develops effective responses Sustainability, political, regulatory and through a well-defined approach and emerging risks are particularly relevant by taking decisions based on ethical in this respect. We have developed principles. instruments and know-how that help 28 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Our Sustainability Risk Framework is an Policies and guidelines advanced risk management instrument Our Sustainability Risk Framework is specifically designed to identify and based on the overarching principles of address the potentially negative effects respecting human rights and protecting Mines can potentially have of our transactions on local the environment, encapsulated in two serious consequences on the communities, workforces and the umbrella policies that are valid for all environment and local environment. This framework applies our transactions. In addition, specific communities. A dedicated policy to all of our business transactions in guidelines apply these overarching of our Sustainability Risk re/insurance as well as investments, principles to seven sectors or issues in Framework clearly states when to the extent that we can influence which we perceive major sustainability our underwriters need to carry their various aspects. risks: the defence industry; oil and out due-diligence checks on such risks. gas (including oil sands and hydraulic The Sustainability Risk Framework fracturing); mining; dams; animal testing; consists of: forestry, pulp & paper and oil palm; and ̤̤ Two umbrella policies on human nuclear weapons proliferation. rights and environmental protection plus seven specific guidelines on We regularly review all the policies and sensitive sectors or issues; guidelines of our Sustainability Risk ̤̤ The Sensitive Business Risk (SBR) Framework to ensure they stay abreast process comprising an online of relevant new risk developments and assessment tool and a referral tool – stakeholder expectations (for recent due diligence mechanisms to assess refinements, see page 32). our business transactions; ̤̤ Company exclusions; and ̤̤ Country exclusions beyond mere compliance with international trade controls. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 Extending our risk intelligence The Sensitive Business Risk process OUR MAIN CONCERNS IN KEY SECTORS Each of the two umbrella policies and seven sector guidelines of our Sustainability Risk Framework contains Respecting human rights and protecting the environment criteria and qualitative standards which ̤̤ Human rights violations and abuses such as murder, torture, deprivation define precisely when a transaction of liberty, forced labour or harmful child labour; may present a “sustainability risk”. We ̤̤ Countries that lack an operational, effective and internationally recognised assess such transactions through our government; Sensitive Business Risk (SBR) process, ̤̤ Companies that are causing ongoing, severe and unmitigated damage to which consists of two due diligence the environment, flora and fauna of a particular place and biodiversity in mechanisms – the SBR online general, especially in industries and activities that have had a problematic assessment tool and the SBR referral track record in this area in the past. tool. Defence industry The online tool stores the relevant ̤̤ Particularly cruel weapons that inflict indiscriminate harm to humans and sustainability risk information for these the environment, often after a conflict has ended; sectors and is regularly updated to ̤̤ The provision of certain services by private security companies. reflect new risk developments. It thus provides our underwriters with an Oil and gas efficient means to check the potential ̤̤ Human rights abuses; impact of their transactions on human ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly where rights, labour rights and the environment. critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural heritages For transactions that reveal low to are impacted. medium risks, they need to carry out additional due diligence based on Mining industry and country advice provided ̤̤ Human rights abuses; by the tool. ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly where critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural heritages If the potential human rights or are impacted; environmental risks of a transaction are ̤̤ Poor occupational health & safety record and risk of increasing HIV assessed as high but the responsible penetration. underwriter wants to pursue it, it is automatically transferred through the Dams SBR referral tool to Swiss Re’s in-house ̤̤ Human rights abuses; team of sustainability experts. These ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly where specialists then conduct targeted critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural heritages research to decide whether the (in particular, indigenous people) are impacted; transaction at hand is acceptable on ̤̤ Non-involvement of relevant stakeholders; ethical grounds. ̤̤ Non-involvement of affected neighbouring states. This decision takes the form of a binding Animal testing recommendation either to go ahead ̤̤ Unethical and inhumane treatment of animals. with the transaction, to go ahead with certain conditions attached, or to Forestry, pulp & paper and oil palm abstain. If there is disagreement about ̤̤ Illegal logging; the recommendation, the case can be ̤̤ Uncertified logging and timber/oil palm processing in sensitive regulatory escalated to the next management level environments; and, ultimately, to the Group Chief Risk ̤̤ Greenhouse gas emissions from peatland conversion, timber processing Officer and the Group Executive activities and/or forest clearance using bushfires; Committee. ̤̤ Significant adverse environmental or social impacts, particularly where critical natural habitats, vulnerable groups and/or critical cultural heritages We first introduced the online SBR are impacted. assessment tool midway through 2015 and have continuously fine-tuned it Nuclear weapons proliferation since, gradually strengthening our ̤̤ Activities associated with nuclear energy or similar in countries that are underwriters’ ability to integrate outside the established framework and international regime of global sustainability risk assessment into their non-proliferation efforts. decision-making. This has resulted in a steady decrease of SBR referrals to our in-house sustainability experts, from 454 in 2014 to 178 in 2017. Of those 30 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Sensitive Business Risk referrals 2013 NUMBER OF SENSITIVE SENSITIVE BUSINESS RISKS REFERRED TO OUR EXPERT TEAM IN 2017, BY BUSINESS RISK REFERRALS SECTOR/ISSUE Number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals AND DECISIONS TAKEN Number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals 500 500 36% Oil and gas 23% Mining 400 400 23% Dams 11% Other: human rights 300 300 2% Other: environmental protection 200 2% Defence 200 2% Forestry, pulp & paper and oil palm 100 1% Animal testing 100 0 0 2014 2015* 2016 2017 2014 2015* 2016 2017  Proceed Proceed  Proceed Proceed Proceed with with conditions conditions  Abstain Proceed with conditions Abstain  Not Abstain Notmaterialised materialised Not materialised * Starting in mid-2015, we have refined our SBR process, which has led to a steady decrease in the number of referrals transactions, we issued negative underwriting risks or making recommendations in 29 cases and investments in entities that are based in positive recommendations with these countries. We review the list of conditions attached in 12 cases. excluded countries annually based on independent human rights assessments 178 Company exclusions Our Sustainability Risk Framework policies specify certain criteria that may and update it if warranted. As the Sustainability Risk Framework lead us to exclude a company from both is based on the principles of respecting Sensitive business our re/insurance transactions and our human rights and protecting the transactions referred investments, to the extent that such an environment, the SBR process with exclusion is permissible (eg by virtue of its two due diligence tools, company to our team of mandatory law or internal policies) and exclusions and country exclusions sustainability experts possible (eg if existing documentation are our principal means to ensure relating to such re/insurance transactions compliance with the UN Global (219 in 2016) and investments provide for it). These Compact in our core business. criteria include: involvement in prohibited war material; verifiable complicity in WEBSITE systemic, repeated and severe human You can read more about the international declarations and rights violations; causing repeated, principles underpinning our severe and unmitigated damage to the Sustainability Risk Framework at environment; unregulated proliferation www.swissre.com/library/archive/ of nuclear weapons; and unethical/cruel sustainability_risk_framework_ animal testing practices. sustainable_business_is_good_ business.html Country exclusions Swiss Re also excludes certain countries from its business that have particularly poor human rights records. This step goes further than compliance with international trade controls (ITCs). Our goal is to refrain from directly Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 Extending our risk intelligence Recent refinements to our Sustainability Risk Framework Development of a carbon steering The first part of this carbon steering At the same time, the whole Mekong mechanism and a thermal coal mechanism will take the form of a basin is estimated to have hydropower policy thermal coal policy, to be integrated potential of up to 30 000 megawatts. Swiss Re supports the worldwide in the Sustainability Risk Framework Extensive dam construction in such reduction of greenhouse gas by mid-2018. It will apply across an important ecosystem harbours emissions and contributes to limiting all lines of business on the direct, significant sustainability risks, though, global warming to 1.5–2°C above facultative and treaty sides. This eg resettlement, affected hydrology pre-industrial levels. To this end, we transition will take some time and and fishery regimes, and falling continually review further measures to constructive dialogue with our clients. agricultural productivity in support the transition to a low-carbon downstream areas. economy. Sharpening our dam assessments In 2017, we also undertook research We analysed these and other risks After a range of such measures we to enhance our assessment for both existing and planned dams in have taken over the years in our capabilities for the specific the Mekong basin. The results have product development, risk environmental and human rights enabled us to determine which of management and operations, we challenges potentially encountered in the projects are compliant with the recently started to develop a carbon the Mekong River basin. The Mekong policies of our Sustainability Risk risk steering mechanism that will help is the world’s 12th longest river, Framework and to update our SBR guide our business towards a lowtraversing six Asian countries over assessment tool accordingly. carbon world and assist our clients a distance of 4 350 km. It supports in their transition. the world’s second largest aquatic biodiversity and wild fisheries worth USD 2 billion. As part of our efforts to support the transition to a low-carbon world, we have developed a thermal coal policy, to be implemented in our Sustainability Risk Framework by mid-2018. 32 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Training Detecting and investigating such risks SWISS RE SONAR; Ever since we introduced our early on forms an important part of NEW EMERGING RISK INSIGHTS Sustainability Risk Framework, we our comprehensive approach to risk have made considerable efforts to management. In analysing how risks The Swiss Re SONAR report features raise awareness of sustainability issues are evolving and related to each other, emerging risk themes that have the among our underwriters and client we seek to assess their potential impact potential to impact the re/insurance managers. Through training, we ensure on Swiss Re. This is vital to reduce industry. These topics derive from that they know how to properly apply uncertainty and prevent unforeseen our SONAR process and have been the framework with its underlying losses, raising awareness within assessed by our emerging risk principles of respecting human rights the Group and across the industry. management experts in recent years. and protecting the environment. In media.swissre.com/documents/ recent years, we have focused on high Our SONAR framework SONAR_publication_2017.pdf growth markets where we want to SONAR (“systematic observation of expand our business. notions associated with risk”) is our Group-wide framework specifically In 2016, we developed a new eLearning designed to manage and communicate course for our in-house training. While emerging risks. Firmly embedded in the this continues to be compulsory for all Group’s risk management organisation, our employees who work in underwriting SONAR allows us to identify, assess and with our clients, it is now mandatory and report these risks in a timely manner Swiss Re SONAR New emerging risk insights for all our new entrants, as well. In 2017, and to factor them into our strategic June 2017 a total of 2 388 employees completed business decisions. this mandatory training course. The SONAR process involves several Complementing this eLearning course, steps. The first is an interactive intranet we provided instructor-led training platform which enables our employees personally or via web-based conference to share and discuss risk notions based to approximately 190 experienced on developments in the re/insurance underwriters and graduates. landscape, allowing for bottom-up identification and peer reviews. While EMERGING RISKS many of the risk notions – or “early Emerging risks signals” – flagged on the SONAR will We define emerging risks as newly Re/insurers operate in a rapidly changing never turn into emerging risks, others developing or changing risks that and increasingly complex risk landscape. may well do so. However, as we cannot are difficult to quantify and whose New demographic, economic, anticipate which signals will become potential impact on our business is technological, socio-political, regulatory emerging risks, we scan the horizon not yet sufficiently taken into account. and environmental developments are quite broadly before concentrating on all capable of changing risks or creating those with the highest impact potential new ones. In addition, growing on the re/insurance business. interdependencies between these developments can lead to accumulations Our emerging risk specialists of risk and create significant knock-on periodically cluster and further assess effects. People’s risk perceptions are these risk notions for their potential shifting, liability and regulatory regimes impact on our business. Finally, in-depth continue to evolve and stakeholder investigations are carried out on expectations are growing. selected topics. This complex landscape gives rise to You can learn more about one of these “emerging risks” – newly developing topics – antimicrobial resistance – or changing risks that are difficult to in the case study on page 34. quantify and whose potential impact on our business is not yet sufficiently To share some of our key insights taken into account. on these emerging risks with external audiences, we published the fourth edition of our comprehensive Swiss Re SONAR report in 2017. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Extending our risk intelligence Further activities on emerging risks EMERGING RISKS CASE STUDY: ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE identified in the past The emerging risks we previously examined in more detail and featured in our Corporate Responsibility Reports since 2007 are: 2007: Electromagnetic fields 2008: Critical infrastructure 2009: Carbon nanotubes 2010: Smart grids 2011: Cyber attacks 2012: 3D printing 2013: New forms of mobility 2014: Electronic cigarettes 2015: The Internet of Things 2016: Human-induced earthquakes Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) obstructs the effective treatment of an increasing range of infections. Most prominent among these are bacterial Since we first identified these emerging infections, which are treated by antibiotics. risks, we have followed up on several of them together with our stakeholders. Inappropriate, ie excessive and/or wrong use of antibiotics is prevalent in Recent examples include the following: human medicine and features prominently in animal farming, too. In fact, the proliferation of antimicrobials in the production of livestock and in aquaculture References to further activities is a key factor in the spread of global AMR. Overuse of antimicrobial drugs favours the selection of resistant strains, thus accelerating the emergence Cyber attacks and spread of AMR. Improving the measurement of digital security incidents and risk management The global increase of meat consumption and the shift in high growth markets institute.swissre.com/events/ from extensive to more intensive livestock husbandry and aquafarming is Measurement_digital_security_ amplifying this development. incidents.html While some countries have initiated restrictions and regulations, others remain Expert Forum on Cyber Risk: reluctant to take effective action. Furthermore, the surveillance and monitoring Reducing vulnerability to attack of antimicrobial resistance varies significantly between different regions and institute.swissre.com/events/ is insufficient from a global perspective. Expert_Forum_Cyber_Risk_2016. html As a result, a comprehensive and coordinated response to this emerging risk is currently lacking. This is needed, though, as antimicrobial resistance “Financing resilient energy represents a typical “commons” or “public good” problem: a resource open infrastructure – managing cyber risks” to all risks to be overused by particular parties, with detrimental effects www.swissre.com/library/ for everyone. Seen from a re/insurance perspective, it could, for example, partner-publication/world_ exacerbate the impacts of a pandemic by further increasing mortality rates. energy_perspective_the_road_to_ resilience_financing_resilient_ We have covered aspects of antimicrobial resistance repeatedly in energy_infrastructure.html our recent publications. The 2015 SONAR report put the spotlight on the interconnections between regulatory issues, the development of new Smart grids / The Internet of Things antibiotics and human health effects. The 2017 edition highlights the issue Risk approach to electricity grid with a particular focus on animal farming. storage innovations, institute.swissre.com/events/ Risk_approach_to_grid_storage_ innovations.html Risk talk on smart homes institute.swissre.com/events/ Risk_Talk_on_smart_homes.html 34 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Strategic risk initiatives umbrella guidelines and policies of our The second area of activity revolves Identifying and addressing emerging Sustainability Risk Framework (see around efforts to reduce capital risks can be challenging. Their novelty pages 28–32) have a significant political requirements for ESG and long-term and interconnectedness makes it dimension. Implementing these policies, investments. This is mainly promoted by difficult to determine when a particular both through SBR assessments and the re/insurance industry as a way to risk notion must be considered an exclusion policies, thus requires a solid facilitate its role as a long-term investor. emerging risk. Timing is of crucial grasp of political risks. This is particularly Especially in the EU, regulators are importance. If measures to exclude true with regard to human rights sympathetic to these arguments as a particular risk are taken too early, violations, the proliferation of armaments they see them as a way to meet the we may not be able to offer our clients in conflict areas and the identification commitments made as part of the insurance protection; if measures of areas prone to civil unrest. Paris Agreement on climate change. are taken too late, we may end up with increased loss potential. Furthermore, we seek to raise Recently, we have participated in the awareness of political risk within the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force Given these challenges, we believe it re/insurance industry and among the on Climate-related Financial Disclosures is essential to foster risk dialogue with broader public, and engage in dialogue (FSB-TCFD, www.fsb-tcfd.org). Starting various partners. By sharing perceptions with our clients and other stakeholders. from the premise that climate change and assessments, all parties can gain We also distil our ongoing assessments creates physical, liability and transition a better understanding of potential of political risks into country ratings risks, the initiative’s goal has been emerging risks. which support our risk control to develop a set of voluntary financial frameworks. disclosures that allow stakeholders to  EBSITE W properly assess the climate risks faced You can read about our most important by companies and to take appropriate strategic initiatives concerning Regulatory risks action. emerging risks at www.swissre.com/ rethinking/emerging_risks/ Swiss Re is strongly engaged in the strategic_risk_initiatives.html regulatory debate, striving to mitigate The FSB-TCFD’s final recommendations potentially negative impacts while report was published in December 2016 supporting reforms that could enhance and has received broad public support, the overall health of the sector, facilitate with more than 100 business leaders Political risks convergence of regulatory standards and their companies committing to or generate business opportunities. support the recommendations. Swiss Re In today’s increasingly integrated world, supports the work of the task force and political risks are key determinants CONTENT IN THE has been one of its members since its of the business landscape. We need 2017 FINANCIAL REPORT launch. We started to integrate the to be aware of any relevant political You can find information about our recommended disclosures in the 2016 developments, actions and decisions engagement in the general regulatory debate in the “Risk and capital Financial Report and have significantly that may affect our business. Within management” chapter, pages 88–89. expanded our disclosures in the 2017 our risk management organisation, we edition. have a team of specialists who look at a wide range of political risks at global, CONTENT IN THE country and business transaction levels. Climate risk and sustainability 2017 FINANCIAL REPORT Reflecting our commitment to enabling You can view our Climate-related Financial These specialists identify, assess and sustainable progress, we closely monitor Disclosures in the “Corporate responsibility” monitor political risks on an ongoing regulatory developments in connection chapter, pages, 138–151. basis, so the Group understands their with climate change and sustainability implications and can initiate appropriate and contribute to selected initiatives. mitigation measures if required. These issues are gaining traction among We also provided input to the European Covering both developed and high policy makers, regulators and standardCommission’s High Level Panel on growth markets, they pay attention setters. Decarbonisation Pathways, a group of to domestic risks such as political nine renowned climate experts instability, terrorism or social unrest as At present, two main areas of activity established in late 2016. The task of this well as cross-border issues, for example can be identified. The first concerns panel is to support cost-effective climate international trade, energy and armed a shift from voluntary to mandatory action towards a low-carbon future by conflicts. disclosure of environmental, social and delivering science-based, policy-relevant governance (ESG) information, eg advice, thus helping to implement the Our understanding of political risks carbon and climate, diversity and human Paris Agreement in the European Union. is also highly relevant to ensuring rights. These efforts seek to create Our input focused on such aspects as sustainable business operations in more transparency about how ESG data sharing on weather extremes and line with ESG principles. Several of issues affect organisations’ businesses, variability, research on the economics the sectors and issues covered by the strategy and financial planning. of climate adaptation, transparency on contingent liabilities and facilitating viable infrastructure investments. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 Being a responsible investor We integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria across our investment portfolio. Our approach is based on the three strategic pillars Enhancement, Inclusion and Exclusion. “We make the world more resilient” Responsible investment approach is Swiss Re’s vision. About ten years The cornerstone of our investment ago, our Asset Management unit philosophy continues to be asset-liability embarked on a journey to not only invest management (ALM). To meet future claims the premiums we receive from our and benefits, we invest the premiums underwriting business to generate riskgenerated by our underwriting activities adjusted, stable long-term returns, but in assets whose cash flows match to also consider environmental, social the durations and currencies of our and governance (ESG) aspects in our re/insurance liabilities. Therefore, we investment decisions. With this approach, generally invest more in higher-quality our Asset Management has contributed fixed income securities with stable to the Group’s vision. long-term returns. At the end of 2017, such investments accounted for 80% In 2017, we reached a key milestone of our total assets under management1 on this journey. As one of the first (see graph on page 38). re/insurance companies, we integrated ESG benchmarks into our investment We are convinced that including ESG portfolio, which is a significant step criteria into the investment process makes forward from considering ESG as an economic sense, especially for long-term “add-on” approach. We are convinced investors, because it improves risk/return that taking ESG criteria into account has profiles and hence reduces downside risks. a positive impact on the performance of our investment portfolio in the long term. We consistently integrate ESG considerations along the three pillars Enhancement, Inclusion and Exclusion, of which Enhancement is strategically the most meaningful pillar for Swiss Re. 1 A sset classes considered are government bonds, credit, and mortgages and other loans. 36 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Enhancement Executing our shareholder rights is This pillar refers to the systematic another part of Swiss Re’s commitment integration of ESG criteria along the to being a responsible investor. To reflect investment process, from portfolio this pledge in our voting behaviour, “Inclusion” is one of the three pillars definition to monitoring and reporting. we have defined principles in our Asset of our responsible investment approach: As part of our active risk management, Management Voting Policy. See: by making thematic investments in we announced in 2017 that we www.swissre.com/about_us/about_ renewable infrastructure and green bonds, had switched to ESG benchmarks. our_business/asset_management/ we seek to support the transition to a Responsible_Investments__Shaping_ low-carbon economy. These have been adopted in our the_future_of_investing.html investment mandates and consist of better-rated companies from an ESG Inclusion perspective. This allows us to have both Thematic investments are an ideal the right measurement and appropriate approach to tackle specific sustainability incentives for our portfolio managers in topics. We mainly target investments place. If benchmarks are not applicable, that contribute to a low carbon a minimum ESG rating rule is applied economy. to our mandates. For actively managed mandates, external managers have An effective way to do this is by limited leeway to invest into securities investing in infrastructure renewables they deem to have a positive ESG trend and green bonds. As the latter is more but are not included in the benchmark yet. of a concept than a specific investment class, we use the Green Bond Principles (GBP) from ICMA as guiding principles for our investments. We are well advanced in meeting our publicly committed investment target for green bonds of at least USD 1.5bn. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 Being a responsible investor OVERALL INVESTMENT In our 2017 Financial Report, we further Swiss Re’s Head Responsible Investing PORTFOLIO disclose information on our climate (Head RI) develops and coordinates change-related investment risk exposure the implementation of the ESG strategy USD 131.7 bn, as of (pages 138–151). within the unit. As part of this role, the 31 December 2017 Head RI steers the ESG Advisory Board, Exclusion a committee formed by representatives We apply a number of pre-defined of all investment units, as well as Legal, criteria and qualitative standards that Compliance and Group Risk Management. may lead to the exclusion of a company The ESG Advisory Board reports on or a country from our investment scope responsible investment activities in if they do not meet these criteria and the various investment units, develops qualitative standards. and reviews improvement ideas, shares knowledge and monitors implementation Swiss Re’s Group Sustainability Risk progress. 4 % Cash and cash equivalents team develops and updates the Group4 % Short-term investments wide exclusion lists of countries and The Asset Management Investment companies based on the Sustainability Committee reviews and discusses 41% Government bonds Risk Framework. Further information Swiss Re’s responsible investment 36% Credit is available at: approach and advises the Group Chief 5% Equities1 media.swissre.com/documents/ Investment Officer on related decisions Sustainability_Risk_Framework_ and improvements. 3% Mortgages and other loans Brochure_en.pdf 7% Other investments The overall responsibility for our ESG incl. policy loans In order to mitigate the risk of stranded approach lies with the Group Chief assets in light of an accelerating Investment Officer who signs off * Includes equity securities, private equity and Principal Investments transition to a low-carbon economy, we investment decisions within the Group’s avoid investments in companies that Strategic Asset Allocation. generate 30% or more of their revenues OUR VOTING ACTIVITIES IN 2017 from thermal coal mining or that use Our voting activities in 2017 at least 30% thermal coal for power How we engage generation. Voting We believe that ESG considerations, Responsible investment especially good corporate governance governance framework and transparency towards shareholders, are key drivers for sustainable value Our Asset Management runs under creation. We recognise our shareholder a well-defined framework. Strong rights and responsibilities as an integral governance is key to bringing ESG part of our commitment to responsible considerations into the investment investment. We review our constitutive process in a structured and controlled voting principles periodically to  98% Votes cast way. Our approach to responsible keep them aligned with best practice.  2% No votes cast investment is based on clear principles, procedures and responsibilities. In the case of internally managed OUR VOTING BEHAVIOUR IN 2017 equities, we make use of our influence Our voting behaviour in 2017 The Swiss Re Responsible Investing as a responsible shareholder by directly Policy defines our approach to exercising our voting rights. For the responsible investing, specifies roles externally managed portfolios, we work and responsibilities in the organisation, with the relevant portfolio managers implementation and monitoring of to execute our proxy votes and related ESG criteria in the Group’s investment engagement activities. portfolio. The policy is reviewed periodically and updated if required. It is complemented by the Swiss Re Asset Management  91% Voted with management Voting Policy, which provides guiding  6% Voted against management principles that apply to all our voting  3% Abstained activities. 38 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report PUBLICATION: RESPONSIBLE We review the voting policies of external To provide further insights on our switch INVESTMENTS managers during the due diligence to ESG benchmarks, we launched the process to confirm compliance with our publication “Responsible investments – policy. In addition, external managers Shaping the future of investing” are required to report on voting activities in 2017. It shares our experience and conducted on Swiss Re’s behalf. methodologies relating to further promoting the development of best In 2017, we exercised 98% of our voting practice frameworks (see box on the left). Responsible investments rights of our listed equity portfolio.2 We Shaping the future of investing voted on 4 923 voting items through our Swiss Re first formalised its commitment external managers. We voted in line with to responsible investing in 2007 by the respective management resolution signing the UN Principles for Responsible recommendation in 4 504 cases (91%) Investment (PRI). In 2012, we signed and against it in 295 cases (6%). In 124 the Principles for Sustainable Insurance cases (3%), we abstained from voting. (PSI), a further step to formally endorse our commitment to corporate In addition to shares in listed companies, responsibility. Both the PRI and PSI Because of their long-term view, investments in our equity portfolio are taken into account within our institutional investors such as include equity exchange-traded-funds comprehensive responsible investment re/insurers are naturally suited to (ETFs). The fund managers cast votes framework. All PRI signatories are focus on responsible investing. There on these ETFs for all investors in required to provide in-depth reporting are still various hurdles on the way accordance with the fund managers’ on their responsible investment towards a broadly accepted, standard own voting policies and processes. activities. For the second time in a approach to integrating ESG into row, we received the highest score the investment process. Close Promoting responsible investing for our overarching (“Strategy and collaboration between the private Shifting the large institutional asset base Governance”) approach to responsible and public sectors would help to towards sustainable investments would investing in 2017. The reports are overcome these obstacles and mark a big step forward in making the available on the PRI website at contribute to a more resilient world. world more resilient. Swiss Re’s brand www.unpri.org/signatory-directory/ promise “We’re smarter together” is also media.swissre.com/documents/ZRHapplicable to responsible investing: Our consistent integration of ESG criteria 17-11623-P1_Responsible%20 We interact with policymakers and other resulted in an award in the category Investments_WEB.PDF market participants to promote ESG “Best ESG Programme” at the 2017 considerations in the investment Institutional Investor Swiss, German & process, for example with a keynote Austrian Peer-to-Peer Awards. speech held by our Group CIO at the CFA/PRI event in New York in late 2017. We also became a member of the ICMA Green Bond Principles in 2017. This As an active member of the OECD’s reflects our view that the industry needs long-term investor network, we also a more standardised responsible engage in the development of policy investing market environment with agreed proposals with regard to sustainable definitions, standards, methodologies infrastructure and ESG. and best practices to move the long-term investor base further towards Knowledge sharing is another key systematic ESG integration. aspect of promoting responsible investments. We offer all Asset Management employees various internal ESG training opportunities to ensure consistent know-how across the board. Furthermore, we are in an ongoing dialogue with other industry participants to develop ESG as a standard investment approach. 2 We vote in all countries, with the exception of a few where voting process and regulatory obligations require a high level of administrative coordination. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape We engage in regular dialogue with our stakeholders. By sharing expertise and know-how, we help society develop effective responses to key risks. Our re/insurance solutions help our Our Top Topics clients and partners to cope with the Combining insights from our internal risks they face. This in turn helps create risk expertise and from our stakeholders, stability and enables economic growth. we identify topics that are strategically But many of today’s risks are complex important to us, our clients and society and may threaten sustainable progress. at large. These Top Topics denote the To find effective, long-term responses to global challenges we want to help such risks, partners from the public and address and form an important focus the private sector need to work together. for our global stakeholder dialogue. This is why we attach great importance Swiss Re’s Reputation Management to ongoing dialogue with our Committee coordinates the content of stakeholders. Drawing on the expertise this stakeholder dialogue across all our from our core business, we identify key Business Units, functions and regions risk topics and take an active role in in order to optimise its effectiveness. discussions about them. We share and The Committee comprises exchange knowledge through many representatives from across the Group, channels, eg our renowned publications ie our three Business Units, Investor including the sigma series, international Relations, Group Risk Management, dialogue platforms, events hosted Group Communications and – since at the Centre for Global Dialogue and 1 March 2017 – the Swiss Re Institute. cooperation with governments and academic institutions. This exchange We have focused on five Top Topics for gives us valuable feedback and a number of years: new insights for risk management and ̤̤ Advancing sustainable energy product development. Since its solutions establishment on 1 March 2017, the ̤̤ Funding longer lives Swiss Re Institute plays a key role in our ̤̤ Managing climate and natural disaster stakeholder dialogue (see page 47). risk ̤̤ Partnering for food security ̤̤ Supporting financial resilience 40 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report “Partnering for food security” has been one of our Top Topics for many years. As part of our recent dialogue activities, we devoted an issue of our agro insurance hotspot series to Bolivia, where one in three of the working population is employed in agriculture. In 2017, we continued to work on these 2017 was no exception: the year saw Top Topics with many partners from a record number of renewable energy the public and private sectors. In the installations, falling costs of renewable following sections we introduce each energy sources and, in more instances, topic, explain why we consider it to a successful de-coupling of economic be important and give examples of our growth and emissions. But as sustainable activities. energy projects continue to broaden in scale and complexity, so do their Advancing sustainable energy attendant risks. solutions Cutting back greenhouse gas emissions Innovative risk transfer solutions help while meeting the energy needs of a attract investment in the sector by growing population remains one of the reducing risk to investors. Building on biggest challenges of our times. In our long-standing commitment to recent years, there have been signs that sustainability, we have intensified our the transition towards a low-carbon renewable energy research and future is gathering pace. established key partnerships to help our clients – and indeed the wider global community – develop and secure the energy supplies of the future. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 41 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Our notable achievements in 2017: For re/insurers, ageing still bears ̤̤ We initiated a new phase in our substantial uncertainties connected successful partnership with the to underwriting the right risks, pricing World Energy Council them adequately or managing claims (www.worldenergy.org) and effectively. Reducing these uncertainties Marsh & McLennan Companies could give Swiss Re access to new risk (www.mmc.com) on the topic of pools and provide new ways to set apart “financing resilient energy the solutions we can bring to clients. infrastructure”. Building on the three Advanced technology is also opening reports published in 2016, we started new ways to improve the health and to develop a series of real-life case lives of seniors. Insurers who can studies shedding light on the risks successfully tap into this will have more faced by the energy industry from opportunities to develop creative, extreme weather and cyber threats; successful solutions. ̤̤ Following completion of our new two-megawatt solar power plant at Today, the financial services industry has Swiss Re Americas’ headquarters in many products that help people address Armonk, New York, former US risk in the “accumulation” phase of life, President Bill Clinton and Eric Smith, but better solutions are needed to help President and CEO of Swiss Re smooth uncertainties in the Americas, inaugurated the facility, one “decumulation” phase – this is the space of the region’s largest, in a high-profile where we want to help create new public ceremony addressing a range opportunities. of stakeholders; ̤̤ Under the title “The value of hedging: Our notable achievements in 2017: New approaches to managing wind ̤̤ As part of a major campaign launched energy resource risk”, we launched a in 2017, we first published “Who pays seminal new study with partners from for ageing?”, a report that looks at the the European wind industry that looks ageing wallet to identify where the into the potential impact on energy money comes from today and where companies of hedging the cash flow the opportunities are for insurers to volatility associated with wind help (see special section on page 43); production. ̤̤ We followed this with a second report, “Who are the ageing?”. Based Funding longer lives on interviews with more than 9 000 Global ageing is going to change socioconsumers, it analyses what economic structures and expectations consumers really want, thus laying as people work longer, face greater risks the groundwork for solutions that are of disease and require more care. How more relevant and more likely to be we identify and address the very diverse purchased; needs of the elderly is a key concern for ̤̤ We shared this research and citizens, governments and the financial advanced the topic around the globe sector. This is especially true as the share via social media, keynote of the working population continues presentations at client events, to shrink in proportion to the ageing participation in regional campaigns population and more of the financial and numerous media interviews, for responsibility shifts from public to example in The Economist. private balance sheets. 42 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Who pays for ageing? Who are the ageing? Insurers who truly understand ageing consumers‘ needs will be the ones to create winning solutions for this very diverse population. Swiss Re conducted new consumer research and discovered insights that offer a fresh perspective on the traditional products focus and approach to segmentation. To get started on developing propositions that are more relevant for today‘s ageing consumers, turn the page. Consumer segments built Need types are consistent Winning solutions can on needs help develop and across countries, yet specific combine financial and nondistribute solutions that are to the local context and financial benefits with high relevant and focused sources of funding levels of trust and simplicity Our campaign on funding the needs of ageing consumers included the two reports “Who pays for ageing” and “Who are the ageing” … Who pays for ageing? Ageing wallet Germany How the older population's needs are funded and where opportunity for insurers exists A culture strong on society's contribution What is the ageing wallet? What is the ageing wallet? THE ANNUAL AMOUNT SPENT TO FUND THE LIVES OF PEOPLE OVER AGE 65, ACROSS 3 MAJOR SOURCES THE ANNUAL AMOUNT SPENT TO FUND THE LIVES OF PEOPLE OVER AGE 65, ACROSS 3 MAJOR SOURCES State Family State Family Money to fund Money to fund + + = Ageing wallet income, health care, social care and inheritance for + + = Ageing wallet income, health care, social care and inheritance for people over age 65 people over age 65 Society Savings Insurance Society Savings Insurance How much does it cost to support a senior? How much does it cost to support a German senior? TOTAL ANNUAL SPEND AVERAGE ANNUAL SPEND AVERAGE ANNUAL SPEND PER PERSON OVER AGE 65 BY COUNTRY IN USD $ 66k $ 49k $ 48k USD $ 44k 41k USD $ 38k $15k 0.9 tn 48k USD In the developed world FOR EVERYONE OVER AGE 65 PER PERSON OVER AGE 65 & China USA Japan Germany Australia UK China Who pays for the ageing? Where does the money come from? TOTAL ANNUAL SPEND FOR EVERYONE OVER AGE 65 IN USD 2% Insurance See the opportunity for 11% Savings Insurance 5% insurers to do more? Savings 25% 11tn Society 10 % 16 % Society Family USD Family In the developed world Today society bears the largest share, 71 % Society State Society 60 % & China State but that is in decline Key facts How do the costs vary by market? TOTAL ANNUAL SPEND FOR EVERYONE OVER AGE 65 IN USD TRILLION $ 3.1 $ 3.8 $1.6 SOCIETY SAVINGS MARKET LONG-TERM CARE INSURANCE $ 0.9 $ 0.8 $ 0.4 $ 0.2 Largest dependence on Employee savings plans Insurance growth could Social long-term care system Insurance has society at are growing exist through enhancing is further supported by a fractional share public system the family Rest of the 87% share USA Japan Germany China UK Australia developed world All figures in purchasing power parity (PPP) USD per annum, 2015 Source: Swiss Re, 2017 All figures in purchasing power parity (PPP) USD per annum, 2015 Source: Swiss Re, 2017 … as well as fact sheets analysing the current funding situation in six major markets. Funding the needs of ageing consumers: what re/insurers can do to help As part of our Top Topic of “funding Growing life expectancy, increasing We have presented our research in longer lives”, we recently launched a health and care needs combined with two reports and eight fact sheets, major strategic initiative focusing on declining state support will make it and have conducted a comprehensive how re/insurers can help ensure our difficult for current funding systems media campaign around them. ageing populations are financially to meet the needs of seniors in future. protected. Our “ageing wallet” analysis Thus, there is a growing role and Following up on our research, we have looks at the different funding sources opportunity for the re/insurance tested a number of prototype solutions for income, health, care and inheritance industry to develop solutions offering with consumers and are now looking of people aged over 65 in six major financial protection to senior citizens. for opportunities to develop marketable markets (Australia, China, Germany, solutions together with our clients, Japan, UK and US). However, we emphasise that it is leveraging our in-depth understanding not enough for re/insurers to merely of ageing consumers. The analysis shows that, currently, compete for market share with re/insurance contributes only 5% existing funding sources. In order to the global ageing wallet of to develop affordable, accessible USD 11 trillion. In all these markets, solutions people want to buy, it is state funding remains the key funding necessary to develop a good source, although there are significant understanding of the various pathways national differences. to older age and the many different needs individuals have on that journey. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Managing climate and natural In the future, these negative effects will disaster risk become even more severe. We expect Losses from floods, storms, earthquakes, extreme weather events like hurricanes wildfires and other natural disasters can and floods to increase as a result of have a dramatic impact on the citizens climate change. Moreover, higher Storm surges are a key source of and economies of entire countries. concentrations of assets in exposed destruction unleashed by tropical cyclones, yet information on Insurance helps people, businesses and areas will also result in higher losses, this risk has been limited so far. societies get back on their feet after in particular in the world’s rapidly Our Global Storm Surge Zones disaster strikes. growing cities. tool closes this gap, helping our clients address the storm surge In 2017, the hurricanes in the Caribbean By financing measures to mitigate risks they may face. and the US, the typhoons in Australia disaster risks and adapt to climate and Asia, winter storms and flooding change, we can strengthen the in Europe, wildfires in California and resilience of citizens, businesses, local Europe, and two earthquakes in and national economies and societies. Mexico proved the point again. Total As insurance puts a price tag on risk, economic losses from natural and it helps create incentives to invest in man-made catastrophes were more prevention measures. than USD 337 billion for the full year. Insurance payouts helped many to Understanding natural catastrophe restore their lives, but even more were risks and how they develop is critical to left with nothing once they could return cost our business accurately and to to what was their home. This shows that structure sound risk transfer solutions. there remains a large need to reduce the By sharing this knowledge, we can help negative effects of natural disasters – our partners to identify cost-effective let alone to assure the funds needed to protection measures. In addition, we rebuild affected communities after provide solutions to cover the residual an event. risk that cannot be avoided. 44 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Our notable achievements in 2017: access to credit so they can buy tools, be an important step forward, while ̤̤ Storm surges triggered by tropical seeds and fertilizer. Lending will remain infrastructure debt as a tradable asset cyclones are a main force of restricted, however, if banks fear that class would make this more attractive destruction. In 2017, we released farmers are unable to pay back their for long-term investors. our Global Storm Surge Zones, the loans in the event of a lost harvest due industry’s first service that helps to flood, drought or other disasters. Here, Swiss Re is striving to influence these stakeholders plan for these events. insurance can play the same role in the developments by actively participating It is accessible via our CatNet® tool developing world as it already does in in and contributing to the global and at www.swissre.com/catnet; developed countries: protecting farmers local financial reform dialogue. Ultimately, ̤̤ Our Economics of Climate Adaption against the perils of nature to keep them we want to ensure that long-term (ECA) studies help decision makers in business, even if disaster strikes. investors can act – not only think – on determine cost-effective measures a long-term horizon to achieve greater that protect their communities against Our notable achievements in 2017: financial resilience. climate risks. In 2017, we launched a ̤̤ We launched opti-crop, an app that partner publication on the ECA study enables farmers to track their fields in Our notable achievements in 2017: we had carried out for the city of real time using high resolution satellite ̤̤ We continued to take an active role Barisal in Bangladesh. For residual data. The increased transparency in the debate on the consequences risk we developed rainX, an index helps speed up the insurance uptake of financial repression for savers and insurance tool covering heavy or lack and supports the development of long-term investors as well as the of rain (see page 24); affordable insurance products; broader implications for financial ̤̤ Through the Swiss Re Institute, we ̤̤ We continued to provide data and resilience; held our 2017 sigma event on information about agricultural ̤̤ We published a short video on the “Catastrophes – Protecting the insurance through our fact sheet importance of resilient energy uninsured. Solutions for a resilient series, with new issues on Bolivia and infrastructure and the need for an world” (see page 47). It focused on Pakistan. We also launched a new appropriate framework that enables what the re/insurance industry can series for Central America and the long-term investors to provide do to help close the protection gap Caribbean that shows how agriculture capital for infrastructure projects; by creating solutions tailored to can become more resilient in a region ̤̤ Our joint research project with the customers’ needs. hit by hurricanes in 2017; London School of Economics and ̤̤ Numerous stakeholders assembled Political Science (www.lse.ac.uk) on Partnering for food security at our agricultural conferences in long-term investing and monetary About 800 million people – one in 11 – Merida, Mexico and Kunming, China policy continued. are chronically hungry and malnourished to discuss how farmers’ open roof on the planet today. By 2050, the business can be made more resilient world’s population is expected to grow against natural perils. Dialogue on further Corporate to an estimated 9 billion people, which Responsibility Topics will further aggravate the situation. Supporting financial resilience Meeting this increasing demand for food Re/insurance supports financial In 2017, we also engaged with our will be particularly challenging, because resilience by acting as a shock absorber stakeholders on further Corporate supply is constrained by factors such and promoting growth through its Responsibility Topics: as climate change effects, depleted core businesses. This is particularly agricultural soils and the distribution of important in a challenging and volatile Managing sustainability risks land, water and energy. macroeconomic environment. As part of our efforts to manage sustainability risks, we regularly engage Small-scale subsistence farmers who However, unconventional monetary with clients and industry partners to feed their families and sell a small policies implemented by central banks help promote best practices within the surplus at local markets still provide food following the financial crisis of 2008 – re/insurance industry. to the majority of people on the globe. 2009 present a challenge for our Recently, the urban population exceeded industry. These policies have contributed In 2017, our team of sustainability the rural one for the first time ever. to an environment that is not conducive experts decided in 12 Sensitive Business This means that cities are becoming to sustainable economic growth. Risk assessments to proceed with increasingly dependent on the remaining conditions (see page 31). In most cases, farmers for their food. As long-term investors, re/insurers these conditions required the particular could play a pivotal role in bridging the underwriter to engage with the client The surplus that subsistence farmers emerging infrastructure financing gap, on specific questions about human currently produce will not be enough which, in turn, would contribute to a rights issues or environmental protection, to feed growing urban populations. healthier economic environment. But in line with the requirements of the Smallholder farmers need to make the for that to happen, the right framework Ruggie Framework. In addition, transition to commercial agriculture needs to be put in place. Standardisation we engaged with strategic clients that to feed the world. For this, they need of infrastructure investments would have a comparatively low sustainability Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Insurance (PSI) introduced in 2012 by Navigating the digital transformation SIGMA STUDY: ADVANCING the UN Environment Programme The digital transformation has the ACCESS TO INSURANCE Finance Initiative, UN EPFI potential to radically transform the (www.unepfi.org/psi). We were one re/insurance sector. The huge growth No 4 /2017 of the initiative’s original signatories in the range and volume of electronic and currently act as one of its board data from various devices makes members. (Our Public Disclosure of it possible to personalise insurance Progress for 2017 is included online.) policies to a greater extent and to cover previously excluded risks. At the We also continued our involvement in same time, Big Data raises questions the Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) concerning data protection and association (www.sustainablefinance.ch), solidarity. The digital transformation is a as one of its board members. With over research focus of the Swiss Re Institute Insurance: adding 90 members from the private and public (institute.swissre.com/campaigns/ 01 Executive summary 02 Introduction value to development 05 How insurance in emerging markets contributes to sector, SSF aims to strengthen digital_transformation_campaign.html) development 15 Barriers to insurance: an evidence-based approach 20 Insurance through new and alternative means 26 Developments in select Switzerland’s position in the global and one of Swiss Re’s Corporate marketplace for sustainable finance. Responsibility Topics. markets and regions 35 Conclusion media.swissre.com/documents/ Advancing access to insurance Among our activities to navigate the sigma4_2017_en.pdf “Advancing access to insurance” is a potential and the risks of the digital Corporate Responsibility Topic we newly transformation, we contributed to a established in 2016. While many of our research project on “dealing with ethical innovative solutions target underinsured and legal big data challenges in the communities and risks (see examples insurance industry”, conducted by on pages 20–24), it is a fact that 60% of researchers at the University of Zurich performance. This open dialogue the world’s population remain excluded and the University of Applied Sciences allowed us to explain our own positions from appropriate insurance products. HTW Chur. The project receives funding on human rights and environmental This is why we seek to advance public from Switzerland’s National Research protection, and draw attention to specific awareness of the societal value of Programme 75 on “Big Data” practices we consider problematic. insurance and the role insurance plays (www.nfp75.ch/en/projects/module-2in achieving sustainable economic societal-and-regulatory-challenges). To support our dialogue with clients and development. industry partners about sustainability The project analyses how re/insurers, risks, we updated and expanded our In 2017, an issue of our sigma in particular, are affected by the ethical publication on the Sustainability publication series (4/2017) took a and legal challenges arising from the Risk Framework in 2016. During the detailed look at “Insurance: adding value digital transformation and can address reporting year, we had exchanges to development in emerging markets”. them. Furthermore, it examines whether on this topic with a number of global The publication first presents the legislation and regulations are fit to re/insurance companies as well as empirical evidence on the positive link address them, and aims to propose a Big corporate clients. Frequently, they between insurance and economic Data handling standard for the sector. approached us with questions about development and then describes the the SBR assessment tool and our existing barriers for insurance solutions, We also contributed to the publication internal due diligence process. Further emphasising that emerging markets “Big Data & Privacy: unlocking value discussion topics were sustainability are heterogeneous and present different for consumers” published by the risk management in general and climate supplyand demand-side barriers. CRO Forum (www.thecroforum.org). change strategy, including the “ClimateThe publication looks at some of the related Financial Disclosures” of the The publication argues that a better potential challenges that may arise from Financial Stability Board (FSB), which understanding of these barriers is key using Big Data to improve insurance we have helped develop as a member to developing effective new approaches. protection while ensuring data privacy of the FSB’s respective task force In particular, greater availability of and protection – in particular, in the (www.fsb-tcfd.org). data about insureds makes it easier to context of the EU General Data Protection recognise their actual behaviour and Regulation (GDPR), to be implemented CONTENT IN THE 2017 FINANCIAL REPORT needs. In combination with innovation, in May 2018. You can view our Climate-related technological progress and new Financial Disclosures in the “Corporate approaches, such as microinsurance For Swiss Re’s in-house data protection responsibility” chapter, pages 138–151. schemes and public-private partnerships, policies and standards, please refer this enables the creation of products to the “Code of Conduct” section on suitable to local conditions. Selected page 73. On an industry-wide basis, we have case studies from around the world played a major role in establishing and illustrate how insurers, policy-makers advancing the Principles for Sustainable etc. can work together to achieve this. 46 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report The Swiss Re Institute SELECTED CONFERENCES OF 2017 SELECTED PUBLICATIONS OF 2017 Swiss Re has long been recognised 13th CRO Assembly: Our Changing Moving on dangerous grounds – as a knowledge leader within the Risk Landscape wind power and earthquake re/insurance industry. We are convinced institute.swissre.com/ exposures in China that a better understanding of the risks events/13th_CRO_Assembly_ swissre.com/library/expertisewe all face supports the Group’s vision changing_risk_landscape.html publication/moving_on_ of making the world more resilient. dangerous_grounds.html It was in this spirit that we launched the Swiss Re Institute in March 2017. The Institute functions on three levels. It builds and manages partnerships with Moving on dangerous grounds – wind power and earthquake exposures in China world-class academic and research Harnessing the power of wind to drive our economies is a booming industry. From 2013 to 2015, installed capacity globally grew 25%, and projections for 2030 nearly quadruple this capacity again. But many of the areas where wind institutions (find out more on page 48), farms will be built are exposed to earthquakes. How can we build reliable energy supplies on such dangerous grounds? guides Swiss Re’s internal capital allocation and business steering processes, and provides our stakeholders with cutting-edge risk research. sigma event 2017: Catastrophes The Swiss Re Institute incorporates – Protecting the uninsured. successful Swiss Re brands, such as the Solutions for a resilient world sigma 2/2017: Natural sigma publication series and the Centre institute.swissre.com/events/ catastrophes and man-made for Global Dialogue. The Institute further Sigma_Event_2017.html disasters in 2016: acts as a coordination point for research a year of widespread damage output from research-focused business institute.swissre.com/research/ lines within Swiss Re and from external overview/sigma/2_2017.html partners. Lastly, the Institute seeks opportunities to collect and curate No 2 /2017 novel data, as well as cultivate new data-analytic and machine-intelligence solutions. Based on these activities, the Swiss Re Institute also supports Swiss Re’s commitment to corporate responsibility. Swiss Re Institute Symposia Natural catastrophes and 01 Executive summary We help highlight emerging risk trends, 02 Catastrophes in 2016: man-made disasters in 2016: global overview a year of widespread damages 06 Regional overview (EMEA) – The impact of 13 Floods in the US – an underinsured risk engage in dialogue with clients and 18 Tables for reporting year 2016 40 Terms and selection technology on the risk and criteria stakeholders, provide capacity building insurance landscape sessions and seminars to governments institute.swissre.com/events/ The health insurance frontier and subnational governments in Swiss_Re_Institute_Symposium_ in India different parts of the world and seek EMEA.html institute.swissre.com/research/ to identify sustainable risk solutions. library/The_health_insurance_ Highlights among our many conferences frontier_in_India.html and publications of 2017 include: W  EBSITE You can find more information at institute.swissre.com Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Our work with (inter-)governmental ̤̤ We have regularly contributed to Collaboration with (inter-) agencies to share risk management platforms such as the World governmental and academic expertise Economic Forum, B20, G20 and institutions ̤̤ With Global Partnerships, we have G8 to share our insights on key risks, a team that works strategically with and support the United Nations In recent years, we have collaborated public-sector bodies to improve risk Framework Convention on Climate with various (inter-)governmental and resilience: Change (UNFCCC) process. academic institutions both to promote – directly with sovereigns or subeffective approaches to sustainability sovereigns and their agencies, Working with academic institutions challenges and to share our expertise recently with the Federal Through the Swiss Re Institute, we build on managing specific risks. Emergency Management Agency and manage partnerships with world(FEMA) to create reinsurance cover class academic and research institutions Our work with (inter-)governmental program for its National Flood (find out more on page 47), guide agencies to promote effective Insurance Program, as partner of Swiss Re’s internal capital allocation and sustainability responses the World Bank with the Philippine business steering processes and provide ̤̤ In Europe, we increased our government to develop an our stakeholders with cutting-edge risk engagement activities on the earthquake and typhoon cover research. important role insurers play in for exposed provinces, with the mitigating climate risk, engaging government and prefectures of ̤̤ We support the ETH Zurich Risk closely with the European two Chinese provinces to establish Center (www.riskcenter.ethz.ch/), Commission’s work on climate major natural catastrophe which aims to advance a holistic, adaptation and risk prevention and insurance schemes, and with scientific approach to assessing participating in several focus groups. the UK government as part of a and managing risks and educating To coincide with the European programme set up to make flood a new generation of researchers; Commission’s work on the role of insurance more afordable for ̤̤ We support oasis (oasislmf.org/), an insurance in climate adaptation, homeowners; open source cat modelling platform we hosted a high-level conference – with the United Nation’s free to use by anyone. It is owned in Brussels (see below). We also International Strategy for by the re/insurance industry, with more continued to use our trade association Disaster Reduction (UNISDR) in than 40 re/insurance companies memberships (eg in the Reinsurance a consulting role; as members; Advisory Board and Pan European – with development agencies such ̤̤ With the Institute of Insurance Insurance Forum) to promote our key as the United States Agency for Economics at the University of St. messages on this topic. International Development Gallen, HSG (www.ivw.unisg.ch/), ̤̤ In the US, we have maintained regular (USAID), the UK’s Department for we conduct industry-wide studies to dialogue with the National International Development (DFID), better understand market dynamics. Association of Insurance the Swiss Agency for Development Commissioners (NAIC), principally and Cooperation (SDC), the World Take a look at our website for further on climate change and natural Bank, the Asian Development Bank information on our collaborative catastrophes. (ADB), the Inter-American projects: institute.swissre.com/ ̤̤ For our participation in the Financial Development Bank (IADB) and the research/collaborations/in_focus/ Stability Board’s Task Force on German Development Bank (KfW). Climate-related Financial Disclosures, see page 35. CONFERENCE “INSURING NATURAL CATASTROPHE RISK: HOW PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS COULD MAKE EUROPE MORE RESILIENT” This conference hosted by Swiss Re in Brussels brought together representatives from the insurance industry and the public sector to debate what action is needed to improve how EU citizens are protected Conference Report from natural disasters. The discussion focused Insuring natural catastrophe risk: How public-private partnerships could make Europe more resilient on what kind of natural catastrophe schemes are Brussels, 29 June 2017 already successfully in place and what learnings from other regions in the world could be transferred to Europe. As a follow-up to the event, Swiss Re published a conference report to reiterate the event’s key messages and highlight examples of where preemptive action to tackle the exposure to natural disasters has helped to reduce the protection gap. 48 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Selected media products of 2017 The publications and other media we produce in-house or in cooperation with our partners play an important role in our efforts to help clients and society form effective responses to key risks. Listed below are publications and videos mentioned in this chapter. Swiss Re publications w Building resilience in the eye High-resolution risk selection tool of the storm – Agriculture in the Agro insurance hotspot: Agro insurance hotspot: Caribbean and Central America Industry-first Global Storm Surge Zones Bolivia Pakistan Tropical cyclones put many areas of the world at risk from strong winds, storm surges and heavy rainfall. Hurricane Katrina in the US or Cyclone Nargis in By 2050, the farmers of our world are expected to have to feed a staggering Myanmar showed that if such storms hit flat coastal areas, storm surges can 9.8 billion people, up from 7.5 billion today. With fertile soils and a conducive be the main driver of damage. While the loss potential is huge, there has only Agriculture accounts for 13.2% of Bolivia’s GDP and employs one in three With two out of every five people dependent on the sector, agriculture is climate, Central America and the Caribbean are uniquely positioned to supply been limited availability of risk information and no global overview up to now. of the working population. Small-scale family farmers in the highlands vital to Pakistan’s economy. That’s why it’s important to further strengthen farm products to growing markets worldwide. But the outdoor business of With the launch of the industry’s first Global Storm Surge Zones, Swiss Re is make a substantial contribution to agricultural production. To protect irrigation networks, upgrade the country’s flood resistance and increase farming is exposed to many perils in the region: hurricanes, droughts, floods closing the gap. Our storm surge hazard zones enable our clients to pinpoint these and other farmers against natural disasters, the Bolivian government the availability of crop and livestock insurance. Such measures can make and storms, all of which are set to increase with climate change. So what needs their storm surge risk with a consistent, worldwide, probabilistic and highhas established an agriculture insurance programme. Such is the the agriculture sector more resilient to the impact of floods, earthquakes, to be done to harvest the economic opportunities that lie ahead? Find out on resolution risk look-up in Swiss Re’s CatNet tool. The zones show that almost the following pages where the region stands today and what measures will 230 million people – roughly 3% of the world’s population – are exposed to importance of the industry, demand for insurance continues to be high. droughts and cyclones. ensure resilient and profitable farming in the Caribbean and Central America. storm surge risk. Swiss Re rainX – straightforward protection in case of heavy or lack of rain Agro insurance hotspot: Agro insurance hotspot: Building resilience in Industry-first Swiss Re rainX – Bolivia Pakistan the eye of the storm – Global Storm Surge straightforward Agriculture in the Zones protection in case of Caribbean and Central heavy or lack of rain America Publications with partner organisations Videos opti-crop www.youtube.com/ watch?v=K7TQn6bPsMI Barisal: helping a city prepare for climate change An Economics of Climate Adaptation study in Barisal, Bangladesh Financing resilient energy infrastructure www.youtube.com/ The value of hedging watch?v=4iYzU2Poh1Q New approaches to managing wind energy resource risk Supported by: Barisal: helping a city The value of hedging: W  EBSITE prepare for climate New approaches to You can find more of our publications at change managing wind energy www.swissre.com/library/ resource risk Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 Reducing our environmental footprint We want to lead by example and work to minimise the environmental impact of our operations. Tackling our CO2 emissions and reducing energy consumption are key targets across the Group. 1.9% Furthermore, we apply sustainability guidelines to our sourcing and construction activities. Extending our Since 2015, our entire CRES division has been certified according to the ISO 14001 environmental management efforts beyond our company, we standard (www.iso.org), replacing the Total reduction of continue to play an active role in the location-based approach previously CO2 emissions per Swiss Climate Foundation. used. This means that all our operations and employees are covered by an employee since 2013 ISO 14001-certified environmental Management system and management system. certification Complementing the Group-wide ISO We operate an integrated global 14001 certification of our overarching As a knowledge company in the management system (GMS) at our environmental management system, financial services sector, we do not Corporate Real Estate & Services (CRES) we frequently seek additional regional cause large environmental impacts division, which interlinks quality or local recognition for particular through our own operations. and environmental management and environmental aspects. For example, Nonetheless, we firmly believe it is ensures that similar processes are since 2015 we have achieved ISO important for a responsible company seamlessly managed. Through a 50001 certification for the energy to minimise its environmental systematic, Group-wide reporting management system of our main footprint, thus leading by example. process, we monitor our environmental locations in the European Union. performance and implement For our core re/insurance business, appropriate improvement measures. In 2017, some of our office locations also climate change represents a key topic. received certificates for their overall Reflecting this, we have been focusing Environmental objectives and targets environmental quality: LEED Platinum for on our own CO2 emissions and are defined centrally at our headquarters, our office in Mumbai and LEED Gold for energy consumption for many years. but responsibility for implementing the one in Shanghai. The Green Building Our pioneering initiatives include the improvement measures also lies with the Council of Australia certified us with the Greenhouse Neutral Programme and CRES departments in our regions and 6 Star Green Star Interiors rating the COyou2 Programme. Both are individual locations. Some of them (signifying “World Leadership”) for our now into their second cycles, running define additional environmental targets new Sydney office. (For Swiss Re Next, from 2013 to 2020. that reflect specific local conditions see page 57.) and challenges. 50 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report CO2 EMISSIONS PER EMPLOYEE (FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT, FTE), SWISS RE GROUP Our Greenhouse Neutral Programme 2013 2016 2017 Change in % Change in % kg/FTE kg/FTE kg/FTE since 2016 since 2013 Climate change has been a strategic Scope 1 Heating 378 305 264 –13.4 –30.2 priority for Swiss Re for almost 30 years. Scope 2 Power1 824 877 651 –25.8 –21.0 It is a key topic for a re/insurer, because Scope 3 Business travel 3 713 4 109 4 126 0.4 11.1 it is likely to cause more extreme and Copy paper 40 24 17 –29.2 –57.5 more frequent weather events. Our Waste 50 41 34 –17.0 –32.0 strategy to tackle climate change rests Water 12 12 12 0 0 on four pillars, one of which is our pledge Technical gases 27 21 21 0 –22.2 to reduce our own CO2 emissions Commuting2 1 250 1 150 1 050 –8.7 –16.0 (see page 16). Total 6 294 6 539 6 175 –5.6 –1.9 Our Greenhouse Neutral Programme is 1 C alculation based on a market-based approach taking into account the purchase of renewable energy the principal means to achieve this goal. instruments, with the exception of the UK, where the government requires companies to report an average grid factor (see table at the bottom for our reporting of emissions from electricity). It combines two commitments: firstly, to 2 C ommuting data are gathered bi-annually by means of a survey. The figures are rounded and fraught reduce our CO2 emissions per employee with considerable uncertainty. (full-time equivalent, FTE); secondly, to offset all the remaining emissions by purchasing high-quality emission UNDERLYING ENVIRONMENTAL DATA, SWISS RE GROUP reduction credits, thus making our Change in % Change in % company fully greenhouse neutral. 2013 2016 2017 since 2016 since 2013 Heating kWh/FTE 1 931 1 478 1 286 –13.0 –33.4 We originally launched the Greenhouse Power kWh/FTE 4 533 3 790 3 606 –4.9 –20.5 Neutral Programme in 2003 for a Energy intensity kWh/FTE 6 464 5 268 4 892 –7.1 –24.3 ten-year period. During that time, we gradually reduced our CO2 emissions Business travel km/FTE 13 492 15 065 15 224 1.1 12.8 by 49.3% per employee (FTE) and compensated all the remaining Copy paper kg/FTE 34 20 15 –25.0 –55.9 emissions. Recycling paper % 71 72 64 –11.1 –9.9 FSC label % 96 96 94 –2.1 –2.1  EBSITE W You can read more about the first phase of our Greenhouse Neutral Waste kg/FTE 181 144 130 –9.7 –28.2 Programme at www.swissre.com/ Water m3/FTE 16 17 17 0 6.3 corporate_responsibility/ greenhouse_neutral.html INDIRECT EMISSIONS FROM PURCHASED ELECTRICITY, SWISS RE GROUP Goals and scope In line with the new Scope 2 Guidance of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol, we report Seamlessly continuing from the the emissions associated with our electricity consumption according to both a locationprogramme’s first phase, we launched a based approach representing the CO2 intensity of the grids where we operate and second commitment cycle running from a market-based method taking into account emission reductions from instruments such 2013 until 2020. However, after almost as Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) and Guarantees of Origin (GOs). halving our CO2 emissions per employee Location-based Market-based Instrument Percentage in the previous ten years, the potential total total types kWh for further reductions is now significantly t CO2e t CO2e smaller. Thus, our target until 2020 is Switzerland1 1 031 377 GOs 35% to keep our CO2 emissions per employee US2 8 798 254 RECs 24% stable at the 2013 level. In view of our GOs, residual expansive business strategy, especially UK3 6 722 6 722 mix 20% in high growth markets, we regard this RECs, as an ambitious goal. GOs, residual Rest of the world4 8 063 2 902 mix 22% Total 24 614 10 255 100% 1 A ll Swiss electricity producers are required by law to declare the quality and quantity of the electricity produced. Swiss Re buys 100% green labelled electricity (naturemade star). 2 In the US, we purchase green-e labelled Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) for our total power consumption. 3 The UK government claims all green credentials of renewable electricity produced in the country. Even though over 80% of the electricity we consume in the UK comes with Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGOs), we report the same emission figures for locationand market-based approaches. 4 Our next biggest power consumption is in Slovakia with 3.1% and in India with 2.9% of the Group’s total. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 Reducing our environmental footprint RE100 AND EP100 Using renewable power Goals of our Greenhouse Neutral Purchasing power from renewable Programme until 2020: In a number of countries where we rather than conventional sources has want to grow our business, there is a ̤̤ Maintain the emissions reductions been a key measure of our Greenhouse lack of renewable energy supplies in we achieved between 2003 Neutral Programme. Concluding a reliable quality. At the end of 2017, and 2013 regarding power gradual build-up that started in 2005, approximately 84% of the power we consumption, heating and we are now using 100% renewable purchased across the Group came business travel; power at all the Group’s locations where from renewable energy sources. We ̤̤ Fully offset the remaining it is available in reliable and trustworthy are committed to raising this figure emissions; quality (ie at a total of 25 locations in to 100%, which is why we helped ̤̤ Continuously reduce energy Asia, Europe, North America and establish the Climate Group’s RE100 intensity (power consumption Oceania). This means that approximately initiative in 2014 as a founding and heating) by 2% per year 84% of our total power consumption member. (kWh/FTE); comes from renewable sources. ̤̤ Obtain 100% of power from The goal of this initiative is to unite renewable sources by 2020. To assess the quality of the renewable the world’s most influential companies power available in individual locations in a shared commitment to use 100% and select suitable sources, we use renewable power by 2020. To achieve In the current cycle, the programme a “minimum standard” that clearly states this, the RE100 group approaches covers the following emission sources: how we define renewable power and policymakers and regulators at national ̤̤ Heating (Scope 1) what requirements it needs to meet. and sub-national level to make ̤̤ Power consumption (Scope 2) At our Zurich headquarters, for example, renewable energy more available. ̤̤ Business travel, copy paper use, we only buy “naturemade star” RE100 grew substantially again in waste generation, water use, electricity (www.naturemade.ch), which 2017 and now includes more than technical gases and employee meets high ecological quality standards 120 of the world’s largest companies. commuting (Scope 3) in its production beyond those required by environmental legislation. In Munich, Going beyond these collective efforts, In 2017, total CO2 emissions per we purchase our electricity from we have recently started to build employee (FTE) decreased by 5.6% NaturEnergie (www.naturenergie.de), solar power plants at our own offices. and were thus 1.9% lower than in 2013. one of Germany’s premier suppliers You can read about our latest initiative We achieved this reduction mainly by of renewable energy. in Bangalore on page 53. switching to renewable power in some www.theRE100.org of our Asian locations (see page 53) and Reducing energy consumption by further cutting our energy intensity, In parallel with our switch to using In 2016, we also signed up to the eg through more efficient heating. renewable power, we have made EP100 initiative, launched by the continuous efforts to lower the actual Climate Group (www.theclimategroup. amount of energy consumed per org) and the Global Alliance for Energy employee (FTE) or, in other words, to Productivity (www.globalproductivity. reduce our energy intensity. Through org). This is a shared commitment many small measures to improve energy by leading global companies to double efficiency and by concentrating backtheir energy productivity or, in other office tasks in fewer and more energywords, to get more economic output efficient buildings, we managed to from each unit of energy. cut our energy intensity by a total of www.theclimategroup.org/project/ 46.5% between 2003 and 2013. ep100/ 24.3% For the current phase of our Greenhouse Neutral Programme from 2013 until 2020, our goal is to continuously reduce Total reduction our energy intensity by 2% per year. At of energy intensity the end of 2017, the total reduction we had reached since 2013 was 24.3%. We per employee partly achieved this by decommissioning since 2013 existing office buildings and moving into more energy-efficient ones. 52 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report A solar power plant is being constructed on the roof of our new Bangalore office. We have recently stepped up such internal efforts as part of our Group-wide commitment to cover 100% of our power consumption from renewable sources by 2020. Solar power plant at our new Bangalore office 84% Bangalore is blessed with over 300 viable investment with days of sunshine a year. So when we a stable long-term cash flow. decided to consolidate our two existing offices in Bangalore, we looked for a The solar plant will also help save building that would allow us to set up around 8 000 litres of diesel every year Share of total power a solar plant on the rooftop. because the office will no longer need consumption from to use back-up generators when there The Fairwinds building where we now are power cuts, which happens quite renewable sources have our offices fits the bill perfectly. frequently in Bangalore. in 2017 Offering over 2 800 m2 of rooftop space, it has enabled us to build a solar Finally, the panels help to cool down power plant the size of ten tennis the temperature of the space courts, comprising 1 058 individual immediately below the roof by 2 to 4 solar panels. degrees Celsius. This will bring down the air conditioning load, thereby Over a full year, the installation will further reducing energy consumption produce about 500 000 kWh of and costs. electricity. This translates into savings of INR 4.55 million (approx. All in all, we expect the solar power USD 70 000) per year. With an plant to save approximately 550 estimated payback period of about 4 tonnes of CO2 emissions each year. to 4.5 years, it is thus an economically Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 53 Reducing our environmental footprint We have also continued our efforts to We continuously monitor all travel significant decrease of paper use in create more flexible and modern office budgets and collect travel data centrally. all our locations. Average paper use per environments that offer our employees Furthermore, we introduced an internal employee fell by 25% in 2017, mainly optimal working conditions while, at the carbon levy on air travel in 2014, which as a result of introducing pull printing same time, using space and resources uses the “polluter pays” principle. It at our US and UK locations, leading more effectively. The spread of digital allocates the costs of the Voluntary to a total reduction of more than 50% communication and devices makes it Emissions Reductions (VERs) we need since 2013. possible to work seamlessly across to buy to offset our CO2 emissions to the different locations and devices, creating Group’s Global Functions in proportion Offsetting our remaining CO2 the foundation for a more flexible and to their respective share of air travel; emissions informal workplace set-up that previously they had been borne centrally The second commitment of our encourages teamwork. At Swiss Re by Group Finance. This internal price Greenhouse Neutral Programme is to Next, for example, this open workplace on carbon heightens awareness of compensate all CO2 emissions we concept is a key feature. Although travel costs among our managers and cannot avoid. For the seven emissions further reducing our environmental employees and creates a further sources covered by it, we bought and footprint is not the primary driver of incentive to reduce air travel, in addition retired VERs for a total of 80 780 tonnes these efforts, their potential to lower to flight costs. of CO2e in 2017. the energy intensity of our locations is nevertheless substantial. Despite these measures, the amount of We are keen to ensure that the VERs kilometres travelled per employee and we buy are of a high environmental Minimising business travel the associated emissions have been standard and have developed a set of As a result of the substantial cuts we rising in recent years. A key driver is our criteria to select the projects generating have achieved in CO2 emissions from continued expansion in high growth certificates. In particular, we give priority power consumption and heating since markets, which has brought an increase to those which create strong social 2003, business travel easily constitutes in teams distributed across different side effects and benefit the poorest Swiss Re’s largest emissions source locations. In 2017, the total distance regions. You can read more about the today. Since the business trips our each of our employees travelled on compensation projects we selected employees take are ultimately driven average increased by 0.4%. in 2017 on page 55. by client needs, they are difficult to influence. However, we have taken Paper, water and waste External verification of our CO₂ several measures to reduce the We also calculate and compensate the reporting need for business travel and to curb CO2 emissions from further sources Ever since we first launched our unnecessary business trips. along our supply chain (Scope 3), ie Greenhouse Neutral Programme in copy paper, waste generation and water 2003, we have disclosed our CO2 For a start, we have built up a dense use. The overview of all our emissions emissions, their principal sources and network of video conferencing sources on page 51 shows, however, relative performance over time. The equipment across the Group. Recently, that these are less relevant in our method we use to calculate our we partly replaced these facilities with business than other environmental emissions is based on the guidelines state-of-the-art telepresence technology, impacts, which is why we have not set of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the which creates a real-time, life-size quantitative reduction goals for them. most widely-used emissions accounting virtual meeting experience in specially standard (www.ghgprotocol.org/). designed rooms. By the end of 2017, Furthermore, it is difficult for us to we had a total of 157 video presence influence water use and waste Before our emission figures are facilities worldwide. generation at locations where we rent published, PricewaterhouseCoopers office space. In the office buildings checks them to verify our calculations. we own ourselves, though, we ensure Their complete assurance report for the that appliances meet high standards whole Corporate Responsibility Report of water efficiency. is included on pages 76–77. 80 780 As paper use is more responsive to managerial action, we have taken a number of measures to reduce the average amount used by our employees Tonnes of CO2e in recent years. New IT solutions such  EBSITE W as “pull printing” (which eliminates You can find out about our engagement compensated uncollected printouts), web-based in the Swiss Climate Foundation at in 2017 collaboration and document www.swissre.com/corporate_ responsibility/Partner_initiative_ management platforms have led to a Swiss_Climate_Foundation.html 54 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Renewable biomass is being fed into the kiln of a ceramic factory in rural Brazil, replacing firewood as the primary source of fuel and thus substantially reducing CO2 emissions. We have supported this project through the Voluntary Emissions Reductions we have bought. Switch to renewable biomass at ceramic factories in Brazil When selecting compensation The Ceará and Balsas Renewable with wood. In both projects, the projects for our CO2 emissions, we Energy Projects combat both climate factories have had new equipment require them to be of the highest change and deforestation by replacing such as automatic feeders installed, quality and to have tangible social the ceramic factories’ primary source which allow for an efficient use of benefits. In 2017, we chose “Gold of fuel – deforested wood – with the biomass and improve working Standard” projects that support small renewable energy won from conditions. ceramics factories in Brazil to switch agricultural and industrial residues. to fuel from renewable biomass. The factories of the Ceará project This biomass would have been have also adopted a system to reuse Deforestation is the largest source discarded as waste otherwise, so industrial wastewater, a crucial step in of greenhouse gas emissions in Brazil the fuel switch transforms residues a region afflicted by severe droughts. and illegal logging for firewood is into something useful. In addition, At the Balsas factory, finally, ceramic a primary cause of this. Ceramics it enables many local residents to houses have been built for employees factories, for example, have long been earn an income by supplying biomass and their families, with utility costs using native wood to fire their kilns. waste directly to the factories. included. This not only produces CO2 emissions, but also places the country’s native Switching to biomass fuel also Together, the two projects have forests under significant threat of benefits the employees’ health and managed to avoid approximately deforestation. working conditions in a number of 41 860 tonnes of CO2e emissions ways. The employees no longer need annually. Over the course of the last to carry heavy wood to the factory. ten years, they have helped to save Before the switch, they were also about 2 730 hectares of forest exposed to extreme heat and from being logged, the equivalent air pollution when firing up the kilns of more than 2 180 football pitches. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 Reducing our environmental footprint Sustainability in our supply In 2016, we signed up for EcoVadis, chain a collaborative platform for sustainable supply chain management, which As a re/insurance company, Swiss Re covers a wide range of screening criteria does not have an extensive supply across the topics of environmental chain. Our core business does not impacts, human rights, labour practices require us to buy intermediate inputs like and impacts on society. This will allow us a manufacturing company. However, to assess the sustainability performance to run our operations, we need a range of our suppliers more systematically with of goods and services. the help of key performance indicators and to engage them in improvements, When we make these purchases, we thus also reducing potential sustainability apply general and individual criteria. risks in our supply chain. In line with our overarching Group Sourcing Policy, we select suppliers that We have started to implement the 13% offer the best value for money, meet high quality standards and adhere to the UN Global Compact. As a signatory to platform in our Corporate Real Estate Sourcing category, which covers more than 50% of our expenditure in this the Compact, we are committed to area. Going forward, we plan to fully Share of our tier 1 and 2 honouring all its ten principles. Amongst incorporate the platform into our vendors included in other things, these prohibit any sort sourcing processes across all sourcing of discrimination or the use of child or categories. We have set ourselves the the EcoVadis platform forced labour, and require that the goal of including all our tier 1 and tier 2 by end of 2017 freedom of association and the right vendors in the EcoVadis platform to collective bargaining be upheld. (www.ecovadis.com) by 2020. By the end of 2017, implementation We consider environmental criteria was completed for 13% of these vendors relating to materials and ingredients, and in progress or ready to be started production methods, recycling and for 30% of them. waste. For some sourcing categories, we have developed “minimum standards” that further specify our requirements. Besides power (see page 52) and paper (see page 54), these cover cleaning services and agents, refrigerant agents and building materials. Each standard lists objectives, ecological aspects, ecological minimum standards, exceptions, controlling and labels. When selecting new products and suppliers, we examine whether they comply with these requirements as part of the overall evaluation process. We take a fresh look at existing strategic suppliers in our periodic contract reviews, and we visit individual suppliers to inspect them onsite. Internally, we hold regular awareness trainings with all our sourcing staff. 56 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Swiss Re Next Our company has over 80 office Key sustainability features of ̤̤ Heat pumps using water from locations in more than 30 Swiss Re Next: nearby Lake Zurich heat and cool countries. For new buildings or ̤̤ Two spacious atria and the glass the building. renovation work, we apply facade bring daylight into the ̤̤ Wherever possible, we have used a number of principles, one of building and thus greatly reduce recyclable materials, including more which is sustainability. power consumption. than 50% of the concrete. ̤̤ A solar plant on the roof delivers ̤̤ The building meets the tough In 2017, we completed Swiss Re Next, 5–7% of our power consumption standards of both the MINERGIE-Pour new office building at the Group’s for the building. For the rest we ECO® and LEED Platinum headquarters in Zurich. Right from buy certified “naturemade star” certificates. the start of the project in 2009, electricity from renewable sources. ̤̤ Peripheral steel columns at sustainability was defined as a key ̤̤ The innovative ceiling heats, cools maximum distance allow for open topic and subsequently integrated and ventilates the building, thus internal spaces, providing optimal into its planning, construction and creating a pleasant office climate flexibility for our interactive operation, as well as the demolition with good acoustics. workplace concept. of the former Neubau building.  Together, these and further measures help reduce energy consumption at Swiss Re Next by 60% compared with the previous building, and by 80% per workspace. The lakeside facade of Swiss Re Next, our newly completed headquarter building in Zurich. Right from the project’s start in 2009, sustainability has been embedded in its planning, design and performance. Our walls are talking!  EBSITE W Hear what they are saying: Download the Talking Walls You can find more information on app from the App Store or Google Play and discover sustainability at Swiss Re Next, bite-sized stories about Swiss Re Next, its sustainability including a graphic overview, at next. swissre.com/en/#sustainability features, workplace concept and artworks. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 Reducing our environmental footprint In 2017, we granted a total of 2 528 The COyou2 Programme subsidies spread across three product Tackling our carbon footprint is one categories: home appliances, home of four pillars of our climate change infrastructure and mobility. Over the past strategy (see page 16). In 2007, we four years, electricity-powered mobility 2 528 launched the CO you2 Programme has become more prominent, with because we wanted to make our 555 subsidies for e-bikes, e-motorbikes, commitment more tangible for our e-cars and plug-in hybrid electric cars. employees and help them to become COyou2 subsidies more aware of climate change. The Amongst the larger Swiss Re locations, programme offers subsidies for a range uptakes per employee were highest in granted to our of investments through which our Slovakia and India. Our office in Slovakia employees in 2017 employees can reduce their private has witnessed particularly strong growth carbon footprints. To our knowledge, in recent years. Many new employees (2 449 in 2016) it was the first global corporate initiative there have made use of the opportunity of its kind at the time. to claim subsidies, eg for highly energyefficient fridges and washing machines The investment options we offer for as well as bicycles for their daily subsidies are clearly specified in the commute to work. In Europe, in general, programme. Some of them are mobility remains a popular category, supported at all our locations, while with bicycles the most common type others vary to account for regional of subsidy. differences in climate, living conditions etc. Our subsidies cover 50% of the In our Asian locations, energy efficient investment amount up to a locally home appliances were particularly determined maximum allowance. All popular. In the Americas region, both regular employees are entitled to apply home appliances and home infrastructure and new employees can submit subsidy subsidies were sought-after subsidy requests after three months following categories. their hire start date. COYOU2 PAYOUTS IN 2017, NUMBER OF COYOU2 PAYOUTS IN 2017, BY CATEGORY PER 1000 EMPLOYEES 600 500 400 300 50% Home appliances 13% Home infrastructure 200 37% Mobility 100 0 Slovakia India Germany Switzerland Singapore US UK 58 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Ten years of the COyou2 Programme In 2017, our successful COyou2 ̤̤ Over 15 000 Swiss Re employees Celebrating the programme’s ten-year Programme had its ten-year and their families took part in the anniversary, we held a competition anniversary. Between its launch programme, investing in advanced for our employees. We asked them to in 2007 and the end of 2017, green technology and renewable create a personal message on how it chalked up the following energy products; they have made use of the programme impressive statistics: ̤̤ In this way, they helped avoid and to provide a photograph, video or roughly 70 000 metric tonnes of other illustration. CO2 emissions; ̤̤ This amount is equivalent to an Below you can read two of the average passenger car driving over winning entries: 265 000 000 kilometres, enough to circle the Earth 6 620 times; ̤̤ It is also equivalent to the carbon sequestration effect of growing 1 800 000 trees for ten years. Alvaro Leiva Rincon, Bratislava Thomas Artho, Zurich In April, I injured my knee playing Since yesterday, we have been football for the Swiss Re team. proud producers of clean energy. 1st diagnostic: surgery. 2nd option: COyou2 has supported me and get the leg very strong and avoid (indirectly) my small family in our surgery. Thanks to the COyou2 aspiration to live without a car. Programme I bought a new bike … Besides being more The result: I avoided the surgery. environmentally friendly, we were On average, I do three weekend also able to save up some of our trips per month, covering more own money, which we have now than 200 km on each. Of course, invested in harvesting the power I also go to the office by bike. of the sun. A big THANK YOU COyou2 Programme = from myself, my wife and my little Bikes > cars daughter who will hopefully grow up in a more sustainable future. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 Engaging our people We are an organisation where diverse talents come together globally to apply fresh perspectives and knowledge to make the world more resilient. Our vision is to offer our employees where everyone can contribute. meaningful work with a clear purpose in We are passionate about building an attractive and inclusive work an environment of trust, respect, environment. We aim to collaborate in collaboration and responsibility in which the spirit of “Let’s be smarter together”, how we achieve results is every bit because we can maximise our full as important as what we achieve. potential only if we work together. Our organisation is constantly looking for Swiss Re is a global company with a new ways to improve the wellbeing of presence in all major markets and 29 society and prepare for the changing countries. As of 31 December 2017, we needs of the future, drawing on the employed 14 485 people (regular staff) know-how and experience of a diverse, from over 110 nationalities: 59.5% multigenerational group of employees. work in Europe, the Middle East and We aspire to be a place where a flexible Africa (EMEA), 25.8% in the Americas and inclusive culture is the norm and and 14.7% in the Asia-Pacific region. EMPLOYEE DATA, SWISS RE GROUP 2015 2016 2017 Total headcount regular employees 12 767 14 053 14 485 Full-time* 11 652 12 960 13 395 Part-time* 973 1 093 1 090 Temporary employees 376 330 355 Turnover rate (incl. company sales) 10.6% 9.7% 10.7% Voluntary 6.8% 6.7% 7.2% Involuntary 3.8% 3.1% 3.5% Average tenure regular staff (in years)** 7.2 7.0 7.1 * T he 2015 numbers for full-time and part-time employees do not add up to the total headcount, because employees on unpaid leave were not included in the calculations. As from 2016, employees on unpaid leave are included in the figures. ** In 2017, we changed our reporting method for average tenure. The numbers for 2015 and 2016 have been restated accordingly. 60 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report The Swiss Re employee ̤̤ Build for the future: At Swiss Re, Listening to our employees experience we embrace and build a diverse We foster a culture of open dialogue and workforce that brings together the frequent feedback on all levels, where Swiss Re has a clear People Strategy best of multiple generations, cultures, employees and managers are encouraged which sets out what we want to achieve skill sets and thinking. Our aim is to maintain regular exchange, as in order to create an environment for our employees to live a flexible, described in our behavioural framework. that enables each one of us to give our inclusive and open culture where In addition, once a year, we seek personal best. We regard our People all perspectives are valued. We feedback more formally through the Strategy as our “North Star”: It provides create meaning for our employees Employee Engagement Survey (EES). us with clarity and direction, it is by connecting our work to the core The EES is an opportunity for us to hear embedded in everything we do and purpose of our company. from our employees what engages defines our ambition for the future them and what ideas they have to of Swiss Re. Embedding the behaviours we need improve their experience at Swiss Re. for the future Feedback from our employees in the Four core themes bring our strategy We believe that everyone at Swiss Re 2017 EES shows that we continue to to life: personally contributes to the future make progress. After a steep increase ̤̤ Lead and develop: We aim to be of our company by delivering to our in employee engagement from 2015 known in the market both for our clients, adding value to Swiss Re in the to 2016 (+9 percentage points), our technical expertise and our leadership best way possible, and by creating 2017 employee engagement score capabilities. Our employees inspire an environment where teamwork is the further increased by 2 percentage points and engage each other across all norm. Our Personal and Leadership from 67% to 69%. With a high response levels through honest, constructive Imperatives set out the behaviours we rate of 87%, our overall engagement and timely dialogue and feedback. need and expect from our leaders and score puts us well above the Aon Hewitt We invest in the career development employees to support our strategy and Global Financial/Insurance Average of our people, which we see as a values. We aspire to achieve exceptional benchmark of 65%. shared responsibility, with leaders performance by embedding these investing their time and resources imperatives into our culture and human We are proud to see that various areas and employees taking ownership to capital processes, such as recruiting, improved in 2017. Diversity & Inclusion drive their development. our performance management practices continues to advance, as 84% of ̤̤ Empower and collaborate: We and leadership development surveyed employees feel that Swiss Re empower and enable our people programmes. values diversity and has an open, to make decisions and drive inclusive culture that exceeds the Global performance, while at the same Financial/Insurance Average Benchmark time ensuring that we maintain of 77%. Customer Focus also emerged the appropriate risk culture. We as a new area of strength, with 75% encourage all employees to work of employees who feel encouraged to together and collaborate across suggest improvements that will better organisational and geographical serve customers. Overall scores show boundaries for the wider and that in terms of Work Fulfilment, 75% ultimate benefit of Swiss Re. agree that their job is a good fit, and ̤̤ Drive the business: We envision 73% feel a strong sense of that our employees operate with accomplishment in their work. Finally, a truly commercial mind-set and the area that has improved the most accountability. They should all take since 2015 is Empowerment/ accountability proactively and hold Autonomy, driven by 70% of employees each other responsible for who feel they are able to influence performance in terms of both results decisions affecting their work, which and behaviour. We ensure reward is directly supports our People Strategy. fair and competitive, although this should not be the main reason why Feedback from voluntary leavers also people want to work for our company. shows strong progress on our employer value proposition; our key strengths have become stronger and weaknesses have improved (overall the Net Promoter Score has increased by 20 points since 2013). Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 Engaging our people LEARNING DATA, SWISS RE GROUP 2015 2016 2017 Total learning hours recorded 204 225 231 826 234 609 Learning hours per employee 15.5 15.3 15.0 Learning costs per employee (in USD) 1 024 919 784 Currently, we offer more than 1 000 Developing our employees different training courses. Our In a world where the ability to learn and employees attend training in areas as adapt quickly is increasingly crucial, the diverse as underwriting, finance, sales effective development of our people and and negotiation, leadership, diversity leaders is key for our enduring success. and inclusion, interpersonal skills, For this reason, we have continued project management, office tools and to significantly invest in this area during language skills. In 2017, our employees 2017 by reinforcing our 70/20/10 completed 234 609 hours of training approach to developing and upgrading overall, averaging 15 hours and our leadership development architecture. USD 784 per employee. We recommend The 70/20/10 approach advocates that client-facing employees invest at a shift from formal training or self-study least two days per year in formal sales (10% of development time) to actions training. A total of 581 employees that reflect “on-the-job experiences” participated in sales training during (eg rotations and stretch assignments; 2017, with the average feedback score 70%) and “learning from others” of 4.48 (out of 5), which is in line with (eg mentoring, coaching; 20%). the financial services benchmark of 4.4. Reflecting our efforts in the area of Investing in employee development employee development, we outperformed and growth in all HR categories within the prestigious We firmly believe in creating a culture Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, with of personal growth which empowers Swiss Re top on the social dimension our employees to fulfil their aspirations and above the world average in every and encourages them to develop their human capital dimension (Human capabilities through a variety of learning Capital Development scored 100% experiences with active support from versus the industry average of 38 and their managers. Our initiative world average of 77). PersonalGrowth@SwissRe sets out the shared role line managers and Investing in a strong leadership employees play and focuses on our pipeline investments in employee development. Our ambition is to strengthen the In this context, we offer various rotation capabilities of our line managers and opportunities that give our employees prepare them to meet the challenges a great chance to gain insight into of a rapidly changing environment. business areas outside their own and We are integrating our existing that support managers who have a programme offerings into a new short-term need for additional (project) leadership development architecture, resources in their team. with a manager curriculum at every management level. Our manager Formal training at Swiss Re combines curriculum is about accelerating the technical, professional and leadership development of our line managers skills training. We design our training through targeted training, providing internally or in collaboration with leading them with the skills and resources they external partners and deliver it through need to lead, build and engage our our long-established Swiss Re Academy. people in the future. 62 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Jennifer Reid of Finance Reinsurance Americas collects the STEVIE Silver Award we STEVIE received for an interactive new Silver Award finance training programme. Swiss Re won the STEVIE Silver Award the finance acumen of the Reinsurance in the area “Achievement in Workforce organisation. A total of 530 employees Development and Learning” with participated in 40 events and trainings the new Finance Week Development as part of the Finance Week in Zurich, Programme – a new approach to Switzerland in 2017, and 260 learning. The newly introduced participants attended in Armonk, US programme provides an interactive and with 25 events and trainings. Over 50 innovative learning experience that internal and external experts shared expands our finance expertise and their expertise and we embedded the differentiates us from competitors. The 70/20/10 approach to modern objective of the event was to improve training. Given our investment in leadership skills, significantly more positive about their we are pleased to start seeing evidence career opportunities (+13 p.p. since of an improved feedback culture and 2015), they know whom to go to for quality of development conversations: guidance and counselling about their our 2017 EES results indicate that our career (+13 p.p. since 2015) and their employees feel we manage performance managers provide valuable feedback in a way that enables them to contribute that helps our employees develop as much as possible for the company’s professionally and personally (+6 p.p. success (+18 p.p. since 2015), they feel since 2015). Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 63 Engaging our people Managing performance conversations, better performance We want our employees to reach their differentiation and transparent pay-forpotential and be fully supported in their performance. work. We therefore lay great emphasis on performance. The past three years In 2017, we also embarked on a set of have seen our behavioural framework, pilots, exploring more flexible, timely the Personal and Leadership performance management approaches Imperatives, become fully embedded to strengthen Swiss Re’s culture of in our performance management continuous feedback/dialogue, approach, focusing on both what people recognition of achievement, and achieve and how they achieve their personal growth and development. goals. Including these behaviours in We are committed to continuing to performance and feedback discussions improve our programmes and capitalise allows for robust, future-focused on digitization where possible, as we build our feedback culture. In 2017, we again won a “Top Company for Graduates to Work for” award from TheJobCrowd, Award from TheJobCrowd a popular graduate job review website in the UK. In 2017, Swiss Re won first place for To determine this ranking, our “Top 100 Company For Graduates To graduates were asked to complete a Work For” in the “Banking & Finance” survey about working at Swiss Re. sector. Previously, we had already won They were asked questions such as: the JobCrowd Award in the What are the best things about your “Accounting & Insurance” category in company? What attracted you to the 2015 and 2016. Overall, we ranked company? How do you rate the work/ 11th out of 100 companies in 2017. life balance, training, ethical/ environmental balance? The results This award was presented to us by from our graduates were TheJobCrowd (www.thejobcrowd. overwhelmingly positive. com), a popular graduate job review website in the UK. 64 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report study allowances to mentoring and Engaging the next generation career development. In North America, We support employees at all levels to we also offer internships for college maximise their potential and we are students with work assignments and proud to offer various programmes to projects that are challenging, young adults moving into the workforce. educational and promote personal and professional development. In 2017, Graduates@SwissRe we hired 12 ADP interns to join the Each year, our award-winning programme which runs from May to graduates@swissre programme August each year. The students worked provides entry positions for a number in Fort Wayne, Armonk or Dallas. of university graduates. It offers an excellent opportunity for young talents Junior Power to discover the exciting world of a Originally launched in Zurich in 1981, leading global re/insurer. our Junior Power programme was extended to Munich in 2008 and to Over a period of 18 months, the London in 2014. In total, we have trained graduates receive on-the-job training in over 700 apprentices and trainees their respective functions. They also through the programme. Currently, 100 attend a number of classroom-based apprentices and trainees, aged between training sessions which are specifically 15 and 25, are being trained in a broad designed for the programme and focus range of occupations. We provide them on Swiss Re’s core business areas. The with an innovative and high-quality programme was first launched in 2007 learning environment that enables them and we still have 409 graduates working to build up the competencies and for Swiss Re from this 10-year period. skills they need for the labour market. In this way, we also make a positive Interns@SwissRe contribution to youth employment. In 2017, we employed 79 interns Participants of our Early Joiner through our interns@swissre programmes say that they particularly programme. This includes nine appreciate the multicultural and open internship positions for students from environment we offer, as well as the the African Leadership Academy (ALA) daily exchange with specialists from and the Swiss Re Start-up Academy various disciplines. in Kenya in support of our high growth market talent strategy. The interns programme is mainly aimed at university Fostering a diverse and students who are pursuing a Bachelor’s inclusive workplace or Master’s degree, and at graduates with less than one year of full-time work One of the key aspirations of our experience. Interns join teams in core People Strategy is to attract and engage business areas, where they take on talented employees from different specific tasks and various projects. In backgrounds by providing a flexible, India, South Africa, the US and the UK, inclusive and open culture where we offer traditional summer internships dialogue and different perspectives are that typically last between eight and valued. This aspiration is reflected in 12 weeks, while in Germany and our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) vision: Switzerland the internships usually “See, feel and live diversity – diversity of span three to six months. age, race, ethnicity, nationality, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, Actuarial Development Programme religious beliefs, physical abilities, We view superior actuarial expertise personalities and experiences – across as a vital factor for our success. That is all levels, functions and geographies why we place great emphasis on of Swiss Re”. globally recruiting top talents for our Actuarial Development Programme We are committed to this vision because (ADP). The ADP is designed to provide it supports an environment in which our support to full-time employees studying employees value each other’s to be actuaries in many ways – from Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 Engaging our people WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS, SWISS RE GROUP (IN %) 2015 2016 2017 Total workforce 46.4 46.9 47.3 Executive/senior management positions* 22.1 22.9 23.3 All management positions* 32.2 32.9 33.3 * “ Executive/senior management positions” comprises the management levels of Director/Senior Vice President upwards. “All management positions” refers to Vice President and above. differences and where they can all bring Uniqueness in leadership, in thought, their authentic selves to the workplace – in fact in every way we work together an environment in which our inclusive and live our values. A key aspect of our culture enables us to truly live our People Strategy is to prevent stereotyping “smarter together” brand promise. of individuals based on any dimension of diversity. We are committed to Promoting an inclusive culture helping our employees recognise and We know that our employees’ lives and understand “unconscious biases” that experiences are unique and we believe every one of us has, and which can in championing that uniqueness. unintentionally influence our decisionmaking and our behaviour towards others. Launched in 2016, our “Together with Pride” network promotes equal treatment for LGBTI+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, gender fluid) employees and supports their integration at Swiss Re. 2017 showed a strengthening of our Together with Pride network, as new local chapters were started in Australia, New Zealand, Hong Kong and Latin America. Swiss Re is committed to raising awareness and ensuring equal treatment for all LGBTI+ employees across the globe, and to ensure that all our employees experience a safe, open and inclusive work environment regardless of their office location. For many years, Swiss Re has partnered with The Insurance Supper Club, a network of senior women in the insurance industry, in several key locations. In 2017, we hosted their Zurich Leadership Networking Event “Competence creates a world of opportunity – we shouldn’t be afraid to try new things”. It provided senior Swiss Re leaders with a platform to exchange with colleagues from other insurance companies and share best practice approaches with respect to gender equality. 66 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Achieving gender equality Caring for the wellbeing at Swiss Re of our employees Swiss Re is deeply committed to the United Nation’s Sustainable We set high standards in terms of caring Development Goal #5: “To achieve for the physical and mental wellbeing gender equality and empower all of our employees and aim to provide a women and girls”. At Swiss Re, we healthy workplace that helps our believe that increasing gender balance employees take a constructive approach in leadership is a strategic imperative to their own wellbeing, while improving that is critical to our future business and retaining their ability to perform. success. A healthy mind is as important as In 2017, we took several important a healthy body. We offer free, locally steps toward building and fostering available Employee Assistance a gender-balanced talent pipeline. We Programmes, through which our are committed to closely monitoring employees can get confidential, the talent flows in the business and impartial and professional assistance locations, ensuring we make steady on issues of a personal or work-related progress toward our aspirations. nature. We also launched a global sponsorship initiative designed to enable highPathways, our Mental Health Network, potential female talent to reach their was launched in the UK in February career aspirations. Close to 50 executive 2017. The network’s mission is to allow members are actively engaged in one or employees to bring their whole selves more sponsor/sponsoree relationships. to work; to allow them to feel accepted and included and to reduce the stigma At our Swiss corporate headquarters, surrounding mental health issues. we reassessed ourselves against the Training and awareness sessions have “If we are to make the EDGE best practice standard for gender been at the core of our work since the equality (Economic Dividends for launch. Across the globe, we also hold world more resilient, we Gender Equality, www.edge-cert.com). various local events on topics such as need everybody to be This objective measurement strongly work stress, mental health and supports our global interventions, awareness trainings. For example, in able to bring their true steering us towards implementing South Korea we held two learning selves to work and to further gender equality best practices. sessions on stress management that taught to understand stress and how be fully engaged. I am Externally, Swiss Re continues to to manage it properly. In Bangalore, an ally to our LGBTI+ contribute to the advancement of female we organised a mindfulness talk show talent. We have a partnership with the where employees learned about the community and am association Advance – Empowering practice and benefits to reduce stress committed to ensuring Women in Swiss Business, of which at work. To help our people stay fit, we Swiss Re is a founding member. We provide onsite fitness centres and that they do not feel again hosted their Annual Conference classes, for instance, in Switzerland. marginalised or underat our Centre for Global Dialogue. The event was devoted to “The Future of represented alongside Leadership” and saw the launch of all other communities the first Advance Gender Intelligence Report Switzerland 2017. at Swiss Re.” Christian Mumenthaler, Group CEO Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 67 Engaging our people EMPLOYEE HEALTH DATA Sick leave days, Switzerland regular staff 2015 2016 2017 Number of employees 3 326 3 267 3 214 Number of employees who have recorded absence due to illness 1 979 1 809 1 683 Average number of sick days 7.2 7.9 8.7 Owning the way we work In general, our employees can count on As a company that operates globally diverse options, such as additional family and around the clock, Swiss Re can allowance, one-off childbirth allowance, strengthen its competitive advantage additional paid maternity and paternity by embracing the new opportunities leave, or the option to take unpaid leave. of an increasingly connected world. These benefits are tailored to the local needs of our workforce and therefore We acknowledge that one size does differ from region to region. In and not fit all and we support non-traditional around Zurich, for instance, we offer work models and embrace flexibility. a number of reserved places at day care Our trademarked programme, Own the centres. In Bratislava – one of our high Way You Work, is a cultural change growth locations – we have honoured initiative which gives managers and the concept of “maternity buddies” since employees autonomy to decide how, 2015: Every mother on maternity leave when and where work is carried out in has a maternity buddy who informs compliance with the applicable laws, her about current activities in the team, rules and regulations of their particular news concerning the organisation region. Own the Way You Work is about as well as open positions to encourage creating a team environment where their return. trust, responsibility, empowerment and autonomy are valued and where business results count more than “face Employee relations time” in the office. This has become We are a signatory to the UN Global a differentiating part of Swiss Re’s Compact and support its ten principles employee value proposition and was in the areas of human rights, labour, the internationally recognised by Glassdoor environment and anti-corruption. Many when we ranked in their 2017 Top 20 of our locations have active employee Global Companies for Employee groups. These employee representatives Benefits & Perks. play an important part in the company’s success by contributing valuable Being a parent at Swiss Re perspectives and by helping to identify At Swiss Re, we understand that having employment-related challenges. children and bringing them up is a source of great joy; that one’s life takes These bodies are elected by local on a new quality that shapes the day-toemployees and have clearly defined day routine. We want to help our information and consultation rights. employees balance their career and Although there are significant local family responsibilities and it is important differences in the applicable legislation, to us that our employees can always their rights typically concern: working put their families first. Therefore, we conditions, benefits, reorganisation offer a range of programmes, services and restructuring, redundancies, and and support. disciplinary actions and conflict cases. 68 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report At our Zurich headquarters, where Rewarding our people benefits and financial protection in case almost a quarter of our total workforce of ill-health are also an important part is employed, we work closely with the Swiss Re is committed to having a of many of our packages. We provide Personnel Committee (PECO). compensation framework that is medical, life and disability insurance Representing the interests of all Zurich balanced and performance-oriented, in excess of state provisions in several employees, PECO aims to create and and which aligns the interests of both locations. Furthermore, we support maintain a positive working environment. shareholders and employees. Our employees in accumulating retirement It is involved in changes or adaptions to compensation framework is designed to benefits to supplement any state the General Working Conditions or other attract, motivate and retain the qualified provisions. important policies, such as the Social talent the Group needs to succeed Plan. The Committee also seeks to globally as well as to create a tangible In addition, the COyou2 Programme ensure the de facto equality of men and link between performance and pay. continues to offer our employees the women, and places special emphasis The aim is to provide compensation that opportunity to claim subsidies from on the challenges faced by employees is competitive in local labour markets the company for a range of emissionswith family obligations. and to ensure that employees focus on cutting investments they want to make delivering outstanding results while in their private lives (see page 58). In the UK, these activities are covered supporting appropriate and controlled by the Employee Liaison Group (ELG) risk-taking. In early 2017, Swiss Re participated in and at our Munich office we have a study on compensation practices and a works council with clearly defined For most employees, total compensation policies of the Board of Directors, the codetermination rights in several areas. comprises base salary and the Annual Executive Board and senior management Our smaller branches in Europe (eg in Performance Incentive (API), which is of listed and large, unlisted companies France, Italy, Luxembourg and Denmark) linked to both individual and business/ in Switzerland and was awarded the also have works councils or staff company performance. Silver Medal (2nd place). delegates, depending on the size of the branch and local regulations. Swiss Re uses additional incentive Further information on Swiss Re’s programmes which reflect the longerapproach to compensation and benefits Alumni networks term nature of our business: Both the can be found in our 2017 Financial Our former employees have helped Value Alignment Incentive Plan (VAI), Report (pages 152–178). to make Swiss Re what it is today and which is the deferred part of the API, and form an essential part of our extended the Leadership Performance Plan (LPP) employee community. They remain aim to reward sustained performance important stakeholders for Swiss Re. and long-term company success, rather Furthermore, as many of our alumni than short-term results. This helps to work for our clients, they also help to align shareholder and employee deepen our client relationships. interests more closely. The VAI applies to employees who have a total API in Through the Swiss Re Alumni Network, excess of a defined threshold, and the we offer our former employees the LPP is awarded to our senior executives opportunity to continue sharing their and select key employees. knowledge and experience, and to keep in contact with colleagues. Currently, we We also encourage our employees have more than 3 800 active members. to own Swiss Re shares by providing The network also includes our retirees. opportunities to participate in both This important group of stakeholders the Global Share Participation Plan continues to take great interest in the and the Incentive Share Plan. company. Through extended access rights, we enable them to utilise The balanced compensation package is resources that are normally available generally complemented by competitive to employees only. pension plans and other employee benefits. Such benefits include, for example, the Continuous Contribution Award, which recognises the loyalty, commitment and continuous contribution of our employees by offering them opportunities at defined milestones to enjoy additional paid time off. Health Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 69 Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance Swiss Re’s corporate governance is embedded in our culture. Corporate governance expectations. Measuring a company’s The Board of Directors regularly corporate governance based on assesses Swiss Re’s corporate Corporate governance developments environmental, social and governance governance against regulatory and trends are changing rapidly and are (ESG) criteria is gaining in importance. developments, relevant best practice based on enhanced regulation and standards and new stakeholder evolving political parameters Key focus areas in 2017 included the demands. The Board of Directors closely representing a comprehensive topic for revision of the Corporate Bylaws to monitors Swiss and global corporate the Board of Directors to deal with. A anticipate developments and trends, the governance developments and considers company’s corporate governance does enhancement of the conflicts of interest relevant studies and surveys. not only need to incorporate legal and framework as well as Board of Directors regulatory requirements but also has educational sessions and trainings. In our Corporate Responsibility Report, to respond to increasing stakeholder we highlight key elements of Swiss Re’s corporate governance, in particular with respect to its structure, the independence SWISS RE’S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ADHERES TO of the Board of Directors, conflicts of interest procedures and shareholder ̤̤ the SIX Swiss Exchange’s Directive on Information Relating to Corporate rights. Comprehensive information on Governance, including its annex; Swiss Re’s corporate governance is ̤̤ the principles of the Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance available in the 2017 Financial Report (Swiss Code) of September 2014, issued by economiesuisse, the Swiss on pages 92–135. business federation; and ̤̤ the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA) provisions on corporate governance, risk management and internal control systems. Swiss Re’s corporate governance furthermore complies with applicable local rules and regulations in all jurisdictions where it conducts business. 70 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Swiss Re’s corporate governance other than serving as an independent Voting right restrictions, statutory framework board member in any subsidiary. In group clauses and exception rules Swiss Re Ltd’s Board of Directors is addition, the Board of Directors agrees There are no voting right restrictions and responsible for the overall direction, on other criteria that disqualify a no statutory group clauses (other than supervision and control of Swiss Re Ltd Board member from being considered the limitations on nominee registrations). (SRL) and the Group. It has delegated independent, taking into consideration Therefore, there are no procedures or the management of SRL and the Group provisions of applicable law, regulations conditions for cancelling restrictions and to the Group Executive Committee and best practice. no rules on making exceptions to them. (Group EC). This structure maintains Accordingly, no such exceptions were effective mutual checks and balances All the members of the Board of made in 2017. between these top corporate bodies. Directors meet our independence criteria with the exception of our Statutory rules on participating in the The SRL Bylaws define the governance Chairman. As a full-time Chairman, he is General Meeting of shareholders framework of SRL and the Group, not considered independent. In addition The share whose owner, usufructuary or including the responsibilities and to the independence criteria applicable nominee is entered in the share register authorities of the Board of Directors, to Board members in general, additional as having voting rights on a specific Chairman, Vice Chairman, Lead independence criteria apply for members qualifying day determined by the Board Independent Director, Board committees, of the Audit Committee. of Directors entitles its holder to one vote Group EC, Group CEO and of the other at the General Meeting of shareholders. individual Group EC members including The members of the Board of Directors the Regional Presidents, as well as are also subject to procedures to avoid SRL’s Articles of Association allow any the relevant reporting procedures. any action, position or interest that shareholder with voting rights to have conflicts with an interest of SRL or the his or her shares represented at any As determined by applicable law and Swiss Re Group or gives the appearance General Meeting of shareholders the Articles of Association, the Board of a conflict. Each member must by another person authorised in writing of Directors has inalienable and nondisclose any conflict of interest relating or by the Independent Proxy. Such transferable responsibilities and to a matter to be discussed at a meeting, representatives need not be authorities. The Board of Directors has as soon as the member becomes aware shareholders. established Board committees, which of the conflict, to the Chairman. The support the Board in fulfilling its duties. respective member must not participate Business firms, partnerships and The Board of Directors has delegated in the discussion and decision-making corporate bodies may be represented certain responsibilities, including involving the interest at stake. The by legal or authorised representatives the preparation and execution of its Chairman informs the Board of Directors or other proxies, married persons resolutions, to the Chairman’s and of the existence of the conflict and it is by their spouses, minors and wards by Governance Committee, the Audit reflected in the meeting minutes. Each their guardians, even though such Committee, the Compensation member must disclose any conflict representatives are not shareholders. Committee, the Finance and Risk of interest generally arising to the Group Committee and the Investment Chief Legal Officer or in his absence to Changes of control and defence Committee. the Group Chief Compliance Officer in measures line with the standards and procedures SRL has not put in place any specific Independence of the Board set forth by the personal Conflicts of measures to defend against potential of Directors and conflicts of interest Interest Instructions. unfriendly takeover attempts. SRL’s procedures Articles of Association neither contain The SRL Bylaws stipulate that at least Shareholders’ participation rights an “opting up” nor an “opting out” three-quarters of the members of the Shares provision. The Board of Directors Board of Directors must be independent. All shares issued by SRL are fully paid-in believes that the company’s best Independence is defined in line with registered shares, each with a par value protection is a fair valuation of its shares, best practice corporate governance of CHF 0.10. Each share carries one and that the efficiency of a free market is standards. To be considered vote. There are no categories of shares preferable to artificial obstacles, which independent, a Board member may not with a higher or limited voting power, can have a negative impact on the share be, and may not have been in the past privileged dividend entitlement or any price in the long term. three years, employed as a member of other preferential rights, nor are there the Group EC, or by any subsidiary of any other securities representing a part the Swiss Re Group or may not have a of SRL’s share capital. SRL cannot material relationship with any part of exercise the voting rights of treasury the Swiss Re Group (either directly or shares. as a partner, director or shareholder of an organisation that has a material relationship with the Swiss Re Group) Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 71 Ensuring good corporate governance and compliance By adhering to the Compliance: Code of Conduct Policies Our Code addresses the following key highest compliance Our Code of Conduct (the “Code”) is compliance topics under two headings, one in a series of documents governing “Our responsibility towards one another standards, we ensure the organisation and management of and Swiss Re” and “Our responsibility legal and ethical our company. It sets the framework towards our business partners and and defines the basic legal and ethical society”: behaviour across compliance principles we adhere the Group. to globally. The Code is built on the five Swiss Re values, which guide us in Our responsibility towards one making responsible decisions and another and Swiss Re achieving results using the highest ̤̤ Business information and ethical standards: integrity, team spirit, information technology passion to perform, agility and client ̤̤ Communication centricity. ̤̤ Conflicts of interest ̤̤ Diversity & inclusion and fair The Code also offers practical guidance and equal treatment and examples for deciding the ̤̤ Fraud appropriate course of action and solving ̤̤ Health, safety and security ethical dilemmas. It further sets out ̤̤ Intellectual property how all employees should react when they observe a possible breach of the Our responsibility towards our principles in the Code. All employees business partners and society are obligated to uphold both the letter ̤̤ Bribery and corruption and spirit of the Code and the Group’s ̤̤ Data protection corporate governance principles in ̤̤ Inside information their daily business activities, and to ̤̤ Fair competition respect and obey applicable laws and ̤̤ International trade controls and regulations in all jurisdictions where economic sanctions we do business. ̤̤ Licensing and permanent establishment We regularly review and update the ̤̤ Money laundering Code to reflect changes in regulations ̤̤ Sustainability and human rights and principles. An overhauled version that includes a new layout and real-life examples to provide clearer guidance Below we present additional information for day-to-day business situations was on some key topics in the Code: published in the second half of 2016. Bribery and corruption The Code is supported by detailed The Code addresses our position on OUR CODE OF CONDUCT policies and standards that document bribery and corruption. It clearly states Swiss Re’s requirements in line with that “we conduct business fairly without applicable laws and regulations. It is accepting or offering benefits intended Code of Conduct available to our employees in eight to improperly influence decisionOur Company. Our Code. languages: English, French, German, making”. Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Slovak and Spanish. The Code is supported by our Global Policy on Financial Crime and our Global Standard on Anti-Bribery and Corruption, which emphasise that bribery, facilitation payments and hospitality where the giver is not present are always prohibited. For gifts, files.swissre.com/codeofconduct/ hospitality, sponsorships and charitable index.html contributions, the policy and standard specify the correct procedures to be followed, including dealing with public officials and making entries in the gift and hospitality register. 72 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Data protection Sustainability and human rights Validity for third parties We could not work successfully with our The Code includes our formal Third parties representing Swiss Re – business partners, clients and individual commitment to sustainability and human such as consultants, intermediaries, consumers around the world without rights, providing a guiding principle distributors and independent contractors maintaining their trust for the data they for our efforts to act as a responsible – should be carefully selected and need provide to us. The Code highlights company. to comply with the Code and relevant that we need to handle personal data policies. When we work with such with greatest care and use it only for Whistleblowing third parties, we provide them with legitimate business purposes. There are several ways in which alleged information about the relevant violations of the Code can be reported, requirements and, in the event of any Our Data Protection Compliance both by internal and external sources. infringements, take appropriate action, Framework, with global as well as local For our employees, the options are up to and including terminating a policies and standards, addresses our described in the Code and include contract. commitment to protecting personal data a whistleblowing hotline, which they and respecting privacy rights across our can use anonymously (where legally Policy governance operations. We use internationally permitted) or with identification. The In the second half of 2017 we launched recognised data protection and privacy hotline is operated independently by an a Policy Management Tool as a central principles that ensure compliance with external vendor and includes translation place for finding all Swiss Re policies a complex and constantly changing services into numerous languages. and standards. In addition, we simplified set of laws and regulations, and we the architecture of our Global Policies so provide proper training and awareness Training that they are short and use simplified sessions to our employees. Procedures All new permanent and temporary language and a consistent structure to for reporting security incidents and employees joining Swiss Re must make them easy to read and understand. notifying on data breaches are undergo mandatory eLearning training There are a reduced number of Global established. on the Code, focusing on ethical Policies (eight in total) that contain highbehaviour in accordance with the level principles all employees have to be We also contribute thought leadership principles of the Code and its aware of, beyond the principles set out on data protection by conducting expert relationship to Swiss Re’s values. in the Code of Conduct. Where sessions during insurance industry Completion of the training is tracked necessary, underlying Standards are in events and by hosting events through and instances of non-completion are place to provide additional detail on the the Swiss Re Institute that look at the escalated until resolution. Code of Conduct and the Global Policies. future of regulations, new technologies, digitalisation, cross-border data All permanent and temporary employees processing, big data and innovation complete a periodic Code of Conduct in life and health insurance Acknowledgement. Money laundering We also conducted trainings The Code draws attention to the risk for all our employees on the following of becoming unintentionally involved compliance topics in the four years from in money laundering and emphasises 2014 to 2017: the importance of due diligence. ̤̤ Anti-bribery and corruption ̤̤ Anti-money laundering and terrorist Our Anti-money Laundering Standards financing set out in detail key principles and ̤̤ Conflicts of interest guidance in relation to our anti-money ̤̤ Data protection laundering and counter terrorism ̤̤ Inside information and insider training financing efforts, including due diligence ̤̤ Fraud awareness obligations concerning “know your counterparty”, counterparty and In addition, we have offered tailored politically exposed persons (PEP) trainings to employees that are screening and the reporting of any particularly exposed to certain suspicious activities. compliance risks, eg on antitrust and fair competition, insider trading, licensing & permanent establishment. Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 73 The Swiss Re Foundation Empower the community and build resilience Who we are The Foundation reflects Swiss Re’s Our initiatives address the causes social and humanitarian values. and effects of risks in four areas – We partner with social entrepreneurs, climate, natural hazards, water and aid organisations, researchers and society – both in emerging and Swiss Re employees and clients to help developing countries and in regions communities increase their resilience. where Swiss Re has offices. Our core goals: Empower communities to become more resilient to risk and adapt to a changing natural and social environment Contribute to promoting social welfare, protecting the environment and enhancing quality of life near Swiss Re locations Engage Swiss Re employees as local volunteers and as expert consultants in our global programmes Boost impact by teaming up with private and public partners that share our goals and complement our expertise  EBSITE W You can find detailed information Earn the respect of our stakeholders, creating about the Swiss Re Foundation at www.swissrefoundation.org measurable value for society and for Swiss Re 74 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Swiss Re Foundation has worked with Ashoka India and its partners to tackle endemic malnutrition by developing and implementing a programme called Nourishing Schools. This initiative teaches children the importance of healthy food and empowers them as changemakers in their communities. ACTIVITY REPORT What we What our The Swiss Re Foundation respond to priorities are in 2017 – Voices for change We have refreshed our reporting Threats to: ̤̤ Climate approach, showcasing fewer ̤̤ Health ̤̤ Natural hazards initiatives in greater depth and ̤̤ Security ̤̤ Water letting powerful photography tell ̤̤ Prosperity ̤̤ Society more of the underlying story. ̤̤ Opportunity The Swiss Re Foundation in 2017 Voices for change Who we Where we support help ̤̤ Social entrepreneurs ̤̤ In emerging and ̤̤ NGOs developing countries Archana Sinha ̤̤ Academic institutions ̤̤ In regions where that help communities Swiss Re has offices of Ashoka India on how kids can help fight malnutrition page 4 increase their resilience Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 75 Independent assurance report to the management of Swiss Re Ltd, Zurich (“Swiss Re”) ­ We have been engaged to perform ̤̤ The consolidated CO2 emissions Inherent limitations a limited assurance engagement on the 2017 (Scope 1, 2 and 3 in adherence The accuracy and completeness of consolidated CO2 emissions reporting with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) CR indicators are subject to inherent and Corporate Responsibility topics of the tables entitled “CO2 emissions limitations given their nature and and sections disclosed with the 2017 per employee (full-time equivalent, methods for determining, calculating Swiss Re Corporate Responsibility FTE), Swiss Re Group” on page 51, and estimating such data. Greenhouse Report (“CR Report 2017”). “Underlying environmental data, gas quantification is subject to inherent Swiss Re Group” on page 51 and uncertainty because of incomplete Scope and subject matter “Indirect emissions from purchased scientific knowledge used to determine Scope and subject matter electricity, Swiss Re Group” on page emissions factors and the values needed Our limited assurance engagement 51 in the CR Report 2017 covering to combine emissions of differ­­ent gases. focused on the following data and the reporting period from 1 October Our assurance report should therefore information disclosed in the CR Report 2016 to 30 September 2017; be read in connection with Swiss Re’s 2017 of Swiss Re and its consolidated ̤̤ The retirement of 80 780 tonnes internal guidelines, definitions and subsidiaries, for the financial year of CO2e (CO2 equivalents) described procedures on the reporting of its CR ended 31 December 2017: on page 54 of the CR Report 2017. performance. ̤̤ The management and reporting processes with respect to the Criteria Swiss Re’s responsibility consolidated CR reporting as well The management reporting processes Swiss Re management is responsible as the control environment in relation with respect to the CR Report 2017 for both the subject matter and the to the aggregation of data and were assessed against the internal and criteria as well as for selection, information; external policies and procedures as set preparation and presentation of the ̤̤ The organizational measures and forth in the following: selected information in accordance internal key controls in place at the ̤̤ “Internal Environmental Performance with the criteria. This responsibility corporate level regarding aggregation Indicators for the Financial Industry” includes the design, implementation of information obtained from the published by the Verein für Umweltand maintenance of related internal subsidiaries and reporting functions; management in Banken, Sparkassen control relevant to the calculation of the ̤̤ The consolidated data and und Versicherungen e.V. (VfU) CR indicators that is free from material information disclosed in the sections published in 1997 and 2011; misstatement, whether due to fraud or “Creating sustainability solutions” ̤̤ “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A error. on pages 18–27, “Extending our risk Corporate Accounting and Reporting intelligence” on pages 28–35, Standard (Revised Edition) published Our responsibility “Being a responsible investor” on in 2001 by the World Resources Our responsibility is to express a limited pages 36–39, “Exploring and Institute and the World Business assurance conclusion on whether shaping the risk landscape” on pages Council for Sustainable Development; anything has come to our attention to 40–49, “Reducing our environmental ̤̤ The framework document indicate that the corporate responsibility footprint” on pages 50–59, “Environmental Performance information reporting is not stated, in “Engaging our people” on pages Indicators (EPI) Reporting all material respects, in accordance with 60–69 and “Compliance: Code of at Swiss Re”, version 1.1 from the reporting criteria. Conduct” on pages 72–73; December 2015 including Annex; and We conducted our limited assurance ̤̤ The defined internal guidelines, engagement in accordance with by which CR data and information International Standard on Assurance are internally gathered, collated Engagements 3000 (revised), and aggregated. Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’, and, in respect of greenhouse gas emissions, International 76 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ­ Standard on Assurance Engagements Summary of work performed ̤̤ Assessment of the processes 3410, Assurance Engagements on Our assurance procedures included the and data consolidation Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued following work: Reviewing the appropriateness by the International Auditing and ̤̤ Evaluation of the application of of the management and reporting Assurance Standards Board. These Swiss Re CR reporting guidelines processes for CR reporting; and standards require that we plan and Assessing whether the methodology assessing the processing and perform this engagement to obtain applied by Swiss Re is in line with consolidation of data at Swiss Re’s limited assurance about whether the reporting criteria; Group level; and the identified CR indicators are free ̤̤ Interviews and management ̤̤ Review of verified emission from material misstatement. inquiry reductions A limited assurance engagement under Evaluating the CR reporting and Reviewing the retirement of 80 780 ISAE 3000 (revised) and ISAE 3410 underlying performance indicators tonnes CO2e verified emission is substantially less in scope than a by performing analytical procedures reductions (VER) according to the reasonable assurance engagement in and interviewing selected key Gold Standard. relation to both the risk assessment contacts to assess whether the procedures, including an understanding internal Environmental Performance We believe that the evidence we have of internal control, and the procedures Indicators Reporting guidelines obtained is sufficient and appropriate performed in response to the assessed and CR guidance were consistently to provide a basis for our assurance risks. Consequently, the nature, timing applied by the selected locations; conclusions. and extent of procedures for gathering performing enquiries of personnel sufficient appropriate evidence are responsible for internal CR reporting Conclusion deliberately limited relative to a and data collection at the Swiss Re Based on our work described in this reasonable assurance engagement and corporate level to evaluate the report, nothing has come to our therefore less assurance is obtained reporting and aggregation process attention that causes us to believe that with a limited assurance engagement and to assess its appropriateness; the corporate responsibility data and than for a reasonable assurance ̤̤ Reconciliation of CO2 emissions information outlined in the scope and engagement. data subject matter section has not been Reconciling the CO2 emissions data prepared, in all material aspects, Our Independence and for energy consumption, business in accordance with Swiss Re internal Quality Control travel, copy paper, waste, water, policies and procedures. We have complied with the technical gases and commuting and independence and other ethical CR data and information to the data requirements of the Code of Ethics for used for the internal CR emissions Zurich, 15 March 2018 Professional Accountants issued by reporting of the selected locations; the International Ethics Standards Board ̤̤ Assessment of the key figures PricewaterhouseCoopers AG for Accountants, which is founded on Performing tests on a sample basis fundamental principles of integrity, of evidence supporting selected objectivity, professional competence CR data and information (Natural Marc Schmidli Konstantin Meier and due care, confidentiality and catastrophes and climate change, professional behavior. strengthening risk resilience: 2017 highlights, the commitment to the Our firm applies International Standard UN and the Grow Africa Partnership, on Quality Control 1 and accordingly the Sustainability Risk Framework, maintains a comprehensive system of responsible investments, HR data quality control including documented and information, diversity and policies and procedures regarding inclusion, development & training) compliance with ethical requirements, to assess their completeness, professional standards and applicable accuracy, adequacy and consistency; legal and regulatory requirements. ̤̤ Review of the documentation Reviewing the relevant documentation on a sample basis, including Swiss Re’s CR-related policies, the management of reporting structures, the documentation and systems used to collect, analyse and aggregate reported CR data and information; Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 77 Memberships, commitments, awards and index listings Listed here is a selection of Swiss Re’s most important memberships, commitments, recent awards and index listings with regard to corporate responsibility. ­ Memberships and Clinton Global Initiative Klimastiftung Schweiz Established in 2005 by former (Swiss Climate Foundation) commitments US President Bill Clinton, the Clinton The Swiss Climate Foundation is a Global Initiative (CGI) convenes non-profit foundation that directly CDP global leaders to devise and implement champions the cause of climate CDP is an international, not-for-profit innovative solutions to some of the protection in Switzerland, helping to organisation providing the only global world’s most pressing challenges. fund small and medium enterprises system for companies and cities to www.clintonfoundation.org that are proactive in their approach to measure, disclose, manage and share reducing CO2 emissions. Swiss Re is vital environmental information. CDP FSB Task Force on Climate-related one of the foundation’s members and works with market forces to motivate Financial Disclosures is sponsoring its managing director. companies to disclose their impacts on The Financial Stability Board (FSB) www.swiss-climate-foundation.ch the environment and natural resources is an international body that monitors and take action to reduce them. and makes recommendations about Öbu (“Ecologically conscious www.cdp.net the global financial system. Its Task enterprises” network) Force on Climate-related Financial Öbu is a Swiss think tank for Chief Risk Officer Forum Disclosures (TCFD) is developing sustainability and management topics. The CRO Forum is a group of voluntary, consistent climate-related It carries out projects focusing on professional risk managers from the financial risk disclosures for use by corporate and economic policy, and insurance industry that focuses on companies in providing information promotes experience-sharing among developing and promoting industry to investors, lenders, insurers, and its members. best practices in risk management. other stakeholders. www.oebu.ch The Forum consists of Chief Risk www.fsb-tcfd.org Officers from large multinational Principles for Responsible insurance companies. Insurance Europe Investment (PRI) www.thecroforum.org Insurance Europe is the European (re) The PRI is the world’s leading insurance federation. Through its 34 proponent of responsible investment. ClimateWise member bodies, the national insurance It works to understand the investment ClimateWise is the global insurance associations, Insurance Europe implications of environmental, social industry’s leadership group driving represents all types of insurance and and governance (ESG) factors and action on climate change risk. reinsurance undertakings, eg panto support its international network The group leverages the insurance European companies, monoliners, of investor signatories in integrating industry’s expertise to better mutuals and SMEs. these factors into their investment understand, communicate and www.insuranceeurope.eu and ownership decisions. act on climate risks. www.unpri.org www.cisl.cam.ac.uk International Risk Governance Council Principles for Sustainable Insurance IRGC is an independent organisation Launched at the 2012 UN Conference whose purpose is to help the on Sustainable Development, the understanding and management UNEP FI Principles for Sustainable of global risks that impact on human Insurance (PSI) serve as a global health and safety, the environment, framework for the insurance industry the economy and society at large. to address environmental, social and www.irgc.org governance risks and opportunities. www.unepfi.org/psi/ 78 Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report ­ RE100 Recent awards Selected index The Climate Group is partnering with CDP to encourage the world’s most STEVIE Silver Award, 2017 listings and ratings influential businesses to join RE100 We won this award in the MSCI AAA rating (May 2017) and commit to going 100% renewable. “Achievement in Workplace The aim is for at least 100 companies Development and Learning” area to make a global 100% renewable for our innovative Finance Week commitment with a clear timeframe Development Programme for reaching their goal. (see page 63). www.theRE100.org Dow Jones Sustainability Indices TheJobCrowd: Top Companies for Bronze Class 2018 Swiss Sustainable Finance Graduates to Work for, 2017 Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) We won first place in the “Banking strengthens the position of Switzerland and Finance” category, after coming in the global marketplace for sustainable first in the “Accountancy and finance by informing, educating and Insurance” category in 2015 and 2016 catalysing growth. Currently SSF unites (see page 64). 90 members and network partners ECPI Indices from financial service providers, Environmental Finance: Deal of the investors, universities and business Year for Weather Risk, 2016 schools, public sector entities and Swiss Re Corporate Solutions won this other interested organisations. award from Environmental Finance www.sustainablefinance.ch magazine for the second time in a row, this time for a wind hedge in Australia. Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) The Geneva Association Excellence Global The Geneva Association is a leading Aon Hewitt Best Employer, 2016 inter­national insurance think tank for We were recognised by our strategically important insurance and engagement survey providers Aon risk management issues. It identifies Hewitt as a Best Employer in several fundamental trends and strategic countries and the Europe region. issues where insurance plays a substantial role or which influence Environmental Finance: Deal of the the insurance sector. Year for Weather Risk, 2015 Euronext Vigeo index: www.genevaassociation.org Swiss Re Corporate Solutions won World 120 this award from Environmental Finance UNEP Finance Initiative magazine for a solar energy hedge UNEP FI is a global partnership in China. between UNEP and the financial sector. Over 190 institutions, including banks, insurers and fund managers, work with UNEP to understand the impacts of environmental and FTSE4Good Index Series social considerations on financial performance. www.unepfi.org oekom research, Prime investment status Swiss Re 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report 79 Contact details Contact address Sustainability, Emerging and Political RM Martin Weymann Telephone +41 43 285 9555 Martin_Weymann@swissre.com © 2018 Swiss Re. All rights reserved. Title: 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Enabling sustainable progress Production: Printing: Group Qualitative Risk Management Multicolor Print AG, Baar Group Communications Graphic design and production: Swiss Re Corporate Real Estate & Services/ Media Production, Zurich Photographs: Istockphoto (Cover & back cover) Geri Krischker (page 2) Marc Wetli (page 2) Swiss Re (pages 6, 16, 19, 22, 32, 41, 43) Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy A/S (page 25) Istockphoto (pages 29, 34, 37, 44) This report is printed on sustainably produced Saravanakumar Thangavelu/Swiss Re paper. The wood used comes from forests (page 53) certified to 100% by the Forest Stewardship South Pole (page 55) Council (FSC). © 2017 Leonardo Finotti (page 57) Alvaro Leiva Rincon/Swiss Re (page 59) Visit www.swissre.com to Thomas Artho/Swiss Re (page 59) download or to order additional Stevie Awards Inc. (page 63) copies of Swiss Re publications. Michael Strub (page 64) Deniz Kenber/Swiss Re (page 66) Order no: 1490937_18_EN Christian Bobst Photography (page 75) 03/18, 1500 en Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd Mythenquai 50/60 P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com
