2017 Daewoo E&C Sustainability Report For the People & Better Tomorrow CONTENTS 2017 Global Infra & Energy For the People Better Tomorrow Sustainability Daewoo E&C APPENDIX Sustainability Report Developer 06 CEO Message 18 Health & Safety 56 Development of Innovative 84 Sustainability 126 Sustainability Management 08 Company Overview 28 Customer Satisfaction Technologies Management System Performance 42 Shared Growth 64 New Business and Market 90 Economy 128 Independent Third-Party 48 Ethical Management Development 100 Environment Assurance Statement 76 Eco-friendly Construction 110 Society 130 Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions 131 GRI G4 Content Index 133 United Nations Global Compact 134 ISO 26000 135 Membership Consolidated Subsidiary List 136 About This Report Global Infra & Energy Developer 06 CEO Message 08 Company Overview Geoga Grand Bridge 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CEO Message CEO Message Despite a continued economic slump in our country and slowdown in the construction industry due to a prolonged period of low oil prices, we managed to reach KRW 10 trillion in annual sales for the first time since our foundation. Without the commitment and dedication of our employees and suppliers, this achievement would not have been possible. I would like to express my sincere appreciation for your continued support of our business. This year, we expect a further economic slowdown due to more uncertainty in oil prices and interest rates, less consumer spending and unstable political conditions. For the construction industry in particular, it will be a more challenging year than ever with a continued decrease in the SOC budget, tightened restrictions, falling real estate prices and the risk of restructuring pressure by the government on our industry. At Daewoo E&C, we are going to focus our efforts in the following areas to overcome these challenges and create sustainable value: First, solid management with a focus on profitability. More than ever before, we need to maximize our revenue to ensure financial stability rather than looking towards external growth by undertaking as many projects as we can. Therefore, we will take a more stringent risk management approach when it comes to choosing projects while developing quality investment projects such as a new town development project in Vietnam and establish strong principles to solidify our business management. Second, the development of new midand long-term growth engines. It is difficult to expect the current boom in the future housing industry, which has driven the company’s performance over several years, to continue, due to reinforced government regulations and increasing uncertainty in the short term and changes in the demographic structure in the long term such as low-birth rate and aging. Therefore, the importance of new growth engines cannot be stressed enough. To do this, we are going to focus our resources and support on the development of new growth engines based on an extensive analysis of our internal competence and market conditions. Third, a fulfillment of sustainability management. In addition to seeking financial performance, Daewoo E&C strives to carry out its social responsibility considering various stakeholders and become a company of continuous growth. We will build trust with stakeholders by fair and transparent management activities based on compliance and ethical management. In order to fulfill our environmental and social responsibilities as a construction company, we will strive to improve the organizational culture and cultivate talented people. In addition, we will pursue eco-friendly businesses, promote shared growth with our suppliers and local communities. In closing, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to all of our employees and stakeholders who believe in and support Daewoo E&C. We will do our utmost as Korea’s representative construction company to gain your trust and respect. Thank you. Dear respected stakeholders April 2017 of Daewoo E&C, Daewoo E&C Co., Ltd. CEO Chang-min Park Thank you for your continued interest and confidence in our business. 06 07 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Company Overview Company Overview About Daewoo E&C Organizational Structure Since its foundation in 1973, Daewoo E&C has led innovation and changes in the industry for improving CIVIL PROJECT DIVISION the quality of people’s lives. With ‘Power of Construction to Change the World’ as our guiding principle, we have never stopped pioneering and taking on new challenges. Based on the financial stability we acquired BUILDING WORKS DIVISION with the KDB system, we have consistently created business opportunities in global markets and secured Q-HSE SERVICES HOUSING DIVISION DIVISION growth engines for the future. We are taking the next steps to increase our global presence and expand OVERSEAS CIVIL our vision for changes in the world. With our technical expertise, human resources with creativity and & BUILDING DIVISION pioneering spirit, we will continue to help bring a better, more sustainable future for all of us. PLANT BUSINESS DIVISION OVERSEAS SECTOR Overview (As of December 31, 2016) ENGINEERING DIVISION President & CEO 1) Excludes offices OVERSEAS MARKETING DIVISION Company Name DAEWOO Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. 2) Includes executives, Date of Establishment November 1st, 1973 STRATEGIC PLANNING DIVISION contracted, fullAddress 75, Saemunan-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea time(foreigners excluded) CORPORATE MANAGEMENT & SERVICE DIVISION CEO Chang-min Park Branches and Affiliates 7 Domestic Branches, 22 Overseas Branches1) , and 5 Overseas Subsidiaries AUDIT DIVISION CFO FINANCE DIVISION Major Shareholder Korea Development Bank(KDB Value 6 Ltd.) PROCUREMENT & COST MANAGEMENT DIVISION Number of Employees 6,1282) INSTITUTE OF CONSTRUCTION Website Korean) www.daewooenc.com / English) www.daewooenc.com/eng TECHNOLOGY Domestic & Overseas Subsidiaries New York, DW U.S.A. AMERICA DEVEL‘T INC. Incheon Daewoo Songdo Hotel Co., Ltd. Pocheon-si, Daewoo Power Co., Ltd. Foodream Co., Ltd. Gyeonggi-do Seoul PRUGIO Service Co., Ltd. Kangdong Project Financing Vehicle Co., Ltd. Jincheon-gun, Daewoo ST Co., Ltd. Chungcheongbuk -do Tripoli, Daewoo Tripoli Investment Libya & Development Co. Busan Korea Infra Management Co., Ltd. Lagos, Daewoo E&C Nigeria Ltd Nigeria Hanoi, THT Vietnam DEVELOPMENT CO.,LTD Saipan, SAIPAN LAULAU U.S.A. DEVELOPMENT, INC. 08 09 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Company Overview Business Portfolio Daewoo E&C Civil Building Housing OVERSEAS CIVIL & BUILDING Plant In 2016, Daewoo E&C selectively We focused on our core strengths in Daewoo E&C has maintained a The overseas construction recession Unlike 2016 when the oil price remained undertook high-profit projects while response to the low-growth business leadership position in the market by caused by international situation, such low, this trend is likely to recover diversifying its business portfolio and environment. Taking profitability and achieving the highest sales for 7 years as Brexit, is predicted to be continued in gradually thanks to the agreement on maximizing its profit margins in response safety into account, we plan to secure since 2010 with the PRUGIO brand. This 2017, yet Daewoo E&C will overcome the cutting production by OPEC. to the worsening business environment public offering projects by restructuring is the result of our efforts in organizational crisis by strengthening our competence In response to this market environment, and increasing competition to ensure our business portfolio and building a efficiency and risk management in to win orders, with our Overseas Civil Daewoo E&C will focus on projects with sales growth and liquidity. database of private contractors, project 2016 and increasing our market share & Building Division. Moreover, we are guaranteed profit margins. In addition, We a re p l a n n i n g t o a d v a n c e a n d owners and affiliates. Furthermore, we with a focus on our core strength and going to target niche markets resulted we are going to expand our hub market innovate our technology for an ecoare moving beyond the simple value business opportunities in the housing from gradual rise of the oil price and the and develop existing markets in Russia friendly green growth business based chain of ‘construction and sales’ by market. In addition, Daewoo E&C was increasing demand for Infrastructure and Asia. on the technological expertise we have strengthening our foundation as a certified by the government for a realmarkets in Asia and the Middle East. As the power industry is based on gained over the years. In addition, construction developer. We seek to estate service network in 2016 as part of Also, the company will improve its private capital expansion, we will focus in the era of the national income of accomplish this by integrating planningour efforts to become a total real-estate capabilities of performance and winning on private business in both domestic 30,000 dollars, we plan to promote the financing-implementation processes. We service provider. Meanwhile, we plan to orders through partnerships with local and overseas markets while working on development of convergence port as will continue to strengthen our foundation develop new markets by enhancing our companies. Daewoo E&C will continue O&M2) and IPP3) investment in countries the base of urban regeneration. Along for sustainable growth and manage our performance in the lease, management to enhance our market control in hub in Southeast Asia including Vietnam with our renewable energy business and risk by diversifying our portfolio, thereby and distribution businesses for our new markets while pushing ahead with market and Indonesia as a total construction information communication technology, strengthening our position as a stable growth engine for the future. re-entry and business diversification in developer. we will continue to lead the industry and trustworthy construction firm. a long term as well as optimizing our by undertaking state-of-the-art city business portfolio of each region through construction projects while building a Glocalization1). foundation for sustainable growth. 1) Business strategies that pursue both 'globalization' and 'localization' 2) Operation & Maintenance business of buildings such as power plants in operation 3) Independent Power Plant : A privately-funded power generation project that collects investment money after construction of a power plant through private capital 10 11 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Company Overview Vision 2025 Core Value Daewoo E&C’s vision is to become a global leader that helps to realize our customers’ values and The core values of Daewoo E&C “Challenge and Passion” and “Autonomy and Accountability” indicate dreams and creates a better future for all our stakeholders from customers to employees. With this vision the company’s commitment to challenge constantly with conviction and passion and complete any given in mind, we are strengthening our driving force by making changes and innovations while improving the tasks under the responsibility and belief. These values signify the company’s willingness and commitment quality of people’s lives. With our Vision 2025 ‘For the People & Better Tomorrow’, we present our founding to become a global E&C leader. Leveraging years of hands-on experience and technological prowess, principles and philosophy. Through innovative changes, we will pave the way for a more sustainable future Daewoo E&C envisions a more sustainable and innovative future created by our technology, creative and differentiate our business strategy to become a ‘Global Infra & Energy Developer’. human resources and pioneering spirit. le Tom Core Value o p or Pe r Challenge and Autonomy and Passion Accountability ow Strategic Objective For Global Infra & Energy Developer t he KRW 25 trillion for 2025 Sales, • Company that prepares to KRW 2 trillion(8%) for Operating Profit F u tu • Company that grows with h e P e o pl e an d th e w o rld customers, partners, local become a global leading h C h an g e a n re throug community, employees, company without being Core Strategy shareholders complacent d In n • Company that communicates For the People & • Company that evolves to become with customers and partners, a comprehensive developer Internal Innovation Better Tomorrow and fulfills customers’ values and providing services at all phases Establishing creative corporate culture & dreams based on trust through enhanced planning and Boosting efficiency in human resource management • Company that employees can proposal skills F or t be proud and enjoy working with • Company that contributes to the sense of responsibility and society by leading the global ova Strengthening Diversification Glocalization ownership infrastructure & energy market core competency of business ti o n Extend investment/ Upgrade/Specialize Globalization+ Development/ business operations Localization Operation Midand long-term strategy 12 13 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Company Overview Corporate Governance Shareholding Structure As of December 2016, a total of 415,622,638 shares had been issued and KDB Value 6 Ltd. owns 50.8%. BoD Operations We disclose material information to our stakeholders on a regular basis as required by the Financial Supervisory Service(FSS) and Korea Exchange(KRX). Category Sub-category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Board Meetings No. of Meetings Meeting 17 14 16 No. of Items Item 48 56 65 Major Shareholders (As of December 31, 2016) Board Meeting Attendance % 92.9 98.1 94.8 Korea Development Bank(KDB Value 6 Ltd.) 50.8% BoD Committees SEBT Investment Ltd. 12.3% Our Outside Director Nomination Committee holds the right to nominate outside directors and include Kumho Tires Co., Inc. 4.4% 3 outside directors for transparency and independence. Meanwhile, the Audit Committee prevents a Asiana Airlines Inc. 2.2% conflicts of interest and ensures sound corporate governance by conducting audits from the decisionmaking process to follow-up process. Others 30.3% Committees Name of Committee Role and Responsibilities Members BoD(Board of Directors) Organization and Operations Outside Director Nominate outside directors for general 1 Internal director, Our Board of Directors(BoD) consists of 7 directors, including 4 outside directors, to ensure transparency Nomination Committee meeting of shareholders 3 outside directors and 1 non-executive director and balance. The company’s CEO serves as the BoD chairman as he understands our corporate policies Audit Committee Oversees financial reporting and 2 outside directors and 1 non-executive director accounting and business situation. Its monitoring and supervisory roles are protected by our internal regulations with a focus on efficient and transparent management. BoD Evaluation and Remuneration The limits of remuneration in total for BoD members are decided at the General Meeting of Shareholders BoD Organization (As of December 31, 2016) based on the financial, social and environmental business performance and individual performance. Individual compensation is disclosed through our annual business report and IR website(over KRW 500 Category Name Date of Background Rationale Birth million) to ensure transparency. Retirement benefits are paid in accordance with the rules set at the General Internal Director Chang-min Park Dec.1952 Present CEO of Daewoo E&C CEO Meeting of Shareholders with reference to Article 30 of the Articles of Incorporation. Former CEO/President of Hyundai Development Company Internal Director Kyung-taek Lim Feb.1956 Present Senior Vice President of Daewoo E&C CFO 1), 2) Including remuneration Remuneration for Directors and the Auditor (Unit : person, KRW million) of retired director Former Vice President of Korea Development Bank(KDB) Category No. of Remuneration Avg. amount persons in total per person Outside Director Sun-jik Kwon Mar.1950 Former Asst. Director of Donga Daily Newspaper, Public Relations Editor Bureau Expert Internal Director(Excl. member of audit committee and outside director) 2 1,612 1) 806 Outside Director Khan Park Apr.1949 Former CFO of Bank of Korea Financial Expert 2) Outside Director(Excl. member of audit committee) 2 93 46 Outside Director Hong-kee Ji Sep.1948 Former President of Korea Federation of Water Tech. Expert Science and Engineering Societies Member of the Audit Committee or Auditor 3 122 41 Outside Director Joo-ha Woo Nov.1956 Former CEO of KOSCOM Policy Expert Non-Executive Jin-kyo Oh Jul.1962 Present Head of KDB Private Equity Fund Division Protection of Remuneration for the Chairman of BoD (Unit : KRW million) Director Shareholders’ Rights Director Title Remuneration in total * On Jan 23rd 2017, Kyung-taek Lim(Internal Director) and Jin-kyo Oh(Non-Executive Director) resigned for personal reasons. * On Jan 23rd 2017, Sun-jik Kwon, Khan Park(Outside Director) resigned due to term expiration. * On Mar 27th 2017, Hong-kee Ji(Outside Director) resigned due to term expiration. Young-sik Park Former President & CEO 923 * On Mar 28th 2017, Moon-sun Song(Internal Director), Kwang-rim Yoon, Kyu-yoon Choi, and Hyuk Lee(Outside Director) were elected at the regular shareholders' meeting. 14 15 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT For the People 18 Health and Safety 28 Customer Satisfaction 42 Shared Growth 48 Ethical Management The provincial office of Gyeongbuk-do 16 17 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Health and Safety Health and safety management is an important management factor, which not only has a primary purpose of preventing any human damage, but also can have an impact on undermining the morale and productivity of employees. With ‘Protect Human Lives through Changes and Innovation’ as our goal, we are committed to raising awareness and building a health and safety-focused system through compliance with principles and guidelines. In 2016, we reinforced our on-site inspection and monitoring system as part of our proactive risk management process by preparing necessary infrastructure and promoting safety culture. Key Performance s Br Sec In t & n sp O es tio ec n-s e ea u as m ch rity C Ti % uc 0 tio ite 9 ve rs ea es em en 83ns 1) R R ed 88 O ag LT I an s M ea k rs is ve R O Plans for the Future ▶ Enhancement of expertise ▶ System improvement ▶ Improvement of the safety infrastructure • Intensive management of foreign workers • Securing proactive safety measures • Expansion of the safety official’s operation • Operation of an academy for fostering • Gaining ISO14001:2015 certification shutdown authority system talents(HSE) • Expansion of the overseas project site • Increased safety improvement programs for • Implementation of advanced safety and system for dealing with emergency suppliers specialized training for overseas on-site situations (natural disasters, terrorist attacks, • Increased operation of the CLEAR HSE2) etc.) program(for a culture of safety) • Standardization of HSE organization at overseas project sites • Revision of the HSE Management System 1) LTIR(Lost Time Injury Rate) : (no. of fatality+lost workday case / total work hours) x 1 million hours 2) Health, Safety and Environment 18 19 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Health and Safety Health and Safety Organizational System Health and Safety In 2016, the company set the target of securing pre-stability by improving and reforming the health & safety organizational system. Under the guidance of the Q-HSE Services Division which set a corporate-wide HSE goal and action plans, there are the Corporate HSE Team, Global HSE Team and CM(Construction At Daewoo E&C, executive officers set an example in the prevention of industrial accidents through Management) Teams of each division. Our health and safety management system has improved its communication with the workforce in the field rather than focusing on formal inspections and events. As efficiency by minimizing its organization with the Health & Safety Management Committee monitoring a result, management and the labor force unite in creating a safety culture by following principles and progress at a corporate-wide level under the supervision of the CEO, setting a direction for the future and guidelines. In addition, we avoid working on holidays(Sundays) and review our process management plan discussing the areas of improvement and emergency accident status inspection. We also prepared a mid while helping our employees refresh their spirits and energy as part of our strategy to prevent accidents and long-term strategic roadmap and implemented the CLEAR program to raise awareness, develop HSE and improve productivity. expertise and HSE Smart Construction as part of our plan to build a comprehensive health and safety management system. Health and Safety System CEO Health & Safety Management Committee Policy Establish a industry-leading safety cluture with respect for human lives through change and innovation Q-HSE Services Division Action Plan Compliance with principles and guidelines • Compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations Division CM Team • Activating preliminary risk assessment • Settlement of prior permission system for High-risk activities Corporate HSE Team Global HSES Team Corporate-wide participation • Means of active communication • Distribution of roles and responsibilities • Raising awareness through continuous training Health and Safety Consultation System When an issue arises, the Health & Safety Management Committee gathers to discuss pending issues with related committees. The resolutions communicated and implemented by the committee helps to maintain Health and Safety Strategy in 2017 1) Converted accident rate : a high standard of safety management that reflects the opinions of each division and their employees. annual accident rate per 100 workers(1 death = 5 injured persons) Meeting Industrial Health & Safety with Executive Health & Safety Management Communication Domestic Converted Officers Committee Committee accident rate1) Pending and 0.16 Issues Discussion of Discussion Implementation Review and of Resolutions pending issues of pending issues Overseas LTIR 0.07 resolution of discussed Reflection of input Reflection of input from matters from divisions employees Category Health & Safety Industrial Health & Meeting of Executive Risk free through preemptive support Management Safety Committee Officers & Team Committee Manager Active Organization Committee Chair CEO Head of Q-HSE Services Division Head of Q-HSE Services Division Enhancement System management Member of expertise improvement of sites and suppliers Vice Committee Chair Head of Q-HSE Services Division Committee Member Division Heads Health & Safety Executive Officer Health & Safety Executive Officer ● Cultivate excellent manpower ● System certification and operation ● Basic and Principles Compliance Head of Procurement & Cost Division CM Team Manager Division CM Team Manager Step-by-step training of sites・suppliers ISO, OHSAS, KOSHA Intensive management of 10 Risk Factors Management Division Health & Safety Manager of Development of job specialist training course ● Ensuring safety in advance ● Improving supplier level Head of Corporate Management Employees Labor-Management Service Division Council ● Focus on foreign workers Construction machine inspection history Strengthening safety education and Health & Safety Manage of Labor Recruiting・utilizing foreign staff management system construction concentrating support Union Supply custom training materials Emergency response system improvement (disaster, terror) Frequency Once per half year Once per quarter Monthly 20 21 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Health and Safety Enhancement of Health and Safety Management 10 Risk Factors for Immediate Operation Shutdown Proactive Risk Management 01 Height 06 Disabled safety devices As part of our risk management in health and safety issues, we developed a leading indicator monitoring ❶ PTW Unapproved post assembly (5m or more) ❶ Protective devices disabled system to predict and respond to risks in advance. We also performed 839 health and safety inspections ❷ Lack of platform and safety rails ❷ Fall prevention system disabled (2m or more) (platform, rails, safety net, cover for of our domestic and overseas project sites to implement the system in 2016. ❸ Lack of safety belt and hook opening, etc.) (2m or more) (Unit : Times) Category Total System Audit Emergency Inspection of Inspection of Inspection of 02 Weight Lift 07 Ladder Accident Construction Technology Security ❶ PTW Unapproved(10tons or more) Inspection Equipment ❷ Use of prohibited wire ropes and ❶ Ladder stand-alone work apparatus ❷ Working with ladders where platform can ❸ Lack of safety measures when using be installed Domestic 805 200 100 242 263 mobile crane(out-rigger, platform, soft ❸ Lack of ladder stabilizer ground replacement-improvement) Overseas 34 23 11 03 Construction machinery 08 Bad weather ❶ Assembly and disassembly of steel structure HSE Process Improvement ❶ Lack of operation license and and lifting equipment(Wind speed 10m/s, rainfall 1mm/hr, snowfall 1cm/hr) In 2016, the Corporate HSE Team implemented a qualification validation system for subcontractors to qualification ❷ Working with a crane ❷ Lack of restricted access point (Wind speed 10m/s or more) ensure the reliability of technical positions such as sign holders and traffic controllers and abolished an ❸ Lack of quick coupler for excavators ❸ Operation of lift and gondola injury accident penalty discipline system while focusing on the prevention of recurrence. In addition, we (Wind speed 20m/s) have improved our allocation system for safety officials and the management system for construction 04 Closed space 09 Lack of license and qualification machinery increasing the inspections of tower cranes, lifts and gondolas before they enter the site. ❶ PTW Unapproved ❷ Lack of Oxygen Lv. below 18%, Exceeding ❶ Handling electrical facilities Enhanced Safety Inspection noxious gas std. ❸ Lack of supervisor, ventilation / emergency ❷ Handling gunpowder ❸ Handling and use of radioactive rays We significantly increased our activities for safety inspection in terms of the frequency of inspections by communication system executive officers and set guidelines for professional inspections. In 2016, we exceeded the number of inspections and our executive officers actively participated in raising awareness in safety at project sites. 05 Firearm 10 Designated activities (Industrial Safety and Health Act 26.) ❶ Personal and property damage occurred ❶ PTW Unapproved ❷ Location and method is deemed By Division Head By PM Types of Inspection ❷ Use of firearms around flammable and dangerous combustible materials ❸ Emergency evacuation is required due to • Executive Inspection : CEO inspection, Division Head inspection, ❸ Lack of fire extinguishers and facilities fire, explosion or collapse PM inspection 108 1,110 • HSE Audit/Support : on-site and system regular audit, HSE theme times times inspection, etc. 852 • Professional Inspection : internal/external system and technical 71 times safety inspection 1) UA : Unsafe Act CLEAR Program times • On-site Support : HSE Helper, Starter, etc UC : Unsafe Condition Based on our unique CLEAR Culture, we are operating the CLEAR Program to raise awareness of safety • Special Inspection : Safety inspection during thawing season, etc. 2) SA : Safe Act and reduce industrial accidents. CLEAR stands for ‘Commitment’, ‘Listen and Speak’, ‘Eliminate UA/UC1)’, SC : Safe Condition 52% 30% ‘Appreciate SA/SC2)’ and ‘Relationship’. While the existing safety management activities were carried Category CEO Division PM More More Head out in a forced, penalty-focused manner, the CLEAR Program encourages the voluntary participation On-site 10 times or 2 times or 1 time or of all members based on mutual communication among leaders, managers and workers. In 2016, we Plan Actual Plan Actual Inspection more/year more/month more/week completed the development of the CLEAR Program by establishing the areas of key activities and leading indicators while increasing the area of application through internal expert development programs. In the long run, we are going to raise awareness at a corporate-wide level by securing staff from the head office Safety Official’s Operation Shutdown Authority System The Corporate HSE Team established the safety official’s operation shutdown authority system to prevent and organizing on-site training through internal experts. accident in an emergency situation. Once the operation is shut down, we take health and safety measures to ensure our project environment is safe. Supplier Level Improvement Program By encouraging suppliers to participate in voluntary safety activities, we are strengthening our preventive 10 Risk Factors Non-compliance Complete(report to the activities by improving safety levels. Twenty of the companies that have a high proportion of sales and Corrective Operation shutdown identified Report(if needed) measures YES supervisor) a large number of disasters were selected to operate the 5-step program procedure. The level of safety NO was improved by 27.5% compared to the first diagnosis (1st step). In 2017, we plan to expand the target Corrective Measure Request suppliers to further improve accident prevention capabilities. 22 23 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Health and Safety Integrated Global HSES Management Overseas On-site Health and Safety Support As part of our plan in response to several industrial accidents in 2015, we defined 5 critical categories of Enhanced Security System in Risk Zones improvement in 2016 while launching campaigns for the prevention of industrial accidents at the beginning In response to an increasing national risk at overseas project sites, we reinforced our security information and end of the year. analysis and emergency control as part of our proactive risk management strategy. The Global HSES Team was able to prevent security accidents at overseas sites through on-site inspection, continuous data analysis, simulated training and coordination with government agencies in 2016. In addition, we are going to build an effective management system to ensure the safety of our employees by creating the Intelligence Report, increasing the application of information with government agencies and proactive security support in new countries. Global HSES Team 5 Critical Categories of Incident Free 2016 Implementation of BCMS Emergency Response Community Management Data Collection / Analysis Work Process Management Improvement in 2016 Campaign • ISO 22301 application • Building an • Data monitoring of project • Emergency simulated training • Improve document control overseas management system countries • On-site inspections / dispatch • Site inspections/training • Reinforcing training sessions by • Facilitate • Serving as a control-tower step HQ ↔ Site communication • Developing overseas CSR • Application of the IT system on standards site • Intelligence Report • Enhanced partnership with agencies •S ystemization of overseas site Daily / Monthly / Issue Report, distribution of Counter-Terrorism Workshop(May 12-13), community(Public/Private) management security announcement : 14 cases Corporate Seminar Hosted by the New Community training before the appointment Ambassador of Iraq(Jun. 1) of a site manager Reduce injuries and death by 85% in 1st : January 2016, 2nd : October 2016, •S haring information with government agencies : Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs∙ISOS(International Community training for overseas site the categories of Improvement 3 Special Inspections 2 Special Inspections NIS, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and SOS) Security Seminar(Jun. 2), Counterinspection : 3 countries, 11 sites Transport Terrorism Seminar(Jul. 15) World Consular Forum for Successful Cases(Oct. 25) With the aim of establishing practical safety culture, the company provided support to enable each level of position to fulfill its own role and expanded the range of SA/SC activities and company-wide reward program to ensure positive safety culture. Network of Central Bureau Overseas Community Data Analysis Management System ▶ Implementation of the SAFETY TALK by on-site managers ▶ Preparation of a guide for on-site safety management by managers • Preparation and distribution of the HSE Dictionary Business objective ▶ Promotion of positive safety culture and corporate-wide program • Addition of Safe Act/Condition to the existing Unsafe Act/Condition • Rewarding site for activating joint participation of Safe Work Campaign and Safety Observation program Zero Security Incidents! ISO 22301 Global CSR System Implementation Overseas On-site Standards Support 1) ISO 22301 international standards for 1) 2) fast recovery of internal/ • Increased application of ISO 22301 : • P roactive security support in new project • Collection/analysis of CSR cases : 6 external risk(terrorism, at overseas sites(Iraq Alpo Breakwater, countries : security survey in Ethiopia(Feb. countries, 13 items Pakistan Patrind Hydropower Plant) 17-23) dispute, etc.) • Research service for building our own • ISO 22301 system implementation and • S ecurity inspections at overseas sites : 3 global CSR model 2) CSR : reinforcement countries, 11 sites Corporate Social • Simulated training at overseas sites : 3 Responsibility countries, 11 sites 24 25 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Health and Safety Raising Awareness and Support for Health and Safety ▶ Domestic HSE Training Accident Rate Control Performance • Safety Culture Health and Safety Training Trial operation of the As the unstable international situation and risk of overseas operation has increased, the advance CLEAR program : 2 At Daewoo E&C, we provide comprehensive safety training programs for executives, on-site managers, Housing Division sites management of the situation has become more important. Accordingly, we at Daewoo E&C strengthened supervisors and safety officials as well as subcontractors. In 2016, we increased training for safety officials Safety program for our ability to analyze security information and manage emergency response situations. As a result, the suppliers : 27 suppliers and subcontractors with the participation of more than 500 persons. 167 persons took the advanced domestic converted accident rate was 0.24, which was the same as last year, but the overseas LTIR was Psychological coaching program for tower crane while more than 700 employees of our subcontractors completed safety training program : 10 sites, 272 0.02, a decrease of 88% from the previous year. In particular, we secured a high level of health and safety through 17 sessions. In addition, we are committed to raising awareness of health and safety issues persons management system as we achieved zero accidents in security in other countries. • HSE Training by practicing cardiopulmonary resuscitation, safety belt and equipment collision tests using the ‘Safety Performance In 2017, we will focus on creating a safe working environment for our employees by further improving our Feeling Space’ located in the Institute of Construction Technology. Total 1946 persons system and fostering expertise with an aim to eliminate risks. (22 executives, 180 managers, Self-Improvement Programs for Suppliers 1,060 employees,  684 employees of 1) The accident rate of 2016 Accident Rate Control Performance & Goal1) We are reinforcing our preventive activities by encouraging our suppliers to engage in voluntary safety will be confirmed at the suppliers) activities. A 5-step initiative was implemented for twenty of our suppliers that have both a high proportion end of Jun 2017 (Safety Category 2015 Performance 2016 Performance 2017 Goal ▶ Overseas HSE Training and Health Corporation of sales with our company and also a high disaster incidence rate. By the end of this program, we were Performance announcement) Domestic Converted accident rate 0.24 0.24 0.16 able to improve safety levels by 27.5% compared to the initial diagnosis conducted at the first step. In • Advanced Safety Training 2017, we plan to expand the target suppliers to further improve our accident prevention capabilities. NEBOSH ICC(UK Overseas LTIR 0.17 0.02 0.07 construction safety engineer) : 6 persons Health and Safety Management Certification OSHA 30(US Daewoo E&C introduced the Health & Safety Management System for the first time in the construction safety entry construction industry. We became the first Korean construction company to acquire the OHSAS level training) Plan & Goal : 10 persons 18001 Certification(British Standards Institution) in November 2000 and the obtained KOSHA 18001 OHSAS 18001(health At Daewoo E&C, our goal is to reduce risks to zero through proactive support under our management policy of Certification(Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency) in July 2015 as we continued to introduce and and safety management system senior reviewer ‘Top Quality’, ‘Safe Work Environment’ and ‘Healthy Employees’. To achieve this goal, we are planning to raise enhance our health and safety management system. We were also certified for ISO 22301 which allows program) : 2 persons awareness in safety, foster consultants and create a CLEAR Standard Manual(e.g. CLEAR Safety System). We are organizations to prevent, respond and recover from disruptive accidents as part of social contribution for also going to develop HSE Safety Performance Indicator(SPI) and foster HSE experts through training programs. improving response against terrorist attacks and natural disasters in October 2015. In addition, we will In the case of overseas safety, we plan to strengthen preventive activities such as establishing on-site voluntary further increase the scope of application for ISO 22301 to enhance safety under any circumstances while safety system through integrated management of the Global HSES Team and deploying supervisor-led safety improving our corporate reputation and gaining competitive advantages in the global market in 2017. activities. In addition, we are going to enhance data analysis and emergency response in close coordination with public agencies and establish a counter-terrorism committee as part of our plan to increase the level of health and safety in other countries. At the same time, we plan to be ISO22301:2015 certified and reinforce our emergency response system while improving our overseas HSE system for the safety of our employees. ISO 22301 certified for the first time in the industry 26 27 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer Satisfaction With increasing social interaction through network channels and information sharing among consumers on SNS, consumers have more influence than ever before along with diverse needs. To meet their needs, Daewoo E&C developed its own quality management system. While improving this system on a continuous basis, we seek ways to raise our service quality through direct communication channels. In addition, we focus our resources on satisfying our customers by building a proactive information security system. Key Performance iv e an Si om PR rm ut Po C ce te in m G U ts Ye on ar se a Tr tio In -Qu rs s c ou un IO ai n H di a ic A ni S ca lit to y r .6 at pa io rt n m 7 ng ec H uri 35 ou ty 7 rf or m 88 Aw en ar t : d O In fo rs Pe W nl in ine ne r C Plans for the Future ▶ Quality management ▶ Customer satisfaction ▶ Privacy and information protection • Expertise : fostering core quality human • Life premium • Maintaining personal information protection resources and customized Organizing the programs for improved activities training residential services Revising the personal information • System : maintaining quality system/ Establishing manuals and improving work protection manual of Housing Division certification and integration of processes Increasing the training for internal/external work processes and procedures • Customer satisfaction survey access to personal information • Site and supplier management : upgrading Conducting customer indicator-focused purchase quality system(advanced surveys required by departments related to standardization process), preventative order, marketing and product development quality control(inspection for zero defects) Enhancing the feedback process on completed customer indicators • Building a CRM system Establishing a system for integrated customer management Improving the service convenience and analysis of customers’ needs 28 29 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer Satisfaction ▶ Details on Improvement Improvement of the Quality Management System Quality Management of DPMS • Integration of We continue to improve and advance our quality management system by creating and updating manuals, work flow + procedures, instructions and work process manuals. So far, we have managed to do this on 390 cases protocols(procedures/ At Daewoo E&C, we offer unique values to our customers through the quality innovation. From instructions /manual) and provided feedback on quality system audits and result analyses with 119 teams and 87 project sites. groundbreaking to sales, we take actions for stringent quality control while preventing any quality issues In addition, we conducted a special audit of suppliers with poor performance and a high level of defective Improving the integrated through a corporate-wide quality management system. In addition, with close coordination with the Quality search support and products and assessed the quality of Chinese suppliers of construction/machinery and materials as part of coordination through link Management Team, Inspection Team and Division CM Teams, we provide the highest quality and services our preventative quality management practice and to secure reliable overseas suppliers. • UI/UX building our reputation as a reliable engineering and construction company. Furthermore, we improved DPMS(Daewoo Process Mapping System) to use it as a total process Increasing the management system in accordance with the changes in the ISO 9001:2015 requirements. DPMS is our convenience of normal users with key workflow diagram. One of the process requirements under ISO 9001:2015 is the decision on process easier entry of related Quality Management System settings(organization order and interaction. The second is to determine and apply the necessary criteria and methods to ensure names, description of effective operation and management of the process. jobs) Quality Management Organization • Integration of work Our corporate-wide quality management organization consists of the Quality Management Team for the flow + protocols + Quality Assurance of Machinery and Materials system(BAROCON, general management of quality, the Inspection Team for inspecting the quality of machinery and materials, EDM(Electronic Daewoo E&C is introducing specialized quality inspection systems to assure the quality of its machinery and special work processes, and the Division CM Teams for managing the quality and service of each Document and materials. Management), etc.) in division. the future Quality Management Team Inspection Team Division CM Team Expecting to improve Corporate-wide Quality Monitoring the process efficiency through integrated work procedures te An e th nu of l st rs st ruc lie ird al ee t pp pa con l p ure su rt tr 25 ro & rs y ac es ce in of lie in t ni ss sp it sp o in ec s ud pp ec n u pa g ti em tio ni 4 it times, la Quality system certification, quality training Standardization of machinery and materials Quality control by division, on-site fs t pl on an t ec Sp ia 6 su co n tp co ric m e pa w ni ith and HR management, quality system audits and assessments, an on-site quality inspections and work processes, contract and evaluation of third party inspection construction quality and after-sale service management Au to di ec n tio Au di m 10 es management support system, division companies, technical support for PJ sp In support(tender, technology), quality special work management, support for assessments of machinery and materials tender purchase quality suppliers Pr & Qu e on ven s) m al s) at ity sh pu tat op sh op er a rc ive ia ss ha a es ng es tim 64 at ls e se cti su ss iti qu viti m is m ing es pp me al es n( 98 time lie nt rs mes 9 ti ity pe ct io v 4 ti tio n( ay st 21 ac ne hi ry N ti ew s, 29 In s 16 Insp ec of m sm en 5, t es ss Inside of industrial water pipe in Gwangyang industrial water supply facility Rea 30 31 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer Satisfaction On-site Quality Management Activities Quality Management Certification ISO 9001 KEPIC ASME NBBI On-site Quality Management Support System • First Korean construction • Nuclear • Nuclear : NA, NPT • Nuclear : NR At Daewoo E&C, we built the on-site quality management support system, Starter and Helper, to improve company to acquire it in Construction : MN, SN, EN, MH • Non-nuclear : S, U, U2, PP • Non-nuclear : R 1993 Engineering : MN, SN quality and establish a quality system at the beginning of the project. Starter is the activities of guiding and supporting for stable implementation of the initial quality system at both special/advanced quality management sites while Helper is designed to offer support upon request(problem solving, training and improvement). With these activities, we are able to raise awareness of quality and improve construction quality while satisfying our customers. S-QPI(Site-Quality Performance Indicator) Daewoo E&C promotes quality management activities in line with internal qualitative assessment and requirements to identify the areas of improvement as part of S-QPI. We are addressing quality issues in 9 areas including construction management scoring 88.6(exceeding our target of 85) in 2016. In 2017, we will continue to strengthen our quality-focused culture and raise awareness to achieve the highest level of quality. Corporate Quality Group Plan & Goal Corporate Quality Group is a consultative body for communication between quality managers in site and headquarter. It was held in which at least one person at each project site participated. We ensure that With proactive support and on-site quality risk management, Daewoo E&C pursues quality management in 2017. quality management is carried out without any issues by sharing the progress report, quality management To do this, we are improving our expertise and systems in quality management while focusing on our sites and plan and external inspection data. suppliers. In the midto long-term, we are going to reinforce our corporate-wide control and build an automated quality control system to gain a competitive advantage in quality. Quality Management Training and Certification ▶ Fostering core quality human resources • Fostering quality managers for overseas projects Training and Raising Awareness Enhancement • Establishing and operating training programs for experts : 12 programs for quality, 21 programs for In addition to publishing the Quality Standard Glossary, we are working on the development of quality technology of Expertise management training materials and content while distributing quality slogans and posters for all our ▶ Enhancing customized training based on the target/level of expertise employees to raise awareness in quality management. Activities ▶ Maintaining quality system/certification • Recertifying for the Korea Electric Power Industry Code(KEPIC) for nuclear power plant(Jan. 2017) • Changing our certification to ISO 9001:2015(Apr. 2017) Improvement • Recertifying for the American Society of Mechanical Engineers(ASME) for nuclear power plant(Aug. 2017) Distribution of • Recertifying for the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors(NBBI) for the repair/ Publication of Distribution of Development one-page quality Quality management on System replacement of nuclear power plants(Oct. 2017) the Quality Standard quality slogans and of quality training training materials & training ▶ Integrating management of work processes and procedures Glossary posters contents stories ▶ Performing preventative on-site quality management • Supporting the on-site quality management system(Starter/Helper) and promoting on-site voluntary Quality Management Certification quality activities(S-QPI management) In addition to ISO 9001, we maintain and renew our certifications for the Korea Electric Power Industry ▶ Upgrading the purchase quality system(advanced standardization process) • Establishing standard plant inspection plans in detail Code(KEPIC) and American Society of Mechanical Engineers(ASME) to secure our technical expertise for Site/Supplier • Adding Lessons & Learned to the Standard Inspection Checklist meeting our customers’ needs. Management ▶ Enhancing preventive quality-control activities(Zero Defect) • Reinforcing the management of suppliers with poor performances and a high level of defective products • Benchmarking advanced engineering companies : certification tracking system, inspector record management system 32 33 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Survey Customer Satisfaction In 2016, Daewoo E&C conducted a customer satisfaction survey to explore areas of improvement and identify the level of customer satisfaction with the PRUGIO brand. As part of the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NSCI), this survey was conducted in two sessions independently by Daewoo E&C as Identifying customers’ needs through communication is our top priority. We conduct annual customer a supplementary survey, following the primary survey in the first half of the year. Through this process, the satisfaction surveys through our call center and PRUGIO Muse to promote communication with our company conducted quantitative survey on the level of satisfaction with our and other company’s products customers. In terms of customer satisfaction service, we run Life Premium program and Uz center and and services, intention to repurchase and brand image and qualitative survey on in-depth satisfaction, publish ‘PRUGIO Life’, the montly webzine with various contents including culture, education and health. complaints and detailed needs. In addition, we registered complaints through customer satisfaction This allows us to provide houses with an aim to improve the quality of people’s lives in safety, healthcare indicator management making continuous improvements to provide products and services that meet the and culture, meeting the varying needs of consumers. needs of individual customers. Enhancement of Customer Communication Purpose of Survey Integrated Call Center ▶ Performance in 2016 At Daewoo E&C, we integrate our communication channels by establishing an integrated call center • Customer throughout the entire business process since 2013. With the unified system, customer management consultation 01 02 03 Integrated Call Center PRUGIO Satisfaction Level Analysis Identification of PRUGIO’s Strength Draw Areas of Improvement can be conducted more efficiently in the entire process including letting-out, contract, moving-in and AS : 298,985 calls(85.9% (all/by unit) (all/by unit) immediate response service. In 2016, despite about 300,000 consultation cases, the company achieved 85.9% immediate rate) response rate, which verifies the company’s efficient management system. Since 2014, we linked the VOC : 6,117 cases(7.2 Voice of Customer(VOC) with the Integrated Call Center to improve the classification and management of days in average) Survey Methods our customer feedback, handling more than 6,000 cases for 7.2 days on average. Diagnosis of Dissatisfaction Satisfaction Level PRUGIO Muse Daewoo E&C changed its on/offline prosumer group ‘Family Garden’ which has been in operation since 2006, to ‘PRUGIO Muse’ to promote more active communication and improve its products and services. Qualitative Quantitative Qualitative The company provides resident-friendly service such as on-line survey, show house monitoring and Survey Survey(1) Survey(2) meeting on product development and works to improve customer satisfaction by motivating customers with PRUGIO culture events. In addition, we broadened a pool of advisors by promoting PRUGIO Muse activities including a surprise event to stimulate the program. ▶ Online • Online events including customer surveys Method 1:1 Survey Group Survey Individual Survey ▶ Offline Unit Daewoo E&C 13/Other 11PJ Daewoo E&C 5/Other 3PJ Wirye/Gimpo/Sejong • Inspection of show houses, meetings and cultural lectures Sample 2,887 samples 8 groups 5 persons(real estate) 1st Step : NCSI Survey 2nd Step : Supplementary Survey 1) Period : second half(JUL-DEC) 1) Period : first half(JAN-JUN) 2) Surveyed by : CS Team(+ related teams) 2) Surveyed by : Korea Productivity Center(KPC) 3) Areas : NCSI analysis -> Need for supplementary 3) Areas : all satisfaction items on products and services survey of Daewoo E&C and other companies 4) Method : selection of research firm(incl. Korea 4) Method : NCSI-sponsored contract Productivity Center) 2016 PRUGIO Interior Design Trend Presentation 34 35 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer Satisfaction Enhancement of Customer Service Uz Center The PRUGIO Uz Center consists of convenience facilities and a cultural center for residents while offering a PRUGIO Life social place by interconnecting various facilities. Such facilities as a fitness club, gold club and library add ‘PRUGIO Life’ is our webzine that convenience to the living environment for residents and promote the value of community. At Daewoo E&C, provides a wide range of information we introduced the Uz Planner to provide human resources, supplies and operating expenses when it is about residential space, culture, operated by the residents. education and health. As a leader among premium brand webzines in the same industry, “PRUGIO Life” won the grand Uz Center prize in the Web Award Korea for five Convenience Facilities • Offering convenience facilities to meet the needs of residents consecutive years, which is the biggest Daycare center for working parents, library for children, etc. achievement of award as single service. By reproducing content through two-way Living & Cultural Center • C ustomized living and cultural service center for the health and social life of communication with customers and organizing events, we offer premium housing cultural information. In residents Indoor screen golf range and fitness club with a variety of exercise equipment 2016, we won the Korea Internet Communication Award for 7 consecutive years as a leader in web-based communication. Life Premium Daewoo E&C Life Premium Service offers a variety of products with ‘Growth’, ‘Existence’ and ‘Relation’ as the three most important needs for customers as part of our unique value offering Growth Existence Relation Songpa PRUGIO Uz Center Creative Life Healthy Life Active Life Plan & Goal Unique cultural experiences A safe and pleasant living Uz Center and Planning for a environment more energetic life We plan to further improve our service by maintaining close communication with our customers and identifying their • Free rental services • Healing forest • Uz Center needs through our Integrated Call Center, PRUGIO Muse and customer satisfaction survey. In 2017, we are going • Cooking classes • Essay trail • Uz Planning to reorganize our programs to meet their demands in order to provide the unique Life Premium service. We are • Beauty classes • Senior playground also going to build our own CRM(Customer Relationship Management) system to handle customer feedback while Proud Life Comfort Life Social Life increasing the level of convenience for customers. Pride for experiences Convenient and comfortable Social events and support services ▶ Life Premium • Touching farm • Family love service • Storytelling • Reorganizing programs to meet housing service trends and residents’ demands • Planning and improving items for application by establishing manuals • Glass house • Endless love service • Concerts • Together workshop • Handy-man service • Bubble show ▶ Customer Satisfaction Survey • Conducting a survey of customer indicators required for project orders, marketing and commercialization • Enhancing feedback on existing customer indicators ▶ CRM System • Building a system for integration with customer feedback • Improving the convenience of using services and needs analysis 36 37 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer Satisfaction Security Inspection System Privacy and Information Protection Personal Information Management Inspection In order to check and improve our security level, we conduct inspections in three main areas : In response to increasing privacy information leakage cases due to the dissemination of information 1) Internet of Things : Intelligent technology and administrative, physical and technological. The inspection is performed twice a year(half-yearly) to technology, Daewoo E&C has recognized the evolution and risk of hacking skills and strived to prepare services that connect check the collection, use, storage and destruction(life cycle) of personal information with or without proactive information protection system. As we are expanding our business areas into advanced projects all things based on the such as smart city based on the convergence of IoT1) and ICT2), information security technology will be Internet to communicate announcement to ensure compliance with the Personal information Protection Act. information between people more important than ever before. To deal with this situation, the Chief Privacy Officer (COP), along with its and objects, things and customer service executives based on the CEO as a chief in charge of supervising security, is committed things Security Status Inspection by Unit to ensuring the security of personal information for all of our stakeholders. In 2016, the company identified 2) Information and In addition to the CP Inspection carried out by the Compliance TFT, we conduct weekly security vulnerabilities in the company-wide network, including Daewoo E&C website, server and database, and Communication inspections in each Unit. We check for any use of illegal software and security compliance on PCs at one Technologies : strengthened information protection system by providing all employees with information security training of our teams/sites. Software technology and conducting relevant campaigns continuously. In 2017, we are going to further enhance our information necessary for the security standards in accordance with ISO 27001, introduce solutions for DLP(Data Loss Prevention) and operation and information PC Security Checklist management of information ECM(Enterprise Content Management) to improve our reliability and reputation. devices and all methods Item Description of collecting, producing, processing, preserving, Anti-virus software and update Verify whether anti-virus software is installed and updated transmitting and utilizing Customer Information Protection information using these Anti-malicious software Verify whether internal security software is used technologies. Latest update for security patches(Windows, MS Office) Verify whether the latest security patches are installed for Windows and Customer Information Protection System MS Office Daewoo E&C operates an independent consultative body to manage customer information thoroughly and make improvements after reviewing whether personal information management system complies with Windows login password Verify whether the Windows login password is set the law, security-related policy and internal management standards through regular consulting activities. Screen saver Verify whether the screen saver is enabled Further, with the aim of internalizing a security management mindset, we offer security training for all of our employees, dispatched staff members, contractors and suppliers. In terms of subsidiaries, we also WPM Verify whether WPM is installed and used organize annual training for staff members in charge of handling personal information. Illegal software Verify whether any unauthorized software is used For our sales management system, those who completed our security training programs are allowed to (using a software inspection program) access personal information and we also implemented technical security measures by operating a visual information processing system in our move-in support center. Furthermore, we conduct inspections of Infrastructure Vulnerabilities Inspection our subsidiaries, sales offices and move-in support centers twice a year to establish a reliable information At Daewoo E&C, we inspect the vulnerabilities of our key infrastructure every 6 months as part of our security system. security efforts. Through inspection of our key infrastructure such as server, network and database, we are able to identify areas of vulnerabilities in our server account, access control, anti-virus software patches and services. In addition, we do security checks when introducing new equipment and take immediate measures to provide more safe, reliable services for our customers. Chief Privacy Chief Security Officer Privacy Staff by Officer (CPO) Privacy Manager Department Simulated Hacking Test In order to identify the areas of vulnerabilities and exposure of personal information on online service sector and web environment, we conduct simulated hacking test on our major websites once a year. We use real hacking scenarios to analyze the vulnerabilities and security status of our data protection system and come up with technological solutions against security threats. ISO 27001 Certification Daewoo E&C updated its ISO 27001(Information Security Management System) acquired in 2005 to ISO Infrastructure 27001:2013. We successfully renewed the certification through our advanced information protection Vulnerabilities • On server/network/database Simulated • On our major web sites • Once every 6 months Hacking Test • Once a year protocol and response system in December 2016. As a result, we are able to improve the security level of Inspection our data processing system on a continuous basis and gain competitive advantages in the global market. 38 39 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer Satisfaction Prevention of Information Leakage Plan & Goal Response to New Cyber Threats At Daewoo E&C, we plan to increase the level of information security through registration of manuals and internal In 2016, there was an increasing number of ATP and ransomware which is installed on user’s PC holding and external security training. By building a document centralization system since 2015, we are going to apply the documents, spreadsheets and image files hostage. To deal with this, we introduced APT anti-spam system to 95% of our documents. In addition, we are going to acquire PIMS from Korea Internet & Security Agency solution in August 2016 and applied this solution to our overseas email accounts and subsidiaries’ email to establish our privacy protection system and minimize security breaches on personal information. accounts. In addition, with the operation of cyber terrorism prevention and security control center for 24/7, the company succeeded in blocking any threats by applying its independent analysis system for 1) Zero Day Attack : ▶ Registration of privacy protection manuals a method of attacking users • Work process and measures by unit continuous new/variant malicious codes and detecting the codes systemically. With continuous updates using security vulnerabilities • Common/sales/move-in standard forms on security software, we are able to respond to ransomware(e.g. iRansom, Cerber) more systematically. on OS and applications • Self-checklist and guidebook before patched • Case studies by situation ▶ New privacy protection solutions APT : Advanced Persistent Threats • DLP(Data Loss Prevention) solution, patch and PC security solution • Proactive monitoring and tracking of illegal activities of users • Minimization of damage by Zero Day Attack1) through latest security patches vanced rsistent Thr e ats Ad Pe ECM(Enterprise Content Management) Plan Before After Uses dynamic technology to analyze files Uses inside and outside traffic analysis Uses up-to-date intelligence information to to identify opportunities for advanced technology to identify opportunities for seek for targeted attack, which is difficult threats persistent threats to be identified as threats Important and private Documents, intellectual documents stored on Private properties managed as an PC and USB asset Ransomware : ransom + ware Important work documents Saving cost and time scattered on several systems through integrated search/ recycling HTTPS:// Disconnected Active coordination among communication system divisions Infected through email or malicious link Once installed, users are unable to access Ransom must be paid otherwise the files their system and files cannot be accessed permanently Loss of documents due to Prevention of data leakage transfer/resignation through enhanced security and record management APT Blocking Solution Process APT email Improving work efficiency and security through centralization of documents and management as a corporate asset Anti-SPAM 03 Hacker Blocking Email recipient incoming APT 01 02 email APT email Sending analysis analysis results APT blocking solution 40 41 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Shared Growth Along with government policies on shared growth such as the Fair Trade Act, the demands and expectations by stakeholders for shared growth between small-and mid-sized companies and large companies are on the continuous increase. It is significant to establish shared growth/cooperation system with suppliers, which are our strategic partners, to deal with diverse social and environmental issues more effectively. We are strongly committed to achieving the highest level of sustainability and building trust for shared growth. Key Performance J gs Sh fo ob W s ee W are R nd on K r S Tr oy rs lie up ain ith d pl Fu lli Bi Em Su pp th pl ing Su Gr G ro w .2 19 ie rs 5 pp ow lie th 11 1 Sh ared 27 Prog ra m s ee tin rs M Plans for the Future ▶ Eco-friendly management ▶ Financial support for suppliers ▶ Promotion of fair trade practices • Green Consumption Guidelines & System • Introduction of a standard subcontract Investigation of the construction industry ▶ Communication support for suppliers agreement in domestic and overseas for the feasibility of implementation (H1) • Meetings for departments and business operations Review of the applicability of e-Cos (H2) units, shared growth meetings with major • Expansion of the performance sharing suppliers system ▶ Training support for suppliers • Fair pricing for suppliers • Training program for the employees of • Reduced payment period suppliers provided by the Construction (18 days → 17 days) Association of Korea(Subcontract • Increased cash payment ratio Act/Construction Industry Act/Cost (94% → 95%) Management/Labor Management Training) • Safety training for the CEOs of suppliers • Job training for the employees of suppliers 42 43 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Shared Growth Selection of Overseas Suppliers Shared Growth By connecting the overseas outsource tender process to the Daewoo E&C integrated management system, known as BAROCON, we Daewoo E&C pursues shared growth throughout its entire business process, from the selection of are improving the efficiency and consistency of our suppliers to transactions, risk assessment and support. While maintaining fair practices and objectivity in selection process. In 2015, we built the ‘Global selecting and evaluating suppliers, we are committed to helping them to become more sustainable as well Contractor Registration(PQ Application)’ and as reducing risks for both Daewoo E&C and our suppliers. opened an overseas cooperation system portal in Dec, 2016 to systemize the overseas supplier registration and tender system for improved Global PQ Portal Selection of Suppliers information sharing and utilization. Fair Selection & Management of Suppliers Daewoo E&C ensures the fair selection and management of suppliers using a supplier registration process. Using the IT-based ‘e-Cos’ website, we collaborate with our suppliers and recruit new suppliers Fair Trade through a corporate-wide evaluation process on an annual basis. The final selection is based on the review conducted by the Business Partnership Planning Team. In this process, we apply policies prioritizing local Fair Trade Management System Daewoo E&C ensures fair business practices based on the Four Guidelines of Fair Trade as part of our suppliers and confer additional points to ISO 14001 certified companies as part of our commitment to core strategy for compliance. In addition, we have implemented a hotline service, a dedicated banner environmental and social responsibility. for ethical management reporting on ‘e-Cos’ and the ‘Daewoo Shinmungo’ to enable the reporting and New Supplier Registration Process prevention of unethical practices. Furthermore, through efforts to improve trade conditions for our suppliers including the introduction of a subcontract management system at some operating sites, we are helping to improve conditions for our suppliers as well as their suppliers. Prevention of Unfair Practices Applying Daewoo E&C has established and is implementing an ethical management system to maintain the highest Referrer Daewoo E&C Company level of ethical and transparent practices and ways to apply this system to our suppliers. In addition, we improved the efficiency of our reporting center while developing a fair trade assurance system with our IT department throughout the entire business process. In 2016, we achieved remarkable reduction in fair trade violation cases such as monopoly and collusion after the system introduction. Click ‘Partner Company Registration’ (New supplier registration) • Ensure fair practices in the subcontract system by establishing a joint consultation group Subcontract • Prevent unfair practices by developing and distributing a self-assessment checklist Fair Trade Management • Implement an internal inspection on a regular basis Input company data and apply for registration • Increase the level of participation from suppliers through e-Cos Unfair Practice Report • Encourage the reporting of unfair practices through the CEO message Prepare application Sign as referrer Center • Prevent retaliatory disadvantages by strengthening reporting procedures documents for new applicant • Proposal Stage : self-assessment based on the compliance guidelines and checklist Process application(Business Voluntary Inspection IT • Approval Request Stage : self-assessment on compliance through a system popup window Partnership Planning Team) System Development • Review & Approval Stage : confirmation of the self-assessment process through a popup message Evaluate application(Business Partnership Planning Team) Fair Trade Violations Category Details Unit 2014 2015 2016 Registration Deliberation Committee Breaches of Fair Number of breaches Case 7 6 1 Trade(monopoly, Print out registration collusion, etc.) Penalties and compensations KRW million 34,770 15,047 69,207 Announce results verification 44 45 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Shared Growth Risk Management of Suppliers Support for Suppliers Risk Evaluation • Job performance improvement training : provided 3 times in 2016 to 195 participants Daewoo E&C evaluates risks from the aspects of sustainability including labor, safety, environment and (covering the areas of construction, the subcontract act, and the construction industry act etc.) ethical management as we conduct annual headquarters evaluations and semiannual evaluations at our Educational • Safety training : provided to on-site managers of existing suppliers as well as to the CEOs and operating sites. We classify our suppliers according to their level such as the best, good and inadequate, Support on-site managers of new suppliers • Environmental training : provided to the supervisors of suppliers based on monthly etc. depending on the level of risk drawn by results of evaluation and provide good suppliers with benefits environmental training materials such as private contract and exemption of contract implementation guarantee insurance; in contrast, corresponding measures are taken to those disqualified. In addition, we organize a reward & penalty committee on a regular basis to apply restrictions on the suppliers that fail to fulfill their corporate duties • Raising the shared growth fund and providing loans(KRW 27.2 billion) such as the payment of wages. Financial • Financial support for 36 suppliers(KRW 18 billion for the operation fund) Support • Exemption from and redemption of contract guarantee insurance for excellent suppliers Overview of Supplier Evaluations Evaluation Category Evaluation Cycle Evaluation Components • Shared growth meetings : sharing policies and programs for shared growth Headquarters Annually Safety management, quality(defects) management, financial status, level Employees and executive officers from 111 suppliers of contribution, technology, reward, corporate sustainability Communication • CEO Meetings : CEOs from 25 suppliers Support • Ethical management reporting banner on ‘e-Cos’ and the Daewoo Shinmungo Operation sites Semiannually Construction management, quality management, environmental management, Protecting the anonymity of reporters with restricted access to information cost management, management evaluation, post-construction management • Cooperation system portal renewed for more effective communication(December 2016) Supplier Screening Criteria(Sustainability Aspect) Economy Environment Society Win-Win Cooperative Association Daewoo E&C established a Win-Win Cooperative Association as a shared-growth model for technological • Causing financial loss or damage to • Causing serious environmental issues • Failing to pay their employees on time advancement and added value for smalland medium-sized companies. With 9 small and medium-sized Daewoo E&C’s reputation or causing other social issues companies, we built a new shared-growth model with the 4S Structure Safety Cooperative combining • Causing serious defects and quality • Causing repeated safety incidents(3 our technological expertise with the practice of companies in the field of structural safety. With the “KEEP issues, and failure to address them or more serious incidents per year, • Engaging in collusion or spreading false the death of three or more individuals, COOP,” which was established with four core technology companies in 2016, we expect to not only rumors having a poor safety assessment score overcome structural limitations in SMEs such as lack of researchers and technology, but also raise our for 2 consecutive years) project competitiveness by securing new value-added business sectors. Win-Win Cooperative Association formed between Daewoo E&C and SMEs Sustainability Management of Suppliers 4S Structure Safety Cooperative KEEP COOP At Daewoo E&C, we focus on reducing risks to the sustainability of our suppliers by raising awareness Total engineering service with regard to structural safety in the Total service in all areas of business including core material and addressing problems. For example, we conducted the ‘Clean Holidays Campaign’ to promote ethical entire construction period from design to construction and production, integrated management S/W development, design, practices among our suppliers, created an ethical management reporting banner on ‘e-Cos’ and ran the maintenance after completion diagnosis, plant building, trial operation and maintenance ‘Daewoo Shinmungo’ as part of our reporting system. In addition, we provide incentives of reducing Plan & Goal the penalty up to 50% of serious accidents when they occur for suppliers with excellent In 2017, we will increase support for our suppliers by organizing safety training programs for their CEOs and performance in our sustainability program. supporting the third-party training programs for job performance by the Construction Association of Korea. In Through Safety Check Days, we offer briefings addition, we plan to standardize our subcontract forms and implement a performance-sharing system to ensure fair and seminars for the executives and on-site and transparent business practices. Furthermore, we are reducing our payment term with an increased cash ratio to managers of our suppliers. enable our suppliers to experience a more stable cash flow. Unfair Trading Report Center 46 47 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ethical Management In response to increasing demands for corporate social responsibility and transparency, Daewoo E&C is committed to increasing its social contribution and creating an ethical corporate culture. To do this, we promote ethical decision-making and ensure transparent, fair practices through our internal compliance management system to build trust with our stakeholders. In 2016, we laid the foundation to establish an ethical compliance culture at a corporate-wide level through a more consistent ethical management system. Key Performance Le Ou R e ad tst Tr ate o er an ai ni of Pa f V ng rt olu Aw din ic % ip nta % ar g nc e d pl nc ia e 96 at R P C at ry io 99 n ia om pl C om e C nl in O Plans for the Future ▶ Enhancement of the compliance system ▶ Solidify CP activities ▶ CP support activities • Increase the participation of employees • Respond to the Anti-Graft Law • CP support for suppliers through the CP1)System systematically • Increase overseas CP support • Respond to the Global ESG2) Evaluation • Improve CP inspections/evaluations through proactive CP management • Enhance compliance training • Build a compliance discussion system • Promote the internal report system 1) Compliance Program 2) Environment, Social, Governance 48 49 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ethical Management Compliance Strategy by Stage Compliance and Ethical Management In 2015, we built a foundation for our CP and a managing system to raise awareness of compliance for our employees. As our midto long-term plan, we are going to promote a voluntary ethic compliance culture to create a transparent corporate culture while building an ethical management system as a global Compliance Reinforcement company. Compliance Strategy Daewoo E&C pursues sustainability management by performing fair and transparent tasks and strives to 2019~ 2025~ enhance all of domestic and overseas employees’ awareness of ethics and compliance with laws. We also set ‘Better Tomorrow with Compliance’ as our slogan for 2017 to signify realizing compliance for the better 2016~ 2024 ● Maturity Global leader in maintaining future and established and are carrying out various strategies to settle the ethical and law compliance 2018 ● Strengthening Solidifying voluntary CP sustainable practices culture. ● Growth 2015 Systemizing the CP system (ethical compliance culture) Certifying for global CP ● Introduction Internalizing voluntary CP CP Core Strategy Creating the CP foundation Daewoo E&C is focusing on the CP activities for the 8 areas in line with the main tasks. We have set up a and system(regulations, compliance guide for each sector and provide guidelines for our employees to follow. organizations, programs) Compliance System Daewoo E&C is building and operating compliance programs to enhance its internal response to risks. While standardizing CP regulations, compliance guides in each key area and compliance guidelines • Prevention of bribery • Prevention of bribery by stakeholder, we promote an ethical compliance culture through training programs based on the corruption and unethical practices Sustainability Management Committee and Compliance Council. In addition, we are reinforcing our compliance system through regular internal reviews and evaluations. Domestic Overseas AntiAntiInternal Regulations Sustainability Management On/Off Line Training CP Review by Unit Corruption Corruption (CP Regulations, Committee Voluntary CP HQ CP Evaluation Ethical Regulations) Chief Ethics and Compliance (Talk, Message, Internal Training) Monitoring • Prohibition of • Prohibition of unfair Compliance Guide by Area Officer CP Poster/Newsletter unethical codiscrimination, Compliance Council conducts Fair Mutual unethical financial Compliance Leader, Manager (ex; collusion) Practices Cooperation demands and • Unfair transactions practices Compliance TFT The 8 areas • Prevention of unauthorized of CP • Prohibition of unethical display of disclosure advertisement Trainin of corporate Display • Compliance ni z a ti o n g / Pr om information and IT with advertising O rga o ti personal data Security Advertisement standards on Re vi ew Employment/ em HSE-Q Labor st /E Practice Sy va lua CP • Compliance with ti o n the safety, health and environmental standards Compliance Program • Prevention of • Prohibition of illegal causes of defective employment and construction work unfair treatment 50 51 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ethical Management Compliance System 1) Compliance Score for Compliance Review and Evaluation Division Management Under the Anti-Graft and Bribery Law that came into enforcement in September 2016, we reorganized At Daewoo E&C, we are raising awareness of compliance through a review of teams and sites on their Evaluation : 4 Points in our compliance management system to prevent any violation of the law and illegal practices. To raise 2015 -> 11 Points in 2016 CP activities. In addition, we evaluate the CP performance of each division and rate their performance awareness of the Anti-Graft Law, we established a set of guidelines and distributed guidebooks while (out of 100) while increasing the importance of the compliance category1) in our corporate-wide division management implementing an internal report system as part of our strategy to identify and resolve issues in advance. evaluation as part of our performance evaluation system. Furthermore, we established a compliance system for our subsidiaries, providing necessary support for the response to third-party compliance risks. In addition, we prepared a set of anti-corruption guidelines for our overseas employees while taking a Promotion of an Ethical Management Culture proactive approach to compliance risk when undertaking global projects. Ethical Management Activities Compliance Organization and Roles By strengthening our compliance management, we are raising awareness of ethical conduct at a Our compliance organization consists of the Compliance TFT that manages compliance practice, a corporate-wide level while preventing unethical practices in our daily work processes. We organized Sustainability Management Committee that reviews important matters related to compliance and a various campaigns including ‘Ethical Holidays’, ‘Sound Congratulatory Event Notice’ and ‘Healthy Drinking Compliance Council that handles activities in detail. In addition, the company appoints Chief Ethics and Culture’ to ensure fair, transparent practices when dealing with suppliers and partners with a high risk Compliance officer as supervisor, Compliance Leader managing overall CP activities in each division and of unethical conduct. We will continue to raise employee awareness and promote an ethical corporate Compliance Manager in charge of conducting unit-based CP activities to carry out systemic compliance culture. activities. Ethical Management Campaign Organization Member Role Campaigns Contents Sustainability Management CEO(Chairman), Executive Officer Deliberation of key factors for CP operation Committee (incl. ESG and ethical management) Ethical Holidays • No receipt of gifts from our suppliers or other stakeholders during holidays to uphold an ethical corporate culture. Compliance Officer Head of Auditor’s Office(appointed by BoD) General operation and management of CP • Monitoring activities are performed on divisions and project sites to prevent any unethical conduct in advance. Compliance TFT Compliance TFT Manager and Members CP practice support Training, promotion, review and evaluation Sound Congratulatory • It is prohibited to announce personal events to suppliers and partners to ensure fair business practice. Event Notice • Personal or family events may only be announced to coworkers in order to avoid putting any pressure Compliance Council Compliance Administrator, Compliance TFT Manager Discussion of detailed CP activities on suppliers. and Leader (progress, areas of improvement, etc.) Healthy Drinking Culture • Upholding a healthy drinking and party culture under the slogan ‘Drink only one type of liquor at only one Compliance Leader(CL) Staff from Office/Division Senior Team General management of CP activities in place and go home before 9’. Staff from Related Teams offices and divisions (HR, legal affairs, overseas contract management, etc.) (CP promotion, training, review, etc.) Compliance Manager(CM) Staff from Unit Organization(e.g. team, site, etc.) General management of CP activities in unit organization Plan & Goal Compliance Training and Promotion In 2016, we organized a 3-minute online compliance training In 2017, we are going to internalize ethical awareness to minimize compliance risks and achieve a high level of growth in core areas. Through a compliance system, we plan to further increase employee participation and interest program on a monthly basis which previously had been provided while improving our training program and the CP review and evaluation process. In addition, we are going to build a once a year. We also organized various events including a slogan, discussion system to increase the level of support for our employees at project sites while focusing on strengthening catchphrase, video scenario and column to promote the best the foundation of corporate-wide compliance activities. ideas about compliance and apply them in practice to encourage employees to participate voluntarily. ▶ Compliance System • Consistent, systematic management of CP activities In addition, we publish ‘Monthly Compliance Newsletter’ to share • Increase in employee participation and interest ▶ Response to ESG(Environmental, Social, Governance) Evaluation information and webtoons about compliance theories and policy • Analysis and improvement in the areas of corporate governance evaluation trends. In 2017, we are building a compliance system for more • Gradual increase in the response to global ESG evaluations ▶ Overseas Compliance Support Publication of a Sustainability Report optimized for bidding on overseas projects effective management of CP activities to promote employees’ • Increase in the area of CP review at overseas project sites voluntary participation. • Specification of CP compliance and responsibilities provisions when signing contracts with overseas agencies and partners Monthly Compliance Newsletter 52 53 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Better Tomorrow 56 Development of Innovative Technologies 64 New Business and Market Development 76 Eco-friendly Construction Guri-Pocheon Expressway 2nd Construction cross-section 54 55 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Development of Innovative Technologies In the wave of the 4th Industrial Revolution, the construction industry is looking for new growth engines for the future. At Daewoo E&C, we are focusing our resources on the development based on the convergence of each of our business areas and ICT/IoT to create a new technology for our future. We are also exploring new business models and strategies for development of innovative technologies with an aim to gain competitive advantages in the market. Key Performance Te C ch on 1) W R K Won no tri ce es on es lo bu lli an as C Bi ar C as m gi tio ds rf or 5 ca n l th .2 Aw 6 R &D Pe 15 Su ro 68 pp ug or h IC D T t 2) Plans for the Future ▶ Technology development for construction ▶ Eco-friendly technology development ▶ Future growth engine & IT convergence • Zero Energy House based on energy-saving • Smart city • Construction technology and site innovation technology (80%) by 2023 • Seawater desalination technology system based on ICT/IoT • CO2 capture and captured materials • Drone technology • Monitoring of structural design/construction utilization technology of emission gases • Zero energy building technology linked with BIM • Carbon resource technology • Development and expansion of the home IoT service platform 1) Research projects, industrial property rights, papers 2) Cost reduction, restraint of uncollected contracts, support for orders 56 57 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Development of Innovative Technologies DICT HR Organization Ratio Development of Innovative Technologies Academic Degree Job Daewoo E&C focuses on development of Innovative Technologies in all areas of business including Doctor 46% Civil 47% construction, housing, civil engineering, plants and IT to maximize R&D performance and efficiency. As a Master 33% Building 28% leading construction and housing development company in Korea, we concentrate our R&D resources to secure fundamental technology for more eco-friendly and sustainable growth. With this goal in mind, we Bachelor 19% Mechanics 14% established the Daewoo E&C Institute of Construction Technology(DICT), a first for the construction industry. Etc. 2% Electrics 4% By bringing together the highest-level of experts as well as researching and putting into practice new and applied technologies that concern the entirety of construction, we are laying the groundwork to create Business 7% pioneering technology. Through active involvement in technological collaboration with the global institutes, we collect and digest information to achieve the highest level of technological expertise in the industry. Operation Strategy Daewoo E&C Institute of Construction Technology(DICT) Until now, research organizations in the construction sector have concentrated on providing technical support in the field and developing technology, thus having a relatively smaller business planning functions First Technology Institute in the Industry such as market forecasting, strategy for securing technology and developing new business models. In 1983, Daewoo E&C established DICT to carry out research and experiments for the first time in the However, companies have an increasing need for such functions in order to manage their technologies industry, opening the chapter for the full-fledged development of construction technology. As a total more effectively in the long run and stay competitive in the market. In response to this need, we plan our solution provider responding to the entire value chain from design and construction to maintenance, the strategy to secure technologies based on the new business forecasts, technological requirements and institute boasts world-class expertise and is exclusively developing BMC(Building Movement Control) competition, and business strategies and goals. which can predict changes in the building structure during the pre-construction design stage, during the construction process, as well as post-construction. With the development of market-coordinated onsite To achieve this goal, we are developing new technologies based on the demands proposed in the field technology and future-oriented technological innovation, we will gain competitive advantages and pave the and our business divisions. In addition, we established a CEO reward program for the employees who way for the future as a global leader in innovation. contributed to the reduction of costs and time as part of our R&D virtuous cycle system. Our efforts in innovation will create new values and differentiate our competitive advantages for sustainable growth in the Organization future. About 80% of DICT is composed of the industry’s top talents with masters and doctoral degrees(83 persons, As of December 2016). For a more flexible response to changes, we changed its organization Management Policy structure from business division-oriented to performance-centered with a focus on gaining new momentum for growth. The key to this change is to respond to the 4th Industrial Revolution and other paradigm Innovative Technology Leader for Sustainable Growth shifts by creating new growth engines for the future and establishing business units to maximize profit Areas of Focus generation. This restructuring process is expected to help us support not only our existing businesses and the development of new technologies and construction methods but will also create new value for the Technology Development Technical Support Technology Projects Technology Planning creation of future growth engines and enable the DICT to reach beyond Korea to become a leading global •P rojects requested by business  ew site support and cost •N • Technology royalty increase •M arket forecast and specialized divisions reduction •R esearch eco-system technology strategy technology institute. • Future growth-driving projects  ite quality, safety and process •S for business start-up and •C ompetitive advantages efficiency support commercialization through technology DB and Director of DICT convergence Senior Researcher Technology Technology Architectural Engineering Civil & Plant Engineering R&D Planning Team Technology planning & strategy Technology development project by government Development Team Commercialization Team Research Team Research Team Technology Planning/ Technology Utilization Construction/ Civil Engineering/Plant On-site technical support & support for winning projects Technology projects Senior Team Operation Strategic Business Profit Generation Housing Technological Technological Development Development & Support Development & Support Development of technologies needed by business divisions Promotion and HR development • Planning/Performance • Technology Planning • DMBR • Structure/Construction • Prefabricated Bridge Management • Project Development/ • DBS • Concrete • Road/New Type Railroad • HR/Compliance Support Enhancement • CQC, HIT • Noise/Vibration • Slope/Fragile Ground • Budget/Accounting • Preoccupancy of Future • Shingori Concrete Service • BIM/PRECON • Tunnel/Foundation/Pile • General Affairs/Facilities Business PJ • Zero Energy • Seawater Desalination/ Management Maintenance, Drone • Smart Construction • Automation Water Purification Site-oriented R&D On-site Technical Technology Future Growth • Promotion/Training/ Carbon Resource • Laboratory Operation • Automatic Welding/ Performance Support Projects Engine Communication Smart City Welding Inspection • Industrial Property Rights Management 58 59 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Development of Innovative Technologies Technology Application by Sector Site-oriented R&D Performance To cope with the high demand for the development of technology required on-site, we are reorganizing our work process to ensure organic coordination and pursue site-oriented R&D activities. Each business Civil We developed super long-span bridge assembly division identifies technological demands and keeps DICT updated while applying new technology in technology(precast deck/barrier/bridge pier), the field to reduce construction time and costs for a better chance to win projects. Under this system, precast modular retaining wall and soft ground DICT completed 10 government funded projects including the ‘Development of CO2 Capture and Large improvement technology. Capacity Storage Technology Using Exhaust Gas Direct Reaction’, ‘Study on Partial Replacement and Low Carbon Materials for ICT-based Bridge Life Extension’ and 24 projects requested by business divisions including the ‘Development of Zero Energy Building Structure Element’ and ‘Development of Technologybased Safety Control System’. On-site Technical Support For more efficient technical support and the quantification of results, we operate a technical support system to solve problems on site. As a result, we are able to save costs and respond in advance to nonreflected subcontracts. With more substantial support at new sites, we further improve our chance for winning the project. Thanks to this on-site technical support, we managed to save KRW 14.8 billion and Building/Housing prevent non-reflected subcontracts at an amount of KRW 25.1 billion, reduce construction time by 1,746 We secured smart crack reduction concrete days and support 15 new sites. technology, low carbon reinforcement concrete technology and a noise monitoring system to Technology Business reduce energy by 80%. Also, we could undertake We are undertaking various projects based on our technologies including the Daewoo Biogas precise construction by using Building Movement System(DBS), Daewoo Membrane Bio-Reactor(DMBR), Construction by Quick hardening fill using CoControl(BMC) which proved its excellence through products(CQC), Structural Health Monitoring(SHM) and Building Movement Control(BMC). As a result, application to 20 overseas and domestic projects. we earned KRW 8.43 billion in sales and KRW 520 million in royalties with technical support and our own technology projects. Eco-friendly Plant c tio n K R W 1 4.8 st redu billi In the plant sector, we developed and applied Co on W 8. 43 billion in s fl e c t e d s u b c o n tr a c t KR ale re sK eco-friendly organic waste-to-energy production n RW i ll i o no 15 ca se s, K R W 520 m n in ro technology, carbon capture and material utilization of ort 28 W ya lt y up p .3 25 KR en c n s t r u t i o n ti m .1 technology, and advanced sewage treatment ti o f co e bi bill Prev Ord on llio 1, n io n technology. In addition, we developed technology er 74 s 6 day R e d u ct f o r a n o ff s h o re s u b m a r i n e p i p e l i n e d e s i g n io n On-site Technical Technology Support Projects s technology and explosion-related advanced engineering technology for the localization of technologies. ICT In response to the 4 th Industrial Revolution, we incorporated ICT-based Smart Construction including equipment access control and worker positioning-based safety management for civil Growth Engines and construction projects. We applied excavation Daewoo E&C Institute of Construction Technology(DICT) is working on cooperation and partnerships with volume analysis using drones and 3D model-based government-funded research institutes and public offices to create growth engines and secure potential construction planning while expecting to secure markets for a sustainable future. In addition, we are introducing our new technologies to overseas sites to technologies for the improvement of productivity at secure the new technology business. our work sites. 60 61 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Development of Innovative Technologies R&D achievements and external cooperation Research Project Achievements (Unit : Case) Based on various technology development in 2016, DICT registered 23 patents and applied 19 patents including ‘Noise isolation and floor structure’, and also registered 2 new technologies(‘New technologies Category Continued New Subtotal Completed for construction of high-load' and etc.), 1 registered patent and 14 additional intellectual property rights Business Division 9 15 24 16 including ‘Structural soundness monitoring software’. We published 43 domestic and 16 international Requested Projects studies including ‘Characteristics of high-purity CO2 capture using carbonation of alkaline sorbent’. Government Projects 8 2 10 4 In addition, we received 6 awards for each major technology research area of DICT including the Total 17 17 34 20 Presidential Citation for Construction Engineers. We also strengthened our partnership with external organizations by signing 3 project agreements including the Joint Research and Commercialization of Railway Bridges. Industrial Property Rights Performance (Unit : Case) Category Owned 2016 Registration Remarks Total Pending Registered Patent 329 19 23 352 New Technology 9 2 1 10 Others 143 3 14 157 Green Tech.(2), Design(67), Utility Model(6), SW(82) Total 481 24 38 519 Plan & Goal Korea Railroad Research Institute MOA As the 4th Industrial Revolution is approaching, IoT and ICT technologies are recognized for their importance. At DICT, we combine our technologies to provide high value-added services and secure a new growth engine while responding to new paradigm shifts with a focus on the 7 New Projects selected by the Ministry of Land, R&D Performance Infrastructure and Transport : drone technology, desalination technology, smart city technology, zero energy building technology and 9 National Strategy Projects selected by the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning : the Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Goal carbon resource development and fine dust solution technology. Under this plan, in 2017 we will establish a new Amount Investment KRW 1 million 15,657 14,615 16,450 organization by combining ICT technology for smart cities and drone technology for improving productivity as our Manpower No. of Staff Person 86 83 83 growth engine for the future. Result Projects Case 39 34 30 Industrial property rights 45 62 63 (Patent, new technology) Papers(Domestic, Overseas) 60 59 50 Awards 6 6 7 62 63 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT New Business and Market Development Due to a prolonged economic slowdown over the years, many countries are expected to reduce their SOC1) budget. To deal with this economic trend, we plan to advance our EPC2) performance and improve profitability while exploring new opportunities in the Middle East and Southeast Asia to develop new growth engines for the future. Furthermore, in response to industrial trends for seeking new drivers for growth in the wave of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, we set a goal to develop new technologies through convergence of each business for the future. Key Performance Es ce o Et New ta rti A em M Dev hi te fic cq op en D at uir D an elo ia try ev io e om ag p Ex in el n d p es em EP pr to op fo r tt tic en C es E sw as m r T elim rs al t ly ay t A en ot i Fi O fric t S al na st er Re ry Sy rd a er vi al ce Plans for the Future ▶ Discover new business and explore new ▶ Business diversification and secure new ▶ Advancing EPC Capabilities markets growth engines • Accumulating the detail engineering skills in • Promote new business through cooperation • Building a foundation for the total real estate each discipline with global / local companies(Botswana, developer • Improving DAEWOO E&C's own EPC Iran etc.) Strengthening real estate developer Management System • Founding proposal type businesses led by capabilities through the expansion of • Developing its own management system for Daewoo E&C the front value chain(planning, financing, the efficient outsourcing development) • Pursuing Projects by cooperating with Providing comprehensive real estate global leading companies, and using it as services through lease value chain benchmarking opportunities extensions(lease, management, distribution, etc.) • O&M business • Renewable energy business 1) Social Overhead Capital : Various public facilities that are the basis of industrial development such as transportation (communication, water), power and sanitation 2) Engineering, Procurement, Construction : A contract method in which the contractor constructs a plant with overall responsibility for design, procurement and construction 64 65 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT New Business and Market Development Global Market Expansion New Business and Market Expansion Strategy Daewoo E&C is going to improve its risk-reviewing process and focus our resources to undertake profitable overseas projects. In other words, our plan is to focus on infrastructure, power plants and In 2016, the economic slowdown and low oil prices continued globally. The economic recession is petrochemical projects with competitive advantages while utilizing our existing sales force in base markets. expected to be prolonged due to uncertainty in interest rates and declining consumption as well as We are also planning to distribute risks through partnerships with leading EPC companies in order to domestic political risk. In this challenging economic condition, Daewoo E&C is focusing on strengthening undertake projects with a solid base. As overseas project owners are demanding new business models the hub market while securing new growth engines for the future. To develop new markets and business with financing, we are committed to developing new overseas projects based on infrastructure funds and areas, we reorganized our business units while planning to increase our global presence through close investment funds. While further enhancing our market position in the long-term, we are going to reduce coorpoeration among our divisions. In addition, we are going to improve our profitability by taking a our reliance on the African and Middle Eastern markets and diversify, advance again our regional business proactive approach to our changing business portfolio. portfolio. We set our midand long-term strategic goal as a ‘Global Infra & Energy Developer’ to achieve KRW 25 trillion in sales and KRW 2 trillion in operating profit. To do this, we need to advance and specialize our business performance along with R&D investment while establishing new business strategies to expand Global Network the areas of investment, development and operation as part of our diversification plan. As a growing global corporation, it is also important to focus our limited resources on the right projects to overcome the economic crisis. Discover new business and explore new markets New Business Strategy In 2016, Daewoo E&C aims to undertake new growth engine projects through the diversification of its business portfolio. We are transitioning into becoming a total real estate developer by leveraging the synergy 01 18 between the housing and construction sectors and incorporating IT to explore new business opportunities 17 in the IoT market. Meanwhile, the Civil Project Division focuses on profitability through new business models 05 04 03 03 10 21 09 including renewable energy while the Plant Business Division is gaining growth momentum in Southeast 19 08 0706 02 11 12 Asian countries such as Vietnam and Indonesia. In addition, we are working on expanding our business 05 04 based on sound management by utilizing the EPC Management System developed by our company and 01 15 22 13 collaborating with advanced companies to improve efficiency throughout the entire business. 20 14 16 New Business Strategy by Division 1) Public-Private Partnership : Civil Project Building Housing Overseas Civil & Plant Through the cooperation 02 Division Works Division Building Business system, the government Division Division Division supports private interests(corporates, NGO, etc.) to enter into developing coutries •R  enewable energy : focus •E  xpansion of market • Securing profitable land • Improving the basis •P  rioritizing projects on solar/wind power energy areas through a review of and strengthening risk for project orders and based on profitability project diversification management through performance •P  lanning project orders Branch Subsidiary • Smart City : (Planning/proposal & public diversification •U  tilizing local and performance  new market development PF) • General project order construction companies strategies through No. Country Company No. Country Company No. Country Company and maintain high revenue • Securing project orders – taking orders based of the Strategic Planning cooperation with leading 01 Nigeria Port Harcourt Branch 12 Vietnam Hanoi Branch DW • R-Project : through Precon on demand/supply Division companies 01 New York, U.S.A. AMERICA DEVEL‘T projection, new project 02 Republic of South Africa Johannesburg Branch 13 Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Branch  lead the market with • Building a database of •E 1)  xpanding the PPP /IPP •P  articipating in overseas INC. proactive actions project owner/affiliates development e.g. Military projects of the Overseas IPP projects and plant 03 Libya Tripoli Branch 14 Singapore Singapore Branch Mutual Aid Association THT •S  eawater desalination : and strengthening Marketing Division O&M in Southeast Asia 04 Algeria Algiers Branch 15 Philippines Manila Branch 02 Hanoi, Vietnam DEVELOPMENT lead the projects through networks with •U rban maintenance •U ndertaking a Korean e.g. Vietnam, Indonesia CO.,LTD developers – making sales through 05 Morocco Rabat Branch 16 Indonesia Jakarta Branch technological innovation style new urban compliance with licensing Daewoo Tripoli and strong performance • Improving profit in development project Abu Dhabi Branch 17 Japan Tokyo Branch schedule, taking key 06 UAE 03 Tripoli, Libya Investment & development through overseas(ex. housing in Dubai Branch 18 China Beijing Branch projects orders by Development Co. investment and Saudi Arabia) selection of strong improving brand value 07 Catarrh Doha Branch 19 Egypt Cairo Branch SAIPAN LAULAU 04 Saipan, U.S.A. position(Internally •S trengthening public 08 Saudi Arabia Al-Khobar Branch 20 Columbia Bogota Branch DEVELOPMENT, INC. developed projects and sales performance 09 Kuwait Kuwait Branch 21 Iran Teheran Branch Daewoo E&C Nigeria equity investment) according to increasing 05 Lagos, Nigeria Ltd public projects 10 Iraq Baghdad Branch 22 Venezuela Caracas Branch 11 Oman Muscat Branch 66 67 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT New Business and Market Development Global Business Reorganization Highway Construction Project in Ethiopia Due to global financial tightening from 2015, the percentage of private investment business has increased In February 2016, Daewoo E&C won a USD 82 million deal to construct a highway in Ethiopia, the center in the construction industry. To deal with this economic trend, we recognized the importance of increasing of East Africa, and kicked off the project. According to the plan, the project will link the two regions of Meki private investment projects and established overseas investment and development teams as part of our and Zeway in Oromia, a state in central Ethiopia, by a 37-kilometer four-lane highway. Once completed, a global business strategy. In particular, we organized new overseas PPP/IPP units and formed partnership wide road network connecting Ethiopia with Kenya as far as Mombasa on the east coast will be opened with local companies and global leaders to increase our overseas investment projects. As part of these up. It is likely to revive bilateral trade between the two East African nations, and also will help Ethiopia, a efforts, we participated in the tender for the Botswana Coal Fired Power Plant jointly with the Korea Electric landlocked country to expand the marine logistical network and boost regional economic growth. Thanks Power Corporation, signed an MOU for the development of the Iran Sirjan Combined Cycle Power Plant to this deal, Daewoo E&C is able to expand its presence in not only North African countries such as with Gohar and Korean Western Power Co., Ltd. and discussed a Coal Fired Power Plant project with the Nigeria, Algeria, Libya and Morocco but also Botswana in South Africa and Ethiopia in East Africa. Vietnamese government. Global Business Support Diversification of the Business Portfolio and Creating New Growth Engines Overseas Overseas Global HR & Global HSES Team International Legal Building a Foundation for the Total Real Estate Developer Investment and Marketing Team of Service Team Affairs Team Development Team Each Division • Reinforcing our • Closely coordinated • Proactive labor • Intensive support • Overseas ondevelopment project order activities management support for countries with site contract Enhance performance as a developer_ performance and and performance and : timely/proper staffing high-risk, onmanagement/claim Increase development profits + create synergy through financing overseas investment management(Civil/ through monitoring of site instruction support and development Building/Plant) supply/demand and inspection, • Providing overseas project through new • Overseas mobile dispatching security legal consultations PPP/IPP units support : organizing managers and building a the Project Mobile • Reinforcing security database Support Council management system_building IT infrastructure-based management system Planning Financing Development Overseas Urban Development Project Recognizing that the construction industry is progressing towards a convergence industry that combines development, financing, construction and management, we are preparing ourselves to respond to the diversification of processes and markets. The Hanoi ‘Starlake City’ Development Project is our first project that converged the entire business process, from urban development planning to financing, construction Build a foundation for new growth engine and sales, based on our own know-how and technical expertise. Based on this project, the Overseas Civil Diversify products & Building Division decided the direction of our new business to be development of housing and complex self-sufficient city. We signed a partnership agreement of a new urban development project in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia in March 2016 and we plan to pursue more overseas urban development projects in the Construction Sales future. Lease Management Distribution Residential Reform Service Strengthen expertise in lease management_ Generate stable profits based on solid construction performance + Aerial View of Starlake City in Hanoi, Vietnam additional profits through operation and management based on solid construction performance 68 69 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT New Business and Market Development Acquired preliminary certification for the Total Real Estate Development Service O&M Business Daewoo E&C is preparing to make a leap into becoming a total real estate services provider including R-Project(Rehabilitate) ‘Lease Trading Distribution – Management’ by expanding existing value chain of ‘Development Sales The R-Project is an undertaking private investment in construction projects including the renovation, – Construction’. To this end, we are developing a specialized brand and system for leasing management repair, reinforcement and expansion of the existing social infrastructure with enhanced safety, efficiency and obtained the preliminary certification of network-type total real estate development services from the and durability. First, we explore a profit generation model through pilot projects and expand the areas of government. business to grow into a market leader. With this preliminary certification, Daewoo E&C will be able to provide the total services that consumers want with a one-stop service along with the PRUGIO Service, while maintaining the existing business. Accordingly, we plan to provide total services including financing, lease management, consultation for Renewable Energy Business evaluation, legal affairs and accounting, changing our business process from ‘Development→Construction Renewable Energy →Sale’ to ‘Sale→Lease Management→Sale’. The Civil Project Division is planning to develop a new revenue creation model by improving the business performance of our employees and exploring new projects with a focus on the solar and wind power Enhancement of Performance as a Real Estate Developer sectors. At our Building Works Division, we plan our business diversification by undertaking planning/proposal and public projects. In addition, we are expanding our value chain to include ‘planning/financing/development’ Seawater Desalination by carefully selecting projects with a high potential for sales and diversifying our business models as a total Daewoo E&C is working on the commercialization of low-energy desalination technology through several real estate developer to create new growth engines for the future. R&D projects undertaking as part of the government policy. Based on the partnership with leading technology companies such as Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction, we are going to secure more Real Estate Developer Finance technical expertise and develop business models to improve our market position. Development profit Business Planning Investment profit Undertaking projects Private Sector-led Development Project Our Plant Business Division is working on the construction of combined cycle power plants, coal-fired power plants and nuclear power plants in North Africa and the Middle East. Further, with the aim of implementing the private power generation project as new next-generation growth business, the company launched construction for Pocheon complex private power generation project at the class of 940MW in August 2014, which began its commercial operation in March 2017. As a result, we have achieved steady growth in profitability over the next 30 years, and we have achieved the midand long-term strategic goal, ‘Global Infra & Energy Developer’. Based on the IPP project experience, we are strengthening our partnerships with developers around the world in order to explore and develop private-financed projects. As part of our midand long-term strategies, we plan to participate in large IPP equity investment and plant O&A projects in Southeast Asia such as Vietnam and Indonesia while strengthening our expertise as a total power developer. In the areas of our strength, we are focusing on profit generation through cost reduction while forming partnerships with leading companies to improve our performance in design and purchase and build a solid business structure for the success of the project. Furthermore, for timely completion of projects that require less construction time, we are increasing the installation of modules while leveraging the design/ purchase management strategy with a focus on development to meet the project timeline and quality requirement. Pocheon Compound Private Power Plant 70 71 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT New Business and Market Development Advanced EPC integration capability ICT Convergence Enhance project management by introducing management techniques Convergence & Combined Service Development for the 4th Industrial Revolution We are expanding and reinforcing our business competence that was focused on the construction sector. In response to the Fourth Industrial Revolution and low-growth market environment, our resources are At Daewoo E&C, we are strengthening our capabilities for the detail engineering and project management focused on the development of a new construction business using IoT and ICT convergence services by benchmarking the global leading companies, who manage their whole E/P/C process systematically. In as our new growth engine for the future. In 2016, accumulated technology and expertise are applied addition, we are building the management foundation for more accurate input and efficient outsourcing to in practice at overseas project sites as well as domestic sites while building our reputation through maintain strong profitability. cooperation with the central and local governments and public organization. Based on an IT system including 3D Modeling, we completed our internal basis for Glocalization through a new management process and remote monitoring system in 2016 while planning to build a platform for Construction/Safety IoT Project(Smart Construction) cooperation with suppliers in 2017. • Selection of pilot sites and completion of the first phase(Civil : Seohae Line Railway 4, Building : Wirye Woonam Station PRUGIO) • Application of access control in dangerous areas(e.g. tunnel pit) and fire/suffocation prevention technology(safety) • Improvement and application of site access control system : 18 sites, application of new technology(iris recognition, ID card scanner) Home IoT Work Process Development & Application for Sales Sites Planning Monitoring • Signing a MOU with LG U+ for Home IoT(June 8, 2016) • Installation of Home IoT promotional booths at show houses : Yeonhee Park, Poil Central, Shiheung Central PRUGIO(3) CWP Dashboard • Further application to housing/construction sites EPC KIS QPI Management system Smart City(IT Convergence City) Integrated IT Systems The Smart City Project is building innovative cities where people can freely use cutting-edge information communication technologies. In partnership with leading telecommunication service providers, LG CNS 3D Modeling and KT, we aim to develop our own brand for road renovation projects. ▶ CWP(Construction Work Package) : Management of the Construction-Oriented Unit System At the center of our EPC project action plan and management, there is construction. Based on the construction plan, we set the common unit of management for projects while managing the progress and budget. In 2016, our internal work process system was improved to make it easier to calibrate our strategy based on priority. As a result, we are better equipped to handle a changing situation in a timely manner. The agility we gained is an essential factor for fast tracking projects for more profitability. ▶ KIS(Knowledge Input System) : Strategy Program for Project Performance Although projects are performed in the order of E(Engineering), P(Procurement) and C(Construction), our projects are planned in reverse order to expedite the construction process as we plan the construction requirement resources and timeline first(C). Then, we plan the procurement of materials and machinery(P) and strategy to execute the construction and purchase plans(E). The finalized plans are strategized through our internal program known as KIS(Knowledge Input System) and implemented by each organization. ▶ Dashboard : Monitoring BAROCON Project E/P Performance Status IoT Smart Switch In 2016, Daewoo E&C developed a dashboard for monitoring project E/P performance in real time. Now, we can monitor the design progress and procurement of materials and machinery at our project sites worldwide. Furthermore, we can identify and respond to risks in advance. We are applying it in practice for the S-Oil Residue Upgrading Complex(RUC) in Ulsan and the Al-Zour Refinery in Challenge Team Composition Kuwait in 2017. As part of our preparations for the 4th Industrial Revolution, we established a challenge team to discover creative and innovative ideas. The Challenge Team, which consists of voluntary support from the 2nd to 4th year staff, voluntarily carries out freely chosen ▶ QPI(Quality Performance Indicator) : Project Performance Quality Indicator assignments such as new growth engines, schemes, tasks, and processes. Daewoo E&C helps them to do what they want to do outside of the established framework for the year, and if the challenge team wants to cooperate with other organizations and advise We have introduced a performance quality indicator for each area of EPC. This allows us to categorize and quantify the items that the experts, the strategic planning team will be the coordinator. The challenge team is expected to be a catalyst for creating an were managed based on qualitative methods and identify the trend by measuring them on a regular basis to identify problems in voluntary corporate culture and driving innovation and change. advance. 72 73 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT New Business and Market Development Plan & Goal Plan for the Future by Business Division Division 2017 3-Year Plan for the Future At Daewoo E&C, we defined Core Competence Enhancement, Diversification of Business and Glocalization as our core missions for systematic performance of midand Civil • Operate convergence/combined system for new growth engine Review new target growth business progress and create a roadmap • Optimize the midand long-term business portfolio Reach the 12% target for new growth driving business(public 32%, private Develop additional projects and discuss action plans 56%) long-term strategies and gaining competitive advantages in • Secure new growth driving projects and increase sales • Develop and promote new growth driving projects our future business. To achieve 2025 ‘Global Infra & Energy C reate a profit generation model through technological innovation and • Enhance the public and private project performance Developer’, we have established the following roadmap. Increase the sales and improve the cost efficiency for private-investment business partnerships projects • Develop human resources with a midand long-term perspective Differentiate design sales and focus on large profitable projects Foster special process experts Focus on the development of developers Building • Build a database of project sites • Diversify business • B uild a foundation for sustainable growth Maintain strong performance in the contract business · Manage the network with project owners • Strengthen internal competence · Secure projects through technical sales Improve the level of performance through an internal training system E nhance the performance of Developers with training programs on Increase the performance as a Developer development and planning · Undertake planning/proposal type projects · Secure a database of development sites Housing • Enhance competitive advantages and maximize profits Build a solid business portfolio by SBU • Stabilize business operation and risk management Meet the groundbreaking timeline for construction business Diversify business models(e.g. private sector participated projects) Enhance public sales performance Improve brand performance(promotion of the premium brand and secure Manage move-in risk projects in key regions) Create a foundation for the total real estate development service : develop Enhance competitive edges in designs/products brand/system for lease management Establish a system to respond to changing markets Undertake New Stay and Happy Housing projects Reinforce risk management by business process Perform smalland medium-sized pilot projects : secure pilot projects with lease management Overseas • S trengthen business foundation Focus on core business models in overseas business locations • Build a foundation for strengthening the portfolio Diversify the countries where core business models are carried out Construction S ecure projects and enhance competitive advantages through strong Diversify the business models of base countries partnerships Localize business processes in major countries Strengthen preemptive reponse to risk Plant • U ndertake projects based on profitability Strengthen strategic partnerships • D istribute risk in new markets Strengthen partnerships with leading construction and engineering companies Focus on construction projects in our areas of strength Advance the management of leading businesses • Seek ways to undertake development projects with financing • E nter the modularization market • E nhance competitive advantages in EPC Plan to reduce risk and deal with environmental restrictions Form partnerships for exclusive media outlets Generate profit through a simplified subcontract process Secure competitiveness in pricing though Chinese and Indian companies Gain competitive advantages for the best location and market positioning Undertake proposal-type development projects • Enhance performance with the existing business models • S trengthen development projects Improve the pricing models for combined coal and gas power Utilize ECA and overseas investment funds Focus on commercial nuclear power plants Maintain strong relationships with developers, financing companies and fuel • Increase private investment and O&M projects suppliers Domestic : develop follow-up projects and secure business rights(Pocheon • Build a global engineering platform Combined #2, etc.) O verseas : build a foundation for PPA-based projects with stable profit generation(Thermal(Gas Combined / Coal), Renewable) Develop overseas O&A projects by improving the domestic performance of Daewoo Power Co., Ltd. ICT Convergence • Undertake construction + ICT convergence pilot projects Construction/Home IoT Platform : expected to increase sites/projects • L ink with high value added projects Incorporate ICT into the housing lease business VR(virtual reality show house) : 3-4 pilot sites planned Link O&M(plant/facilities management) Improve the expertise of Smart City and propose projects Undertake Smart City(road/infrastructure) ICT 74 75 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Eco-friendly Construction Eco-friendly management is now a key area of business along with creating profit. Daewoo E&C is taking the initiative as an eco-friendly corporate to gain competitive advantages through proactive management activities while meeting legal requirements. To do this, we are going to focus our capabilities on renewable energy, the Zero Energy House and eco-friendly construction materials. Key Performance ie n t C Re G vi Aw dly 1) or 1m E on du e ro a C ³ mis m nm rd on su cti or 2) % of si kg en Re str m on C on t C sid uc at en tio eg ti n iz e 40 pt o io f n H on s 79 cr pe et r e fr oor al Pr en G Ec y em of En C n tio nd R ed uc ra G Plans for the Future ▶ Renewable energy business(wind power/ ▶ The Zero Energy House ▶ Eco-friendly construction materials solar power) • Pilot project for reducing energy for • Application of carbon capture utilization • Collection of project information and apartments by 80% technology, DECO2(Daewoo Elimination of securing EPC participation performance • Construction of the 2023 Zero Energy CO2) • Fostering the project development House by securing the optimum elemental • Development of low environmental impact performance of employees technology and program concrete and cement • Increase in equity participation projects : EPC + O&M • Business development competence : review of the selection of project sites and equipment • Development of project sites → undertaking internally developed projects → review of profit structure 1), 2) Effect of developing eco-friendly concrete/cement materials Suji Jinsan Village PRUGIO 76 77 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Eco-friendly Construction Renewable Energy Eco-friendly Construction We are actively reviewing and expanding our business in renewable energy including the technology for recycling sewage sludge, livestock manure and food waste into biogas. In addition, based on the Corporate social responsibility requirements for the environment are increasing steadily. Recognizing government project funded by the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, ‘Design of Wind Power Support that our environment is for the future generation, we are undertaking eco-friendly projects including the Structure and Development of Concrete Support Structure’, we obtained a license for the Haenam development of renewable energy, eco-friendly construction materials, processes and technologies. In Onshore Wind Power Development Project in July 2015 and Jeju Solar Power Development Project in response to unstable oil prices and increasing demand for diversification of energy sources due to climate September, which is planned to commence construction in May 2017. Furthermore, we are discussing the change agreements, we are working on the development of renewable energy and eco-friendly projects expansion of these projects with the related divisions. in the areas of housing, construction, civil projects and plants with an aim to build Zero Energy Houses by 2023 and make the world a better, cleaner place to live. Project • Jeju Solar Energy Project Daewoo E&C Eco-friendly Construction Description • Building a solar power plant on tangerine farms that are scheduled to be closed, villageowned facilities and public areas to create income streams for residents and supply The construction industry is closely associated to the environment due to the large amount of energy renewable energy for Jeju Province. consumed in construction materials, construction works, inhabitation, usage, and also the waste Type • Public Offering produced. We need the expertise and experience in developing eco-friendly technologies and renewable energy in order to minimize the impact of building structures on the environment and secure convenience Location • 111 places in Jeju and comfort for residents. Scale • Power Capacity : 47.515 MW Period • Construction : 18 months (Mar. 2017 Aug. 2018) • Operation : 20 years (Sep. 2018 Aug. 2038) Renewable Energy Bio-gas, wind/solar power, tidal energy, etc. Eco-friendly Zero Energy Construction Housing Materials Construction Eco-friendly low carbon concrete, Building exterior energy saving technology, eco-friendly marine concrete using nanoenergy analysis/simulation technology, silica, smart low crack concrete condensation prevention/optimal insulation design technology 78 79 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Eco-friendly Construction Zero Energy House Construction Eco-friendly Construction Certification Eco-friendly Technology ‘Green Premium’ Eco-friendly building structures must be built in consideration of our limited resources, energy and Developed by Daewoo E&C, Green Premium is a technology for Zero Energy Houses based on a production of wastes while harmonizing with the surrounding environment and providing healthy, convergence between passive energy technology for minimizing energy consumption and active comfortable living for their residents. At Daewoo E&C, we are building eco-friendly structures based on technology for energy self-sufficiency. Apartments designed with Green Premium technology provide a our technologies development in 2016 and working on their certification in terms of green buildings and smart control switch which includes real-time monitoring of energy, gas shutdown, lighting control, security energy-efficiency rating. settings and elevator call and heating energy saving system, standby power shutdown. It also uses a remote gauging/monitoring system for collecting and analyzing 5 factors which are electricity, gas, cold Eco-friendly Certification Status in 2016 and hot water supply and heating. In addition, energy saving devices such as a wind speed controlling multi-segment chamber, sensor-type sink water saver and ultra water-saving toilet are installed to create Project Certification Project Certification an eco-friendly residential environment. Dongtan Happy Village G-SEED Preliminary Certification : Gyeongju Hyeongok G-SEED Preliminary Certification : PRUGIO ‘Green 4th grade’ 2-cha PRUGIO ‘Green 4th grade’ 100% Energy Self-Sufficiency House Hanam Hills Part G-SEED Preliminary Certification : Uiwangjangahn District G-SEED Preliminary Certification PRUGIO ‘Green 2nd grade’ Park PRUGIO ‘General’ The ‘Zero Energy House’ is a concept of having a self-sufficient energy supply in the apartment complex. Cheongju Technopolis G-SEED Preliminary Certification : Building Energy Efficiency Preliminary Daewoo E&C developed ‘Green Premium’ technology based on this concept with an aim to implement it Certification ‘2nd grade’ PRUGIO ‘Green 4th grade’ by 2023. We are also planning to develop biogas energy using high concentration food waste and sewage Yeongjongdo Haneul G-SEED Preliminary Certification Daechi District 1 Pending for G-SEED ‘Best’ sludge for application first in the domestic market and overseas projects in the future. City PROGIO XI ‘Good’ Gangnam Station 3-cha G-SEED Certification ‘Excellent’ Pyeongtaek Sosabeol Wirye Jungang PRUGIO Preliminary Studio apartment PRUGIO Certification ‘Good’ Concept of zero energy building Songdo EduFore G-SEED Certification ‘Good’ Building Energy Efficiency Preliminary PRUGIO Building Energy Efficiency Certification Certification ‘2nd grade’ PASSIVE ACTIVE ‘1st Grade’ Ilsan Edu Fore PRUGIO G-SEED Preliminary Certification Minimizing the use of cooling and Songpa Park Habio G-SEED Certification ‘Good’ ‘General’ Renewable energy production(solar, Zero Energy Building heating energy(improved/enhanced Complex Building Energy Efficiency Preliminary biogas, geothermal, etc.) insulation performance, etc.) Certification ‘2nd grade’ Wirye Art River PRUGIO G-SEED Certification ‘Good’ Site Building Energy Efficiency Certification Jaegidong Station G-SEED Certification ‘Good’ ‘1st Grade’ Complex Building Site Building Energy Efficiency Certification Yeoksam Station Building Energy Efficiency Preliminary ‘2nd Grade’ Central PRUGIO City Certification ‘1st grade’ Wirye Jungang PRUGIO G-SEED Certification ‘Good’ Siheung G-SEED Preliminary Certification Site Building Energy Efficiency Certification ‘1st Grade’ Development of Eco-friendly Construction Materials Central PRUGIO ‘General’ Building Energy Efficiency Preliminary Poil G-SEED Preliminary Certification Certification ‘1st grade’ Central PRUGIO ‘General’ Reducing the Environmental Impact of Construction Materials Bucheon Jung-dong G-SEED Preliminary Certification Dongtan Station G-SEED Preliminary Certification In response to increasing environmental concerns about construction wastes, we are committed to the Central Park PRUGIO ‘Good’ PRUGIO City ‘Good’ development of eco-friendly and sustainable construction materials. In order to reduce the use of cement Building Energy Efficiency Preliminary Building Energy Efficiency Preliminary Certification ‘1st grade’ Certification ‘1+grade’ which produces a large amount of CO2, we successfully developed eco-friendly concrete and cement materials by mixing industrial byproducts such as fly ash and blast furnace slag to reduce consumption of natural resources and GHG emissions. This allows us to reduce the use of cement by more than 40% compared to regular concrete and carbon emissions by 79kg per 1m³. Plan & Goal Carbon Capture Technology At Daewoo E&C, we will continue to focus our efforts on eco-friendly housing, construction and energy development In 2016, we became the first company to develop the CCU(Carbon Capture and Utilization) technology, to become an eco-friendly construction company with the highest level of expertise. DECO2 (Daewoo Elimination of CO2) which will allow us to significantly reduce GHG emissions and be used as a core technology in the global market. In 2016, we completed the basic and implementation ▶ Development of Eco-friendly Technologies designs for a carbon capture plant(40tCO2/day) while planning to develop a technology for the installation • Construction of a CO2 capture reactive pilot plant for gas emission • Commercialization of high-rise Zero Energy Houses of a pilot plant and optimization of its operating efficiency using civil engineering and construction materials ▶ Development of Eco-friendly Construction Materials for commercialization by 2019. • Development and use of eco-friendly cement materials ▶ Eco-friendly Green Growth and Renewable Energy Projects • Focusing on projects based on water treatment and biogas power generation technology and business performance • Development of new renewable energy projects using wind/solar/tidal power in the global market 80 81 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability 84 Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management System | Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Assessment 90 Economy Economic Performance | Risk Management 100 Environment Environmental Management 110 Society Human Resource Management | Community Seoul Forest PRUGIO 82 83 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management Committee Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management System Established in 2015, Sustainability Management Committee reviews and resolves the key policies and operation results of ESG, ethical practice and CP process. In 2016, Sustainability Management Committee resolved the compliance status and plans for 2017 while awarding organizations and employees with Daewoo E&C Sustainability Management excellent performance as part of the on-going CP operation activities. Since the establishment of its sustainability management system in 2012, Daewoo E&C has tracked its progress in sustainability in terms of profitability, environmental soundness and social responsibility. Sustainability Management Committee Organization Under the vision of ‘For the People & Better Tomorrow’, we focus our social, environmental and financial Chairman resources on introducing changes and innovations based on our core values : ‘Challenge and Passion’, CEO and ‘Autonomy and Accountability’. Assistant Administrator Sustainability Management System Voluntary Compliance Officer(Auditor Chief) Commissioners CFO, Overseas Sector Vice President, Director of Civil Project Division, Director of Building Works Division, Director of Housing Division, Director of Overseas Civil & Building Division, Director of Plant Business Division, Director of Engineering Division, Director of Overseas Marketing Division, Director of Strategic Planning Division, Director of Corporate Management & Service Division, Director of Finance Division, Director of Procurement & Cost Management Division, Director of Daewoo E&C Institute of Construction Technology(DICT), Head of Q-HSE Services Division Sustainability Global E&C Management Leader Sustainability Assessment Daewoo E&C has been recognized by several external assessments for demonstrating a high level of sustainability performance. In 2016, we were ranked 24 th in the Channel News Asia Sustainability Ranking(Companies with excellent ESG performance in Asia) co-hosted by Sustainalytics and Channel NewsAsia, CSR Asia. In the environmental field, we received the Leadership Afrom the CDP. In addition, the ESG evaluation results of the Korea Corporate Governance Association in 2016 show that the rating has risen compared to 2015, and we are striving to become a company that continues to grow. ‘2016 Channel NewsAsia Sustainability Ranking’ 24th ‘Channel NewsAsia Sustainability Ranking’ is selecting and presenting the top Asian 100 companies including China, India, Indonesia, Singapore, Taiwan, Japan, Korea, Hong Kong and the Philippines, with sustainability in Asia through ESG evaluation. Daewoo E&C has been selected as one of the top 100 construction companies in Korea and has been recognized internationally for sustainability performance for the second consecutive year. Green Growth Future Growth Shared Growth Eco-friendly Construction Maximization of Corporate Value Commitment to Corporate Social Management and Financial Performance Responsibility CDP Compliance to environmental laws CDP is a climate change project that requests and evaluates information on greenhouse gas emissions and climate change and regulations Implementation of via waste treatment and reduction Dominance in hub markets compliance and ethical management response of companies and provides them to investment banking institutions. Daewoo E&C has won the Leadership Afor 2 of noise and vibration consecutive years in recognition of its commitment to climate change, including greenhouse gas reduction and low-carbon technology development. Development of eco-friendly technologies Fulfillment of corporate social responsibility Entrance into new markets and businesses and renewable energy businesses through social contribution activities 84 85 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability Management System Stakeholder Engagement Strengthening Stakeholder Communication We understand that communication with stakeholders is essential for the fulfillment of social responsibilities In consideration of their impact and importance, we defined 8 key stakeholder groups : Government, as well as the sustainable growth and business management of Daewoo E&C. Shareholder and Investor, Customer, Academia/Association/Organization, Employee, Local Community, Supplier and Future Generation. With diverse communication channels, we identify the expectations set by our stakeholders and promote shared growth through active communication. Key Stakeholders & Communication Channels To create jobs, pay taxes, and Government & Public Offices Employee To improve employee abide by laws and regulations; satisfaction by strengthening contribute to sustainable Provider of a stepping stone The most valuable human their capabilities and development at the national enhancing their quality of life for further growth based on a stable resources that comprise Daewoo level regulatory and social environment E&C; a partner for sustainability • Government Committees management • Participation in Policy • Labor Unions Research • Baronet(Intranet) • Joint Partnership • Compliance Newsletter Programs, etc. To provide disclosure of Shareholder & Investor Local Community To actively pursue • Community Service accurate, timely information Clubs philanthropic activities and • General Meeting of for transparent management Investor of Daewoo E&C who Shareholders • The Ethical Local communities and members contribute to community • Annual Reports Management Website development provides financial capital • Monthly Volunteer affected by Daewoo E&C’s • Analyst Meetings • IR Conferences, etc. Activities business operation • Overseas NDR(Non-Deal • Whitepaper on Roadshow) Philanthropic Activities, etc. • Cooperation Website(e• Integrated Contact Centers Cos Website) • The PRUGIO Website • Supplier Meetings • Show Houses • Shared Growth Workshop, • SNS, etc. etc. To provide the best residential Customer Supplier To provide technological environment and products and administrative support, & services for customer Part of the Daewoo E&C family Partner who supports our establish a transparent, fair satisfaction • Job Fairs relationship for the supplier’s who creates a future together, • Conferences • Websites for Employment operation by supplying energy • Seminars growth the foundation of the company’s • Association activities, etc. • Student Ambassadors and resources • SNS, etc. existence To cooperate with Academia/Association/ To contribute to economic Future Generation academic community and Organization growth and social stability & pursue joint Research & Organizations with experts’ knowledge Leaders of tomorrow; all entities inclusion Development(R&D) with of the construction industry; subject of that should not be neglected various associations; remain active in associations continuous cooperation from a long-term perspective 86 87 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability Management System Materiality Test Results Materiality Test Based on the 10 material issues identified through the materiality test the table of contents for the Sustainability Report is reorganized in accordance with their inclusivity and response. Material Issues for Sustainability Indirect Economic Compliance Sound Governance Materiality Test Process Effect Construction Risk Management At Daewoo E&C, we identify core sustainability issues through a materiality test and prepare our Privacy Protection Compliance Fair Trade/Anti-corruption Sustainability Report(‘Report’) based on these issues. With reference to an international standards Biodiversity Protection Environmental Financial Performance Social impact Compliance analysis of sustainability management, corporate benchmarking and media surveys, we prepare a list of Fair Supplier Selection Response to Climate R&D sustainability issues and select core sustainability issues based on internal and external survey and expert Supply Chain Risk Change New Market(Business) Development feedback in accordance with AA1000SES, which is the international standard for stakeholder engagement. Management Protection of Industrial Health and Safety The Report also reflects the characteristics and relevance of the selected issues. Human Rights Environment Protection Eco-friendly Constructions and Services Employment Customer Satisfaction Identification of Material Issues & Report Application Process Employee Development Cooperation/Shared Growth Employee Benefits Step #1. Labor Relations Identification • Internal and external issues of Sustainability Issues International standards of sustainability management Social Contribution (GRI G4, ISO26000) Activity Other external environment(Media survey, industrial Healthcare for Local benchmarking) Community • Compose a pool of Daewoo E&C’s sustainability issues Step #2. Internal & External Stakeholder • Internal & external stakeholder survey Engagement Business/social impact of sustainability issues ■ Core Issues Internal stakeholders : materiality of business impact ■ General Issues External stakeholders : materiality of social impact • External expert assessment Other Issues Business Impact Step #3. Materiality Test • Social impact Material Issues GRI G4 Aspects 2017 Report Contents Survey of external stakeholders, media survey and industrial benchmarking Sound Governance Governance Corporate Governance • Business impact Industrial Health and Safety Industrial Health and Safety Health and Safety Survey of internal stakeholders and external expert assessment Customer Satisfaction Customer Health & Safety, Products & Services Labeling Customer Satisfaction Cooperation · Shared Growth Anti-corruption, Anti-competition, Compliance, Shared Growth Step #4. Supplier's Environment/Labor Practice/Social Impact Identification of Material Issues • 10 material issues Analysis, Grievance Handling Process 10 material issues identified through employee interviews Fair Trade · Anti-corruption Anti-corruption, Ethics & Integrity, Compliance Ethical Management and a review of business strategies and internal documents based on the results of the materiality test R&D Financial Performance Development of Innovative Technologies New Market(Business) Financial Performance New Business & Market Development Step #5. Eco-friendly Constructions & Raw Materials, Products & Services Eco-friendly Construction, Development Preparation of the Sustainability • Contents related to the main Report topics Services of Innovative Technologies Report Composing storylines by topic and planning the content Financial Performance Financial Performance New Business & Market Development, overview Economy Risk Management Strategy & Analysis Risk Management 88 89 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economy Balance in construction contracts Economy Economic Performance (Unit : KRW billion) Yearly Trend Breakdown by Segment 2014 2015 2016 Financial Performance 17,834 17,565 Strategic Direction 16,225 40,080 2016 has been a challenging year for the construction industry as the low-growth environment continues 38,768 globally. Although our domestic market saw some improvement thanks to the government’s economic policy that supports the real estate sector, the challenges in overseas markets were prolonged due to 34,796 9,426 low oil prices and increasing competition as well as declining project orders and revenues. Despite this, 7,254 we managed to reach KRW 10 trillion in sales for the first time in our history as we have been ranked in 6,650 5,264 first place in housing supply for 7 consecutive years. However, our financial performance suffered due to 4,704 4,916 4,806 4,683 4,170 some potential losses in certain overseas projects. 3,655 3,490 3,002 In 2017, we expect an even more challenging business environment due to political risks in our country with continued decreases in the SOC budget, tightened restrictions, falling real estate prices and the risk of restructuring pressure from the government on our industry. Recognizing this crisis as an opportunity, at 2014 2015 2016 Civil Building Housing Overseas Plant Civil&Building Daewoo E&C we are focusing all our resources to maximize profits and secure financial stability to regain trust in the market. Sales Revenue (Unit : KRW billion) Cash and Cash Equivalents (Unit : KRW billion) Domestic Overseas Variation in construction contracts (Unit : KRW billion) 11,106 816.8 Yearly Trend Breakdown by Segment 1) Increase in contracts 9,995 9,890 such as new orders was 2014 2015 2016 9,595,847 million KRW, and 3,318 2016 3,138 3,021 the decrease in contracts 539.0 due to the change in the construction amount was 7,788 4,577 3,994,012 million KRW 6,857 6,869 2015 11,057 325.7 2014 2,885 2,627 2,627 2014 2015 2016 6,960 2,085 *Financial statements for 2015 are rewritten for errors such as accounting estimates 2,028 1,905 1,677 5,6021) Credit Ratings by Evaluating Agency (As of December 31, 2016) 1,192 Evaluating Agency Ratings Category 883 688 Commercial Paper 467 186 -224 Korea Ratings A2 Regular evaluation 16 NICE Investors Service A2 Regular evaluation 2014 2015 2016 Civil Building Housing Overseas Plant Korea Investors Service A2 Occasional evaluation Civil&Building 90 91 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economy Key Business Performance by Sector [Building] Selected as a construction company for the F-35A Hangar The challenges for the construction industry continue in 2016 due to low oil prices and the economic recession in the Middle East. The civil & building sector entered a state of long-term low growth with In April 2016, Daewoo E&C was selected as a construction company to build the hangar for the Air decreasing new project orders and conservative industrial trends, despite which we reached KRW 1.221 Force’s next generation fighter(F-X) F-35A through technical and price assessments conducted by the trillion in sales by leading the domestic market. In the construction sector, we reached KRW 2.2809 Ministry of National Defense. The project is worth KRW 240 billion. We were recognized for our superior trillion in sales thanks to positive market conditions and an aggressive market strategy with a focus on technological expertise. The F-X Project is to introduce 40 Lockheed Martin F-35A fighters from the end of commercial and residential complexes and studio apartments. In the overseas civil&building business 2018 to 2021, and the Air Force is also expanding the F-35A hangar and other airfield facilities. sector, we achieved KRW 1.1761 trillion in sales. In 2016, the housing market exceeded expectations and continued to stabilize. Taking a proactive approach to changing market trends, we managed to supply 30,000 units to projects with a high potential in terms of revenue and sales performance and were ranked [Housing] in first place in housing supply for 7 consecutive years from 2010 with KRW 3.5046 trillion in sales. In Daewoo E&C Hyundai Development Company, Selected for the Haeundae Udong District 3 the plant sector, we focused on strengthening our foundation based on our expertise and experience in Redevelopment Project various projects we undertook over the years while diversifying our business portfolio through domestic and overseas project development, overseas plant operation and renewable energy. In December 2016, Daewoo E&C and Hyundai Development Company were selected as the contractors for the Haeundae Udong District 3 Redevelopment Project, the largest redevelopment site in Busan. Located in 229, U1-dong, Haeundae-gu, Busan, the Udong District 3 Redevelopment Project is to build [Civil] 3,030-unit apartments with(39-story above the ground, 3 underground floors) on an area of 111,695.5400 Munpyeong Bridge wins the Civil Engineering Structure of the Year 2016 Bronze Prize ㎡. Based on the design resented by Daewoo E&C and Hyundai Development Company, there will be 3,188 households in total with a contract amount of KRW 662 billion. Udong District 3 is one of the best At the Day of Civil Engineering hosted by the Korea Society of Civil Engineers on March 30, 2016, the redevelopment sites in Busan thanks to its scenic view of Haeundae. Munpyeong Bridge won the Civil Engineering Structure of the Year 2016 Bronze Prize. The Daewoo E&C / Hyundai Development Company Consortium established a realistic plan for the project The Munpyeong Bridge is a curved independent pylon cable-stayed bridge designed and constructed by schedule, such as the construction time and move-in date without any adjustment of the construction Daewoo E&C and is expected to contribute to improved accessibility between the administrative center cost due to the soil condition and making favorable offers to the union members. This project is expected complex city, Daejeon Techno Valley and Gapcheon Expressway. to provide an excellent residential environment serving as a landmark and meet the expectation of union members. [Civil] Daewoo E&C won the construction of Pohang-Yeongdeok Highway No. 65 line In June of 2016, Daewoo E&C was selected as the final contractor for the construction of the No. 65 high-speed railway linking Pohang-Yeongdeok. The project includes 6 bridges and 6.32 km of bridges connecting the Pyongjin-ri, Songra-myeon, Buk-gu, Pohang-si, Gyeongbuk and Namjeong-myeon, Buyeo-ri, Youngduk-gun, and three tunnels. Daewoo E&C holds 55.5% of the total construction contract worth KRW 88.6 billion, and the construction period is expected to be 84 months from the start date. Through this project, which aims at balanced national development, the East Sea Coast will expand the road network for tourism resources development and secure the linkage function between expressways, and it will be reborn as a global economic zone with global competitiveness. Munpyeong Bridge 92 93 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economy Suwon Paldal District 8 Redevelopment Project India Ganges River Bridge Construction Project [Housing] [Overseas Civil & Building] Daewoo E&C SK E&C Win the Suwon Paldal District 8 Redevelopment Project Daewoo E&C wins KRW 689.2B highway project in Doha, Qatar th In January 2016, Daewoo E&C and SK E&C won the ‘Suwon Paldal 8 District Redevelopment Project’. Daewoo E&C won a KRW 689.2 billion highway construction project in Qatar where the 2022 World The project consists of a total of 3,614 households in an area of 163,781㎡, 52-unit apartments(20-stories Cup will be held. The company was recognized for its expertise and work performance for the KRW 1 above the ground, 3 underground floors) and service facilities. The total contract amount is KRW 675.2 trillion New Orbital highway construction project which is currently undertaking. Despite its short length, billion and Daewoo E&C owns 60%, which amounts to KRW 405.1 billion. The Suwon Paldal District 8 is the E-Ring project is expected to generate substantial revenue with a high cost as it includes 3 multilocated within walking distance of Maegyo Subway Station(Bundang Subway Line); Suwon Station(Line intersections. 1) and KTX are also close to the site. In addition, there are Suwon Middle School and High School and an elementary school is expected to be built. This district is recognized as a key redevelopment project in Daewoo E&C expects that the project will give the company the upper hand to win other infrastructure Paldal-gu/Gwonseon-gu considering the neaby facilities such as Suwon City Hall, Homeplus, Lotte Mall. construction projects in the country which will host the World Cup. To overcome sluggish market Winning the largest redevelopment project in Suwon, Daewoo E&C secured a superior position in the conditions, the company is diversifying its business portfolio by undertaking infrastructure projects such urban maintenance projects in Suwon, Paldal-gu and Gwonseon-gu and expect to improve the quality of as roads and bridges. Daewoo E&C expects an increased number of profitable overseas projects in the life of residents. future. [Overseas Civil & Building] [Overseas Civil & Building] Daewoo E&C Wins the Ganges River Bridge Construction Project Worth KRW 535 billion Daewoo E&C and Hanwha E&C Consortium signed MOU on construction of New City with 100,000 Households to Saudi Arabia Daewoo E&C won the Bihar New Ganga Bridge Construction Project in India as its first overseas construction order in 2016. The company won the project jointly with L&T(Larsen & Toubro Ltd.), the Daewoo E&C and Hanwha E&C signed a memorandum of understanding in March 2016 to build 100,000 largest construction company in India. The project is worth USD 480 million(KRW 535 billion) and houses in Saudi Arabia over the next 10 years. Ordered by Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Housing and Daewoo E&C takes a 50% stake(USD 240 million, KRW 267.5 billion) in the consortium. The length of financed by the Saudi government, this project is to build the Dahiyat Alfursan New Town(twice the size the construction is expected to be 48 months from the time of breaking the ground. Starting with the of Bundang, 38㎢) located 14 kilometers east of Riyadh Airport for 600,000 residents. The total project automobile manufacturing plant construction project in 1995, Daewoo E&C clinched deals worth a total cost is estimated to be about USD 18 20 billion(KRW 21 23 trillion), and it is expected to be the biggest of 2.3 billion in India, including the Korba coal-fired power plant in 1996, an electronics plant in 1997 and overseas construction project in the history of Korea. a hydroelectric power plant construction project in Dhauli Ganga in 2000. With the latest contract, the company has re-entered the Indian construction market after 16 years. This is the result of successful This is one of the key projects of the King of Saudi Arabia, who was crowned in the last year, to build a completion of world class bridge construction projects such as Geoga Bridge and Gwangan Bridge. It is housing division in order to solve the housing problem. In January of 2016, they announced a plan to anticipated that the combination of Daewoo E&C’s bridging technology and L&T’s know-how will create a invest USD 400 billion(KRW 464 trillion) to supply 1.5 million houses for the next 7 years. As Daewoo E&C great synergy in the future. The project is a result of the organizational restructuring that has gathered the is expected to continue receiving orders for large-scale housing and infrastructure construction projects in company’s capabilities and functions. The success of the project will further strengthen our foundation in Saudi Arabia, the company will build a bridgehead for Saudi Arabia to win new projects in the Middle East the overseas civil engineering field. and North Africa as well. 94 95 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economy [Plant] Indirect Economic Effects Groundbreaking Ceremony for Ulsan S-Oil RUC Project Induced effect by industrial indicators In May 2016, Daewoo E&C held a groundbreaking ceremony for the Ulsan S-Oil Residue Upgrading Complex(RUC) Project, which is the single largest plant construction project in Korean history. The module 1) Domestic Sales(KRW 7.8 B y c re a t i n g j o b o p p o r t u n i t i e s a n d p l a c i n g installation technology and optimized project planning are utilized to complete the project in a short period Job Creation Effec1) Foreign Employees at trillion) × employment procurements from local suppliers, Daewoo E&C Overseas Operation Sites of time on a small construction site. inducement coefficient(10.2) actively engages in revitalizing local communities. 2) Domestic Sales (KRW 7.8 trillion) x Having achieved the largest sales record yet with 79,438 7,458 production inducement KRW 11.1 trillion in total and KRW 7.8 trillion persons persons [Plant] coefficient(2.225) domestically, Daewoo E&C contributed significant Daewoo E&C Signs Deal for Combined Cycle Power Plant in Sirjan, Iran 3) Domestic Sales Production Inducement Value-Added Inducement (KRW 7.8 trillion) x valueindirect economic effects in 2016 in terms of job Effect2)* Effect3)** added inducement creation, production inducement, local hires at In December 2016, Daewoo E&C, Korea Western Power and Gohar Energy signed an MOU for the development of a combined cycle power plant in Sirjan, Iran. The project was ordered by Iran’s largest coefficient(0.733) overseas operation sites, and value-add. Using the 17.3 5.7 Bank of Korea’s job creation coefficient by 2014 , a trillion trillion investment firm Omid for the development of a 500-megawatt(MW) combined cycle power plant. The total of 79,438 jobs were created in Korea through * Production Inducement Effect : The level of directly and indirectly induced estimated value is USD 500 million(KRW 550 billion) and the capacity may increase in the future. production per unit increase in company demand Daewoo E&C’s business activities in 2016 ** Value-Added Inducement Effect : Measures directly and indirectly induced added-value to the industry By 2022, the Iranian government is planning to install additional power plants whose combined capacity will top 5,000 MW each year to 50,000 MW by promoting private investment, foreign funds and 4) Numerical correction by Distribution of Economic Values to Stakeholders (Unit : KRW billion) technologies. In addition, Iran also plans to renovate some outdated power facilities generating a total of calculation of redundancy of some 17,000 MW. former data Employee Supplier Shareholder & Investor Government Local Community4) (Labor and welfare (Raw material costs, (Interest payments) (Corporate tax) (Donations and expenses) procurement expenses, social contributions) and service costs) The partnership will pave the way for us to diversify our revenue streams and gain a superior position in the 8,106 IPP business in Iran, thereby expecting more project orders in the future. 7,011 6,849 1,136 1,054 917 118 95 92 54 15 10 -256 4 2 Ulsan S-Oil RUC Project 2014 2015 2016 96 97 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economy 2017 Risk Management Improvement Plan Risk Management Efficient Reviewing Process for Solid Corporate-wide Risk New Overseas Projects Management Risk Management System • Enhance corporate-wide risk management • Select core risk and plan risk management Enhancement of through the integration of project order and • Increase the level of participation of working performance process units and establish more detailed plans the Corporate-wide Proactive Risk Management • Establish the review guidelines and decisionRisk Management In line with our midand long-term business strategy, we are using proactive risk management to making process System • Improve the decision-making system for more undertake projects in both the domestic and global markets more efficiently. To incorporate risk efficient performance of tender projects management process in our business, we established a corporate-wide risk management system to ensure a stable business operation. In 2015, we internalized our management system by expanding the area of risk management and, in Risk Management Activities 2016, established a risk management system while introducing IT system, internalizing the RM system based on cooperation/sharing practice and enhancing overseas site management/support. In 2017, we Project Risk Management plan to reinforce our core risk management process for more efficient operation of our new project review We are building a proactive risk management system by preparing a risk assessment table and committee on tender and contract as part of our proactive risk management strategy. management ledger at the project bidding stage. The result of risk assessment and plans are used as Through these efforts and commitment, we are further stabilizing our corporate-wide risk management an objective indicator for review committees on overseas projects. After being awarded the project, we system to cope with the fast-changing business environment and to strengthen our business operation. continue our management process. In addition, we are working in parallel on the quantification of risks as well as qualitative factors. Corporate-wide Risk Management To achieve more sustainable growth, we are working on the implementation of a corporate-wide risk Bid din g Review Afte r O rd e r management process including selection of core risk areas. This year, we will increase the level of corporate-wide participation in risk management planning and establish the Daewoo E&C Risk Breakdown Preparation of risk Review of risk/plan at a Continuous risk Structure while reviewing and applying our risk classification system as a foundation for more effective risk assessment table and corporate-wide level management management ledger management. Risk Management Organization The RM(Risk Management) Division was transferred to the Strategic Planning Division for the integration of corporate-wide business management and more advanced management in 2017. The Risk Management Team is working on the management of objective indicators for more proactive risk identification and Case Studies management while introducing a role of Stage Gate for effective business management throughout the In order to identify risks in the project bidding and performance stage, we are working on case studies. entire project phase. We are also working on proactive risk management by implementing a reviewing Through the risk management process of the industry and overseas project issuers, we check the risks process for new projects and PJ risk monitoring. In addition, we are focusing on establishing an ongoing by period/process by reviewing Lessons Learned. In addition, ideas are shared among the project/sales response plan to reduce risks through core risk management by the Risk Management Team. divisions and other teams with ongoing risk management planning and feedback for more proactive risk management. Strategic Planning Division Analysis of Unfavorable Provisions & Establishment of a Country Risk Database Risk Management Team To avoid damage caused by unfavorable contract provisions and to gain know-how, we conducted analyses and case studies to deal with these issues and implement them according to the countries, Review of New Overseas Project(Bidding/Contract) Project Performance Risk Monitoring process and issuer type. In addition, we align them to our integrated project management system and plan to increase and systemize the list as a reference for overseas project operation in the future. • Improve the review process for overseas projects in • Plan implementation measures through case studies on advance the industry and overseas project issuers Furthermore, we created a country risk database on finance, tax, politics, economy and culture in about • Diversify review requirements and quantify risk • Identify risks by PJ period/process through case 50 countries with more than 70 categories for sharing on our intranet(Baronet). • Promote the feedback system in the project and sales studies(Lessons Learned) divisions and corporate-wide practice management • Encourage coordination among risk management units for a more effective monitoring process 98 99 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environment Systemization of On-site Environmental Management Standards Environment Environmental Management ess for Vehi Proc cl e at ion Cle nmental Gloss all t e M a t e r i a l an Environmental Management System n viro a ry n s t rd W a s Sto r ag in •E a e I g ra c ti c e G u rd n d L i c e n s eD M eP i de da it & oc Si ac it b ta rm u -s an •S Pe gn hin Environmental Management Policy and Organization n •O oo •St m e k a rd en Environmental management is an essential part of corporate social responsibility in response to the Environmental •Stand t Fo increasing environmental impact caused by fine dust and climate change due to global warming etc. On-site Operation rm Management In addition, the strengthening of domestic and overseas environmental laws and regulations and the Standard Standards increasing demand by stakeholders are a risk factor for our business operation. At Daewoo E&C, we are committed to our sustainable future by improving our environmental management system and taking initiatives for the protection of our environment. Environmental Management Policies • Compliance and operation of an environmental management system based on ISO 14001 • Prevention of environmental contamination from construction activities • Reflection and implementation of feedback on environment and climate change from stakeholders Environmental Management Goals On-site Practice Guidebook/Glossary • Prevention of environmental violations and accidents We revised and distributed the ‘On-site Practice Guidebook for Environment Management’ to raise • Setting and achieving goals to save energy and resources • Setting and achieving goals to reduce costs for waste disposal compared to sales awareness of on-site environmental management. The guidebook provides guidance throughout the entire construction process. We also published the ‘Environmental Glossary’ to increase the understanding of The Corporate HSE Team manages the corporate-wide implementation of our environmental management environmental terms for new environment managers and those included in the guidebook. system under the Q-HSE Services Division. With an increased number of overseas projects being developed, the Global HSES Team promotes environmental management in overseas sites while making On-site Practice Guidebook ongoing efforts for its improvement and management by each site. CEO Head of Divisions (Civil Project/Building Works/Housing/Plant Business) • Environmental Compliance Work Process(fugitive dust, waste materials, noise/vibration, water quality, etc.) Q-HSE Services Division Civil Project Building Works Housing Plant Business • Environmental Management Best/Worst Cases Environment Environment Environment Environment • Environmental Accident & PQ Management Environment Executives Executives Executives Executives Executives • ISO14001-related Works • Environmental IT System Civil Building Works Housing Plant Construction Construction Construction Construction Corporate HSE Team Global HSES Team Management Management Management Management Team Team Team Team 1) PAGE : indicates the page Environmental Glossary in the On-site Practice Roles & Responsibilities of the Environment Manager Site Environment Organizational Guidebook To deal with new environmental laws and policies more Structure effectively, it is essential to take initiatives in the operation of the Environment officer(site manager) Example of Glossary environmental management system. In 2015, the Corporate Oversees general environment affairs Terms Definition PAGE1) HSE Team redefined the appointment procedures of Onsite Environment Managers and roles to improve productivity Emergency A plan established to deal with V-15 and reduce environmental risk. Each person is appointed in Environment Environment Environment plan emergency situations e.g. oil spill, the area of management, public affairs and construction for Manager Manager Manager fire, failure of vehicle cleaning (administration) (project control) (construction) machine environmental management operation and work process. In Government 2016, the level of adaptation and efficiency was improved Reports, civil relations, Site environment, complaints, GHG, labor document through the HSE-One Stop Service and training programs. etc. management, etc. management, etc. 100 101 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environment Standard Permit & License Document Form Standard Installation Process for Vehicle Cleaning Machine We standardized our permit and license document forms to prepare our application in a more accurate, We established a standard installation process for vehicle cleaning machine in line with the Clean Air efficient manner and prevent environmental violations. It includes a report form for fugitive dust, preliminary Conservation Act to prevent violations(side-watering facilities installation) identified by the HSE Audit and report for specific construction work and a disposal plan for construction waste material. reduce the risk of being subject to penalties imposed by the Ministry of Environment and local authorities. Standard Waste Material Storage Sign Installation of Vehicle Cleaning Machine As a result of HSE Audit of waste material storage signs, there are a number of issues that need Front Side improvement and there is a lack of awareness of environment managers in their importance. Therefore, we prepared standard signs for waste material storage to integrate our internal regulations, ensure compliance with Article 7-2 and Enforcement Regulations Article 14 of Waste Control Act and prevent administrative orders. Standard Waste Material Storage Signs Environmental Audit & Training HSE Audit Each year, we carry out an HSE Audit to ensure and supervise compliance with environmental regulations. In 2016, we performed the audit on 66 sites and identified the areas of excellence and improvement. ① Type of waste materials ④ Storage period Contents of In addition, we reinforced our environmental compliance check and as a result ensured zero fines and ② Storage capacity ⑤ Warning Signs ③ Manager ⑥ Transportation destination penalties in 2016. HSE Audit Results Changes in Permit & License Document Category Civil Building Housing Plant Total Category Before After HSE Audit(System) 12 10 9 4 35 (Areas of (Measures) Improvement) HSE Audit(Site)_Fugitive Dust 13 4 12 2 31 Fugitive Dust Target Projects Only 1 item reported New projects added Total 25 14 21 6 66 • Additional report for civil projects and landscaping Other Reduction 4 missing items Mining, extraction, outdoor cutting, and outdoor polishing added Measures Strict Standards Not reported Additional preparation and report(temporary storage, loading/ unloading, transportation) • Target projects only(10 times of the projects with fugitive dust) Specific Equipment Missing items A number of equipment(11 types) indicated Construction Work Other Reduction Inconsistency by site Unified reduction measures Measures • Facilities operation, noise/vibration reduction, and response to public complaints Waste Disposal Plan Missing items Report-required waste materials indicated(7 types) Materials (Waste disposal, etc.) Disposal Service Supplier’s preparation Organized by authority offices for submission Confirmation and submission 102 103 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environment Environmental Management Training Climate Change We provide training programs for our employees and suppliers to improve job performance in environmental management and the level of on-site compliance for the prevention of environmental Strategic Direction accidents. A total of 31,720 environment managers, on-site managers, on-site workers and suppliers’ Under the Post 2020 which will replace the Kyoto Protocol ending in 2020 according to the Paris supervisors participated in the programs in 2016. On-site training is provided once a month based on the Agreement effective in November 2016, all 196 countries are subject to the requirements for GHG monthly on-site training materials distributed by the Corporate HSE Team. reduction whereas only 37 developed countries are subject to the obligations in the previous protocol. Korea established the ‘2030 National GHG Reduction Framework and Roadmap’ based on the midand Environmental Training Performance (As of December 31, 2016) long-term climate change strategy and detailed action plans. In this roadmap, our country set a goal to reduce GHG emissions by 37% against the BAU by 2030. Out of 315 million tons in total reduction, we Item Training Courses Date No. of plan to reduce by 219 million tons in Korea and 96 million tons in other countries. In line with this goal, Participants Daewoo E&C established response measures for continuous GHG reduction seeking new opportunities Host Job competence training for environment managers(Level I) 1st session : Apr. 18 161 and ways to improve energy efficiency. As a large amount of GHGs are emitted throughout the entire 2nd session : May 18 3rd session : Nov. 29 construction process, we implemented a monthly monitoring and management system to control our GHG emissions. Job competence training for environment managers(Level Ⅱ) 1st session : Oct. 17~18 79 2nd session : Oct. 20~21 GHG Emission Control Support 2016 3rd management supervisory council(Southern Region) Nov. 15 24 Since 2012, we have improved our integrated management system BAROCON be adding a GHG 2016 3rd management supervisory council(Central Region) Nov. 16 16 inventory system, which allows us to measure energy consumption and control GHG emissions more rd 2016 3 management supervisory council(Western Region) Nov. 18 21 effectively in all our work sites. We also set a reduction goal by division based on the automatic calculation of emissions as part of our initiatives for controlling GHG emissions. 2016 3rd management supervisory council(Seoul Region) Nov. 22 32 2016 3rd management supervisory council(Eastern Region) Nov. 24 21 Energy Control Monthly On-site environmental training(Civil Project Division) 5,459 For more efficient control of energy consumption, we monitor consumption by energy source, building and Environment On-site environmental training(Building Works Division) 9,151 work site in real time. In addition, we are working on our energy consumption reduction programs to raise Training (On-site) awareness among employees and research staff and executive officers at a corporate-wide level. On-site environmental training(Housing Division) 11,016 On-site environmental training(Plant/Power Business Division) 5,740 Total 31,720 GHG Emissions by Source Environmental Management Reinforcement Plan Purchased Electricity 84% We plan to introduce ISO14001:2015 in 2017 in line with the revised ISO 14001 which is the international standard set by ISO. Currently, we have completed our analysis of the revised version of ISO 14001:2015 Stationary Combustion 7% and are working on our documents and system for recertification review. In addition, we will provide continuous support for environmental management through the HSE One-Stop Service as part of our Mobile Combustion 9% commitment to improving the environmental management system and the expertise of environment managers. 2017 Key Environmental Management Action Plans • ISO 14001:2015 Recertification • Management of Waste Materials Analysis of revised version of ISO 14001:2015(complete) Waste material disposal cost in 2017 : 0.19%(against sales) (Unit : tCO2eq) Revision of environmental management documents Identification and registration of local waste material disposal service Creation of DPMS by process and application of the system providers Direct GHG Stationary Combustion 5,061.45 Development and update of the environmental system(BAROCON) Improvement of the waste material disposal registration management Preliminary review for recertification system Mobile Combustion 6,056.86 Completion of review and recertification for ISO 14001:2015 Indirect GHG Purchased Electricity 57,474.95 104 105 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environment GHG Reduction Plan Management of Air, Waste and Hazardous Materials To respond to the ‘2030 National GHG Reduction Framework and Roadmap’, we are re-establishing our midand long-term action plan and carrying out reduction activities at a corporate-wide level. Air Pollution Mitigation We plan to encourage these activities focusing on sites with a large amount of emissions through a At Daewoo E&C, we reinforced our HSE Audit on fugitive dust in our construction sites in order to improve real-time monitoring system and develop corporate-wide reduction items. We will also take a more the quality of air and people’s lives. In 2015, we increased our audit on fugitive dust to civil project work proactive approach in the disclosure of GHG-related information for greater transparency and trust with sites which we did only in spring along with the HSE-Starter Program for new construction sites. As a stakeholders. result, we can identify the management status and take necessary measures to make improvement. The results are reported to the HSE Team within a week and shared with the sites to raise the employees’ • Allocation of the reduction goal at a corporate• Introduction of ISO50001 awareness of environment. wide and division level and monthly monitoring • Setting a goal to reduce by 2.1% each year through BAROCON • Continuous communication through job-training Agreement on Fugitive Dust between Ministry of Environment and Construction programs and promotion of saving energy when Companies using electronic and office appliances According to the special guidelines on fine dust set by the Ministry of Environment in June 2016, Daewoo • Replacement of lights by LED lamps at underground parking lots and emergency exits E&C also joined its efforts to reduce fugitive dust in its construction sites. The agreement is effective for 2 years from November this year. Under the agreement, companies clean the roads and set up a wind gauge to check the wind speed. If the speed exceeds a certain limit, the construction work will be temporarily stopped. In addition, we will make additional plans to pave the roads and spray dust inhibitor while dealing with public complaints on fine dust to improve the quality of air and people’s lives. rt t e r m Pl t e r m Pl a t e r m Pl ho a id n on g a S n M L n Fugitive Dust Agreement Execution Plan ~2017 2018 2020~ Contents Plan ~2020 Cleaning roads near construction site 1 time/month Setting up wind gauge Portable wind gauge purchased(excl. sites with tower crane) Paving temporary roads, dust inhibitor Notified as recommendation, performance management Submission of execution plan Participating sites selected, plans collected and submitted • Increase in the use of LED lamps on sites • Review of the feasibility of energy efficiency rating Submission of progress report(1 year) Performance checked by site, key areas of inspection added and green building certification systems Disclosure of Environmental Information At Daewoo E&C, we are working on our corporate reputation based on our response to the demand for the disclosure of environmental information. In 2016, we were ranked 24th among Asian companies for the Sustainalytics(Netherlands) ESG assessment and rated A for ESG by the Korea Corporate Governance Service. Furthermore, in 2016, we won the Carbon Management Sector Honours with Leadership Afor CDP for 2 consecutive years. We also actively participated in the disclosure of environmental information and a chemical substances statistical survey, thereby demonstrating strong transparency in our business practice. Signing Ceremony between Ministry of Environment and Construction Companies for Fugitive Dust Reduction 106 107 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environment Waste 1) Waste Disposal Service Eco-friendly Activities & Performance Provider Registration We store the waste produced by our construction site separately and outsource it for disposal. Since System : 2011, we have used the ‘Waste Disposal Service Provider Registration System1)’ nationwide, in which A system for developing and Environmental Campaign disposal companies are selected based on their performance and encouraged to comply with the registering local waste disposal companies based By running environmental campaigns by division, team and site, we raise awareness about environmental guidelines based on a reward and penalty system. Starting 2017 we plan to improve the system to apply on their performance protection and promote an eco-friendly culture while protecting the environment in our local community. In stricter requirements for registration and increase the pool of companies by updating the registration 2016, 4,956 of our employees joined environmental campaigns such as environmental cleaning activities. frequency. In addition, registered companies will be given registration certificates to encourage their cooperation and build pride. Environmental Investment Assessment of Registered Waste Disposal Reward/Penalty based on Assessment in We invested in the disposal of waste, improvement of environmental management system and training Companies in 2016 2016 programs executing 97.3% of our environmental budget for 2016. In 2017, we plan to invest KRW 100 million in the environmental sector by maximizing efficiency. Category Rating Total Category Company Reward/ Remarks Penalty Blue Yellow Red Reg. Awards Cancelled Reward 3 companies Warning Top 10% including IK waived Daewoo E&C was recognized for its environmental management in the industry, receiving various awards Business 9 12 2 23 and winning contests in 2016. Record(Yes) Penalty 3 companies Warning Bottom including Garam 5~10% Industry Environmental Awards in 2016 Business 6 11 1 13 31 Record(No) 13 companies Reg. 2 warnings or Site/Team Date Awarded by Category including cancelled no business Total 15 23 3 13 54 Gyeongwon for 2 years Busan Outer Ring Highway 8 Dec. 31 Minister of Environment Contribution to Environmental Preservation Hazardous Chemical Substances Banpo Central PRUGIO Summit Dec. 1 Director of Seocho District Outstanding Construction Site In accordance with our internal procedures, we identify hazardous chemical substances including Office bentonite slurry, paint, oil, epoxy and bond and store them in a safe place in compliance with laws. We Technology Commercialization Nov. 30 President of Korea Environment Contest Winner have installed special storage facilities for waste oil and lacquer and outsource it for proper disposal. Team Corporation Corporate HSE Team Nov. 1 CDP Sector Honours Biodiversity Biodiversity Protection Policies At Daewoo E&C, we assess endangered species around our construction sites through an environmental impact analysis and establish a plan to minimize the impact on our eco-system. In accordance with the Wildlife Protection and Management Act, we apply guidelines for the preservation of wild animals to our projects. In 2017, we plan to increase structures such as fences to create paths for animals and prevent road kill. Land & Aquatic Biotope In our project sites, we secure parks and green areas to protect biodiversity and natural habitats for wildlife. In addition, we create land and aquatic biotope using the land available in and outside the project location to minimize the environmental impact and preserve our eco-system. PRUGIO Biotope in Juk-dong, Daejeon-si 108 109 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Society Global Communication Expertise Society Human Resource Management As part of our overseas business strategy, we are improving our language education policy. We invite external instructors to teach language courses for our Recruiting and Developing Human Resources executive officers while providing support for intensive English study courses, English phone conversation Recruitment Daewoo E&C is an equal opportunity employer which does not discriminate with regard to gender, programs and English Restart courses. In addition, we educational or regional background and guarantees fair treatment. We ensure that women and applicants established language courses for employees working from rural areas have more opportunities for employment as part of our social responsibility program. in overseas projects to improve our employees’ In August 2016, we adopted a wage peak system to increase the stability of jobs and take a proactive communication skills. approach to HR management to better deal with risks. Executive Language/Intensive Courses in 2016 Performance Evaluation and Compensation Training Period No. of We conduct fair and objective evaluations of our employees based on their job performances and social Course Participants contributions and provide compensation accordingly. To do this, we set individual performance ratings Language course Feb. 15 Dec. 14 92 and differentiate salary increase rates based on their achievement and competency. In 2016, we took the for executives (12 weeks, 3 sessions) initiative in performance-based HR management by further improving our employee evaluation system. Intensive English May 16 Oct. 28 142 study course (5 days, 12 sessions) Internal Language Course Human Resource Development System At Daewoo E&C, we provide various HR development programs including the New Executives Course, Team/On-site Manager Leadership Course, Promoted Staff Training, and Domestic On-site Manager Analysis of Intensive Course Performance in 2016 Development Course as part of our commitment to HR development strategy. Simulated TOEIC Speaking Special Corporate TOEIC Speaking Avg. Increase (Certified Score) in Score Score Level Score Level HR Value 93 4 110 5 17 Fulfill one’s responsibilities with confidence, passion and a pioneering spirit PM Competency Enhancement We established a long-term training system for EPC Project Managers(PM) in the areas of design, purchase, construction, trial operation, contract/claim, public affairs and processes in HR Development Strategy 2016. The program is available to staff and assistant managers. After 2017, training program operation, other than PM Competency Enhancement, will be transferred to each division Development of for more job-oriented operation. PM Competency Enhancement Program Performance-oriented Global Talents and Job Core Value/Vision Sharing Leadership Training Experts Site-oriented Training and Action-oriented Support System Performance Knowledge-Sharing Culture At Daewoo E&C, we have systems and programs to create a culture that promotes knowledge sharing. We have organized a Sharing Class where we provide special lectures on construction management and employees donate their talent to each other. We also encourage self-improvement through our Sharing Class training grade system. HR Training and Performance Category Sub-category Unit 2014 2015 2016 New Employee Overseas Site OJT and Mentoring Program Our new employees take overseas site OJT for 3 months after the entry-level training program so they can learn about the site and Training Performance Total Training Hours Hours 627,428 501,455 474,176 better adapt themselves to the organization. We also support mentoring programs with senior employees to help them expand their human network and provide learning experience. Total Training Cost KRW 1M 3,833 4,067 4,046 110 111 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Society Global Support for Labor Affairs and Mobile ▶ Foreign HR Operation Strategic Direction Status At Daewoo E&C, our goal is to achieve ‘low-cost, high-efficiency HR management’ through an advanced • Entire overseas site Overseas Human Resource Operation performance : total of overseas HR management process. To do this, we are improving our HR pool based on the internal At Daewoo E&C, we conduct job performance surveys and manage a pool of human resources to recruit 2,951 persons(rate of system(BAROCON) to secure top talents while increasing the role of the agency in follow-up management. staffing: 86%) talented human resources with expertise and experience in overseas projects. In addition, we complete a • Recruitment of global In addition, we plan to minimize risks in local labor practices by taking a proactive approach in local proactive response process through intensive monitoring of the return on HR input in order to improve the specialized HR(foreign recruitment, the labor-related system and social changes. employees) : on-site(6)/ HR management efficiency while creating an efficient HR portfolio by increasing the pool to the Philippines, HQ(5) Establishment and India and Bangladesh to include other countries as well. • Timely/proper supply : Diversification of Opening/operating role expansion of Flexible response Operate Overseas check and analysis of sending countries specialized HR pool excellent agency to local Contents/ Mobile actual input against the 10 countries or more for supply and outsourcing licensing regulations Support Committee Establishment of HR pool Monitoring HR Operating company pool annual HR requirement plan • Local recruitment and Confirmation of the input local HR management Increase the data on core HR against labor force demand by Operate HR portfolio by PJ : creating a pool of PJ excellent HR and research on HR suppliers Achieving low-cost, high-efficiency HR management and overseas mobile support Overseas Labor Affairs Management Support Overseas Human Resource Management Plan In order to support labor management at overseas sites/HQ managers, in 2016, we published a labor We are reinforcing our own HR pool management and the agency’s to support the re-employment and management practice manual for Nigeria, Morocco and the Middle East and share information from HR relocation of talented human resources. To do this, we are building a human resource management supply to follow-up by country. In addition, we standardized on-site labor management practices and environment by developing and improving the BAROCON system. In addition, we are creating the discussed labor issues and complaints through guidance and inspection at the SAFI Plant in Morocco. foundation for our global HR support through diversification of sending to countries for a more efficient human resource portfolio. Overseas Mobile Support To support overseas on-site mobile, we published a case study on license and permit and mobile manual Overseas Mobile Support Plan to minimize errors from 2016 to early 2017 while ensuring close coordination between the site and HQ by At Daewoo E&C, we dedicate our efforts for early completion of mobile by operating an Overseas Mobile organizing an Overseas Mobile Support Committee. Support Committee while preventing errors in implementation. Furthermore, we are developing both domestic and overseas temporary installation companies with strong performances to ensure their pool is Improving Outdated BAROCON Module System Maintaining Integrated Overseas Mobile System managed efficiently to support our project. Operation of the overseas mobile support committee for timely support Insurance management and addition of an extension system • Timely/proper supply : rate of staffing 90%, re-employment rate 10% or higher Bidding · new PJ temporary installation planning/design • Competitive advantages in global resource : enhancing supplier pool management, promoting drawing production support Simplification of the agency fee/airfare settlement process re-employment/relocation Temporary construction support : dispatching experts to Overseas HR • Optimum HR portfolio : increase employment in Nepal, Vietnam and Sri Lanka mobile sites at the early stage Operation • Increase in the role of HR agencies : developing human resources(incl. local manpower) • System-based HR management environment : improving the BAROCON labor module for greater user convenience • Inspection of overseas on-site labor management : Qatar, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, etc. Overseas • Build-up labor management practice : increase in training for officers, sharing case studies, etc. Review Evaluation On-site Blueprints • Proactive support for peak time/de-mobile sites, more effective follow-up of Tender of Labor Risks Labor • Support for overseas transfer : enhancement of partnership with organizations Management (embassies, airlines) / emergency support 42 cases 32 cases 25 cases • Distribution and application of license and permit case studies/mobile manuals • Customize mobile business area : Improve overseas PJ system TFT and consulting service(Reflecting needs of business divisions) Mobile • Temporary installation planning/design support for tender and new sites : increasing the application Support of standard drawings and mobile manuals • Proactive operation of the Mobile Support Committee : active support for early mobile of new projects • Support for temporary installation : dispatching experts to mobile sites in the beginning, technical support 112 113 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Society Employee Welfare and Benefits Life & Work Balance Program At Daewoo E&C, we are committed to improving the quality of life for our employees and their family Emotional Management Event members as part of our welfare programs. For the exhausted employees, we are helping to improve We boost our employees’ morale and confidence through emotional programs. One of the most popular organizational communication as well as managing organizational stress. We also carry out three health programs is ‘More Precious Than Flowers’, which takes place every May. During this program, employees campaigns to support employees' working environment and encourage blood donation activities. In invite their parents and spend two days taking a tour of our office, construction site, and buildings we 2016, 275 employees participated in organizational health workshops in 8 sessions and we provided constructed and DICT. They have dinner at the Sheraton Hotel Songdo, which was built by Daewoo E&C 197 individual counseling sessions and 7 family counseling sessions through our (Mind-Care Counseling and in 2016 the CFO joined the dinner. In addition, we organize a photo contest to improve teamwork Center). In addition, we organized an anti-smoking program and metabolic syndrome prevention campaign and communication among employees and boost a sense of belonging and pride in their jobs. They for our employees as part of our corporate-wide welfare strategy. submit photos of their family members and coworkers each half of 2016 and prizes are awarded based on the votes cast by employees. Employees working in other countries can enter the contest online and it provides a great opportunity for them to get together and enjoy quality time. In addition, we invite employees’ children to take a tour of the main office building in Gwanghwamun, Daewoo E&C Housing Culture Hall PRUGIO Valley, and Pocheon IPP Site to give them opportunities to learn about their parents’ jobs and build a sense of pride every year. Organizational health workshop More Precious Than Flowers Metabolic syndrome control campaign Photo Contest Blood donation campaign 114 115 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Society PRUGIO Daycare Center Labor-Management Relations Selected as an ‘Excellent Family-Friendly Company’ in 2013 for the first time in the industry, we are increasing our efforts in family-friendly management. In March 2016, we opened the PRUGIO Daycare Labor Union & Joint Labor-Management Committee Center to provide childcare services for our employees as well as financial support and leave for their At Daewoo E&C, we respect the rights of our employees and the freedom to join a labor union and families. In addition, we are creating a better working environment for childbirth and childcare by reducing collective bargaining. Since the establishment of the integrated labor union and joint labor-management work schedules for employees who are pregnant less than 12 weeks, or more than 36 weeks. As a result, committee, there has been no labor dispute for 18 years. We operate our joint labor-management 99% of our employees return to work after maternity leave, which proves that we are a leading familycommittee with an aim to pursue mutual benefits and find the best solutions based on respect and friendly company. understanding of important business matters. In addition, any material issues and changes in our business management are shared and discussed immediately. In 2016, we reached an agreement regarding the salary peak system, reduction of working hours and joint leave. Status of Joint Labor-Management Committee Category Detail Unit 2014 2015 2016 Portion of Union Registrants % 26.5 26.3 29.3 Labor-Management No. of Meetings Times 4 4 4 Committee No. of Issues Voted Cases 4 6 6 Performance Labor Practice and Human Rights Labor Practice & Human Rights Policies Daewoo E&C complies with the Labor Standards Act and publicly supports the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Recommendations on Child Labor of International Labor Organization(ILO) as part of its efforts to advocate for human rights. We strictly prohibit any child labor and forced labor in all our work sites. In 2013, we joined the United Nations Global Compact(UNGC) and declared our intent to fulfill our social responsibility with respect to human rights and labor practices. Sexual Harassment Prevention & Human Rights Education As part of our commitment to human rights and labor practice, we have incorporated our education programs on sexual harassment prevention human rights, CP, sustainability and environment/society/ governance into our compliance training since 2014. In 2016, 5,946 employees completed our sexual harassment training program. Completion of Sexual Harassment Prevention and Human Rights Training Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 No. of Completion Person 6,318 6,420 5,946 PRUGIO Daycare Center 116 117 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Society Direction for Global Social Contribution Community Daewoo E&C is increasing its global presence through social contribution activities worldwide including in Social Contribution Activity System Kuwait, Qatar and Vietnam. Under our sustainability management plan, we take a consistent and proactive approach in our contribution by focusing on technology transfers, educational support and medical Strategic Direction services. In addition, we are meeting the needs of people and companies by establishing a network with As a global corporate citizen, Daewoo E&C focuses on three areas in its social contribution Environmental local communities. Protection, Talent Donation and Sharing in an effort to help neglected people in our society and make the world a better place to live. In addition to strong volunteer activities, extensive experience and expertise in the construction industry with a focus on improving social welfare infrastructure, we signed a business agreement with the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family to increase the number of co-education and Jordan Iraq nursing homes in March 2017. Furthermore, all employees participate actively in all social contribution Libya Kuwait activities, such as promoting programs with family through diversifying CSR activities. Algeria Qatar Main Beneficiaries Areas of Focus Social Contribution Activities Morocco UAE People with Disabilities Environmental Protection Wall Painting Senior Citizens Living Alone Talent Donation Renovation of Outdated Facilities Broken Families Sharing Donation of Briquette and Kimchi Nigeria Vietnam Organization for Social Contribution Singapore Ethiopia Since the establishment of Daewoo E&C Social Service Group composed of on-site organization and social volunteer teams in 2007, we encourage our employees to join in volunteer activities through various Saudi Arabia Malaysia social contribution programs every year. Botswana India Pakistan Head of Social Service Group Oman Social Contribution Committee Executive Office of Social Contribution (Social Contribution Working Committee) HQ Organization(Division/Office/Team) Areas of Activities Country Performance On-site Organization(Overseas/Domestic) Volunteer Group(Permanent Organization) Social Volunteer Teams • Algeria • Field Training School Technology Transfer • Nigeria • Professional Training Center(completed) Social Contribution Performance • Building and renovation of schools • Nigeria Category Sub-category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Educational Support • Renovation of libraries and donation of books • Vietnam • Scholarship award and internship programs Social Contribution Annual No. of Participants Person 11,508 5,645 957 Performance Total Expenditure KRW 1M 4,200 1,540 9,749 • Blood donation Operating Expense KRW 1M 1,170 50 25 • Qatar • Free medical treatment for eye disease Medical(Volunteer) Support • Morocco • Tuberculosis control project Donation(culture, art, etc.) KRW 1M 3,030 1,490 9,723 support(completed) Avg. Svc Hours/Person Hour 2.7 3.9 3.9 • Singapore, Kuwait, Morocco • Environment cleaning project Relay Volunteer No. of Times Time 6 5 6 Improvement of Living • Environment cleaning project • Nigeria Activities Environments • Well development project(completed) No. of Participants Person 424 241 286 • Algeria • Donation of home supplies 118 119 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Society Domestic Social Contribution Activities Overseas Social Contribution Activities With the voluntary participation of our employees, the Relay Volunteer Activities represents our social To familiarize ourselves with local cultures and strengthen our partnership with local industries, we dedicate contribution. Rather than organizing one-time events or donations, we focus on raising awareness about our efforts to solving social issues in countries where we do business. social contribution. Since 2016, our employees’ family members have joined as well. Each of our work sites visit local welfare facilities to help out and clean the environment. Talent Donation Every year, our employees renovate and repair local welfare facilities. In 2016, we helped repair outdated facilities in the Eunpyeong Home of Peace, Home Medical(Volunteer) Support Improvement of Living Environments of Angels and Holt Ilsan Welfare Town. • Eunpyeong Home of Peace, Home of Angels Vision Care medical support service Environment cleaning • Holt Ilsan Center Donation of blood Donation of home supplies Environmental Improvement As part of our relay volunteer activities with families, we organized ‘Wall Painting with Family Members’. 172 employees and their family members spent two days improving the environment in Majang-dong with the Volunteer Center. In addition, we renovated outdated facilities and cleaned Technology Transfer Educational Support the environment in local areas. Renovation of school facilities for better educational • Wall painting in outdated areas Transfer of construction technology and expertise for environments • Renovation of outdated facilities economic independence Scholarship award and internship programs Sharing Activities 100 new employees visited 104 Village and delivered 4,000 briquettes through Seoul Bab Sang Community in January 2016. The program has been organized every year since 2011 and it will continue in the future with new recruits. In December 2016, the company President and 30 employees made kimchi with 300 cabbages and donated it to the Eunpyeong Home of Angels. • Donation of briquettes to senior citizens and low-income families Promote corporate • Donation of kimchi to broken families reputation Strengthen relationship with local communities and the Other Activities private/public sectors Every month, we join the ‘Coin Collecting Fund’ donating a small part of our paychecks. In addition, we organize volunteer campaigns for broken families, people with disabilities and newborn babies(knitting hats) while encouraging our employees to participate in blood donation. • Social volunteer activities for people with severe disabilities • Knitting hats to save newborn babies • Corporate-wide blood donation campaign 120 121 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Society Technology Transfer For the purpose of helping a local community to gain economic independence, we operated Training Schools that provide education on engineering and construction. To help secure manpower and create jobs in local areas we provided professional training. It was first introduced for the LNG Train Construction Project in Arzew, Algeria in 2008. In 2016, we continued to foster local manpower in construction sites in Boughzoul. Construction technology training in Boughzoul, Algeria Educational Support Scholarship award for the University of Port Harcourt in Nigeria We are also supporting educational system and talented people in local communities. In May 2015, we renovated a school library and donated books in Eleme, Nigeria. In March 2016, we awarded scholarships and provided an internship program for University of Port Harcourt students. In addition, we signed an agreement for an internship program with National University of Civil Engineering in Vietnam to strengthen our local network and foster talents as part of our strategy to build a growth engine for the future. Blood donation in Qatar Medical(Volunteer) Support Since 2012, Daewoo E&C has contributed to medical services for eye disease with ‘Vision Care’, a private volunteer organization composed of Korean ophthalmologists. In January 2016, 180 volunteers donated Type O blood at the request from Hamad National Hospital in Qatar. We maintain a close relationship with the local community by making contributions to local healthcare. Cleaning the environment at the CFP site in Kuwait Vision Care volunteer activities in Morocco Improvement of Living Environments Daewoo E&C also takes initiatives to improve the quality of life in local communities by donating living supplies and cleaning the environment. At CFP(Clean Fuel Project) site in Kuwait and Alexandra Condominium Project site in Singapore, we helped create a better environment for the local community. In June 2016, we donated living supplies for people in need at our project site in Boughzoul, Algeria as part of our commitment to improving people’s quality of life. Donation of living supplies in Algeria Cleaning the environment at the CFP site in Kuwait 122 123 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX 126 Sustainability Management Performances 128 Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement 130 Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions 131 GRI G4 Content Index 133 United Nations Global Compact 134 ISO 26000 135 Membership/Consolidated Subsidiary List 136 About This Report 124 125 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX Sustainability Management Performances Economic Performance Social Performance Category Details Unit 2014 2015 2016 Notes Category Details Unit 2014 2015 2016 Notes Orders New orders KRW billion 6,960 11,057 5,602 Total Employees No. of persons 6,211 6,174 6,128 Executives, Contracted, Professionals, Full-time(foreigners Order backlog KRW billion excluded) 38,768 40,080 34,796 Sales by Region Domestic sales ratio % 68.6 69.5 70.1 Type of Executives No. of persons 47 39 56 Employment Overseas sales ratio % 31.4 30.5 29.9 Full-time No. of persons 4,089 4,053 4,043 Specialized Executives included Sales by Business Total sales KRW million 9,995,023 9,889,965 11,105,930 Contracted No. of persons 389 412 442 Contracted Executives included Division Civil Project Division KRW million 1,284,615 1,212,931 1,220,799 Others No. of persons 1,686 1,670 1,587 Building Works Division KRW million 2,327,658 1,883,265 2,280,893 Employment by Domestic No. of persons 5,002 4,950 5,198 Region Housing Division KRW million 2,896,374 3,197,464 3,504,608 Overseas No. of persons 1,209 1,224 930 Excludes local employees at overseas sites Overseas Civil & Building KRW million 610,597 1,092,441 1,176,142 Former Overseas Employee Diversity Male No. of persons 5,591 5,600 5,573 Infrastructure Division Division Female No. of persons 620 574 555 Plant Business Division KRW million 1,516,917 2,404,950 2,791,724 Plant Business & Power Plant Divisions integrated Seniors No. of persons 432 424 366 Over 55(born before 1960) Power Plant Division KRW million 1,255,280 Foreigners No. of persons 75 70 27 Not included in total head count Other KRW million 103,582 98,914 131,764 Disabled No. of persons 64 65 65 Stakeholder Value Employee KRW million 916,853 1,053,997 1,136,468 Labor and welfare expenses New Hires Male No. of persons 136 90 83 Full-time only Distribution Supplier KRW million 6,849,091 7,011,008 8,106,029 Raw material costs, procurement expenses, and service costs Female No. of persons 19 20 12 Investor, shareholder KRW million 118,234 95,238 92,385 Interest payments Retirement/ Male No. of persons 144 135 145 Resignation Government KRW million 54,073 14,822 -256,210 Corporate tax Female No. of persons 8 13 17 Local Community KRW million 4,200 1,540 9,749 Donations and social contributions Training and Total training hours Hours 627,428 501,455 474,176 Education Board of Directors Meetings convened No. of meetings 17 14 16 Total cost KRW million 3,833 4,067 4,046 Performance (BoD) Operation Agenda items No. of cases 48 56 65 Information Training per person Hours 4 m 35s 4m 30s Performance Attendance % 92.9 98.1 94.8 Security Education Annual No. of Participants No. of persons 6,499 4,759 Audit Committee Meetings No. of meetings 5 5 6 Total training hours Hours 496 357 External Director Nominating Committee Meetings No. of meetings 2 Childbirth Leave Persons on leave No. of persons 178 208 252 *Changes of financial statements for 2015 due to errors such as accounting estimates Persons returned No. of persons 171 204 250 from leave Return to work rate % 96% 98% 99% Parenting Leave Persons on leave No. of persons 23 33 17 Retrospective application due to changes in standards Persons returned No. of persons 22 27 14 Environmental Performance from leave Category Details Unit 2014 2015 2016 Notes Average leave Days 245 275 234 Greenhouse Total site emissions tCO2eq 54,347 58,210 60,509 Scope 1+2 Labor Union Membership % 26.5 26.3 29.3 Gas(GHG) Total building emissions tCO2eq 8,886 8,298 8,080 Scope 1+2 Accident rate Converted accident % 0.25 0.24 0.24 Emissions Total emissions tCO2eq 63,233 66,508 68,589 Scope 1+2 Rate(Domestic) GHG intensity tCO2eq/KRW 100 million 0.922 0.968 0.881 (Scope 1+2) / Domestic Sales LTIR(Overseas) No. of cases per 0.07 0.17 0.02 million hours Energy Total site consumption TJ 1,076 1,153 1,202 Consumption Social Contribution Annual No. of Participants Person 11,508 5,645 957 Total building consumption TJ 171 159 157 Performance Total Expenditure KRW million 4,200 1,540 9,749 Total consumption TJ 1,247 1,312 1,359 Operating Expense KRW million 1,170 50 25 Energy intensity TJ/KRW 100 million 0.018 0.019 0.017 Total consumption / Domestic Sales Donation(culture, art, etc.) KRW million 3,030 1,490 9,723 Waste Volume treated Ton 628,471 422,498 597,000 Domestic site Avg. Svc Hours/Person Hour/Person 2.7 3.9 3.9 Treatment cost KRW 100 million 156 108 153 Domestic site Relay Volunteer No. of Times Time 6 5 6 *Difference between the sum of GHG emissions by source and total emissions due to cut-off by site Activities *Retroactive application of unit-level emissions according to sales change in 2015 No of Participants Person 424 241 286 Customer Satisfaction Survey Result Rank 4th 4th 6th NCSI 126 127 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement Introduction Stakeholder Inclusiveness DAEWOO Engineering & Construction Co., Ltd. (“DAEWOO E&C”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to DAEWOO E&C has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customers, Local community, Employees, Government, and Shareholders, Subcontractors undertake independent assurance of 2017 DAEWOO E&C Sustainability Report (the “Report”). The directors of DAEWOO E&C have sole responsibility for the preparation and Suppliers, Academia / Industry association / Institute, Future generation. DAEWOO E&C engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of DAEWOO E&C in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV through various channels. The examples of approaches to engage with selected stakeholders and relevant organizations are described in the Report. In addition, main GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good responsibilities of DAEWOO E&C for respective stakeholder groups are addressed. faith. Sustainability Context The stakeholders can review DAEWOO E&C’s vision (Vision 2025) and mid and long term strategy from the Report. The value creation model for stakeholder developed in Scope of assurance 2015 is provided in the Report as well. The scope of assurance includes a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period from 1st January to 31st December 2016. This also DAEWOO E&C addresses how material issues grouped into 10 key aspects are managed and what was achieved in 2016, which would help the stakeholder understand includes the management approaches toward the material aspects. • Evaluation of the principles for defining the sustainability report content in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 • Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the process for generating, Materiality gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. DAEWOO E&C has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. 25 issue pools were used on internal and external stakeholder survey to rate the material issues. 10 material issues are prioritized accordingly. DAEWOO E&C takes into account the consistent way of selecting material issues so that the decision made by the management and daily operation are fully aligned with strategic sustainability management. The audit team has reviewed the materiality assessment process and confirms relevant material issues prioritized from the process Basis of our opinion We’ve performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice are addressed in the Report. including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000). We applied the limited level of assurance. The audit was carried out from February and till April 2017. The site visits were made to DAEWOO E&C’s Headquaters in Seoul and DAEWOO Institute of Construction Technologyin Daejeon, Korea. We undertook the Completeness following activities as part of the assurance process The Report has covered sustainability performances of DAEWOO E&C and management approach to material issues for the reporting period. The reporting boundary includes the operations over which DAEWOO E&C implements management control in 2016 however the quantified performance data for the environmental aspects • challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, are collected from the projects and 6 building properties only in Korea. DAEWOO E&C should consider expanding reporting boundary. The material environmental information flow and controls; performance data generated from international projects should be reported once it is determined material. • interviewed representatives from the various departments; • conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content Accuracy and Reliability and performance data; The audit team has sampled data and tested accuracy. Based on the test, the intentional error or misstatement is not noted from the data and information disclosed in • reviewed the materiality assessment report. the Report. Data owners were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data in a reliable manner. The data was identifiable and traceable. • Site (Daewoo Institute of Construction technology in Daejeon) visit and test of data gathering process Competence and Independence Limitations DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of DAEWOO E&C’ subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with except for this Assurance Statement. The audit team has complied with DNV GL Code of Ethics during the assurance engagement. internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart. fss.or.kr) as well as DAEWOO E&C’s website (www.daewooenc.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. April 2017 In Kyoon Ahn Conclusion Seoul, Korea Country Representative On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly address the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4. In addition, nothing comes to our attention to believe that the Report does not meet the GRI G4 and Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosure in accordance – ‘Core’ option of reporting. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the Principles are made below; 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at DNV GL Website (www.dnvgl.com)/assurance/reporting/verification.html DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. 128 129 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX Assurance Statement on Greenhouse Gas Emissions GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosure Indicator Detail Pages Notes Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization(incl. strategy relates to sustainability, impacts of the activities in relation to the stakeholders) 6-7 Organization Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization 8 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services 10-11 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters 8-9 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically G4-6 8-9 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form 8 G4-8 Report the markets served 8-9, 67 Report the scale of the organization, including : Total number of employees Total number of operations G4-9 8, 90-91 Net sales(for private sector organizations) or net revenues(for public sector organizations) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity(for private sector organizations) Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender G4-10 d. Report the total workforce by region and gender 127 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers(such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries) G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 127 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 43-47 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain 8, 126 G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 98-99 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. 133-134 G4-16 List memberships of associations 135 Identified Material Aspects and boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4-17 8-9, 67, 135 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries G4-18 88-89, 136 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 89 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 88-89 G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 88-89 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 126-127 G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 136 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 86-87 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 86-87 G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement 86-87 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, 19, 29, 43, 49, 57, G4-27 including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns 65, 77, 88-89 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 136 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 136 G4-30 Reporting cycle 136 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 136 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. 128-129, G4-32 b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option 131-132, 136 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. Report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided G4-33 128-129, 136 c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on 14-15, 21, 44, 46, G4-34 economic, environmental and social impacts 51-52, 85, 98, 118 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees Permanent or non-permanent Independence Term of governance organization G4-38 Number and character of each important positions and works of individuals 14-15 Gender The member of an under-represented social group Ability related to economic, environmental and social impacts Stakeholders delegate G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer(and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 14 G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members 14-15 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, 14-15, 21, 44, 46, G4-42 strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts 51-52, 85, 98, 118 G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 15 G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration 15 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 50-53 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful G4-58 45-47, 52 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines 130 131 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX GRI G4 Content Index UN Global Compact Specific Standard Disclosure In 2012, Daewoo E&C joined the UN Global Compact(UNGC), a strategic policy initiative for businesses that Material DMA and Indicator are committed in their corporate social responsibilities. By upholding the 10 Principles on human rights, labor, Pages Note Aspects Indicators Detail Economy environment, and anti-corruption and participating in the global standards, we show our dedication towards G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 90 corporate social responsibility. Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 90-91, 97 Performance G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change 105 Indirect G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 97 Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 97 Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 97 Environment UN Global Compact 10 Principles & Related Activities G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 100 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 105, 126 Areas Principles Activities Pages Energy G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 105, 126 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 105 Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect • Specifies in the Daewoo E&C Ethics Charter ‘We uphold all 85, 117 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 100 the protection of internationally proclaimed international and national laws governing human rights, the Biodiversity G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 108 human rights. environment, culture and the economy’ G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 100 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions(scope 1) 105, 126 • Sexual harassment prevention training for all employees(CP G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions(scope 2) 105, 126 2. Businesses should make sure they are not education) Emissions G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 105, 126 complicit in human rights abuses. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 105, 126 G4-CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity of new construction and redevelopment sites 105, 126 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 100 Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of • Abides by Korean Labor Standards Act 117 Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 126 association and the effective recognition of • Operates Labor Union and Joint Labor-Management Committee G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 77 Products and Services the right to collective bargaining. G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 77, 80-81 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 100 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of • Abides by the International Labor Organization(ILO)’s Convention 117 G4-EN29 103 and regulations all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Actions Toward the Supplier Environmental G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 100 Assessment G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 46 Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labor Society 5. Businesses should uphold the effective • Abides by Korean Labor Standards Act Labor practices and decent work abolition of child labor. G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 110 Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 127 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination • Implements fair evaluation and compensation 110, G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 127 Labor/Management of discrimination in respect of employment • Operates family-friendly welfare and benefits program 114-116 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements 117 Relations and occupation. G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 19 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related G4-LA6 19, 27, 127 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary • Obtains and maintains environmental management system 100-101, Occupational Health and fatalities, by region and by gender Safety G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 22-24 approach to environmental challenges. certification 103-105 See the star* at the G4-CRE6 Ratio of business sites operating global safety health system 132 • Response to climate change through greenhouse gas emission bottom of the page G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 110 management Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender, and by employee category 110, 127 • Systematization of on-site environmental management standards, Society G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 49 environmental audit and training Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified 50 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 52-53 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives • Operates a Waste Management Company Registration System 100-109 DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 43, 49 Anti-competitive Behavior to promote greater environmental • Environment campaigns for each division, team and site G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 45 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 43, 49 responsibility. • Environmental awards Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and G4-SO8 45 regulations 9. Businesses should encourage • Developed and applied Green premium 80-81 Supplier Assessment for G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 43 Impacts on Society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 46 the development and diffusion of • Obtained eco-friendly construction certification Product responsibility environmentally friendly technologies. • Reducing the environmental impact of construction materials G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 29 Customer Health and Percentage of significant products and services categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for • Developed and applied CCS technology Safety G4-PR1 33 improvement G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 29 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption • Systemized CP system 50-53 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and Product and Service G4-PR3 80-81 in all its forms, including extortion and • Voluntary CP Participation labeling, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements Labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 127 bribery. • Training and promotion of compliance G4-CRE8 Types and Numbers of Sustainability certification, assessment, labeling conducting new construction or redevelopment 81 • Conducted ethical management campaigns *Daewoo E&C's projects and services 132 133 2017 DAEWOO E&C SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX ISO 26000 Membership ISO 26000 is an international standard for Corporate Social Responsibility that is comprised of seven core subjects : organizational governance, Division Associations and Institutes human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, customer issues, and community involvement and development. Daewoo Engineering Division Engineering Financial Cooperative, Korea Engineering & Consulting Association, Korea Electric Engineers Association E&C will use ISO 26000 as a guiding principle to further strengthen sustainability management and fulfill roles and responsibilities as a corporate Q-HSE Services Division Construction Safety Organization of CEOs, Construction Safety Manager Committee, Association of Construction OHS Manager, Maekyung Safety & citizen. Environment Institute, Korea Society for Construction Quality, Korea Construction Quality Association, Korea Environment Construction Association, KOSHA 18001 Council, Korea Safety Management & Science, KEPIC WEEK Contribution(Korea Electric Association) ISO 26000 Core Subject and Related Activities Building Works Division IBS Korea, KMU Industry-Academic Cooperation Foundation, Korea Green Building Council, Architectural Institute of Korea, Society of Air-conditioning and Refrigerating Engineers of Korea, Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers, Korea Institute of Building Construction, Korean Institute of Architectural Core Issues Related Activities Pages Sustainable Environment and Building Systems, Korea Military Supplies Cooperative, Korea Developer Association, Korea Institute of Ecological Subject Architecture and Environment, Korean Society of Living Environment System, Korean Association of Air Conditioning Refrigerating and Sanitary Engineers, Koran Institute of Electrical and Electronic Material Engineers, Korean Institute of Illuminating and Electrical Installation Engineers, Korea Facility Governance Structure of decision making and process Operated Audit Committee and Outside Director Recommendation Committee under the Board of Directors 14-15 Management Association Human Due diligence Operated CP Review by Unit, Implementation of internal report system 52-53 Corporate Management & Service SeriCEO, Construction Industry Human Resource Manager Council, Korea Emergency Plan, National Association of Reservist Battalion Commander, Rights Division National Commander’s Council, Korean Human Resource Development Association, Korea Construction Engineers Association, Korea Employers Human rights risk situations Conducted an ethical management campaign 53 Federation, Korea International Trade Association, Korea Fire Facility Association, Korea Software Technology Association, Korea Personnel Improvement Association, Korea Information Systems Audit and Control Association Avoidance of complicity Included sustainability factors in supplier assessment, penalized unqualified suppliers 46 Audit Division UN Global Compact Resolving grievances CP Management System including Prohibition of illegal employment and unfair treatment 110, 117 Overseas Marketing Division Korea Construction Association, Korea Facility Management Association, Korea Specialty Contractors Association, The Construction Management Discrimination and vulnerable groups Fair evaluation and compensation 110 Association of Korea, Korea Federation of Construction Contractors, Construction & Economy Research Institute of Korea, Korea Electrical Contractors Association, Korea Information and Communications Contractors Association, Korea Plant Industries Association, Korea-Vietnam Friendship, Korea-Arab Civil and political rights Complied with Korea Labor Standards Act, ILO standards 117 Society, Korea-Algeria Association, International Contractors Association of Korea Economic, social and cultural rights Operated family-friendly programs, childbirth and parenting leave policy 114-116 Institute of Construction International Association for Bridge and Structural Engineering, International Federation for Structure Concrete, American Concrete Institute, American Technology Society of Civil Engineers, Architectural Institute of Japan, Japan Society of Civil Engineers, Korea Construction Transport New-Technology Association, Fundamental principles and rights at works Complied with Korea Labor Standards Act, ILO standards, conducted sexual harassment prevention training 117 Korea Institute of Science and Technology Information, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Korea Concrete Institute, Council on Tall Buildings and Labor Employment and employment relationships Complied with Korea Labor Standards Act, ILO standards 117 Urban Habitat, Korea Carbon Capture and Storage Association Practices Plant Business Division Korea Gas Union, Korea Plant Industries Association(PEA Club), Korea Institute of Plant Engineering & Construction, Korea Electric Association, Korea Conditions of work and social protection Operated Emotional Management Event, Life & Work Balance Program 114-116 Coating Experts Society, Korean Radioactive Waste Society, Korea Atomic Industrial Forum, Korean Nuclear Society, Korea Nuclear Association For Social dialogue Operated Labor Union and Joint Labor-Management Committee 117 International Cooperation, Korea Project Management Association, Korea Plant Industries Association(Plant Business Group), Korea Plant Industries Association(Chemical Engineering Group), Professional Infrastructure Developers Association Health and safety at work Operated Health & Safety Committee, Immediate Operation Shutdown 20-23 Finance Division Korea Electric Engineers Association, Engineering Financial Cooperative, Korea Engineering and Consulting Association Human development and training in the Provided training and education based on talent development strategy 110-111 Strategic Planning Division Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Federation of Korean Industries, Korea-Indonesia Partnership Council, Korea Federation of Construction workplace Contractors Environment Prevention of pollution Operated Air, Waste, Hazardous Chemical Management including Agreement on Fugitive Dust between 107-108 Housing Division Korea Remodeling Association, Korea Green Roof & Infrastructure Association, Korean Institute of Traditional Landscape Architecture, Korea Institute Ministry of Environment and Construction Companies of Information & Telecommunication Facilities Engineering, Korean Institute of Landscape Architecture, Korea Housing Association, Korea Society of Environmental Restoration Technology Sustainable resource use Developed Eco-friendly Construction Materials 80 Civil Project Division Korean Society of Civil Engineers, Road Engineering Association of Asia & Australasia, Korean Society of Steel Construction, Korea Institute of Construction Climate change mitigation and adaptation Operated GHG Emission and Energy Control 105 Engineering and Management, Korean National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage, Korea Road Forum, Korean National Committee on Large Dams, Korea Road & Transportation Association, Korea Society of Road Engineers, Korean Society of Hazard Mitigation, Korea Water and Wastewater Works Protection of the environment, biodiversity Protected biodiversity including land & aquatic biotope 108 Association, Korea Water Resources Association, Korean Society of Coastal Disaster Prevention, Korean Geotechnical Society, Korea Railway Association, and restoration of natural habitats Korean Society for Railway, Korean Tunneling and Underground Space Association, Korea Association of Waste to Energy Technology, Korea Ports & Fair Operating Anti-Corruption Internalized Ethical Management Culture, Operated CP 53 Harbors Association, Korean Society of Coastal and Ocean Engineers, Korea Environmental Industry Association Practices Overseas Civil & Building Division International Hydropower Association, Korea Railway Association(International Cooperation Committee) Responsible political involvement Signed in and participated in relevant associations and academic societies of business divisions 135 Fair competition Operated CP 45 Promoting social responsibility in the value Applied sustainability factors in supplier evaluation, penalized unqualified suppliers 46 chain Respect for property rights Operated Daewoo E&C ‘Shinmungo’ 45 Customer Fair marketing Prohibited unethical display of advertisement and complied with advertising standards 50 Issues Protecting customers’ health and safety Sustainable consumption Acquired global quality certifications(ISO 9001, KEPIC, ASME, NBBI, etc.) Developed and applied Green premium, Eco-friendly Construction Certification 33 80-81 Consolidated Subsidiary List Customer service, support, and complaint Operated Integrated Call Center, PURGIO Muse 34 and dispute resolution (As of December 31, 2015, Unit : KRW million) Customer data protection and privacy Updated ISO 27001 certification, Strenghten security Inspection System, Prevention of Information Leakage 38-41 Company Name Main Business Total Assets Access to essential services Operated PURGIO Life, Life Premium, Uz Center services 36-37 Daewoo Steel Tech Co., Ltd. Steel structure manufacture, equipment lease 95,684 Education and awareness Operated Uz Center, PURGIO Muse 34, 37 Daewoo Songdo Hotel Co., Ltd. Hotel business 162,752 PRUGIO Service Co., Ltd. Construction and maintenance 25,843 Community Community involvement Conducted company-wide community service relay and social contribution activities in overseas sites 118-123 Involvement Korea Infrastructure Management Co., Ltd. Operation of roads and related facilities 14,658 and Education and culture Supported a local school in Nigeria and Vietnam 122 Foodream Co., Ltd. Food and beverage industry 6,361 Development Employment creation and skills development Diversified the nationality of foreign employees, engaged in community when proceeding with overseas 110-113 Gangdong Project Financing Vehicle Co., Ltd. Non-housing building construction 1,109 projects Daewoo Power Co., Ltd. Power plant facilities maintenance 6,625 Technology development and access Acquired R&D achievement including ICT Convergence 62-63, 73 DW AMERICA DEVEL‘T INC. U.S. development business 159 Daewoo Tripoli Investment& Development Co. Libya Tripoli hotel 128,884 Wealth and income creation Expanded Production Inducement Effect, Value-Added Inducement Effect and Job Creation Effect 97 SAIPAN LAULAU DEVELOPMENT, INC. Saipan golf resort 64,949 Health Welfare facilities maintenance and improvement, overseas health activities including Vision Care 120, 122 THT DEVELOPMENT CO.,LTD Real estate investment and development 457,772 Social investment Built national infrastructure such as roads and bridges 92-95 Daewoo E&C Nigeria Ltd Nigeria power plant business 118 134 135 About This Report Since 2012, Daewoo E&C has published a sustainability report to communicate with various stakeholders. This sixth edition of report contains key policies, activities and achievements related to sustainability management at Daewoo E&C and can be downloaded from the website. • Reporting Standard This report is based on the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G4 guidelines and Construction & Real Estate Sector Supplement. In terms of the ‘accordance’ principles set forth in the G4 guidelines, this report satisfies the ‘In Accordance Core’ option of disclosure. • Reporting Period This report covers key sustainability activities and achievements from January to December 2016(Qualitative performance data includes those up to March 2017). In terms of quantitative performance, data for the last three years is presented for time series analysis. • Reporting Scope This report covers all sites and buildings in which our operations take place both domestic and overseas. quantitative environmental data, however, is limited to domestic sites and buildings in use as of 2016(289 sites and 6 buildings in total). Financial performance is reported based on separate standards of K-IFRS. Questions about the report Design by cread. T.02.517.4854 Address : 75, Saemunan-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Team : Compliance TFT E-mail : dwenc_sr@daewooenc.com Tel : 02) 2288-2303 Fax : 02) 2288-4284 www.daewooenc.com
