Table of Contents Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses 3 Our Report 4 Message from the Executive Commission 6 Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses 7 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Businesses and Products 17 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People 23 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Partners and Suppliers 32 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Communities 39 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet 45 Global Reporting Initiative 52 Sonae Group 53 GRI Supplement 54 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 2 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 3 Our Report Under the motto Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses, the Sustainability Report of Sonae SGPS, SA. (henceforth also known as Sonae or Sonae Group) aims to present the group’s contribution towards sustainable development regarding the economic, environmental and social pillars, and meet the expectations and interests of the different stakeholders. 1. Period and scope of the report The report focuses on the period of activity from the 1st January 2017 to the 31st December 2017 of Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Sonaecom (which includes Sonae IM and Media, among others) and Sonae Sierra. Sonaecom, despite holding 23.4% of NOS, does not consolidate NOS non-financial data. In the present document, there has been a broadening of scope in comparison to the previous report, namely in the Global Reporting Initiative supplement that this year, in addition, includes Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS and Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media). 2. GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), UNGC Principles (United Nations Global Compact) and SDG (Sustainable Development Goals) The Report was developed in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI Standards) for the option “In accordance – Core”. The activity report shows our performance at the level of the UNGC Principles and the SDG. 3. Decree-Law no. 89/2017 With the present Report, we also aim to meet the requirements of the Decree-Law no. 89/2017, published on the 28th July 2017. 4. Structure The Report is composed by a central text structured upon five axes and a technical supplement – “Global Reporting Initiative”. • Businesses |Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Businesses and Products • People | Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People • Partners and Suppliers | Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Partners and Suppliers • Community | Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Communities • Planet | Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet In each of these pillars, the main performance indicators are presented, as well as some of the projects developed, which reflect our results and initiatives. With the projects presented, we aim to demonstrate how we mobilise and fulfil our purpose. The “Global Reporting Initiative” supplement complements the report presented on each of the axes, including the chapter on the Sonae Group and the details of the GRI Table, explaining the respective Indicators. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 4 5. External verification The information reported in the Sustainability Report 2017 was subject to verification by an external entity – KPMG. 6. Contacts Should you require any further clarification regarding the information published in this Report, please check the website or contact: Catarina Oliveira Fernandes | Head of Communication, Brand and Corporate Responsibility | Email: catarina.fernandes@sonae.pt | Tel.: +351 220 104 000 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 5 Message from the Executive Commission We are a group with a solid culture, based on deeply rooted values that distinguish us and have enabled us to grow in a sustained way, contributing to the development of society, beyond the economic value generated through our activity. As a group with long-term vision, we are committed to carrying out our businesses based on the principles of sustainable development and thus, safeguarding our common future. Therefore, sustainability is a fundamental and defining element of our value proposition, both as a group and a longliving company, it guides our actions, the strong ties we establish with our partners and suppliers, our employees’ development, our presence within the community and our contribution to overcoming some of the most urgent environmental and social challenges of our time. 2017 was a year in which the whole group, without exception, remained dedicated to the creation of shared value, thus it is worth highlighting some of the achieved milestones and the acknowledgement we’ve received as a result: • We aim to work in an increasingly collaborative and open ecosystem that acts as an innovation enhancer. The Start-up Europe Partnership initiative highlighted Sonae's investment and distinguished us as company that supports start-ups. • Our commitment to developing a diverse and inclusive workplace, capable of promoting, attracting and integrating people with different profiles and experiences, was acknowledged as we joined the top 100 world companies in the Thomson Reuters IX Global Diversity and Inclusion Index – a tool designed to transparently and objectively measure and distinguish the efforts of companies in this field. • The 20th anniversary of Continente’s Producers Club is a powerful witness to how, over the years, we have been contributing to the creation of shared value throughout the chain. An initiative that has been reinventing itself, supporting national producers in their struggle to surmount some of the many different challenges they face. • Our focus on eco-efficiency is transversal to the way in which we develop, manage and maintain our assets. Last year, the group's first store, inaugurated in 1985 and remodelled in 2016, was awarded the Platinum Certification from LEED – Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, with only other six buildings in the world achieving the same level of certification. In a similar vein, the new Sonae office building, which began its building works in 2017, was designed with the goal of attainting a Near Zero Emission Building (NZEB) classification. • Through our Sonae Activshare programme, we continued to reinforce our investment in the internal volunteer programmes which, in comparison to 2016, benefitted from 1.245 additional hours of volunteering. These are some of the milestones we would like to emphasise in order to illustrate our commitment to sustainable development. However, we know that this is only possible due to the daily dedication of each and every one of our more than 46 thousand employees who, this way, ensure our future as a long-living company. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 6 Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses As a long-living company, sustainability is at the heart of our mission and culture, and the creation of shared value is a concern that has been consistently addressed by our businesses over the years. We are committed to developing our activities based on the principles of sustainable development, with the objective of contributing to society beyond the economic value generated by our businesses. In particular, we want to improve the communities in which we work, through mutual collaboration to overcome the most pressing environmental and social challenges of our times. Throughout this path, we would like to highlight some key milestones that demonstrate our commitment, as well as the principles to which we subscribe and the internal benchmarks we have developed and that continue to challenge us. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 7 1995 | Joined the World Business Council for Sustainable Development 1996 | Creation of Sonae’s Environment Forum 1999 | Launch of the Eco2 XXI programme, with the objective of effectively implementing actions to improve eco-efficiency 2000 | Approval of Sonae’s Environmental Policy and Environmental Management System 2001 | Founding of BCSD Portugal, with Sonae as its founding member Publication of Sonae’s first Environmental Report 2004 | Joined the United Nations Global Compact Signing of the World Safety Declaration 2005 | Creation of the Sustainability Forum 2007 | Publication of Sonae’s first consolidated Sustainability Report 2008 | Endorsement of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights 2009 | Adoption of the Sustainable Fishing Policy SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 8 2010| Endorsement of the Global Business Oath of the World Economic Forum 2011 | Joined the Retail Forum for Sustainability of the European Commission 2012 | Creation of Sonae’s Sustainability Award Support of the European initiative to combat waste in the retail sector Subscribed to the European Round Table of Industrialists’ Women Initiative 2013 | Endorsement of the European Code of Conduct for the Food Supply Chain 2014 | Approval of the Suppliers’ Code of Conduct 2015 | Signing of the Paris Pledge for Action 2017 | Endorsement of the Letter of Principles of BCSD Portugal SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 9 1. Communicating with stakeholders Given the wide spectrum of our businesses and the resulting multiplicity of stakeholders, one of our greatest challenges is to identify their expectations. In order to ensure better communication, we continuously interact with our stakeholders, using numerous communication channels and tools that we mobilise in a specific way for each group of stakeholders, at key times of sharing and gathering information. CUSTOMERS AND VISITORS EMPLOYEES INVESTORS SUPPLIERS Websites Sonae Climate Survey General Meetings Suppliers’ Portals Call Centres Sonae Ombudsman Quarterly Financial Reports Visits and Audits Suggestions and Complaints Surveys Reply to Specific Reciprocal Training Systems Questionnaires Intranet News Surveys Sonae Ombudsman Internal Publications Performance Assessment Surveys Knowledge Sharing Forums Stores and Shopping Centres REGULATORY AND COMMUNITY MEDIA SHOP TENANTS GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES Participation in various SectorPartnerships with Conferences Written Communications Specific Associations Representative Institutions Interviews Meetings Community Engagement Reply to Specific Questions Training Projects Surveys Surveys SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 10 STAKEHOLDERS SURVEY ON SUSTAINABILITY Between July and September 2017, Sonae conducted a stakeholder consultation process, with the goal of identifying their expectations and concerns regarding sustainability. With this survey, we aimed to evaluate the current perception of our actions concerning sustainability, as well as to understand the issues that stakeholders consider to be a priority. The survey resulted in 855 responses from the following groups of stakeholders: employees, customers, suppliers, investors/analysts, sector associations and community. The results obtained led to the conclusion that Sonae is considered to be an active company in terms of sustainability with a score of 4, on a scale of 1 to 5, where 1 is not active and 5 is very active. In general, Sonae is considered to have a clear vision of its responsibilities in terms of sustainability: • Economic Impact 4.0 • Human Resources Management 3.9 • Social Responsibility 4.0 • Environmental Protection 3.9 The seven topics that the stakeholders identified as the most relevant to Soane’s activity were: . Innovation . Financial Return and Market Share . Ethics and Conduct . Customer Relationship Management . Governance Practices . Brand and Reputation Management . Human Capital Development In 2018, these topics will support the definition of the Sonae Group’s Sustainability Strategy. TU CONTAS! SOCIAL CLIMATE SURVEY In order to know how our employees feel with regard to their role, team, work conditions and environment, as well as to understand how they experience Sonae’s values, the social climate survey Tu Contas! was conducted. This survey covered several of the group’s businesses (Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae FS, MDS and Sonae RP), including all employees working for Sonae for three months or more, with either permanent or fixed-term positions, part-time or full-time contracts. The response rate was 83%, which resulted in 27,685 responses. The results obtained were presented during 2017: initially, this information was communicated to our business managers, where the results were presented using previously defined levels of analysis; afterwards, the main conclusions (response rate, overall satisfaction and engagement index) were shared with our employees; and finally methodological proposals were also presented to identify areas for improvement, definition, prioritisation and implementation of an improvement action plan. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 11 2. Membership of associations and partnerships with organisations We believe participation in associations and the promotion of partnerships is an important way to contribute to the development of society. We established these relationships based on the principles of honesty, integrity and transparency, raising awareness of our perspective, aiming to create synergies and contribute with the value that our experience allows. We strive to have an active presence that allows us to capitalise on the collective knowledge that each of these institutions reflects, as well as their potential for action. We promote membership of associations that are as diverse as the business units we incorporate in our portfolio. Business Associations Sector-specific Associations SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 12 Specialised Associations European and Worldwide Associations EUROPEAN DATA COALITION Cultural Partnerships Educational Partnerships SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 13 3. Sustainability management We regularly promote forums that are transversal to all business units, which are essential tools for the discussion and sharing of knowledge, the creation of synergies and the concertation of action between all the different Sonae companies. The Sustainability Forum is transversal to all of the groups’ companies and aims to promote the sharing of experiences and a broader debate on the horizontal roles of all businesses regarding sustainable development. We believe that the exchange of knowledge and skills will promote awareness of sustainability in the whole Sonae universe and will drive the implementation of sustainability measures that are paramount to the activity of each of the business units. This Forum is comprised of members from several Sonae companies and is coordinated by a sponsor, a president and a secretary, addressing issues such as environmental taxation, food waste, community support, management and relationship with suppliers, environmental performance, among others. Complementarily and when required, the Forum may promote the formation of work groups to analyse more complex or emerging subjects, to structure specific action proposals and monitor their implementation. We aim to promote transparent management practices and to ensure that all our activity is governed by the same values, standards and ethical principles. As this is a cross-cutting concern of the Group, the Sonae Code of Ethics and Conduct is available to all our employees, defining the ethical standards by which we abide. To ensure its implementation, enforcement and monitoring, an Ethics Committee was appointed by the Board of Directors. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 14 4. Milestones in 2017 Sonae MC acquired 100% of BRIO, the first organic Sonae announced the agreement to merge Sport Zone with supermarket chain to be launched in Portugal, owning six Sprinter and the British business group, JD, in the Iberian stores specialised in organic food, taking important steps Peninsula. The company that will result from this towards promoting broad and free access to a healthy partnership will be the second largest sports retailer in the lifestyle among its customers. Iberian Peninsula. MDS was approved as a Lloyd’s broker, becoming the first Sonae Sierra began to build Jardín Plaza Cúcuta shopping national company, and the only one from a Portuguesecentre, the company's first project in Colombia and based speaking country, to be able to participate in the most on the concept of integrated sustainability; and the important insurance and reinsurance markets in the world. McArthurGlen Designer Outlet Malaga, the first designer outlet in the south of Spain. Sonae MC has launched the first clinic specialised in Zippy renewed its partnership with ColorADD. After dentistry and aesthetic medicine, Dr. Well's, reinforcing the pioneering the introduction of this system into all parts of its commitment to democratise access to quality health care collections, Zippy reinforced its commitment to this services in Portugal. universal code that favors accessibility and social inclusion. Sonae was honoured in Brussels, under the Startup Europe Sonae retail brands were honored with 13 “Consumer’s Partnership initiative, in the “Open Innovation Challengers” Choice” awards on the study promoted by Consumer Choice. category, as being supportive of start-ups. 6 insignias were also awarded as the “2017 Trusted Brands” on the study promoted by the Readers Digest Selection. Sonae joined the top 100 world firms in the Thomson Sonae was considered to be the world’s best employer of Reuters IX Global Diversity and Inclusion Index. This index students and MBA graduate students, in the first edition of aims to measure, in a transparent and objective way, the the award granted by the MBA’s International Association of efforts made by companies to develop diverse and inclusive MBAs (AMBA), in the “MBA Employee” category. workplaces. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 15 Sonae won the Shared Services & Outsourcing Excellent Sonae Sierra's Bright project was a finalist at the EU Awards Europe 2017, one of the main European awards in Sustainable Energy Awards, an initiative that distinguishes the field of shared services, in the “Excellence in projects with exceptional innovation in energy efficiency Transformation” category. and renewable energy. “Continente de Matosinhos” received the Platinum All of the 41 Continente stores obtained environmental certification awarded by Leadership in Energy and certification according to the international standard ISO Environmental Design (LEED). There are currently only six 14001. Sonae Sierra’s portfolio includes 20 shopping centres buildings in the world with the same level of certification, certified according to ISO 14001 and 18 certified according the Continente store in Matosinhos is the largest of them all. to OHSAS 18001. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 16 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 17 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Businesses and Products We are a multinational group that manages a diversified portfolio of companies, creating value across several geographic areas, through a solid culture and a strong capacity to innovate and execute, taking the benefits of progress to an ever-increasing number of people. Our drive for continuous development, the constant search for new opportunities and challenges, leads to the growing diversification of our businesses, which allows us to anticipate current societal trends, enhancing the growing complementarity of the client offer and strengthening our competitive position. At Sonae, we aim to work in an increasingly collaborative and open ecosystem that acts as a powerful enabler of innovation, frugality and efficiency – values of our culture. By combining our knowledge, technological competence and investment capacity, we are able to improve our value propositions, while optimising our business agility, improving the efficiency of our processes and fostering the innovation of our products and services. The focus on continuous improvement is transversal to all our businesses’ functions and activities, in which the constant design, experimentation and implementation of new ideas and solutions allows us to develop distinctive competitive businesses, creating value for all stakeholders. These aspects make it possible to fulfil the whole virtuous cycle in which we convert knowledge into economic value. On the other hand, we believe that obtaining and safeguarding the trust of our customers, whether they are final consumers or other companies, is only achievable when the product or service provided is of a high quality. This aspect is present in our own brands, in the services we provide and in the customer-centric vision we ensure is central to how we manage our various businesses. Below we present some projects developed in 2017 that illustrate our pursuit of the corporate strategy, as well as the incorporation of our sustainability values and innovation in the products/services developed. 216 awards and Present in 90 More 1.720 jobs distinctions countries* guaranteed received *Includes operations, services rendered to third parties, representative offices, franchising agreements and partnerships. Excludes wholesale in retail. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 18 Dr. Well’s Clinic, Sonae MC PROJECT Promote the health and well-being of the communities in which we operate, democratising access to health care CHALLENGE As part of the strategy to lead the sector of health and wellness in retail in Portugal and reinforcing its commitment to providing democratised access to quality healthcare services, Sonae MC launched a new business area, based on the creation of a clinical network of improvement and preventive health care services, with specialised medical ACTION teams and the latest technology, available at the best price. In May 2017, following the launch of Well's Health Plan, the opening of the first Go Natural supermarket and the acquisition of Brio, Sonae MC opened its first Dr. Well’s clinic specialised in dental and aesthetic medicine. The clinical staff at the new clinic is led by renowned doctors, dedicated to the development of customised treatment plans and adapted to the different needs of patients. The treatment is performed with state-of-the-art equipment, while 3D technologies are used for diagnostics. • 4 clinics; • 55 staff members; • Clinical staff composed of 62 doctors. IMPACT SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 19 Worten’s new store concept, Worten PROJECT Enhance the shopping experience, by making it more interactive and relation based CHALLENGE Honouring its commitment to always offer the best price, Worten has focused on creating an environment, at the point-of-sale, which is more enjoyable, inviting customers to discover, as well as experiment with a wide range of technological products, supported by providing a specialised service in each category. ACTION Developed in collaboration with the French agency Malherbe, the new concept is based on a space where you like to be and can discover the latest trends. The technological side is highlysignificant namely in the areas of gaming, hoverboards, DJ and children's animation, as well as through the very visible entrance screens in some stores, where the contents of several brands are shown with a strong visual impact. The range has been renewed and reinforced with new product categories and the labels (physical and digital) are more complete. They contain not only information about a specific product, but also advice on selecting the most suitable product, especially in categories where the choice may be more complex (TVs and laptops, for example). Another new feature introduced by this new concept are the Expert Points, customer service counters where, with the help of expert salespersons, the entire range of products is accessible, even without in-store stock. Buying online and collecting in-store has also become easier and faster in the Click & Collect area. • 9 new stores in Portugal and 1 new in Spain; • 17 stores renovated in Portugal and 1 renovated in Spain; • Awards/Recognition: Janus du Commerce. IMPACT SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 20 Coop Stores and Rising Stores, Sonae Sierra PROJECT Promotion of social entrepreneurship, simultaneously complementing the commercial mix and improving sales CHALLENGE Coop Stores are a concept that aims to help small local businesses thrive. They explore a cooperative business model, one that means not being leased only to one operator, but rather to a collective group of small businesses and entrepreneurs through a flexible and affordable contract, benefitting from shared occupancy costs between new start-ups and the opportunity ACTION to broaden the visibility of their products, taking advantage of the high-level of visitors in a shopping centre. The Rising Store is a programme aimed at entrepreneurs with innovative ideas through which Sonae Sierra intends to play an active role in the development of local commerce and services, allowing individual entrepreneurs, small businesses, start-ups, or local retail projects to develop in a sustained manner. In addition to the basic evaluation criteria (innovation and originality, relevance to the commercial offer of Sonae Sierra’s Shopping Centres, applicability of the concept and business potential), new concepts that promote positive behavioural changes and encourage the adoption of a more sustainable lifestyle, in particular eco-friendly concepts and/or social concerns are also positively valued. The winners receive specialised help and are given the possibility of occupying a space in one of Sonae Sierra’s Shopping Centres, without paying rent for a period of six months (with the possibility of extending for a further six months, with a 50% discount on rent). This concept offers a unique solution to three different needs: it helps to create jobs within the young population; it brings new retail concepts to the market and it diversifies the mix of tenants in response to consumer demand. • Since its launch in 2015, Coop Stores generated a total of 36 thousand euros in minimum remuneration and sales of more than 308 thousand euros. 100% of Coop Stores operators managed to grow their business, 89% of them contributed to the creation of new job opportunities in the market, most of them exceeding the sales targets. IMPACT • Of the 110 applications to Rising Store’s first edition, 5 winners were chosen, who were given expert advice and assigned a site at one of Sonae Sierra’s centres for a free period, during which time they did not have to pay rent. After drafting their business plan, all stores have successfully opened their businesses, and the majority has largely exceeded sales targets. The second edition in Portugal and the first in Spain began in 2017 and are still ongoing, with the number of applications in Portugal increasing by 27%. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 21 We Care Collection, Sonae S&F, Zippy PROJECT Develop an exclusive line designed for the first months of a baby’s life CHALLENGE Renewing the commitment to have children's well-being as its priority, Zippy has developed an innovative collection of delicate and soft clothes. Manufactured entirely with certified organic cotton, cultivated without the use of dangerous chemicals, the We Care line was totally designed and manufactured in Portugal and stands out ACTION for the elegance, comfort and quality of its pieces. • Launch of the collection in January 2018; • A line consisting of 17 pieces and that focuses on bodysuits, romper suits, hooded cardigans, leggings, sets and accessories; • Promotion of national production. IMPACT SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 22 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 23 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People We are a learning organisation with a clear focus on learning and continuous improvement. We believe that this is the only way we can respond to the current and future challenges of our businesses. This is achieved through the hands of our people and teams. Therefore, we invest in the integrated management of our talent, aiming to attract, develop and retain diverse and differentiating profiles. With the desire to understand the individuality of each employee, we promote an integrated approach to talent management based on 3 distinct pillars: (i) attracting talent effectively; (ii) assessment and development; and (iii) career management. 1. ATTRACTING TALENT EFFECTIVELY: We invest in identifying and attracting people with different academic, professional and personal backgrounds. Throughout their professional career, we strive to enhance and strengthen these skills, so that our people are better prepared to respond to the multiple challenges that our business presents. Aware that the students of today are our teams of tomorrow, we invest in recruiting young talent through a variety of programmes, designed to accelerate the development of their key competencies for personal and professional growth. With these programmes, we commit to supporting students from when they first begin University, making a significant contribution to their education, through an offer adapted to each stage of their journey. We believe that our ability to attract talent is directly related to investing in the knowledge of different age groups, which make up the life-cycle of our employees. With millennials being one of those groups, studies such as Millenials@Work, conducted with the BCSD (Business Council for Sustainable Development) and Deloitte, are an important contribution for us in terms of understanding their interests and expectations, and what differentiates and makes them similar to other age groups. With this information, we renew and adapt our people management practices. 2. ASSESSMENT AND DEVELOPMENT: It is one of the pillars of our talent management model and an area of continuous investment. We are aware that this is the only way we can contribute towards the development of our employees both personally and professionally and at the same time, enhance the improvement of the skills necessary for the development of our business. We live in a meritocratic culture, where a differentiated performance and the contribution of our employees and teams is supported through recognition processes and tools. Sonae´s performance management model – Improving Our People, promotes, on an annual basis, joint reflection between management and each team member. 3. CAREER MANAGEMENT: Aiming to align the personal and professional expectations of our people with our strategic business goals, from the point of view of skills and talent, our career model aims to support the management of the current talent pipeline, as well as respond to medium/long-term needs and challenges. Additionally, health and safety is a central aspect of Sonae’s management. Aiming to achieve a zero-accident culture, we ensure the necessary conditions so that our stores, galleries, shopping centres, warehouses and workplaces are safe and conducive to the collective well-being. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 24 46,155 24 geographic +1M hours of 0.002 rate of employees areas with local training work-related teams accidents In 2013, Sonae endorsed the Women Initiative of the European Round Table of Industrials (ERT), where Sonae´s concern for gender parity is addressed, with the establishment of voluntary targets facilitating the promotion of increased gender diversity, not only for positions in management and decision-making bodies, but also in relation to senior and middle-management positions. In 2015, Sonae signed a commitment with the Government of Portugal to maintain the level of representation of the underrepresented gender class on the board of directors to above 30%. This agreement foresees the internal development of the staff of the underrepresented gender class throughout the various levels of leadership in Sonae, so that its shareholders can maintain the level of representation on the board of directors to above 30%, in the future. This agreement falls within the scope of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers 11-A, of 6th March, 2015. We are committed to promoting diversity in its different dimensions, namely concerning age, gender, qualifications and previous professional experience. We are conscious of the wealth that exists within the heterogeneity of our people´s backgrounds and profiles. Our ambition is to be a diverse and inclusive organisation, able to promote, attract and integrate people with different profiles and experiences. As we believe that the complementarity of perspectives and experiences contributes to richer, more balanced and dynamic management, we want to continue to foster diversity in its various dimensions, in particular regarding age, gender, qualifications or previous professional background, ensuring that our people find in Sonae a place where they can develop their talent and potential. At Sonae, we value a diversity of qualifications and professional backgrounds. We believe that our team’s work is enhanced through the input of each individual, and therefore we use internal mobility as a way of valuing people. We want to promote a culture of sharing, cooperation, open to alternative points of view that may be conducive to new disruptive ideas. We believe that a diverse and inclusive culture is a strong contribution to the continuous renewal of businesses aligned with the expectations of different stakeholders. Regarding gender diversity, we aim to promote it throughout the life-cycle of our employees. During the recruitment process, we always recommend that whenever recruiters present a short-list to the business, it is balanced in terms of gender representation. We also recommend, at all levels of the company, that teams composed of only one gender are avoided. We monitor performance appraisals, promotions and wage revisions, by gender, as well as resignations, in order to guarantee fair management across all teams. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 25 9.2% of women 33% of 65% women; management promoted and 35% men positions are 11.1% of men held by women We know that there is still a path to follow and we intend to increase the percentage of women in management positions in the coming years. However, we want the change to occur naturally and not to be imposed. We believe, through the procedures implemented and the visible indicators, that we are on the right track. In relation to the diversity of qualifications and professional experience, we have implemented a practice that encourages mobility between departments. Consequently, throughout 2017, about 14.3% of our employees benefitted from the opportunity to experience internal mobility. For this purpose, we consider internal mobility as the occurrence of at least two of the following factors: change of function, change of team or change of leadership. Finally, we are concerned with creating a more inclusive culture in relation to senior employees, taking advantage of their experience and maturity. Demographic evolution tends to lead to a growth of this group of employees and we are committed to creating conditions for them to have a place in the company, where they can contribute to the improvement of the collective performance. Below, we present a set of projects carried out by the different companies of the group that reflect our integrated approach to talent management. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 26 All Aboard, Sonae Sierra PROJECT Ensure employees are well-informed about the company’s new strategy CHALLENGE The project All Aboard aimed to achieve complete understanding, involvement and support of our employees towards the company´s strategy that was undergoing some changes: to be more open to the outside world and increased customer focus. In order to truly involve employees in any company strategy, it is necessary to meet five criteria: ACTION they must have knowledge about the strategy and its execution at all times; they must understand the strategy, and the best way of understanding it is if they can explain it to others; they must support it, being aware of the impact and the meaning it has on them individually and that they are trained and develop the skills necessary to excel in their functions. With the full support of our CEO and the company´s senior executives, All Aboard´s logic was to communicate through the leaders of the organisation during face-to-face workshops with employees, the content of which included not only an explanation of the strategy and its execution, but also the changes occurring in the organisation, processes and people, and, of equal importance, a time for discussion where leaders helped employees understand the meaning and impact of the change for them. This whole period of communication was later complemented by a document with questions and answers about the strategy, and throughout the process this was continuously updated with feedback from workshops and made available to our leaders; sending emails that fed leaders with ideas, opinion-making articles from reputable publications, feedback from the workshops and also the publication of an issue of the internal newsletter dedicated to this topic. • 65 sessions held; • 74% of employees participated in the sessions; • The programme raised awareness of the new strategy, its understanding and support. The questionnaires given out to the participants before and after the sessions demonstrate the IMPACT level of satisfaction of the objectives set out for the programme. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 27 Health and Well-Being, NOS PROJECT Promote healthy behaviour to improve the health and well-being of all NOS employees through bonding initiatives and the sharing of knowledge that lead employees to look after themselves CHALLENGE Conscious of the fact that our employees are the organisation's greatest asset in the pursuit of its strategic objectives, NOS evaluated the impact of health and well-being on productivity, involvement and attractiveness of the company. From their studies, they concluded that wellbeing (health and wellness) is a strong contributor to a high-performance organisation and ACTION therefore should be addressed holistically. In the actions that NOS develops, it understands that its employees are unique human beings with a professional and personal background, and aims at the balance of three components: physical/emotional/social well-being. Firm in the holistic approach to total well-being, the NOS programme is annual and encompasses all relevant initiatives, in all areas of the organisation, and that work together towards the three action axes, with the objective of maximising the impact of the help offered for behaviour change. “Bem-nos-quer” is the name of NOS health and well-being programme and “Taking care of yourself is taking care of us” is the message that reinforces one of the employee-oriented benefits that NOS promotes internally and that materialises our determination to improve their well-being and happiness. Some examples of the numerous initiatives carried out: • A week dedicated to health and well-being, which included several actions, namely workshops carried out by professionals addressing areas such as nutrition, physical activity, posture, relaxation, stress management and health screening. • Regular publication of digital content that promotes good practices and teaches healthy habits. • Different energising actions, celebratory and interaction activities (get togethers) are held throughout the year to foster trust, closeness and knowledge among employees. Furthermore, in relation to the social aspect, the company is also grateful to those employees who look after themselves and each other. Saying thank you is important and is therefore part of the programme. • 42% of employees participated in the initiatives, which required signing up for, due to limited capacity; • 4 was the average satisfaction score of the programme (on a scale of 1 to 5); • 11,417 views of related content. IMPACT SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 28 Learning Hubz, Sonae Academy PROJECT Promote a culture of continuous self-development and learning CHALLENGE At Sonae, we are dedicated to the training and continuous development of our people, with a strong commitment to the promotion of a culture of learning, where each employee plays a central role as an actor of their own development. In this way, with the objective of fostering a culture of continuous self-development and learning, ACTION and at the same time recognising the limitations that the most conventional training formats present, both in terms of geographic dispersion of employees and availability, Sonae Academy has joined Learning Hubz and customised a digital training platform for the Sonae universe. On this platform, there is a very broad range of content, in the format of a video library with training videos on several topics (from productivity and personal development to management, from leadership to sales, from marketing to change management, among others). The short formats, require an investment of less than ten minutes on average, representing about 80% of the selection, but there are longer formats that provide a deeper insight into the topics. The selection and curation of the content is ensured by Learning Hubz in partnership with Sonae Academy, which ensures alignment with the skills and areas of knowledge considered strategic for the group. To demonstrate the true democratisation of the training offer, employees can access it through their computer or mobile phone, depending on their availability, needs and interests. Navigation on the platform is very simple and intuitive, enabling searches by topic, author or source, allowing playlists to be created or the sharing and recommendation of content. The platform was available to 120 employees during a pilot phase carried out between September 2017 and January 2018. The plan is to reach 2,000 employees in the future. On the 31st January 2018: IMPACT • 900 sessions had been accessed; • 1,100 videos (Micro-training) were viewed during a total of 5,600 minutes; • More than 41% of employees accessed the platform every month. On average, each colleague watched 26 minutes of training, with very positive feedback on the quality of the content. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 29 Future Leaders @ Retail, Sonae MC PROJECT Generate a talent pipeline adjusted to the present and future needs of Sonae MC CHALLENGE Future Leaders @ Retail is a management and leadership programme designed to educate the future leaders of modern retail, providing them with an integrated and in-depth knowledge of the core business areas and the possibility of integration into the company. ACTION This remunerated and accelerated development programme, is aimed at recent graduates, postgraduates or masters students with less than 2 years of professional experience, who have proficient English language skills, are available for national and / or international mobility and a have taste for retail. The process of recruiting and selecting participants is extremely rigorous and involves individual pitches, face-to-face interviews and group dynamics. The programme lasts nine months, with in-room training, on-the-job and networking activities, mentoring and preparation of the Challenge Project, an end-of-programme challenge in which the trainees present solutions and proposals for business challenges. In the first two editions of the programme we had: • 52 participants, more than 250 tutors, 60 trainers and 10 mentors; • 47 young people took on relevant roles in Sonae MC, namely in store operations, IMPACT logistics and commercial roles. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 30 Guide to a responsible online presence, NOS PROJECT Respond to the emerging challenges arising from the presence of the company and employees on the various communication channels available on the Internet, such as websites, forums, blogs, wikis and different types of social networks CHALLENGE NOS understands that the best way for its employees to be in the digital world is to follow the principles that guide them in the real world – sound judgement and good sense, applying the values of the company and following the guidelines of its Code of Ethics, as well as all the other current policies in place. ACTION In the light of new trends, and recognising the importance of its employees as active players in the global information society, in 2017, NOS developed and made available the Guide to a responsible online presence . The main purpose of this Guide is to support and guide employees towards the type of conduct that is expected when working in a professional context or on behalf of NOS, ensuring in all circumstances to safeguard the reputation of the organisation, without ever jeopardising the freedom of their own personal space when using various digital channels. In addition to establishing the fundamental principles for the online presence of NOS and its businesses, the Guide emphasises the importance of all employees being aware of the impact when they interact on these platforms, in particular any conversations that refer to NOS and, in this sense, defines guidelines applicable to all those who use social networks or other online channels in a professional context. The communication campaign was based on the presentation of practical day-to-day cases that help to demonstrate and clarify the conduct expected in certain situations. • Internal communication campaign for all employees (flyers, intranet, email); • 876 views of the “Guide to a responsible online presence”. IMPACT SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 31 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 32 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Partners and Suppliers We are committed to improving the way we relate to our partners and suppliers, both in the development of partnerships that foster knowledge, entrepreneurship, innovation, as well as procedures/projects that strengthen the existing relationships, with trust and cooperation as our guiding principles. We ascribe a high degree of importance to the optimisation of our supply chain, in particular with respect to the relationship with our partners and suppliers, and their alignment with our sustainability commitments. In 2011, we joined the Retail Forum for Sustainability. This platform launched the Retailers’ Environmental Action Programme (REAP), which provides a foundation that facilitates dialogue among retailers with the European Commission and with all the parties involved along the supply chain, such as producers and consumers. In 2013, we endorsed the Food Supply Chain Best Practices of the European Code of Conduct. This is a European initiative, which results from an agreement among the main European food and distribution industry associations concerning the principles that should govern the relationship between production and distribution. This Code focuses on autoregulation as the best way to govern the relationship in the food supply chain, favouring dialogue and establishing healthy competition. In 2014, we launched the Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. It is important to highlight the process of evaluation and qualification of own brand suppliers, a mechanism that has the dual purpose of assessing and qualifying the suppliers who are “suitable” to work with Sonae, but, also through these audits, identifying areas to improve in their operations. In addition to the suppliers, we emphasise the importance of a vast network of partners, from the various economic sectors, with whom Sonae collaborates directly to implement some of its initiatives. 2017 was marked by an ambitious and diversified set of initiatives that illustrate the long-term partnership relationships that we intend to establish with our partners and suppliers. Some of these initiatives are presented below. 77% of purchases 84%*qualified from national suppliers suppliers *This includes data from Sonae MC; Worten and Maxmat. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 33 Continente Producers Club, Sonae MC PROJECT Promotion of horticultural production on the island of Madeira. CHALLENGE Over the last 20 years, the Continente Producers Club has been a central axis in the strategy to support Continente’s national production. Created with the purpose of promoting products of Portuguese origin to customers and to ACTION strengthen strategic partnerships with each of its producers, the Continente Producers Club has been enhancing the link between production and large distribution. In 2017, purchases from the Continente Producers Club represented a total of 150 thousand tonnes of national products. The involvement of the Continente Producers Club in Madeira aims to promote the production of horticultural products on the island, enhancing the offer of regional/local products in the stores, fresher and of a higher quality, reducing its carbon footprint and benefitting the local economy. This support materialises in a number of monthly visits to the horticultural producers, by a technician from the Continente Producers Club, which provides each one of these producers with the necessary technical support for their activity. During these technical visits, several problems have been identified, such as lack of training or poor planning of the crops to be worked and the respective timing of planting, which result in a lack of or excess production. In view of the problem identified, contract programmes were implemented, where producers are given some guidance to know what to produce and when, according to the needs of the stores. At the same time, we are working with certification bodies to support producers in the implementation of a certification, concerning integrated protection. Complementarily, a trip is being organised for the Madeiran producers to visit the producers on the mainland, for the purpose of benchmarking and sharing of best practices. • The promotion of horticultural production covers 18 producers representing a total cultivated area of 363 hectares, where the sum of the various plots, per producer, is on average around 1,500 m2. • With this initiative, we expect to achieve a higher level of quality, availability and food IMPACT safety in the regional fruits and vegetables sold by the Continente stores in Madeira, avoiding shortages in shops, scaling down shipments from the mainland to Madeira and reducing waste. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 34 Pixels Camp, Sonae IM PROJECT Ensure privileged access to talent in technological areas to anticipate the future needs of our consumers through the development of new solutions CHALLENGE At the end of September, the Carlos Lopes Pavilion, in Lisbon, hosted the 2nd edition of Pixels Camp, a three-day event that brought together the technological community in an initiative to share knowledge and search for creative solutions that contribute to improving people’s daily lives. ACTION Once again, Hackathon a programming contest occupied the main stage of the event, leading the participants to organise themselves into teams and explore the answers to problems or needs that they considered to be relevant. This 48-hour programming marathon led to the development and making of a prototype of about 50 projects. Pixels Camp’s partners were able to present their companies and key challenges. In this edition Pixels Camp became the first Portuguese event to have a digital currency (Exposure) and its own parallel market. It was, at the time of the event, the biggest implementation of blockchain in Portugal. Participants were able to use Exposure to invest in projects they considered deserved to be among the 10 winners of the Hackathon or to purchase services they needed while developing their ideas. In parallel, during the first day of the event, a competition for start-ups (Pixels Launchpad) was promoted with the support of several partners of Pixels Camp (NOS, Galp, Mello Saúde, Sonae MC and Sonae FS), with the award of a final prize of 50,000 euros. • The first event in Portugal to have a digital currency and its own parallel market; • 1,250 registered participants; • 50 projects developed; • 16 partners involved; IMPACT • Competition with 20 start-ups with a final prize of 50,000 euros. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 35 Disrupt Retail Call for Technology by Sonae, Sonae PROJECT Find and test new technological solutions that are disruptive and create added value for the operations of retail insignias and their respective customers CHALLENGE As part of its policy of open innovation and technological cooperation, Sonae launched Disrupt Retail Call for Technology. The purpose of this initiative is to enable national and international start-ups to test the solutions they develop in a real environment. ACTION In addition to start-ups, the programme was also accessible to research and development centres, as well as companies and agencies that had solutions sufficiently developed to be tested. Sonae was looking for disruptive solutions for the retail sector with preference given to the areas of the optimisation of merchandising, store operations and warehousing, customer engagement, logistics and shopping experience (online and offline), but others were also accepted. Among the technologies valued were artificial intelligence, virtual and augmented reality, Internet of Things, robotics, virtual assistants and blockchain, as well as any others that presented innovative solutions. • 51 applications from 43 entities; • Applications from 12 countries including England, France, Germany, Sweden, Brazil and Canada; • 4 solutions selected with priority 1, complemented by 6 solutions selected with priority IMPACT 2. So far, the four priority 1 solutions have been evaluated through BIT, Sonae’s information systems area for retail. The priority 2 solutions will follow. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 36 Competence Centre, Sonae IM, Bizdirect PROJECT Attract, develop and retain young talent in the inner regions of the country CHALLENGE Within the scope of the repositioning operated by Bizdirect, as a reference partner in the implementation of Microsoft solutions (Dynamics 365, SharePoint, Power BI, Visual Studio, Azure), the Bizdirect Competence Centre was created at the Polytechnic Institute of Viseu. From here, consulting, development and integration services are offered in several EMEA countries, ACTION with technology produced from Viseu. To strengthen the company's talent pool and simultaneously help strengthen training and retain talent in the inner regions of the country, the established partnership annually receives students from Computer Engineering and Business Management courses. During a period of three months, the participants receive on-the-job training that complements their more academic learning. At the end of the training course, the most successful young people are given the possibility of becoming part of Bizdirect and thus begin their professional path. • Since 2014, more than 40 students of the Polytechnic Institute of Viseu have completed their training at the Bizdirect Competence Centre. • 98% student hiring rate. IMPACT SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 37 Sonae Link, Sonae PROJECT Optimise communication and interaction with the Sonae’s retail suppliers and partners CHALLENGE Aware of the importance of collaborative processes with suppliers and their contribution to the development and sustainability of our businesses, we continuously invest in strengthening and improving these processes. The development of Sonae Link, the new supplier portal for Sonae's retail businesses, is evidence of this intention. ACTION With the aim of improving the interaction and sharing of information with our suppliers, Sonae has developed an innovative tool, composed of modular solutions that ensure a greater number of functionalities and more user-friendly navigation. The new platform has validation workflows, which interact directly with Sonae's core business systems, enabling the availability of up-to-date information in real-time, ensuring clear gains in efficiency and effectiveness for both parties. • More than 10,000 suppliers and 3,300 employees impacted by the change of platform. • Dematerialisation of more than 800,000 financial documents, available through a selfservice mode. • Dematerialisation of more than 135,000 records and interactions with suppliers. IMPACT • Made available more than 1.7 million orders issued to suppliers in electronic format. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 38 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 39 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Communities We have an active sense of social responsibility and we aim to contribute to the development and improvement of the communities in which we operate, at all times and across the whole organisation. With this goal in mind, we created and implemented projects in areas such as culture, education and entrepreneurship, health and sports, environmental awareness, science and innovation and social solidarity. In 2017, we proceeded with our commitment to promote the well-being of the involved communities, by supporting more than 1,400 institutions. We aim to create and distribute value, with contributions amounting to €9,616,555, involving material goods, expertise and financial resources. Loyal to our culture and our guiding principles, we are continuing our support to the internal volunteering programme Sonae Activshare. In comparison to 2016, we had an additional 243 volunteers and dedicated a further 1,245 hours to volunteering. We believe that volunteering experiences, in addition to the direct impact that they have on the community, foster our people’s creativity and innovation, by putting them in contact with realities and challenges, which differ to those they face on a day-to-day basis. Approximately 1,617 volunteers 7,233 10M€ for 1,400 supported volunteering community institutions hours support At the end of 2017, Sonae endorsed the Letter of Principles of BCSD Portugal. This Letter, which is inspired by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the United Nations Global Compact, aims to create a voluntary framework, adapted to companies of several dimensions, which aims to encourage the massification of sustainable management practices. Below we present several initiatives, carried out throughout 2017, which illustrate our commitment to the development and well-being of the surrounding communities. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 40 Escola Missão Continente, Sonae MC PROJECT Promotion of a healthy lifestyle CHALLENGE Escola Missão Continente is an educational programme, directed at schools in the 1st Cycle of Basic Education. It was implemented during the 2016/17 academic year, from the north to the south of the country. It aims to help students, parents and teachers to have a healthier, more positive relationship with food and encourages responsible consumption. ACTION Those who participated in the project’s 1st edition benefitted from the opportunity to be with nutritionists from Continente and the Local Health Centre, in sessions where they learnt more about food and became more aware of the importance of adopting a healthy lifestyle, namely to prevent health issues such as diabetes, cholesterol and obesity. During the sessions, the sharing of information on healthy food was delivered in a ludic way. There were also challenges throughout the school year, where students were encouraged to develop projects on the origin of food and healthy food, thus testing their knowledge and imagination. The winning schools for each challenge were awarded with school supplies. The final Prize – the school with the best performance out of all the challenges – was a day spent at Football City, providing a unique and unforgettable experience for the students. • This initiative took place during February and March 2017 and had an impact on 18 schools and 960 children; • The Programme’s 2nd Edition has already been launched in this 2017/18 school year, with 139 school enrolled, involving 9,441 children and 480 teachers. IMPACT SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 41 Why Europe Matters, Sonae PROJECT Involve young people in building the European project. CHALLENGE As part of the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, the European Roundtable of Industrialists (ERT), in partnership with Junior Achievement Europe, launched an ambitious programme aimed at bringing the European project to the agenda of the younger generation, inviting them to reflect on it, express their opinions and concerns and present ACTION proposals for their future. To this end, an online survey was developed and launched, aimed at some 10,000 young Europeans between the ages of 16 and 25, aiming to understand the perception that the youngest had of Europe. At the same time, nine innovation workshops were held throughout Europe to bring together students from different academic institutions and business leaders to share perspectives and develop a set of proposals on how Europe can become a more prosperous and beneficial place, how to hear young people’s voices more clearly and to a better degree, and how it will be possible to discuss different topics together such as the economic development of Europe, youth employment, the refugee crisis or the fight against terrorism. At the end of each workshop, a group of students was selected to take up the discussion and present their proposals at a European event to be held on the 20 th and the 21st March 2018 in Brussels and that will bring together an audience made up of representatives of the European institutions, national governments, companies, journalists and opinion makers. Sonae was one of the multinational European companies that joined the project, having contributed to its dissemination (both internally and externally), promoted the survey in Portuguese, supported the event in Portugal and made available a group of volunteers for the different initiatives. • 950 responses to the survey in Portuguese; • 70 students from six educational establishments participated in the workshops; • 14 proposals for action presented; • 7 Sonae volunteers. IMPACT SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 42 Sonae Activshare |Response campaign to the fires of 2017, Sonae, Sonae Capital and Sonae Indústria PROJECT Support the populations affected by the fires and tackle the impact they had on various local communities CHALLENGE Sonae Activshare is Sonae's social responsibility programme, responsible for coordinating the different initiatives for community support, as well as internal volunteer actions. The unprecedented tragedy caused by the wave of fires in 2017 has led Sonae companies to ACTION unite in a concerted response, which involved different actions throughout the second half of the year and that will continue in 2018. Sonae MC supported firefighting services with essential food products during the period of forest fires. Through the various brands, donations of goods for people and animals were made, as well gifts in kind to support the reconstruction of the affected areas. A group of employees was mobilised for volunteer activities on the ground, where they helped to triage, organise and store the many donations that came from all over the country to the affected areas. Worten's Social Responsibility project, Código Dá Vinte, reverted to the victims of the fires. With this project, Worten invited the Portuguese people to swipe a solidarity bar code, at the end of their purchases, for a minimum amount of €0.20. At the end of the campaign, Worten added 20% to the value raised in stores, thus reinforcing the total amount to be donated. The amount raised will be channelled to the Portuguese Red Cross which, throughout 2018, will use the funds to equip, with new appliances, the houses that are gradually being rebuilt, of the families that have lost all or a good part of their assets in these fires. We also developed a collection of Christmas postcards that were on sale in our buildings. The companies and brands that joined the initiative made a contribution equal to the amount that was raised from selling these postcards. The amount collected (€11,600) will be distributed with the help and coordination of the Social Action Service of Vouzela City Council, an area that was particularly affected. • Support to 34 firefighting services; • More than 145 volunteers involved in internal actions; • €150,000 raised for the reconstruction of the affected houses (Código Dá Vinte, Worten). IMPACT SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 43 45th Semi-final of the International Emmy Awards, Sonae FS PROJECT To support the National Television Production Industry, reinforcing its position in an international context CHALLENGE The International Emmy Awards are awarded annually by the International Academy of Television, Arts and Sciences to distinguish, in multiple categories, the excellence of global television production. ACTION With the support of Cartão Universo, for the second year in a row, Portugal played on a prominent role in the 45th edition of the International Emmy Awards by hosting an important Semi-Final Judging Event. The jurors present at the session included distinguished personalities of the national television scene, and the ceremony brought together professionals from the different FTA television operators (RTP, SIC and TVI), in addition to the well-known faces of the national fiction industry. The event was of enormous historical significance for Portuguese television in the competitive global market for television content, reinforcing international recognition of the quality of the content of Portuguese television. The 45th Semi-Final of the International Emmy Awards received significant attention and coverage in both the national and international media, contributing to the significant promotion of the National Television Production Industry, associated to an event of such high international prestige. IMPACT At an international level, the event contributed to the enormous projection of national television production and its Portuguese content across borders. Furthermore, it promoted contact between the most prestigious professionals in the national and global television industry (management structures, actors, authors, directors, producers and agents). There were multiple references to Portuguese content in the international Academy events. It is also worth noting the importance of the Lisbon Semi-Final juror panel to have included acclaimed Portuguese professionals. At a national level, the event brought the three biggest players in the market together, uniting them in an unprecedented way to praise and celebrate the production of the content of national television and to thank the professionals in the field, recognising their merit and excellence. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 44 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 45 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet We invest significantly in the continuous improvement of Sonae’s environmental management, aiming to minimise the impact of our activities on the environment. In order to do so, we are determined to ensure the efficient use of our resources, optimising water and energy consumption and minimising GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions, without neglecting the effective management of the waste generated. Continuous improvement in environmental management is guaranteed through the Environmental Certification Programme, according to the international standard NP EN ISO 14001:2004. The implementation of this programme allows us to minimise our environmental impact, improve our infrastructure and strengthen our compliance to legal obligations from an environmental perspective. In 2017, several projects were implemented that allowed important gains to be made on an environmental level, and generated savings on a financial level. These efficiency gains have led to additional resources for businesses to innovate, creating new products and services and investing in new continuous improvement projects on an environmental level. Some of these projects are presented below. In 2000, Sonae’s Environmental Policy was created and implemented. It aims for a steady increase in efficiency through the creation and implementation of best practices, based on creativity and innovation, as well as environmental awareness actions with our employees, partners and clients. Adoption, in 2009, of the Sustainable Fishing Policy. In 2012, Sonae joined the European initiative against food waste. Food waste prevention is an integral part of the European Commission’s strategy to stimulate Europe’s transition into a circular economy, so as to promote global competitiveness, sustainable growth and create new jobs. 2015 was the year in which Sonae joined the list of companies that signed the Paris Pledge for Action. This initiative, within the scope of the Paris Climate Summit (COP21), aims to protect the planet from climate change and establishes a commitment by businesses to keep the increase in global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. 3,400,295 GJ 1,023,992 t CO2e 2,866,801m3 82% waste energy emissions water recovery rate* consumption consumption *This does not include data from Sonaecom and Sonae RP SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 46 Renovation of Continente Matosinhos, Sonae MC PROJECT Reach a higher level of eco-efficiency in our stores CHALLENGE Throughout the last few years, we have been developing significant and consistent efforts to strengthen the eco-efficiency in our stores. One such example is the remodelling project of the Continente hypermarket in Matosinhos. The group’s first store, inaugurated in 1985, was remodelled in 2016, to reflect the “hyper concept of the future”. The project incorporated a ACTION clear concern regarding the optimisation of water and energy consumption, as well as the reusing and recycling of materials. • Attainment of the Platinum Certification from LEED – Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design. There are currently only six buildings in the world with the same level of certification, the Continente store in Matosinhos is the largest of them all. • The LEED certification process consists of the evaluation of around 60 sustainability IMPACT indicators, that as a whole, lead to the allocation of a maximum of 110 points – the Continente store in Matosinhos obtained 80 out of 110 points – that can then translate into four levels of certification – Certification, Silver, Gold and Platinum. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 47 Backhauling Project, Sonae MC PROJECT Reduce the routes the store supply fleet travels with empty trucks CHALLENGE Aware of the importance of making efficient use of natural resources, we continuously aim to minimise the impact of our activities on the environment. In this way, the promotion of ecoefficiency is a central concern throughout our logistics process. It was with this in mind that, in 2016, we developed the Backhauling Project. ACTION Through this initiative, logistics provide Sonae MC’s suppliers with a transportation service, along the routes that our trucks would otherwise travel back empty, after completing the last store delivery. Thus, we attain a significant reduction of routes being travelled with empty trucks, both of our store supply fleet (upon return after the last delivery) and our suppliers’ fleet after delivery at our warehouse. In 2017, the Backhauling Project was responsible for: • Avoiding 629,804 km of travel with empty trucks*; • 70,874 extra km travelled**; IMPACT • A saving of 558,930 km; • 428 t of avoided CO2 emissions. * The figures presented refer only to the km avoided travelling with our vehicles empty; ** In order to provide this service, our vehicles need to slightly alter the potential return route to our warehouse, this alteration leads to an increase in route regarding what was foreseen (extra km). SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 48 Energy Savings Plan, Zippy PROJECT Optimise store energy consumption. CHALLENGE Energy consumption represents a significant environmental impact associated with Zippy’s activity. Therefore, with the objective of improving its environmental performance, Zippy developed an action plan based on three intervention areas: real-time monitoring of store consumption, introduction of a change in procedures and the behaviour of employees in-store ACTION and the installation of store lighting to LED technology. The implementation of the digital platform Checkwatts to all of the stores, assured the real-time monitoring of energy consumption of the all the stores. On the other hand, the assessment of this information allowed an indication to be obtained regarding the consumption pattern throughout the day, a comparison and indication of any variations against previous records and the visualisation of each store’s position in terms of energy ranking. The adoption of Checkwatts made the implementation of a series of procedures possible, which gave the teams greater capacity to respond: the platform has been parameterised to send automatic alerts to each area manager, every time a store’s consumption was outside the predefined parameters, enabling immediate action to be taken (e.g., equipment connected after the closing of stores); whenever situations of anomalous consumption were identified, communication actions aiming to correct them were initiated; finally, the available information was used to create an energy auditing plan for the most critical stores regarding energy consumption. Two of the main measures implemented were the activation of existing automatic systems, avoiding whenever possible, the risks inherent in the manual control of some relevant loads (namely lighting and HVAC equipment) and suggestions for reformulating the procedures used to control the operating scheme of the main loads, implemented with a view to optimising them (alignment of schedules in all stores). • 12.6% reduction in energy consumption (2016 vs. 2017 L4L); • 8 new stores with LED lighting systems; • 5 stores remodelled with a change to LED lighting. IMPACT SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 49 Bright Project, Sonae Sierra PROJECT According to the International Energy Agency, built-up areas are responsible for around 40% of the world’s primary energy consumption and 24% of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Therefore, the use of energy has an enormous environmental and economic impact on Sonae Sierra’s portfolio of assets. In this context and taking into consideration Sonae Sierra’s continuous search CHALLENGE to improve energy efficiency, the need arose to fill a gap in the market and develop a service, non-existent until then, to address the differences in performance detected in the energy consumption of its assets, which could not be explained solely by local factors. Bright is a revolutionary and innovative energy efficiency programme, developed to reduce energy consumption and the carbon footprint of the buildings. This programme allows the energy consumption of the buildings to be monitored by comparing it to a virtual simulation, identifying technical improvements and optimising management practices. What makes Bright ACTION so different is its holistic approach, analysing each aspect of the asset’s operation – from the building and energy systems to the behavioural factors of the people who manage them and to the regional variation factors. • 249 improvement measures were identified in specialised energy audits, in 28 shopping centres and 74% of the measures were implemented. • 185 actions were implemented with an investment of 1.8 million euros, of which the annual savings potential amounts to 18,400,000 kWh in electricity consumption, IMPACT equivalent to 2.3 million euros. This consumption represents around 10% of the electricity consumption of the owned portfolio in 2017. • 70% of the actions were quick-wins with little to no investment: 300,000 euros invested generated savings of 1,400,000 euros (4.7 times the invested value). The savings obtained with these quick-wins represent 61% of all the potential savings of the implemented measures. • There are still 64 actions to be implemented, with an investment of 2 million euros. These actions have annual potential savings of 1.3 million euros (9,400,000 kWh or the equivalent to 5% of the electricity consumption of our centres in 2017). • Regarding carbon emissions avoided with the implemented measures, they represent 4% of Sonae Sierra's carbon footprint (Scope 1 and 2). If we did not use green electricity (without the associated carbon emissions), taking into account average grid emission factors, avoided carbon emissions would account for 29% of our carbon footprint. • In 2017, Sonae Sierra’s Bright project was a finalist in the EU Sustainable Energy Awards, an initiative promoted by the Sustainable Energy Week of the European Commission, which distinguishes projects with exceptional innovation in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 50 Sonae’s New Office Buildings For over 50 years, Sonae’s headquarters and the most important core offices of its business have been located in Maia. The business park has an area of 32.5 hectares, distributed between the logistics warehouses (60%), offices (30%) and industry and storage (10%). In 2017, construction began on a new office building that will receive, in the first semester of 2019, around 600 employees, who are currently situated in different offices in the city of Porto. The development was based on a competition for ideas for the architecture project in which the winner was Barbosa & Guimarães Architects. This project stood out due to the integration of the landscaping, the double facade solution with benefits in terms of energy efficiency, solar shading and the interconnection between the interior and exterior spaces. Reflecting the environmental concerns that are transversal to our entire activity, the new building was designed in such a way to facilitate the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification by the US Green Building and it could be classified as a Near Zero Emission Building (NZEB). The building will have renewable energy sources installed (photovoltaic panels), as well as a system to use the rainwater. The project also reflects a strong concern for the comfort of our employees, providing them with an extensive supply of services within the business park such as: green areas, multipurpose areas for collaborative work, restaurants, cafeterias and kitchenettes, convenience services (laundry, shoemaker, tailor and kiosk), areas to exercise, lockers and changing rooms and a link to Maia’s Ecocaminho, a public eco-path that allows you to cycle to the city centre. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 51 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 52 Sonae Group FOOD RETAIL SPORTS & FASHION RETAIL ELECTRONICS RETAIL RETAIL PROPERTIES FINANCIAL SERVICES RETAIL REAL ESTATE DEVELOPER, OWNER AND MANAGER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT TELCO SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 53 GRI Supplement GRI TABLE FOR THE OPTION “IN ACCORDANCE” – CORE GRI 102 – GENERAL DISCLOSURES UNGC SDG Disclosures Localisation Verification Princi ples ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Name of the 102-1 The Report V organisation Activities, brands, Sonae Group 102-2 products and V https://www.sonae.pt/en/sonae/the-group-and-our-businesses/ services Location of Sonae SGPS, SA’s headquarters are located in Lugar de Espido, Via Norte Maia102-3 V headquarters Portugal. Location of 102-4 https://www.sonae.pt/en/sonae/where-we-are-in-the-world/ V operations Ownership and 102-5 The Report V legal form 102-6 Markets served https://www.sonae.pt/en/sonae/where-we-are-in-the-world/ V Scale of the 102-7 Sonae Group V organisation Information on 102-8 employees and Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People V 6 8 other workers SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 54 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Employees by type of contract (no.) 2017 Permanent contracts 29,656 Male 9,584 Female 20,072 Temporary contracts 14,101 Male 5,330 Female 8,771 Total employees 43,757 Employees by type of job (no.) Full-time 31,856 Male 11,359 Female 20,497 Part-time 11,901 Male 3,524 Female 8,377 Total employees 43,757 Employees by region (no.) Portugal 40,408 Permanent contracts 27,382 Temporary contracts 13,026 Brazil 388 Permanent contracts 388 Temporary contracts 0 China 58 Permanent contracts 39 Temporary contracts 19 Colombia 3 Permanent contracts 3 Temporary contracts 0 Spain 2,808 Permanent contracts 1,769 Temporary contracts 1,039 France 71 Permanent contracts 57 Temporary contracts 14 Equatorial Guinea 1 Permanent contracts 1 Temporary contracts 0 Italy 3 Permanent contracts 2 Temporary contracts 1 Luxembourg 6 Permanent contracts 6 Temporary contracts 0 Mexico 1 Permanent contracts 1 Temporary contracts 0 Mozambique 1 Permanent contracts 1 Temporary contracts 0 Russia 5 Permanent contracts 4 Temporary contracts 1 Turkey 4 Permanent contracts 3 Temporary contracts 1 International Total 3,349 Notes: This does not include SportZone and Worten Canary Islands, Tlantic Brazil, MDS Brazil, Salsa, Losan and Go Natural Restaurants. This does not include the Board of Directors. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 55 Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Employees by type of contract (no.) 2017 Permanent contracts 1,222 Male 823 Female 399 Temporary contracts 79 Male 45 Female 34 Total employees 1,301 Employees by type of job (no.) Full-time 1,301 Male 1,019 Female 282 Part-time 0 Male 0 Female 0 Total employees 1,301 Employees by region (no.) Portugal 905 Permanent contracts 852 Temporary contracts 53 Australia 1 Permanent contracts 1 Temporary contracts 0 Brazil 71 Permanent contracts 68 Temporary contracts 3 Colombia 5 Permanent contracts 4 Temporary contracts 1 Egypt 26 Permanent contracts 23 Temporary contracts 3 Spain 277 Permanent contracts 208 Temporary contracts 19 USA 24 Permanent contracts 24 Temporary contracts 0 England 1 Permanent contracts 1 Temporary contracts 0 Ireland 2 Permanent contracts 2 Temporary contracts 0 Malaysia 8 Permanent contracts 8 Temporary contracts 0 Mexico 31 Permanent contracts 31 Temporary contracts 0 Total International 396 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 56 Sonae Sierra Employees by type of contract (no.) 2017 Permanent contracts 980 Male 482 Female 498 Fixed-term contracts 67 Male 25 Female 42 Temporary contracts 14 Male 5 Female 9 Total employees 1,061 Employees by type of job (no.) Full-time 1,045 Male 511 Female 534 Permanent part-time 14 Male 1 Female 13 Temporary part-time 2 Male 0 Female 2 Total employees 1,061 Employees by region (no.) Portugal 466 Male 204 Female 262 Germany 72 Male 36 Female 36 Brazil 329 Male 187 Female 142 Colombia 2 Male 2 Female 0 Greece 5 Male 1 Female 4 Spain 85 Male 37 Female 48 Holland 1 Male 1 Female 0 Italy 50 Male 21 Female 29 Morocco 13 Male 7 Female 6 Romania 27 Male 9 Female 18 Turkey 11 Male 7 Female 4 Total 1,061 Notes: Sonae Sierra considers that its workforce is composed by 1,061 employees that they employ directly, plus 44 more employees that are employed by other companies but supervised by Sonae Sierra. We also employed 11 independent contractors (91% men and 9% women) during the report period. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 57 Sonae Sonae aims to incorporate sustainable development values into the supply chain. To do so, it invests in the optimisation of the supply chain and in a good relationship with its business partners, promoting trust and transparency, and sharing the company’s concerns on an environmental and social level. Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Partners and Suppliers Vide responses to the indicators: “204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers”; 102-9 Supply chain “304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on V biodiversity”; “305-5 – Reduction of GHG emissions – Service Centres Project”; “308-1 – New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria”; “407-1 – Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk”; “408-1 – Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour”; “409-1 – Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour”; • “414-1 – New suppliers that were screened using social criteria”. Significant changes to the organisation 102-10 There were no significant changes during the period covered by the report. V and its supply chain Precautionary Corporate Governance Report 2017 102-11 principle or C. Internal Organisation: IIIInternal Control and Risk Management: 55.; IVV approach Investor Support: 56-58 102-12 External initiatives Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses V Member of Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses 102-13 V associations https://www.sonae.pt/pt/sustentability/organisations-partners/ STRATEGY Message from the 102-14 senior decisionMessage from the Executive Commission V maker Key impacts, risks Corporate Governance Report 2017 102-15 V and opportunities C. Internal Organisation: IIIInternal Control and Risk Management ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Values, principles, standards and 102-16 Code of Conduct V norms of behaviour GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report 2017 Governance B. Corporate Bodies and Committees: IGeneral Meeting: 12.3-14; II102-18 V structure Administration and supervision: 15-26 Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses Consulting stakeholders Corporate Governance Report 2017 102-21 on economic, B. Bodies and Committees: II-Administration and supervision: 21-26 V environmental and Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses social topics Composition of the highest Corporate Governance Report 2017 102-22 V governance body B. Bodies and Committees: II-Administration and supervision: 19-21 and its committees Chair of the Corporate Governance Report 2017 102-23 highest B. Corporate Bodies and Committees: IGeneral Meeting: 12.3-14; IIV governance body Administration and supervision: 15-21 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 58 Nominating and selecting of the Corporate Governance Report 2017 102-24 V highest B. Bodies and Committees: IIAdministration and supervision: 21 governance body Corporate Governance Report 2017 Conflicts of C. Internal Organisation: IStatutes: 48; II Communication of Irregularities: 102-25 V interest 49; IIIInternal Control and Risk Management: 50-53 Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses Evaluating the highest Corporate Governance Report 2017 102-28 V governance body’s B. Bodies and Commissions: IIAdministration and supervision: 27 28.1. performance Identification and managing Corporate Governance Report 2017 102-29 economic, B. Bodies and Commissions: II-Administration and supervision: 18-29; IIIV environmental and Audit: 30-35 social impacts Review of Corporate Governance Report 2017 economic, 102-31 B. Bodies and Commissions: II-Administration and supervision: 18-29; IIIV environmental and Audit: 30-35 social topics Corporate Governance Report 2017 Communicating 102-33 B. Bodies and Committees: II-Administration and supervision: 21-26 V critical concerns Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses Corporate Governance Report 2017 D. Remuneration: IPowers for determination: 66; IIRemuneration Committee: 67-68; IIIRemuneration Structure: 69-76; IV Disclosure of Remuneration 102-35 Remuneration: 77-82; V Agreements with Remunerative Implications: 83V policies 84; VI – Share Attribution Plans or Stock Options: 85-88; E. Transactions with Related Parties: IControl mechanisms and procedures: 89-91; IIDetails related to business: 92 Stakeholders’ Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses 102-37 involvement in Corporate Governance Report 2017 V remuneration B. Bodies and Committees: II-Administration and supervision: 21-26 INVOLVEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS List of stakeholder 102-40 Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses V groups Collective 102-41 bargaining Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People V 3 8 agreements Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS All employees of Portugal and Spain of Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten and Maxmat are covered by this type of contract. Notes: This does not include SportZone and Worten Canary Islands, Tlantic Brazil, MDS Brazil, Salsa, Losan and Go Natural Restaurants. Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Employees covered by collective bargaining 2017 agreements Total of employees covered by collective 142 bargaining agreements (no.) Percentage of employees covered by 11% collective bargaining agreements (%) Notes: Público is not affiliated with any of the Employer Associations subscribing to the current Conventions that regulate the Press (AID (Daily Press Association) and API (Portuguese Press Association), however, and due to the existence of Regulations that extend the content, or part of it, to unaffiliated companies, Público, Comunicação Social, SA is obliged by the following: • Journalists: the provisions of the Convention published in BTE nº 24 of 29/06/86 apply, by virtue of the Regulation published in B.T.E. No. 35 of 29/06/86. Clause 6 Internship; Clause 8 Categories and Groups; Clause 9 Management and Leadership Functions; Clause 38 Salary Tables; Clause 45 – Seniority Allowance; Clause 66 – Change of Professional Category; Salary Tables. • Non-journalists: the provisions of the Convention published in B.T.E. nº 32 of 29/08/07 apply, by virtue of the Regulation published in B.T.E. nº 12 of 29/03/08. Público generally complies with the conditions presented in Annex I, base I, of the same Convention. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 59 Sonae Sierra Sonae Sierra does not have collective bargaining agreements, so 0% of employees are covered. Identifying and selecting 102-42 Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses V stakeholders Approach to stakeholder 102-43 Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses V engagement Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP and Sonae FS Suggestions and complaints registered (2017) Total Sonae MC Sonae S&F Worten suggestions 64,837 13,267 24,604 and Maxmat Sonae RP Sonae FS complaints 281 37 5,637 registered complaints complaints complaints (no.) Key topics and concerns Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) 102-44 V raised by stakeholders At Sonaecom, at the end of each project an assessment is carried out, in accordance with the existing tools. Suggestions and complaints registered 2017 Total of suggestions and complaints registered (no.) 0 Sonae Sierra Satisfaction index (2017) Tenants (1-5) Visitors (1-5) Visitors (1-100) 4.74 4.05 84 Notes: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra and operational during the reporting period, in which studies were carried out to evaluate these indexes. REPORTING PRACTICE Entities included in the 102-45 consolidated financial The Report V statements Defining the report content 102-46 The Report V and topic Boundaries Sonae carried out a materiality analysis exercise on sustainability issues, to assess the material topics for the company and its 102-47 List of material topics stakeholders. Sonae reports in accordance with the material V topics, which are the focus of the information described in this Report. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 60 Material topics Within Sonae Outside of Sonae Environmental, labour and human rights criteria for suppliers √ Suppliers Suppliers; Community; Regulators and Transparency and trust throughout the value chain √ governmental entities Ethics in the supply chain √ Suppliers; Community Influencing suppliers in the preservation of natural resources √ Suppliers CPC Suppliers and Own brand; Local production √ Community Compliance / Quality of Products √ Suppliers; Customers and visitors; Media Suppliers; Customers and visitors; Media; Regulators and Public health √ Governmental entities New consumer interaction technologies √ Customers and visitors Product adaptation and innovation √ Customers and visitors; Community Packaging innovation and optimisation √ Own brand suppliers; Other suppliers Combating food waste √ Community Own brand suppliers; Other suppliers; Customers and Nutrition √ visitors; Regulators and governmental entities Healthy Lifestyles √ Customers and visitors; Community Support to local communities √ Community Health and safety in stores √ Employees; Customers and visitors Human capital management √ Employees Water, energy and GHG emissions √ CPC; Sonae MC Suppliers; Own brand Waste Management √ Own brand suppliers; Customers and visitors; Own brand Optimisation of transportation and distribution √ Fleet Suppliers – Supply vehicles 102-48 Restatements of information The Report V 102-49 Changes in reporting The Report V 102-50 Reporting period The Report V 102-51 Date of most recent report 31st March 2017 V 102-52 Report Cycle Annual V Contact for questions 102-53 The Report V regarding the report Claims of reporting in This report was prepared according to the GRI Standards: Core 102-54 accordance with the GRI V option Standards 102-55 GRI content index Present table V 102-56 External assurance The Report V SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 61 SPECIFIC STANDARD CONTENTS UNGC SDG Verifica Disclosures Localisation Principl tion es GRI 200 – ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES GRI 201 – ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Direct economic value 2017 generated and distributed (€) Economic value generated 6,503,753,691 Revenues 6,503,753,691 Economic value distributed 6,301,803,089 2 Operational costs 5,407,867,988 5 Direct economic value Salaries and employee benefits 764,191,618 201-1 V 7 generated and distributed Payments to investors 115,767,432 8 9 Payments to the State 4,359,495 Donations and other 9,616,555 community investments Accumulated economic value 201,950,602 • For detailed information on the financial implications and other risks and opportunities arising from climate changes, please refer to Sonae's response to the Carbon Disclosure Project 2016, Financial implications and available here. other risks and 201-2 opportunities for the V 13 • At the end of 2017, two working groups were formed, which in organisation due to climate 2018 will focus, among others, on the following topics: change Commitment endorsed under the Paris Pledge for Action initiative; the approach to the guidelines of the Financial Stability Board's Task Force concerning Climate-Related Financial Disclosures. Defined benefit plan 201-3 obligations and other Sonae does not have a pension fund. V retirement plans Financial assistance 201-4 16,684,180 € V received from government GRI 202 – MARKET PRESENCE Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP and Sonae FS Proportion of senior management hired from the 2017 local community Proportion of senior Total top managers (no.) 93 202-2 management hired from Total top managers from the local community (no.) 89 V 6 8 the local community Proportion of senior management hired from the 96% local community (%) Notes: This does not include SportZone and Worten Canary Islands, Tlantic Brazil, MDS Brazil, Salsa, Losan and Go Natural Restaurants. This does not include the Board of Directors. GRI 203 – INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (MATERIAL ASPECT) Directly related to Indirect Economic Impacts, the topic Support Management approach Explanation of the material 103-1 to local communities was considered a material topic (vide topic and its Boundary response to indicator 102-47 List of material topics ). Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Indirect The management approach 103-2 Economic Impacts (vide chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for Our V and its components Communities). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of indicators Evolution of the 103-3 associated with this aspect and reports them in this Report (vide management approach indicators presented below). SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 62 Sonae's support to the community includes donations in kind 2 and donations, namely for public benefit, with more than 1,400 5 Infrastructure investments institutions supported, representing an investment of € 9,616, 7 203-1 V and services supported 555. Sonae RP provided some of its spaces free of charge to a 9 group of institutions, for an amount equivalent to € 315,000. 1 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Communities. 1 1 2 3 Significant indirect 8 203-2 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Communities. V economic impacts 1 0 1 7 GRI 204 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES (MATERIAL ASPECT) Regarding Procurement Practices, the topic Local production Explanation of the material Management approach 103-1 was considered a material topic (vide response to indicator 102topic and its Boundary 47 List of material topics ). Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Procurement The management approach Practices (vide chapters Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Partners 103-2 V and its components and Suppliers and Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Businesses and Products). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of indicators Evolution of the 103-3 associated with this aspect and reports them in this Report (vide management approach indicators below). Proportion of spending on local suppliers 2017 Proportion of expenses with foreign suppliers 23% (%) Proportion of 1 204-1 V spending on local suppliers Proportion of expenses with national suppliers 77% 2 (%) Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Partners and Suppliers. GRI 205 – ANTI-CORRUPTION (MATERIAL ASPECT) Management approach Directly related to anti-corruption the topic Transparency and Explanation of the material 103-1 trust along the value chain was considered a material topic (vide topic and its Boundary response to indicator 102-47 List of material topics ). The management approach Sonae has promoted several anti-corruption initiatives (vide 103-2 V and its components chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of indicators Evolution of the 103-3 associated with this aspect and reports them in this Report (vide management approach indicators below). Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP and Sonae FS Sonae implements the international methodology Enterprise Risk Management Integrated Framework (COSO) in its risk management process, which enables the identification of different types of risks and threats to the development of the business, at both the strategic and operational level. As the risk of corruption was not identified as a priority risk for the business, no assessments were carried out in this regard. The Code of Conduct and Ethics also takes this risk into account and there is no report of any such cases. Operations assessed for risk 205-1 V 10 16 related to corruption Sonae Sierra In 2017, no facts were identified that could be considered as cases of corruption. The Code of Conduct states that it is prohibited to give or accept any reward (or benefit ) to influence someone's behaviour to further commercial gain. In Europe, we ensure compliance to this obligation by including the risk of corruption in the annual Internal Audit Plan, which is in line with Sonae Sierra’s Risk Matrix. The Anti-Corruption Guidelines made the development of anti-corruption awareness possible through training, carried out under the programme BEST (Behaviour with Ethics Sierra Training). In Brazil, there is no SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 63 systematic mapping of the risk of corruption and no audit or other type of corruption assessment has been carried out. Operations assessed for risk of corruption 2017 Percentage of business processes identified for analysis on the risk of corruption (rotational 16 basis) (%) (100%) Percentage business processes that were 5 audited in 2017 (%) (31%) Sustainability: The Pulse for Long-living Businesses Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP and Sonae FS Although the risk of corruption is not considered a priority risk, in 2017, training was provided in relation to anticorruption policies and procedures. Training on anti-corruption policies and 2017 procedures Total governance body that received training in 17 anti-corruption (no.) Total employees who received anti-corruption 21,843 training (no.) Notes: Scope Portugal “Top Executives” were included in the total number of governance Communication and bodies that received anti-corruption training. • All training participants were included, regardless of if they were training about anti205-2 active on December 31st, 2017. V 10 16 corruption policies and procedures In complementarity, Sonae distributes the Suppliers’ Code of Conduct to all its suppliers. Sonae Sierra Training on anti-corruption policies and 2017 procedures Percentage of employees and Board members who received training on anti99% corruption (%) Notes: This includes all Sonae Sierra’s direct employees at the end of the reporting period. Sonae Sierra does not have a systematic procedure for communicating, measuring, and reporting the number of business partners to whom the organisation's anticorruption policies and procedures have been communicated. Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP and Sonae FS Confirmed incidents of There were no registered cases of corruption in 2017. 205-3 corruption and actions Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) V 10 16 taken There were no registered cases of corruption in 2017. Sonae Sierra There were no registered cases of corruption in 2017. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 64 GRI 300 – ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES GRI 301 – MATERIALS Consumption of materials Sustainability: The Pulse for Our 8 301-1 V 7e8 by weight or volume Planet. 12 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP and Sonae FS Reduction of the consumption of materials associated with the value chain is promoted, specifically with regard to the packaging of the products it distributes. To achieve this, it promotes several initiatives with suppliers to reduce the associated materials, not only with the primary packaging of the product itself, but also at the level of the transport boxes. Maxmat Total paper consumption (t) 2017 8 Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Total paper consumption (t) 2017 2,451 Note: Paper consumption refers only to Jornal Público. Reclaimed products and 8 301-3 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 8 their packaging materials 12 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion and Worten Sale of reusable bags In 2017, we upheld the policy of not making lightweight plastic bags available. In the food retail business (Sonae MC), specifically in supermarkets and hypermarkets, where the use of disposable bags to carry goods is higher, in addition to the non-availability of light bags, the following was found: An increase in the sale of reusable PE Laminated Bags (40 and 50 Cents) by 26.3%; An increase in the sale of reusable PE bags with a thickness equal to or greater than 55 Micron (10 Cents) of 21.5%; An increase in the sale of reusable bags of other types of plastic of 110.5%; A reduction of 2.8% in the sale of paper bags; Overall, there was an increase in the sale of reusable bags by 28.9%. Reduction in Packaging In 2017, at Sonae MC plastic bags were withdrawn from the bakery area, concerning any products packed in-store. GRI 302 ENERGY (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the Directly related to Energy, the topic Water, Energy and GHG Management Approach 103-1 material topic and its emissions was considered a material topic (vide response to Boundary indicator 102-47 List of material topics ). The management Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Energy (vide 103-2 approach and its V chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet). components Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of indicators Evolution of the 103-3 associated with this aspect and reports them in this Report (vide management approach indicators below). 7 Energy consumption 8 302-1 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet V 7e8 within the organisation 12 13 Sonae remains committed to improving the reduction of energy consumption in its facilities, through the implementation of more efficient equipment, as well as the monitoring of its consumption levels. Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten In 2017, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion and Worten registered an electricity consumption of 438,857 MWh, which corresponds to an increase of 1.9% compared to the previous year, reflecting organic growth. On a L4L basis, resulting from the implementation of a set of measures to reduce electricity consumption, Sonae MC recorded a reduction of 3.0%, and Sonae Sports & Fashion and Worten together recorded a reduction of 1.4% ( vide response to indicator 302-4 Reducing energy SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 65 consumption ). However, these reductions in consumption achieved with the implemented measures did not overcome the increases in consumption induced by organic growth. Regarding fuel consumption, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion and Worten's commitment to the reduction of energy consumption is evident across almost all fuels, with the exception of diesel consumption by employees, which increased by 2% when compared to 2016. To minimise the environmental impact of the contracted fleet, a joint effort was made with the suppliers of the transport services with the aim of improving the eco-efficiency of the vehicles they use, ensuring preference was given to newer vehicles. At the end of 2017, about 99% of the vehicles in the contracted fleet complied with the Euro 5 Standard. It should be noted that in 2017 vehicles were used in compliance with the Euro 6 Standard, corresponding to 72% of the contracted fleet and representing a 16% increase from 2016. Regarding logistics efficiency, improvements have been made both in home deliveries and concerning the supply of stores. Specifically, in relation to the supply of stores, about 7.6 boxes per kilometre were transported and emissions were recorded in the order of 100 kg of CO2 per thousand boxes transported, registering an improvement in both indicators compared to 2016. Sonae Sierra Sonae Sierra is also committed to improving energy efficiency. During the operation phase, it ensures that shopping centres are as efficient as possible. Within the scope of SHEMS (Safety, Health and Environment Management System) Sonae Sierra monitors and manages the energy performance of its shopping centres. It is committed to maximising the efficiency of its operations and implementing measures to increase energy self-sufficiency as part of a strategy to reduce dependence on fossil fuels. Since 2013, Sonae Sierra has launched an energy modelling tool (Bright project) that calculates the optimised theoretical energy consumption of a shopping centre and then compares it to its actual use, making it easy to detect and mitigate any inefficiency. This methodology allows the targets for each mall to be adjusted, which along with other data, should improve the energy efficiency of the portfolio. Sonae Sierra also buys green electricity for shopping centres in Portugal (except Madeira and the Azores), Germany, Italy and Spain. Energy-efficient design projects, including performance targets and innovative engineering solutions, are included in their Safety, Health and Environment Development Standards (SHEDS). In SHEDS, Sonae Sierra specifies the use of energy-efficient equipment, such as air conditioning units, lighting and boilers. They also specify standards that encourage greater energy efficiency, including an analysis of the consumption life cycle and performance criteria covering HVAC (Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning) equipment and lighting of common areas, as well as recommendations for efficient lighting for the tenants. Standards also require them to explore renewable and low-carbon technologies during design. Its contractors may also be significant energy consumers and during initial construction, major remodelling or expansion, taking into account SHEMS (Safety and Health Management Systems), Sonae Sierra ensures that contractors strictly respect its requirements, which include guidelines for monitoring energy consumption to achieve greater energy efficiency. As a result of the efforts to improve energy efficiency, in 2017, Sonae Sierra reduced its energy consumption as a result of direct energy efficiency measures in shopping centres by 6,847 GJ. The reduction of emissions associated with this variation, together with the green electricity contracts, prevented the emission of 25,940 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten Energy consumption within the organisation by type 2017 Electricity consumption (MWh) 438,857 Electricity consumption stores and warehouses (MWh) 429,698 Electricity consumption manufacturing centres (MWh) 9,159 Consumption of natural gas stores (m3) 312,522 Consumption of propane gas stores (t) 38 Diesel consumption stores (l) 117,011 Diesel consumption contracted fleet (l) 11,027,548 Diesel consumption employees’ vehicles (l) 2,723,723 Petrol consumption employees’ vehicles (l) 13,132 Energy consumption within the organisation by type (GJ) 2017 Electricity consumption (GJ) 1,579,885 Electricity consumption stores and warehouses (GJ) 1,546,913 Electricity consumption manufacturing centres (GJ) 32,972 Fuel consumption (GJ) 508,683 Consumption of natural gas stores (GJ) 12,013 Consumption of propane gas stores (GJ) 1,748 Diesel consumption stores (GJ) 4,172 Diesel consumption contracted fleet (GJ) 393,200 Diesel consumption employees’ vehicles (GJ) 97,118 Petrol consumption employees’ vehicles (GJ) 432 Consumption within the organisation (GJ) 2,088,569 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 66 Production of electricity through renewable energy sources 2017 Electricity produced through renewable energy source (MWh) 9,127 Electricity produced through renewable energy source (GJ) 32,857 Electricity consumption per store area (GWh / 1000 m2) 2017 Shop area (1000 m2) 1,219 Consumption of electricity from stores by store area 0.35 (GWh/1000m2) The total electricity consumption in 2017 stood at 438,857 MWh, an increase of 1.9% from the previous year, reflecting organic growth. As a result of implementing a set of measures to reduce electricity consumption (vide response to indicator 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption ): Sonae MC recorded a reduction of 3.0% (L4L); Sonae Sports & Fashion and Worten registered a reduction of 1.4% (L4L); However, the reductions in consumption achieved with the implemented measures did not overcome the increases in consumption induced by organic growth. Fuel consumption, on the other hand, shows a reduction of consumption across practically all the fuels, except for diesel consumption by employees. Maxmat Energy consumption within the organisation by type 2017 Electricity consumption (MWh) 3,994 Electricity consumption stores and warehouses (MWh) 3,994 Diesel consumption stores (l) 800 Diesel consumptioncontracted fleet (l) 1,140 Diesel consumption employees’ vehicles (l) 10,560 Energy consumption within the organisation by type (GJ) 2017 Electricity consumption (GJ) 14,378 Electricity consumption stores and warehouses (GJ) 14,378 Fuel consumption (GJ) 446 Diesel consumption stores (GJ) 29 Diesel consumptioncontracted fleet (GJ) 41 Diesel consumption employees’ vehicles (GJ) 377 Consumption within the organisation (GJ) 14,824 Production of electricity through renewable energy sources 2017 Electricity produced through renewable energy source (MWh) 0 Electricity produced through renewable energy source (GJ) 0 Electricity consumption per store area (GWh /1000 m2) 2017 Store area (1,000 m2) 61 Consumption of electricity from stores by store area 0.07 GWh/1,000m2) Sonae RP Energy consumption within the organisation by type 2017 Electricity consumption (MWh) 7,650 Electricity consumption – shopping areas (MWh) 7,650 Diesel consumption shopping areas (litres) 800 Energy consumption within the organisation by type (GJ) Electricity consumption (GJ) 27,541 Electricity consumption shopping areas (GJ) 27,541 Fuel consumption (GJ) 29 Diesel consumptionstores (GJ) 29 Consumption within the organisation (GJ) 27,570 Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Energy consumption within the organisation by type 2017 Electricity consumption (MWh) 1,353 Electricity consumption offices (MWh) 1,353 Diesel consumptioncontracted fleet (l) 339,075 Petrol consumption contracted fleet (l) 6,417 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 67 Energy consumption within the organisation by type (GJ) 2017 Electricity consumption (GJ) 4,871 Electricity consumption offices (GJ) 4,871 Fuel consumption (GJ) 12,301 Diesel consumption contracted fleet (GJ) 12,090 Petrol consumption contracted fleet (GJ) 211 Consumption within the organisation (GJ) 17,172 Note: This does not include the facilities of Público (Lisbon and Porto), as the energy consumption is included in the lease value of the buildings. Sonae Sierra Energy consumption within the organisation by type (GJ) 2017 Electricity consumption (GJ) 923,659 Electricity consumption shopping centres (GJ) 921,993 Electricity consumption corporate offices (GJ) 1,666 Sale of electricity (GJ) 39,239 Sale of electricity shopping centres (GJ) 39,239 Consumption derived from heating and cooling (GJ) 138,055 Consumption derived from heating shopping centres (GJ) 15,944 Consumption derived from cooling shopping centres (GJ) 122,112 Fuel consumption (GJ) 229,686 Consumption of natural gas and LPG (Liquified petroleum gas) 215,814 shopping centres (GJ) Diesel and petrol consumption – employees’ vehicles (GJ) 13,066 Ethanol consumption employees' vehicles (GJ) 806 Consumption within the organisation (GJ) 1,252,161 Note: This includes all Sonae Sierra’s shopping centres, operational during the full year of reporting, and all corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia, and São Paulo). Fuel consumption was considered for all the main corporate offices (Lisbon, Maia, São Paulo, Milan, Madrid, Dusseldorf and Bucharest), as these represent the consumption of the country and not only the offices. Conversion Factors Energy Unit Factor Source Ethanol GJ/l 0.02133886 Natural gas PCI (GJ/Nm3) 0.03844 APA Portuguese Environment Agency (2013) CELE European Emission Trading, 2013-2020 (http://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/DPAAC/CELE/tabela_PCI_FE_FO_2013.pdf) Propane APA (2017) Portuguese National Inventory Report on Greenhouse Gases, 1990-2015 Gas PCI (GJ/t) 46 https://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/Inventario/2017/20170530/NIRglobal20170526.pdf (pages 3-122) Diesel PCI (GJ/t) 42.6 APA (2017) Portuguese National Inventory Report on Greenhouse Gases, 1990-2015 https://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/Inventario/2017/20170530/NIRglobal20170526.pdf (pages3-99) APA (2014) CELE Densidade (t/l) 0.000837 http://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/DPAAC/CELE/tabela_densidades_combustiveis_2013.pdf Petrol PCI (GJ/t) 44 APA (2017) Portuguese National Inventory Report on Greenhouse Gases, 1990-2015 https://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/Inventario/2017/20170530/NIRglobal20170526.pdf (pages 3-99) Densidade (t/l) 0.0007475 Decree-Law nº 142/2010, 31st of December LPG EIA (2012) GJ/t 49.35 https://www.eia.gov/outlooks/archive/aeo12/pdf/0383(2012).pdf ( page 239) Electricity (GJ/MWh) 3.6 International Energy Agency SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 68 7 8 302-3 Energy intensity Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 8 12 13 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten Energy intensity 2017 Total energy consumption (GJ) 2,088,569 Business turnover (M €) 5,476 Energy intensity ratio (GJ / M €) 381 Maxmat Energy intensity 2017 Total energy consumption (GJ) 14,824 Business turnover (M €) 78 Energy intensity ratio (GJ / M €) 190 Sonae RP Energy intensity 2017 Total energy consumption (GJ) 27,570 Business turnover (M €) 92,1 Energy intensity ratio (GJ / M €) 299 Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Energy intensity 2017 Total energy consumption (GJ) 17,172 Business turnover (M €) 140 Energy intensity ratio (GJ / M €) 123 Sonae Sierra Energy intensity 2017 Shopping Centres Energy intensity ratio (kWh/m2 of 698 common areas) Note: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational during the full year of reporting. The energy consumed outside the shopping centres is not considered, therefore, in NorteShopping, the consumption of natural gas for the cogeneration system is not included (most of the energy produced is the electricity sold to the grid), but the heated and cooled water produced by cogeneration and consumed in the commercial centre is included. 7 Reduction of energy Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. 8 302-4 V 8e9 consumption Vide response to indicator 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions . 12 13 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten Electricity Sonae MC: Replacement of main lighting by LED lighting in 59 stores; Installation of doors on the butchery display equipment in 34 stores; Replacement of the fan motors of the refrigerated display stands with high efficiency motors in 31 Stores; Installation of automatic anti-fog systems in the refrigerated display units in 46 stores; Adoption of cold production systems not only using less harmful gases from the point of view of their potential for global warming but also more efficient in terms of energy consumption. Installation of 10 new independent power producer plants (photovoltaic) for self-consumption, corresponding to a potential production of 1,557 KWp. Sonae Sports & Fashion and Worten: Replacement of main lighting by LED lighting in 20 stores; Implementation of monitoring of consumption in real time in all Stores (100% of stores). Fuels Although Sonae has no way of quantifying actual fuel consumption reductions by the fleet contracted to supply the stores, maintaining the option to require recent vehicles contributes to reducing the average specific consumption of vehicles in service. Vehicles in service which comply to the following Euro Standards 2017 2016 Variation 2016/2017 EURO 4 1% EURO 4 9% EURO 4: 8% EURO 5 27% EURO 5 35% EURO 5: 8% EURO 6 72% EURO 6 56% EURO 6: + 16% SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 69 Sonae RP Electricity Gradual replacement of lighting with low consumption lighting, manual management of the lighting of Galeria (SC(Shopping Centre) Loures and Telheiras SC) and the park (Loures SC); Improved manual management of shopping area lighting and changing lamps to LED lighting (Marco Shopping SC); Total replacement of the lighting of Galeria and floor -1 for LED (Jardim Maia SC); Gradual replacement of shopping centre area and park lighting to LED (Gaia Jardim SC). Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Electricity Installation of capacitor bank, to eliminate the consumption of reactive energy; Gradual replacement of bulbs, which need to be replaced, with halogen bulbs (Picoas Building); Lighting, air conditioning, chiller, primary pumps, secondary pumps, air handling unit, ventilation and fan coils remain on only during office hours (Edificio Picoas); Investment in videoconferencing equipment, reducing the number of trips for face-to-face meetings and their respective savings in fuel. Sonae Sierra Reductions in energy consumption 2017 Shopping Centres Reductions in energy consumption 6,847 Reduction of energy consumption as a result of the implementation of significant actions in 2017 in the shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra. 7 Reductions in energy 8 302-5 requirements for products Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 8e9 12 and services 13 Worten In 2017, Worten carried out 2 campaigns to encourage the acquisition of more efficient equipment: • Energy Efficiency Campaign: A direct price reduction and rebates in built-in kitchen appliances Incentives to reduce Sales campaign: 7,166 units consumption of electricity • Triple Savings Samsung / WRT / EDP Campaign”: 10% discount on the EDP invoice, on a selection of Samsung in Portuguese homes articles from UN 51 and 53 -> A +++ 1. Sales Campaign: 2,062 units Total products sold per energy efficiency level category A or higher (no.) 2017 Televisions 301,946 A 176,283 Providing (increasingly) efficient product ranges, A+ 121,788 contributing to a more A++ 3,875 efficient customer choice Home Appliances 116,090 A 1,337 A+ 77,133 A++ 32,557 A+++ 5,063 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 70 Maxmat Providing (increasingly) Total of products sold per energy efficiency level category A or higher (no.) 2017 efficient product ranges, Home Appliances 278 contributing to a more A+ 210 efficient customer choice A++ 68 GRI 303 WATER (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the material topics Directly related to Water, the topic Water, energy and its Boundary and GHG emissions was considered to be a Management Approach 103-1 material topic (vide response to indicator 102-47 List of material topics ). The management approach and Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to 103-2 its components Water (vide chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for V Our Planet). Evaluation of the management Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring approach of the indicators associated with this topic and 103-3 reports them in this Report (vide indicators presented below). 303-1 Water withdrawal per source Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 7e8 6 In 2017, Sonae remained committed to the continuous improvement in the reduction of its water footprint. In Sonae MC, food stores registered a 0.5% increase in total water consumption compared to 2016 (real value). This increase, however, does not mean that the company is less committed to the continuous improvement in the reduction of its water footprint. The continued implementation of the measures adopted in recent years, as well as, more recently, the progressive installation of counters equipped with telemetry, which enable water consumption to be monitored more accurately, have made it possible for the first time to obtain a total specific consumption value of less than 1.0 m3/m2, reflecting a reduction of 0.4 percentage points, compared to 2016. Sonae Sierra Sonae Sierra is also committed to reduce its water footprint, by increasing the efficiency of its activities and using innovation and technology to rethink the way water is used and managed in shopping centres. By improving the portfolio’s water efficiency and integrating rainwater collection and water reuse systems, they can reduce exposure to water scarcity risks and minimise the water footprint, preparing for future legislation and avoiding costs. Sonae Sierra's goal is to ensure a safe water supply in all our shopping centres, with a special focus on locations vulnerable to water shortages. The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Water Tool is used to identify whether the areas in which the new shopping centres are being developed, are at risk of water stress or scarcity. It also ensures the development of water-efficient projects, including equipment specifications and engineering solutions that include water recycling. It integrates, whenever possible, in the new projects and in the remodelling projects, systems for collecting rainwater and recycling of grey water, to reduce the need for fresh or municipal water consumption. It also establishes requirements for the efficiency of sanitary equipment (such as taps with sensors, urinals without water and toilets with a low discharge). Since 2013, a water calculator has been in place (Dive project) that aims to evaluate the water needs of each shopping centre considering their location, design and occupation. This tool enables the establishment of consumption targets for the main water systems (e.g., WCs and irrigation), which, along with real-time monitoring, makes it possible to identify usage patterns and to implement control mechanisms. For the outdoor areas of the shopping centres, it establishes efficient irrigation systems and favours the use of native plant species. The average water consumption of shopping centres in 2017 was 3.3 litres of water per visitor (excluding tenants). However, Sonae Sierra believes it remains well-positioned to reach the long-term goal of achieving a maximum consumption of 3 litres per visit by 2020. Sonae MC Water withdrawal by source 2017 Municipal water supply (m3) 633,722 Total water consumption (m3) 633,722 Water consumption per store area 2017 Shop area (1,000 m2) 655 Water consumption per store area (m3/m2) 0.97 Maxmat Water withdrawal by source 2017 Municipal water supply (m3) 11,600 Total water consumption (m3) 11,600 Water consumption per store area 2017 Store area (1000m2) 61 Water consumption per store area (m3/m2) 0.19 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 71 Sonae RP Water withdrawal 2017 Underground withdrawal (m3) 11,333 Municipal water supply (m3) 72,737 Total water consumption (m3) 84,070 Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Water withdrawal 2017 Municipal water supply (m3) 4,608 Total water consumption (m3) 4,608 Note: This does not include the facilities of Público do Porto, since water consumption is included in the building’s lease value. Sonae Sierra Water withdrawal Excluding tenants Water reallocation for tenants Underground withdrawal (m3) 299,051 245,079 Rainwater (m3) 30,480 Public supply network (m3) 653,981 712,206 Other sources of withdrawal (m3) 338 Mix of water sources (m3) 76,122 4,493 Grey water (m3) 23,785 Treated wastewater (m3) 87,266 1,171,023 961,778 Total water consumption (m3) 2,132,801 Note: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational throughout the reporting year. It was not possible to obtain the values for ParkLake, in Romania, so this was not included. Water consumption per shopping centre area, bathrooms, own portfolio and number of visitors 2017 Water consumption per mall and toilet area (m3/m2) 4.6 Water consumption (excluding tenants) (m3/m2) 2.5 Water consumption by number of visits (l / visitors) 6.0 Water consumption by number of visits (excluding tenants) (l / visitors) 3.3 Note: This includes all the shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational throughout the reporting year. It was not possible to obtain the values for ParkLake, in Romania, so this was not included. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 72 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. Sonae has a recycling and water reuse initiative in Sonae Service Centre’s Tower located in Maia, with GOLD certification by LEED, where the water of the shower rooms and lavatories are reused in the toilets, and the rainwater is collected and used in the irrigation systems. According to the project data, the reuse of water in this building allows savings of around 80% of water consumption. Sonae Sierra Whenever possible, Sonae Sierra implements engineering solutions that allow the recycling and reuse of water, such as the reuse of rainwater and grey water recycling systems, to reduce the need to use municipal water or freshwater. The irrigation systems of the outdoor spaces and sanitary water systems are always designed to maximise the use of water. 6 Water recycled 303-3 V 8 8 and reused Water recycled or reused 2017 12 Percentage of recycled or reused water 7% (141,869 m3) (including tenants) % Percentage of recycled or reused water 12% (141,869 m3) (excluding tenants) % Notes: Two of Sonae Sierra's shopping centres cannot quantify the total amount of water they reuse, so recycled / reused water is underestimated and actual values are higher than those presented. This indicator is determined using the following formula: (reused / recycled water (m3)/ Total water withdrawal (m3) *100). GRI 304 BIODIVERSITY (MATERIAL ASPECT) Directly related to biodiversity, the topic “Influencing suppliers in the Management Approach Explanation of the material preservation of natural resources” was considered an important 103-1 topic and its Boundary material topic (vide response to indicator “102-47 – List of material topics”) The management approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to biodiversity (vide V 103-2 and its components chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the indicators Evolution of the 103-3 associated with this topic and reports them in this report (vide the management approach indicators presented below) Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 6 adjacent to, protected areas 304-1 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 8 14 and areas of high 15 biodiversity value outside protected areas Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat e Sonae RP Sonae does not own any facilities in areas classified as habitats rich in biodiversity. Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Sonaecom does not own any facilities in areas classified as habitats rich in biodiversity. Significant impacts of 6 304-2 activities, products and Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 8 14 services on biodiversity. 15 Sonae MC Sonae’s Sustainable Fishing Policy aims to minimise the impacts of fishing activities on marine biodiversity and promote the adoption of sustainable fishing practices, taking into consideration a set of guidelines that encourage the protection of ecosystems. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 73 Guarantee avoidance of suppliers “blacklisted” by Greenpeace Introduction of new tags on Fresh Fish (PPA – Proof of Purchase at Local Fishing Harbours) Choice of suppliers according to the fishing methods used Compliance with legislation on scientific names and the minimum fish sizes Transmission of trust and loyalty to consumers In this way, over the last few years, we have developed several improvement measures, described below, which have contributed to the commercialisation of healthy fishing and to the reduction of non-sustainable fishing practices, such as: INCREASED QUANTITIES OF INCREASED SALES OF SELECTED DRIED CODFISH AQUACULTURE PRODUCTS PURCHASED INCREASE IN SUSTAINABLE FISH PURCHASED FROM LOCAL FISHING INTRODUCTION OF BIOLOGICAL FISHING MARKETS PRODUCTS (DOCAPESCA) PROHIBIT THE SALE OF REDUCED QUANTITIES OF FISH GREENLAND HALIBUT AND PURCHASED THAT RESULTED TIGER-SHARK FROM BOTTOM TRAWLING DECREASE IN NONPURCHASE CODFISH FROM SUSTAINABLE REDUCED QUANTITIES OF NORWAY FISHING MONK FISH PURCHASED AND SOLD SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 74 The Traffic Light System is a tool developed with the objectives of promoting the commercialisation of fish in a sustainable way and to more easily evaluate the sustainability level of the products that we sell. From the use of this tool, the red, yellow and green colours are assigned according to the main fishing practices used, thus simplifying the survey of the main fishing practices. This allows Sonae to prioritise suppliers that use fishing methods with a lower impact on species and ecosystems. In 2017, 33% of the fishing methods used by Sonae posed little harm to the existence of species and ecosystems (+1% compared to 2016). Moreover, our suppliers are responsible for meeting several requirements, namely to: • Respect and meet the legally established fishing quotas, • Use fishing methods that do not damage the sea bottom, • Proceed according to a sustainable fishing policy, • Supply fish caught exclusively on vessels that are not listed on Greenpeace’s “blacklist”, with an undertaking from them to submit documents proving compliance whenever requested. In addition, it is mandatory that the documents accompanying the products contain information on species, batch, catch zone and capture method. This information and the name of the vessels, certificates, captain names and port of landing are requested annually. Sonae Sierra Land development can have an impact on biodiversity, particularly when projects are built on “greenfields”, areas that are most likely to be rich in biodiversity or with valuable functions for ecosystems. Therefore, Sonae Sierra strives to minimise the loss of biodiversity and establishes several measures to protect habitats in its ongoing projects and existing assets, always with long-term goals in mind, to: • Promote the use of pre-developed land or industrial land for new shopping centre projects and to protect and improve biodiversity, when possible. • Protect and improve biodiversity in existing Sonae Sierra facilities and in new projects and add value to new projects, by actively integrating biodiversity, and whenever possible, considering the regional setting. Measures, including Environmental Due Diligence, Environmental Impact Studies (EIS), SHEDS (Safety, Health and Environment Development Standards) and SHEMS (Safety, Health and Environment Managements System), specific to each project, are applied to all our new developing projects. EIS are conducted when required by legislation and identify the potential environmental impacts of a project, such as the construction and operational impact of each project on the facilities’ biodiversity (among others) and specify mitigation measures. In all other cases, Preliminary Environmental Assessments are carried out according to Sonae Sierra’s specifications. SHEDS include a standard related to the long-term impacts on biodiversity, and our SHEMS require that all EIS recommendations that refer to biodiversity compensation in “greenfield” facilities are implemented, where complete mitigation of the impact on biodiversity is not possible. In our operational shopping centres and corporate offices, the impacts on biodiversity that may result from day-to-day activities, such as waste disposal and water consumption, are monitored through our SHEMS procedures. We also strive to increase awareness of biodiversity issues through marketing events and other initiatives aimed at employees and/or shopping centre visitors. 6 Habitats protected or 304-3 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 8 14 restored 15 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat and Sonae RP There were no operations carried out leading to changes in the surrounding habitats that would result in their restoration. The Fishing Policy penalises fishing methods that destruct habitats (e.g., bottom trawling). Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) There were no operations carried out leading to changes in the surrounding habitats that would result in their restoration. GRI 305 EMISSIONS (MATERIAL ASPECT) Management Approach Directly related to Emissions, the topic “Water, Energy and Explanation of the material topics 103-1 GHG emissions” was considered to be a material topic (vide and its Boundary response to indicator “102-47 List of material topics”) The management approach and its Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Emissions 103-2 V components (vide chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evaluation of the management 103-3 indicators associated with this topic and reports them in approach this Report (vide indicators presented below). 3 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 7e8 12 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 75 13 14 15 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion and Worten GHG Emissions (Scope 1), by source 2017 Emissions associated with the consumption of natural gas stores (t CO2e) 674 Emissions associated with the consumption of propane gas stores (t CO2e) 110 Emissions associated with the consumption of diesel stores (t CO2e) 309 Emissions associated with the consumption of diesel contracted fleet (t CO2 e) 29,136 Emissions associated with the consumption of diesel employees’ vehicles (t 7,196 CO2e) Emissions associated with the consumption of petrol employees’ vehicles (t 30 CO2e) Total direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (t CO2e) 37,456 Maxmat GHG Emissions (Scope 1), by source 2017 Emissions associated with the consumption of diesel stores (t CO2e) 2 Emissions associated with the consumption of diesel contracted fleet (t CO2 e) 3 Emissions associated with the consumption of diesel employees’ vehicles (t 28 CO2e) Total direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (t CO2e) 33 Sonae RP GHG Emissions (Scope 1), by source 2017 Emissions associated with the consumption of diesel shopping areas (t CO2e) 2 Total direct GHG emissions (t CO2e) (Scope 1) 2 Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) GHG Emissions (Scope 1), by source 2017 Emissions associated with the consumption of diesel contracted fleet (t CO2 e) 896 Emissions associated with the consumption of petrol contracted fleet (t CO2 e) 15 Total direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (t CO2e) 911 Emission factors Energy Unit Factor Source APA (2017) Portuguese National Inventory Report on Greenhouse Gases, 1990-2015 Natural Gas kg CO2/GJ 56.1 https://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/Inventario/2017/20170530/NIRglobal20170526.pdf (page 79) APA (2017) Portuguese National Inventory Report on Greenhouse Gases, 1990-2015 Propane kg CO2/GJ 63.1 https://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/Inventario/2017/20170530/NIRglobal20170526.pdf (page 79) APA (2017) Portuguese National Inventory Report on Greenhouse Gases, 1990-2015 Diesel kg CO2/GJ 74.1 https://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/Inventario/2017/20170530/NIRglobal20170526.pdf (page 79) APA (2017) Portuguese National Inventory Report on Greenhouse Gases, 1990-2015 Petrol kg CO2/GJ 69.3 https://www.apambiente.pt/_zdata/Inventario/2017/20170530/NIRglobal20170526.pdf (page 163) Sonae Sierra GHG Emissions (Scope 1), by source 2017 Emissions associated with the consumption of natural gas (t CO2e) 9,227 Emissions associated with the consumption of LPG (t CO2e) 11 Emissions associated with the consumption of fuels by contracted fleet (petrol, diesel 936 and ethanol) (t CO2e) Emissions associated to leaks (t CO2e) 1,758 Total direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (t CO2e) 11,933 Notes: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational during the full reporting year, and corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo), except for fuel consumed by vehicles used for transporting goods, which includes all the corporate offices (Lisbon, Maia, São Paulo, Milan, Madrid, Dusseldorf and Bucharest), due to the materiality of these emissions. Emissions of CO2 equivalents measured in tonnes (t CO2e) refer to emissions from energy sources over which Sonae Sierra has financial control. The only source of emissions accounted for in our Development activities is the one associated with the energy consumption resulting from the remodelling of CascaisShopping. These emissions total 8 t CO2e (0.007% of the total Scope 1 emissions). Emission Factors For information related to the emission factors of Sonae Sierra, please, see Sonae Sierra’s Sustainability Report 2017. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 76 3 12 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 305-2 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 7e8 13 emissions 14 15 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten GHG Emissions (Scope 2), by source 2017 Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2e) – market based 215,007 Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2e) – location based 123,477 In 2017, the total emission of the area was 215,000 tonnes of CO2eq, corresponding to a 25% increase compared to the previous year. Emission factors Energy Unit Factor Source Mix of: Endesa Galp http://www.galpenergia.com/PT/ProdutosServicos/Eletricidade-Gas-Natural-Livre/Centro-deElectricity Market Based kg CO2/GJ 136.1 informacao/A-nossa-Energia/Paginas/Rotulagem_2017.aspx Elergone EEM https://www.eem.pt/media/323353/evol_mad_11_2017.pdf Electricity Location Based kg CO2/GJ 78.2 International Energy Agency (2015) CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2015 Edition (page.II.64). Maxmat GHG Emissions (Scope 2), by source 2017 Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2e) – market based 1,897 Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2e) – location based 1,124 Emission factors Energy Unit Factor Source Mix of: EDA http://www.eda.pt/Regulacao/Rotulagem Electricity Market Based kg CO2/GJ 131.9 EEM https://www.eem.pt/media/323353/evol_mad_11_2017.pdf Elergone Electricity Location Based kg CO2/GJ 78.2 International Energy Agency (2015) CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2015 Edition (page.II.64). Sonae RP GHG Emissions (Scope 2), by source 2017 Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2e) – market based 3,780 Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2e) – location based 2,152 Emission Factors Energy Unit Factor Source Electricity Market Based Kg CO2/GJ 137.2 Elergone Electricity Location Based kg CO2/GJ 78.2 International Energy Agency (2015) CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2015 Edition (pageg.II.64). Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) GHG Emissions (Scope 2), by source 2017 Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2e) – market based 269 Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2e) – location based 381 Emission Factors Energy Unit Factor Source Electricity Market Based kg CO2/GJ 55.2 EDP http://www.edpsu.pt/pt/origemdaenergia/Pages/OrigensdaEnergia.aspx Electricity Location Based kg CO2/GJ 78.2 International Energy Agency (2015). CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2015 Edition (page.II.64). SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 77 Sonae Sierra GHG Emissions (Scope 2), by source 2017 Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2e) 12,391 Emissions associated with electricity consumption for the cooling of water (t 5,669 CO2e) Emissions associated with electricity consumption for the heating of water (t 1,210 CO2e) Total emissions (t CO2e) 19,271 Note: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational during the full reporting year, and corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo). Emissions included in this indicator are from energy sources over which Sonae Sierra has financial control. The electricity consumption of the Maia office, in Portugal, is not known as it is located on a shared floor/building, withou t individual energy meters and, for that reason, it was based on an estimation. The only source of emissions accounted for in our Development activities is the one associated with the energy consumption resulting from the remodelling of CascaisShopping. These emissions total 0 t CO2e. Emission Factors For information related to Sonae Sierra’s emission factors, please see the Sonae Sierra’s Sustainability Report 2017. 3 12 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 305-3 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 7e8 13 emissions 14 15 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten GHG Emissions (Scope 3), by source 2017 Emissions related to energy recovery (t CO2e) 102 Emissions related to organic recovery (t CO2e) 230 Emissions related to landfill (t CO2e) 7,955 Total GHG emissions (Scope 3) (t CO2e) 8,287 Maxmat GHG Emissions (Scope 3), by source 2017 Total GHG emissions (Scope 3) (t CO2e) 0 Sonae RP It was not possible to measure the Scope 3 emissions, during this reporting year. Emission Factors Type of Unit Factor Source Treatment Landfill t CO2/t residue 0.589 Energy t CO2/t residue 0.0218 DEFRA (2017). Greenhouse gas reporting Conversion factors 2017 Recovery (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2017) Organic t CO2/t residue 0.0218 Recovery Sonae Sierra GHG Emissions (Scope 2), per source 2017 Emissions from tenant’s electricity consumption (t CO2e) 115,405 Emissions related to air travel (t CO2e) 1,699 Emissions related to train travel (t CO2e) 13 Emissions related to hotel stays (t CO2e) 137 Emissions related to employees' business trips (t CO2e) 1,094 Emissions from shopping centre visitors (t CO2e) 604,375 Emissions from waste (t CO2e) 2,428 Total of GHG emissions (Scope 3) (t CO2e) 725,150 Note: This includes indirect emissions from all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational during the full reporting year, as well as corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo) and development projects completed in the reporting year. It also includes other indirect emissions considered to be relevant SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 78 and material to the indicator (business trips, travelling, hotel stays), which are not necessarily allocated to shopping centres or other specific locations within the carbon footprint limits. The only source of emissions accounted for in our Development activities is the one associated with the waste disposal resulting from the remodelling of CascaisShopping. These emissions total 50 t CO2e (0.007% of the total Scope 3 emissions). Emission Factors For information related to Sonae Sierra’s emission factors, please see Sonae Sierra’s Sustainability Report 2017. 13 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 8 14 15 In 2017 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion and Worten were responsible for the emission of 260,750 tonnes of CO2e, which corresponds to an increase of 21% from the previous year. This growth is mainly due to emissions from electricity consumption, which increased by 25%. This increase, in turn, is not a result of an increased growth of electricity consumption, but instead the result of 2017 being a year of low hydraulicity, reflecting a significant increase in the specific emission factors of electricity producers. In 2017, Sonae Sierra was responsible for the emission of 756,353 tonnes of CO2e, which corresponds to a reduction of 86% compared to the previous year. This variation is mainly due to the fact that the emissions of the entire construction project for the ParkLake shopping centre in Romania were included in 2016 and in 2017 the only issues associated with any Development activity were the remodelling of CascaisShopping, However, there was an increase in Scope 2 emissions (14%), which was mainly due to the increase in emissions associated with water cooling, due to the updating of the emission factor used for refrigerated water purchased by the Colombo Shopping Centre. Scope 1 emissions also increased (36%), mainly due to an increase in the refrigerant gases leaking from HVAC equipment and the consumption of natural gas (mainly due to the climatic conditions and the cogeneration consumption). Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten GHG emissions intensity 2017 Total GHG emissions (t CO2e) 260,750 Business turnover (M€) 5,476 GHG emissions intensity ratio (t CO2/M€) 48 Maxmat GHG emissions intensity 2017 Total GHG emissions (t CO2e) 1,930 Business turnover (M€) 78 GHG emissions intensity ratio (t CO2/M€) 25 Sonae RP GHG emissions intensity 2017 Total GHG emissions (t CO2e) 3,780 Business turnover (M€) 92,1 GHG emissions intensity ratio (t CO2/M€) 41 Note: It was not possible to measure the Scope 3 emissions, during this reporting year. Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) GHG emissions intensity 2017 Total GHG emissions (t CO2e) 1,180 Business turnover (M€) 140 GHG emissions intensity ratio (t CO2/M€) 8 Sonae Sierra GHG emissions intensity 2017 Total GHG emissions (t CO2e) 756,353 Excluding tenants (t CO2e/m2) 0.061 Including tenants (t CO2e/m2) 0.298 Note: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational during the full reporting year, and corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo). For data that exclude tenants, the numerator includes the Scope 1 emissions (excluding emissions associated with the natural gas consumed by cogeneration, but including the heating/cooling of water emissions produced by cogeneration and consumed on site), Scope 2 emissions and Scope 3 emissions associated with waste from shopping centres and corporate offices. As an exception, emissions associated with the fuel consumption of the fleet are included for the following corporate offices: Lisbon, Maia, São Paulo, Madrid, Düsseldorf, Bucharest and Milan. The denominator includes the common areas of the shopping centres and the area of corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo). There is a slight maladjustment between the numerator and the denominator, as the energy consumption in technical areas provided to some tenants is included, but the consumption of the areas is not. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 79 For the data that include the tenants, the same assumptions as above apply, but in addition, the emissions associated with the consumption of the tenants are included. Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. Vide response to indicator “302-4 Reduction of energy consumption”. All the situations reported in 13 indicator 302-4 that resulted in a reduction in energy 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions V 8e9 14 consumption are convened in this indicator as, by 15 allowing a reduction of energy consumption, it also contributes to the reduction of CO2 and CO2eq emissions. Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten Several measures to reduce GHG emissions have been implemented, reflecting the efforts made to improve the management of energy consumption and its emissions. Continuous commitment to the implementation of photovoltaic panels is one of the milestones of this policy, as well as the projects designed to improve efficiency in the area of logistics. In 2017, these projects allowed an approximate reduction of 4,700 tonnes of CO2eq. Independent production On the 31st of December, 121 production sites (120 photovoltaic plants and 1 wind turbine generator) were of electricity from operating, resulting in an installed capacity of 6,687 MWp. These produced 9,127,107 kWh = 9,127 MWh and renewable sources contributed to an avoided emission of 4,289,740 kg of CO2eq = 4,290 t. The Logistics “Service Centres” project is a partnership with two companies namely CHEP (Pallets and Boxes) and IFCO (Pallets). With this project, the used pallets and boxes left in the stores, which were previously collected by these companies from our stores and transported to their warehouses to later make them available to producers, are now collected using inverse logistics. They are now collected by our trucks and transported to our warehouses, where they are sorted and placed at the disposal of our suppliers. Consequently, there are transport savings for: Service Centres Project CHEP and IFCO, who no longer have to collect, store by store, their means of packaging goods (pallets and returnable and reusable boxes); Our suppliers, who avoid returning empty from our warehouses (after delivery of their products) and the new transportation of pallet and/or boxes to CHEP or IFCO warehouses. Thus, in 2017, this project avoided: Collection routes corresponding to 23,595 km; 25.5 t CO2. Note: This information concerns the emissions avoided by CHEP and IFCO by not collecting pallets and boxes from our stores. F-Gas Replacement In 2017, the F-Gas Replacement Programme was continued in cold production systems. Programme There has been a reduction in the use of Fluorinated Gases of very high GWP Global Warming Potential namely the use of R 404 and R 427 by gases with lower GWP. This process preferably uses the so-called Natural Gases , with GWP equal to or less than 5, such as R 290 (propane gas with GWP = 3), R 744 (CO2 with GWP = 1) or R 717 (Ammonia, with GWP = 0) This takes place in new or existing stores, which are subject to extensive remodelling, with total replacement of the cold production systems. For existing installations with a long lifespan, the decision has been to retrofit , i.e., replacement of the gases used by others with less GWP, replacing the R 404 with a gas compatible with the existing cold installation. Initially, R 407 was used, and, afterwards, R 448. Efforts to eliminate the use of gases with GWP higher than 2,500 (R 404 and R 427) led to a reduction in the use of such gases by 37 percentage points (from 78% to 41%) in 3 years, and in 2017 this reduction was 13 percentage points. Thus, on the 31st of December 2017: • 41% of our cooling systems contained gases with GWP above 2,500; • 19% of our cooling systems contained gases with GWP between 2,500 and 1,500; • 12% of our cooling systems contained gases with GWP between 1,500 and 5; • 28% of our cooling systems contained gases with GWP below 5. Sonae Sierra Reduction of GHG emissions Scope 2017 Reductions associated with the reduction of energy consumption as a result of the implementation of significant 25,940 actions and the purchase of green electricity (renewable sources) SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 80 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. 3 Emissions of ozone-depleting 305-6 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Sonae RP V 7e8 12 substances Zero. 13 3 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), 12 sulphur oxides (SOx) and 305-7 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 7e8 13 other significant air 14 emissions 15 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions 2017 NOx emissions Diesel consumed stores (t) 3.34 NOx emissions Diesel consumed contracted fleet (t) 314.56 NOx emissions Diesel consumed employees’ vehicles (t) 77.69 NOx emissions Petrol consumed employees’ vehicles (t) 0.26 Total NOx emissions (t) 395.85 SO2 emissions Diesel consumed stores (t) 0.88 SO2 emissions Diesel consumed contracted fleet (t) 82.57 SO2 emissions Diesel consumed employees’ vehicles (t) 20.39 SO2 emissions Petrol consumed employees’ vehicles (t) 0.03 Total SO2 emissions (t) 103.88 Maxmat Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions 2017 NOx emissions Diesel consumed stores (t) 0.02 NOx emissions Diesel consumed contracted fleet (t) 0.03 NOx emissions Diesel consumed employees’ vehicles (t) 0.30 Total NOx emissions (t) 0.36 SO2 emissions Diesel consumed stores (t) 0.01 SO2 emissions Diesel consumed contracted fleet (t) 0.01 SO2 emissions Diesel consumed employees’ vehicles (t) 0.08 Total SO2 emissions (t) 0.09 Sonae RP Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx) and other air significant emissions 2017 NOx emissions Diesel consumed stores (t) 0.02 Total NOx emissions (t) 0.02 SO2 emissions Diesel consumed stores (t) 0.01 Total SO2 emissions (t) 0.01 Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions 2017 NOx emissions Diesel consumed contracted fleet (t) 9.67 NOx emissions Petrol consumed contracted fleet (t) 0.13 Total NOx emissions (t) 9.8 SO2 emissions Diesel consumed contracted fleet (t) 2.54 SO2 emissions Petrol consumed contracted fleet (t) 0.02 Total SO2 emissions (t) 2.56 Emission Factors Energy Unit NOx SO2 Source Diesel kg/GJ 0.8 0.21 IPCC 2006 Petrol kg/GJ 0.6 0.075 IPCC 2006 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 81 GRI 306 – EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (MATERIAL ASPECT) Management Approach Explanation of the material topic Directly related to Waste and Effluents, the topic “Waste 103-1 and its Boundary management” was considered a material topic (vide response to indicator “102-47 – “List of material topics s”). Management approach and its Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Waste and 103-2 V components Effluents (vide chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evolution of the management 103-3 indicators associated with this aspect and reports them in this approach Report (vide indicators presented below). Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, and Sonae RP Sonae does not have quantitative measurements for waste water in stores. For this reason, and in accordance with best Engineering practices, we operate on the basis that 80% of the consumed water results in waste water. Based on the water consumption in 2017, of 722,400 m3, there is a waste water emission of 577,920 m3. Volume of effluent discharged (m3) 577,920 3 Regarding waste water treatment, most of the liquid effluents Water discharge by quality and 6 306-1 generated at the company’s premises are discharged into public V 8 destination 12 sewers, except for the waste water from four stores (Anadia, 14 Vagos, Cancela and Ribeira Brava) and the waste water from five distribution centres (Azambuja, Plaza I, Plaza II, C1 and C2) where this is not possible because of the absence of public sewer infrastructure. These premises are instead equipped with waste water treatment plants, that have biological treatment systems (secondary treatment). Maxmat Volume of effluent discharged (m3) 11,600 3 Waste by type and disposal 306-2 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 8 6 method 12 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten Waste by type and destination 2017 Hazardous waste (t) 2,134 Recovery 2,134 Elimination 0 Non-hazardous waste (t) 68,744 Recovery 55,235 Elimination 13,509 Total volume of waste (t) 70,878 Recovery rate of waste (%) 80.9% Waste generated by Sonae activity (t) 64,703 Waste deposited by the customers at the 6,175 stores(t) Total volume of waste (t) 70,878 In 2017, the total amount of waste was 70,878 t (an increase of 2.9% compared to 2016): 42,147 waste sent for treatment/recycling (an increase of 2.6%); 57,369 t waste sent for recovery (an increase of 2.9%); 13,509 t waste sent to landfill (an increase of 2.8%). The recovery rate of waste was 80.9%, the same as in the previous year. In the reporting year, there was an increase of 3.6% in the waste generated through our activity. However, both the growth of waste generated through our activity (3.6%) and the growth of total waste managed (2.9%); was in any case lower than the net sales growth (3.9%), which demonstrates the decoupling of waste production relative to economic growth. On the other hand, there was a 3.7% reduction in the waste disposed by our customers, which has a quantitative impact on the WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment), making the growth of the waste sent for treatment and/or recycling lower than the rest. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 82 Maxmat Waste by type and destination 2017 Non-hazardous waste (t) 871 Recovery 871 Elimination 0 Recovery rate of waste 100% Sonae RP It was not possible to present a response to the indicator, in the reporting year. Sonae Sierra Waste by type and destination 2017 Hazardous waste (t) 99 Anaerobic digestion 0 Composting Energy recovery from incineration 11 Incineration without energy recovery 1 Sanitary Landfill 1 Recycling 80 Reuse Treatment/Elimination 5 Energy recovery 0 WWTP Non-hazardous waste (t) 46,550 Anaerobic Digestion 3,091 Composting 7,266 Energy recovery from incineration 3,584 Incineration without energy recovery 18 Sanitary Landfill 8,303 Recycling 19,622 Reuse Treatment/Elimination 18 Energy recovery 4,339 WWTP 309 Total waste (t) 46,649 Notes: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational during the reporting year, and corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo). The waste elimination method is provided by those responsible for disposal. Recycling rate – shopping centres (%) 64% Recycling rate – corporate offices with 75% SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo) (%) Waste disposal rate in sanitary landfill – 18% shopping centres (%) Waste disposal rate in sanitary landfill – corporate offices (Lisbon, Maia and São 8% Paulo) (%) Notes: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational during the reporting year. This includes all corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo). The waste recycled includes waste sent to recycling, anaerobic digestion and composting. In 2017, the percentage of recycled, reused or recovered waste, during the construction stage of projects completed in 2017, was 100% (this value only refers to the remodelling project of CascaisShopping). 3 6 306-3 Significant Spills Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet. V 8 12 14 15 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Sonae RP A spill is considered to be significant only if it affects the external environment of the premises. In 2017, there was no significant spills. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 83 However, a legal process was filed against the Continente Modelo unit of Ovar by the Municipal Inspection Unit, based on the accusation that the store used “the extension of the public rainwater network to discharge polluted water, white and milky in colour, with large amounts of very fine suspended solids, in the water front called “Lages” river”. The accusation was contested by the legal department, based on solid arguments, we are now awaiting follow-up of the action by the Authorities. GRI 307 – ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE (MATERIAL ASPECT) Directly related to Environmental Compliance, the topics “Transparency and trust throughout the value chain” and Management Approach Explanation of the material topics 103-1 “Compliance/Product Quality” were considered to be material and its Boundary topics (vide response to the indicator “102-47 – List of material topics”). Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to V The management approach and its 103-2 Environmental Compliance (vide chapter Sustainability: The components Pulse for Our Planet). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evaluation of the management 103-3 indicators associated with this topic and reports them in this approach Report (vide indicators presented below). Non-compliance with 307-1 environmental laws and Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet V 8 16 regulations Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Sonae considers a fine to be significant when the total monetary value equals or exceeds 12,000€, since this corresponds to the minimum fine for a serious environmental infringement (Law no. 114/2015, of August 28th). In 2017, there were no significant sanctions/fines recorded. GRI 308 – SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (MATERIAL ASPECT) Directly related to Supplier Environmental Assessment, the topics “Environmental, labour and human rights criteria for Explanation of the material topics Management Approach 103-1 suppliers” and “Ethics in the supply chain” were considered to and its Boundary be material topics (vide response to the indicator “102-47 List of material topics”). Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Suppliers V The management approach and its Environmental Assessment (vide chapters Sustainability: The 103-2 components Pulse for Our Planet and Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Partners and Suppliers. Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evaluation of the management 103-3 indicators associated with this topic and reports them in this approach Report (vide indicators presented below). New suppliers that were screened Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Planet 308-1 V 8 using environmental criteria Sustainability – The Pulse for Our Partners and Suppliers Sonae MC, Worten, Maxmat Screened suppliers based on environmental criteria (2017) Non-food Fresh products Food retail Wells Worten Maxmat retail Total suppliers (no.) 369 291 305 48 133 77 National 307 156 103 15 6 46 Foreign 62 135 202 33 127 31 Total qualified suppliers 357 288 221 35 106 17 (no.) National 296 153 83 10 6 10 Foreign 61 135 138 25 100 7 Percentage of qualified 97% 99% 72% 73% 80% 22% suppliers (%) National 96% 98% 81% 67% 100% 22% Foreign 98% 100% 68% 76% 79% 23% Total audits conducted (no.) 99 67 167 22 99 10 National 92 47 41 4 0 4 Foreign 7 20 126 18 99 6 New suppliers screened based on environmental criteria (2017) Fresh products Food retail Non-food retail Wells Worten Maxmat Total new suppliers (no.) 11 7 20 6 27 6 National 9 4 3 3 0 0 Foreign 2 3 17 3 27 6 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 84 Total new qualified 6 6 7 2 0 0 suppliers (no.) National 4 3 1 1 0 0 Foreign 2 3 6 1 0 0 Percentage of new qualified 55% 86% 35% 33% 0% 0% suppliers (%) National 44% 75% 33% 33% 0% 0% Foreign 100% 100% 35% 33% 0% 0% Total audits conducted of 2 0 7 0 0 0 new suppliers (no.) National 2 0 1 0 0 0 Foreign 0 0 6 0 0 0 GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT (MATERIAL ASPECT) Management Approach Directly related to Employment, the topic “Human capital management” Explanation of the material 103-1 was considered to be a material topic (vide response to the indicator topics and its Boundary “102-47 – List of material topics”). The management approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Employment (vide 103-2 V and its components chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the indicators Evaluation of the 103-3 associated with this topic and reports them in this Report (vide indicators management approach presented below). 4 New employee hires and 401-1 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People V 6 5 employee turnover 8 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS New employee hires (no.) Percentage of new employee hires (%) Age range (no.) Age range (%) < 30 years old 17,537 < 30 years old 42.8% From 30 to 50 years old 4,083 From 30 to 50 years old 10.0% ≥ 50 years old 234 ≥ 50 years old 0.6% Gender (no.) Gender (%) Male 8,853 Male 21.6% Female 13,001 Female 31.7% Location (no.) Location (%) Portugal 20,663 Portugal 50.5% Spain 1,191 Spain 2.9% Total 21,854 Total 53.4% Employees leaving (no.) Percentage of employee turnover (%) Age range (no.) Age range (%) < 30 years old 16,240 < 30 years old 39.7% From 30 to 50 years old 4,021 From 30 to 50 years old 9.8% ≥ 50 years old 321 ≥ 50 years old 0.8% Gender (no.) Gender (%) Male 8,273 Male 20.2% Female 12,309 Female 30.1% Location (no.) Location (%) Portugal 19,216 Portugal 46.9% Spain 1,366 Spain 3.3% Total 20,582 Total 50.3% Note: This does not include SportZone and Worten Canary Islands, Tlantic Brasil, MDS Brasil, Salsa, Losan and Go Natural Restaurants. This does not include the Board of Directors. Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) New employee hires (no.) Percentage of new employee hires (%) Age range (no.) Age range (%) < 30 years old 118 < 30 years old 9.1% From 30 to 50 years old 135 From 30 to 50 years old 10.4% ≥ 50 years old 4 ≥ 50 years old 0.3% Gender (no.) Gender (%) SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 85 Male 176 Male 13.5% Female 81 Female 6.2% Location (no.) Location (%) Portugal 172 Portugal 13.2% Brazil 1 Brazil 0.1% Colombia 4 Colombia 0.3% Egypt 3 Egypt 0.2% Spain 60 Spain 4.6% USA 6 USA 0.5% Mexico 11 Mexico 0.9% Total 257 Total 19.8% Employees leaving (no.) Percentage of employee turnover (%) Age range (no.) Age range (%) < 30 years old 62 < 30 years old 4.8% From 30 to 50 years old 143 From 30 to 50 years old 11.0% ≥ 50 years old 9 ≥ 50 years old 0.7% Gender (no.) Gender (%) Male 158 Male 12.1% Female 56 Female 4.3% Location (no.) Location (%) Portugal 108 Portugal 8.3% Brazil 22 Brazil 1.7% Colombia 2 Colombia 0.2% Egypt 2 Egypt 0.2% Spain 58 Spain 4.5% USA 15 USA 1.2% Malaysia 1 Malaysia 0.1% Mexico 6 Mexico 0.6% Total 214 Total 16.5% Sonae Sierra New employee hires (no.) Percentage of new employee hires (%) Age range (no.) Age range (%) < 35 years old 87 < 35 years old 8.2% From 33 to 44 years old 35 From 33 to 44 years old 3.3% From 45 to 54 years old 11 From 45 to 54 years old 1.0% From 55 to 64 years old 3 From 55 to 64 years old 0.3% > 64 years old 0 > 64 years old 0.0% Gender (no.) Gender (%) Male 63 Male 5.9% Female 73 Female 6.9% Location (no.) Location (%) Portugal 52 Portugal 4.9% Germany 10 Germany 0.9% Brazil 37 Brazil 3.5% Spain 13 Spain 1.2% Greece 2 Greece 0.2% Italy 11 Italy 1.0% Romania 8 Romania 0.8% Turkey 3 Turkey 0.3% Total 136 Total 12.8% Employees leaving (no.) Percentage of employee turnover (%) Age range (no.) Age range (%) < 35 years old 57 < 35 years old 5.4% From 33 to 44 years old 50 From 33 to 44 years old 4.7% From 45 to 54 years old 26 From 45 to 54 years old 2.5% From 55 to 64 years old 10 From 55 to 64 years old 0.9% > 64 years old 1 > 64 years old 0.1% Gender (no.) Gender (%) Male 68 Male 6.4% SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 86 Female 76 Female 7.2% Location (no.) Location (%) Portugal 32 Portugal 3.0% Germany 7 Germany 0.7% Algeria 17 Algeria 1.6% Brazil 55 Brazil 5.2% Spain 14 Spain 1.3% Greece 2 Greece 0.2% Netherlands 1 Netherlands 0.1% Italy 8 Italy 0.8% Romania 6 Romania 0.6% Turkey 2 Turkey 0.2% Total 144 Total 13.6% Note: This includes all of Sonae Sierra’s direct employees, at the end of the report period. 5 401-3 Parental leave Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People . V 6 8 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Parental leave Male Female Total Total employees entitled to parental leave (no.) 13,968 26,992 40,960 Total employees who benefitted from parental leave (no.) 692 1,533 2,225 Total employees who returned to work after completion of 679 1,435 2,114 parental leave (no.) Total employees who returned to work after completion of parental leave and continued to work for the Company 12 months 514 1,312 1,826 after returning (no.) Take-up rate (%) 5% 6% 5% Rate of return (%) 98% 94% 95% Rate of retention (%) 74% 86% 82% Note: Employees who benefitted from parental leave in 2016 and continued to work 12 months after returning are not included. For this reason, the retention rate may be over 100%, since the denominator refers to the take-up rate in 2017 and not in 2016. This does not include SportZone and Worten Canary Islands, Tlantic Brasil, MDS Brasil, Salsa, Losan and Go Natural Restaurants. This does not include the Board of Directors Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Parental leave Male Female Total Total employees entitled to parental leave (no.) 34 18 52 Total employees who benefitted from parental leave (no.) 34 18 52 Total employees who returned to work after completion of 34 18 52 parental leave (no.) Total employees who returned to work after completion of parental leave and continued to work for the Company 12 months 0 0 0 after returning (no.) Take-up rate (%) 100% 100% 100% Return rate (%) 100% 100% 100% Retention rate (%) 0% 0% 0% GRI 403 – OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (MATERIAL ASPECT) Directed related to Occupational Health and Safety, the topics Management Approach Explanation of the material topic Human capital management and Health and safety in stores 103-1 and its Boundary were considered material topics (vide the answer to indicator 10247 List of material topics ). Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Occupational The management approach and V 103-2 Health and Safety (vide the chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for its components Our People). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of indicators Evolution of the management 103-3 associated with this aspect and reports them in this Report (vide approach indicators below). SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 87 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 3 403-2 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People. V and absenteeism, and total 8 number of work-related fatalities The health and safety of our employees is a central aspect of our management. Aiming at a zero-accident culture, we ensure the necessary conditions so that our stores, shopping centres, warehouses and workplaces are safe and conducive to the collective well-being. For this reason, we have 164 medical offices within the company's premises, equipped according to guidelines from the Directorate General of Health, where 102 health professionals collaborate. In 2017, more than 35,000 medical exams and around 4,800 nursing consultations took place. Likewise, under the scope of the National Automated External Defibrillation Programme (NPAED), 178 AED programmes are in place at Sonae, with 198 licensed AED’s, which corresponds to more than 1,000 AED Operational members. Sonae's commitment to the dissemination and installation of AEDs in a wide range of spaces demonstrates a strong sense of social responsibility, fundamental for ensuring a fast and efficient response in each of the licensed spaces in case of cardiorespiratory arrest, guaranteeing the existence of an effective chain of survival that significantly increases the probability of victim survival in cardiorespiratory arrest situations. Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Male Female Total and total number of work-related fatalities Workable hours by all employees (h) 23,263,573 45,045,439 68,309,012 Total of deaths (n,º) 1 0 1 Total of accidents in the workplace (n. º) 365 863 1,228 Total of accidents during the commute between home and work (n. º) 64 135 199 Total number of accidents 429 998 1,427 Rate of accidents (%) 0.002% 0.002% 0.002% Total of days of absence due to occupational accidents (d) 6,867 14,743 21,610 Rate of days lost due to occupational accidents (%) 0.03% 0.03% 0.03% Total of days of absence due to occupational diseases (d) 0 915 915 Rate of occupational diseases (%) 0% 0.002% 0.001% Total number of days lost (d) 6,867 15,658 22,525 Rate of lost days (%) 0.03% 0.03% 0.03% Total of hours of absence (h) 768,382 2,565,883 3,334,265 Absenteeism rate (%) 3% 6% 5% Note: Scope Portugal. It is not possible to present information from Spain, as data extraction systems are not based on the same assumptions. For the calculation of lost days, the working days were considered to be the days in which the victims were effectively absent from work. Counting of lost days starts on the 1st day of absence following the accident, usually from the following day. In the case of accidents, all were considered (accidents involving communication to insurance companies, non-participating accidents that did not involve insurance companies, accidents not in the presence of someone and accidents in the presence of someone). Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total Male Female Total number of work-related fatalities Workable hours by all employees (h) 1,604,064 800,184 2,404,248 Total of deaths (n,º) 1 0 1 Total of accidents in the workplace (n. º) 1 0 1 Total of accidents during the commute between home and work (n. º) 3 0 3 Total number of accidents 4 0 4 Rate of accidents (%) 0% 0% 0% Total of days of absence due to occupational accidents (d) 172 0 172 Rate of days lost due to occupational accidents (%) 0.011% 0% 0.007% Total of days of absence due to occupational diseases (d) 0 0 0 Rate of occupational diseases (%) 0% 0% 0% Total number of days lost (d) 172 0 172 Rate of lost days (%) 0.011% 0% 0.007% Total of hours of absence (h) 8,043 13,445 21,488 Absenteeism rate (%) 1% 2% 1% Sonae Sierra Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related 2017 fatalities Total workable hours by all employees (h) 2,026,248 Number of deaths Total number of accidents 7 Rate of accidents (%) 3.45% Total number of days lost (d) 84 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 88 Number of days of absence due to occupational diseases (d) Rate of occupational diseases (%) Rate of lost days (%) 41.46% Number of hours of absence (h) 33,111 Absenteeism rate (%) 0.02% Note: This includes all employees that Sonae Sierra employs directly; all workers supervised during the reporting period and all independent contractors who wo rked at the Sonae Sierra facility during the reporting period. As far as independent contractors and trainees are concerned, there are no injuries, occupational diseases, days lost, absenteeism and deaths to be reported. These rates are determined according to the following methodology: Injury rate = (number of injuries * 1,000,000) / Total hours worked Rate of occupational diseases = (No. of days absent due to occupational diseases * 1,000,000) / Total hours worked Rate of lost days = (Number of lost days * 1,000,000) / Total hours worked Absenteeism rate (%) = Absenteeism in the period (hours) / Total hours worked The total working time is equal to the total number of working days (excluding holidays and public holidays) multiplied by the average total workforce, multiplied by 8 hours. The average total workforce equals the sum of the total number of employees (direct employees and supervised workers) in each month, divided by 12 months. The reported injuries do not include minor injuries (first aid level). Days means scheduled workdays, and the counting of the lost days begins on the immediate work shift (or day) after an occupational accident / illness has taken place. Workers with high incidence or high risk of 3 403-3 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People. V diseases related to their 8 occupation Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Total number of employees whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organisation, involved in occupational 0 activities that have a high incidence or high risk of specific / serious diseases (number) As part of a preventive strategy of health and safety management, initiatives were developed, directed at employees with a high incidence or high risk of work-related diseases, namely: 1. Ergonomic studies project (logistic warehouses and manufacturing centres); 2. Safety Alerts (eg.: employees handling compactors); 3. Campaign “Abril, Segurança Mil” – Promotion of a set of awareness actions in the areas of a Health and Safety, with the primary objective to foster initiatives to improve understanding and management of stress and work-related psychosocial risks. Besides these initiatives, some advisory programmes have also been developed: Advisory programmes No. participants Women’s Day All employees Healthy Lifestyles (European Week OHS) All employees Nutritional Programme 272 May – Heart Month FP Cardiology All employees Health during travel All employees Flu All employees Flu (vaccination) 4,863 Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Total number of employees whose work, or place of work, is controlled by the organisation, involved in 0 occupational activities that have a high incidence or high risk of specific / serious diseases (number) GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION (MATERIAL ASPECT) Management Approach Directly related to Training, the topic Human capital management was Explanation of the material 103-1 considered a material topic (vide response to indicator 102-47 List of topic and its Boundary material topics ). The management approach Sonae has promoted various initiatives related to Training (vide chapter 103-2 V and its components Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of indicators Evaluation of the 103-3 associated with this aspect and reports them in this Report (vide management approach indicators presented below). 4 Average hours of training 404-1 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People. V 6 5 per year per employee 8 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 89 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Average hours of training per year and per employee (2017) Total employees by functional Male Female Total category (no.) Top Executive 72 15 87 Management 550 314 864 Middle Management 1,029 1,261 2,290 Technicians/highly-specialised 1,050 1,808 2,858 technicians Representatives 11,232 23,574 34,806 Total 13,933 26,972 40,905 Total hours of training (h) Male Female Total Top Executive 1,354 237 1,591 Management 13,658 9,497 23,155 Middle Management 36,286 52,351 88,637 Technicians/highly-specialised 39,689 54,586 94,275 technicians Representatives 286,747 532,619 819,366 Total 377,734 649,290 1,027,023 Total hours Spain 52,251 Average hours of training by Male Female Total category and gender (h/employee) Top Executive 19 16 18 Management 25 30 27 Middle Management 35 42 39 Technicians/highly-specialised 38 30 33 technicians Representatives 26 23 24 Total 27 24 25 Notes: This includes all training participants, regardless of if they are active on December 31, 2017. Spain's global hours include Worten and Sportzone Canary Islands. Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Average hours of training per year and per employee (2017) Total employees by functional Male Female Total category (no.) Top Executive 2 0 2 Management 247 68 315 Middle Management and Technicians/highly-specialised 542 274 816 technicians Representatives 77 91 168 Total 868 433 1,301 Total hours of training (h) Male Female Total Top Executive 0 0 0 Management 5,697 1,734 7,431 Middle Management and Technicians/highly-specialised 15,612 8,788 24,400 technicians Representatives 142 274 416 Total 21,450 10,796 32,246 Average hours of training by category Male Female Total and gender (h/employee) Top Executive 0 0 0 Management 23 25 24 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 90 Middle Management and highly29 32 30 specialized technicians Representatives 2 3 2 Total 25 25 25 Sonae Sierra Average hours of training per year and per employee (2017) Average number of hours of Total employees by functional Functional category Total hours of training (h) training by category and gender category (no.) (h/employee) Global Senior Executive, 26 436 17 Senior Executive, Executive Senior Manager 60 1,061 18 Manager 100 3,226 32 Team Leader 132 4,612 35 Project Team Specialist 159 5,596 35 Team Member 584 17,798 30 Total 1,061 32,728 30.8 Average number of hours of Gender Total employees (no.) Total hours of training (h) training by gender (h/employees) Female 549 14,251 26.0 Male 512 18,477 36.1 Total 1,061 32,728 30.8 Notes: This includes all of Sonae Sierra’s direct employees, at the end of the report period. Programmes for upgrading employee skills and 404-2 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People. V 8 transition assistance programmes Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes (2017) Total Actions Total Hours Total Actions Total Programmes Programmes (no.) (h) (no.) Hours (h) Hosting and Integration 4,507 6,111 Environmental Management 2,060 5,776 Bit Academy 2 96 Inter Cross Training Programmes 249 13,750 Cartão Universo 4,565 7,768 Intra Cross Training Programmes 1,348 11,942 Cc Training Programmes 111 6,874 IopPerformance Evaluation 644 5,285 Functional Competencies 499 12,478 Iow/Continuous Improvement/Kaizen 5,977 35,577 Transversal Competencies CT Iow 175 13,600 Management & Leadership 433 24,839 Driving Forklifts and Machines 648 7,984 Meat Handlers 1,611 26,937 Critical Competencies 12 500 MC Training Programmes 13,331 69,552 Manufacturing Centres School 45 830 Note 10! 1,370 1,813 Continente Fresh Produce School 2,346 122,176 Omnichannel Worten 441 298 Logistics School 377 15,684 Incentives Plan Bagga 315 226 Continente Operations School 13,952 115,129 S&F Training Programmes 442 10,895 Health School 18,915 40,593 Bags for Life 1 1 Fashion Academy 20,497 30,161 Safety and Health at Work 28,507 200,262 AED Training and First Aid 593 6,491 Sportzone Academy 9,859 38,871 Processes / Systems Training (Workflows, SAP, Retek, Supply 1,538 11,905 Values & People 8 30 Chain, Breakage) Technical Training of Suppliers / 4,303 18,997 Worten Academy 65,347 92,706 Products / Campaigns Security Training 4 96 Worten Training Campus 684 8,028 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 91 Functionals & Fundamentals 162 6,176 Worten Training Programmes 194 6,352 Future Leaders MC 113 50,236 Notes: This includes all training participants, regardless of whether or not they are active on December 31, 2017. Spain's global hours include Worten and Sportzone Canary Islands. Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 92 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and Total Actions Total FMS TRAINING SESSION 1 84 transition assistance programmes (2017) (no) Hours (h) FOCUSED LEADERSHIP MANAG ATT, DEL RES 2 21 A SUA PME ESTA ON? 1 6 FORCEPOINT: STONESOFT NGFW ADMIN 2 112 ADVANCED: NEGOTIATION PROGRAM 1 48 FORMACION CELLEBRITE CERTIFIED OPERATOR 1 16 ADX PORTALS 1 44 FORMACION CELLEBRITE PHYSICAL ANALYST 1 24 ANALISTA INTELIGENCIA 1 24 FORMADOR DE FORMADORES 1 100 ANALYTICS 2 124 FORTINET NETWORK SECURITY EXPERT 1 4 ANNUAL THREAT INTTELIGENCE CONFERENCE 1 16 FRANCES A1 1 130 ANS ADVANCED NEGOTIATION SKILLS 1 48 FUJITSU FORUM 1 16 APRES CODIGO CONTRATOS PUBLICOS REVISTO 1 4 FUNDING ALTERNATIVAS, IMPLICACOES? 1 3 ASV ONLINE REQUALIF TRAINING FEE 1 8 GAMIFY 1 8 AUDITOR LIDER ISO 27001 4 65 GECV GESTAO ESTRATEGICA CRIACAO VALOR 1 80 AWS BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES IN CLOUD 1 12 GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATION 1 40 AWSAR ARCHITECTING ON AWS 1 21 GESTAO APLICADA DE PROJETOS 1 18 AZURE MACHINE LEARNING FOR ISVS 1 8 GESTION DE PROYECTOS 1 72 BE INOVRETAIL TEAM PLAYERS 2 128 GESTION Y GOBIERNO DE LA SEGURIDAD 1 2,064 BEST TALKS 5 1,089 GHAMELEONMINI REV.G 1 8 BEYOND DATA PAY AND BENEFITS TRENDS 1 1 HACKING WEB AVANZADO 1 8 BEYOND DATA TENDENCIAS RETRIBUICAO 1 7 HADOOP 1 360 BIZDIRECT PROCEDURES 1 8 HADOOP – OVERVIEW 1 96 BLOCKCHAIN 2 20 HANDOVER PRODUCT DELIVERY TEAM 1 10 BOOTCAMP MARKETING 1 12 HOW DO WE DO 3 1,256 BUSINESS BREAKFAST 1 3 HR SAP BASICS 2 23 BUSINESS ENGLISH B1 1 188 HR TECH WORLD 1 16 CDPO 1 208 IBM DATASTAGE DEVELOPMENT 1 16 CEB 1 19 ICCP + 1 40 CEH 2 43 IFRS 15 1 8 CHFI 2 240 IFRS 15 AND 16 1 8 CISSP 1 80 ILUSTRAR TRANSICAO ISO 9001:2015 1 8 COACHING (TEAM LEADERS) 1 4 IMPLEMENTING SQL DATA WAREHOUSE 1 30 COMO HABLAR EN PUBLICO 1 140 IMPROVING OUR FOUNDATIONS 14 576 CONFERENCIA DE TENDENCIAS 1 1 IMPROVING OUR MANAGEMENT 1 96 CONFERENCIA EXECUTIVE COACHING 1 4 IMPROVING OUR TEAMS 4 176 CONFERENCIA INTERNACIONAL APCC 2017 1 15 IMSHARE WRAP UP 1 32 CONFLUENCE WORKSHOP 1 20 INDUCTION 9 96 CONG NAC CONTRATACAO PUBLICA ELETRONICA 1 7 INGLES GENERAL 3 1,214 CONGRESSO FATOR HUMANO 1 8 INGLES GERAL A1 2 192 CONGRESSO NACIONAL DE MARKETING 1 8 INGLÊS GERAL A2 1 108 CONNECT ME 1 30 INGLES GERAL B1 4 257 CONTROLO GESTAO E AVAL DE PERFORMANCE 1 40 INGLES INCOMPANY BLENDED 10 2,628 CRM 1 12 INGLES JURIDICO 1 30 CSM CERTIFIED SCRUM MASTER 3 80 INGLES MARKET LEADER 3 333 CSPO CERTIFIED SCRUM PRODUCT OWNER 3 80 INOVRETAIL PRODUCT 1 11 CURSO INTENSIVO MARKETING DIGITAL 1 12 INTELIGENCIA EMOCIONAL WORKSHOP 1 0 CUSTOMER EXPER MANAG IN TELEC EUROP B2B 1 16 INTERNAL AUDITOR 1 2 CYBER SECURITY AND EXECUTIVE STRATEGY 1 30 INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOP ISC&LAW 1 9 DATA SCIENCE FOR SOCIAL GOOD 1 8 INTRANET 1 2 DATA STAGE 1 42 ISO 27001 SECURITY GUIDELINES 4 24 DESTACAMENTO DE TRABALHADORES 1 9 ISO 27001 ISMS LEAD AUDITOR 1 480 DEVELOPING SQL DATA MODELS 1 18 ISO 9001:2015 ADAPTACION 1 8 DFIR Y ANALISIS FORENSE EN WINDOWS 1 40 ISTQB CERTIFIED TESTER FOUNDATION LEVEL 1 21 DIGITAL ASSET MANAGEMENT EUROPE 2017 1 16 JORNADAS FIRST 1 16 DIGITAL INNOVATION HUBS 1 6 JORNADAS SOCIETÁRIAS 1 14 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION 1 16 KDS 1 8 DIREITOS DE AUTOR NA COMUNICACAO SOCIAL 1 15 LAB 60 DAYS PEN TEST KALI LINUX 1 180 DIRETIVAS EUROPEIAS 2014 CONTRAT PUBL 1 14 LAB GENERICO HACKING LAB 1 180 DOING BUSINESS ONLINE 1 16 LABOUR 2030 LA 2017 1 32 EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION 1 8 LDM ATM TECHNICAL WORKSHOP 1 130 ENTRADA ROOTED MADRID 1 32 LEAD AUDITOR ISO 27001 1 180 ESPANHOL A1 1 62 LEADERSHIP DEVELOP & CULTURAL ALIGNMENT 2 592 ESPANHOL A2 2 26 LEADERSHIP SUMMIT 2 72 ESPANHOL EMPRESARIAL B1 1 22 LEADING OTHERS PROGRAMME 1 32 ESPANHOL GERAL 2 68 LEAN SUMMIT 1 8 ESPANHOL GERAL A1 11 704 MARKETING DIGITAL 2 32 ESPANHOL GERAL A1/A2 2 159 MASPTV 1 2 EXAMEN CDPO 1 24 MASTERCLASS 3 9 EXAMEN ITIL FOUNDATION 1 45 MEDIA TRAINING 1 16 EXCEL EXPERT 1 13 METASPLOIT AVANZADO 1 8 EXCEL VBA & BI EXPERT 1 20 METOD AUDITORIAS INT BOLSA AUDITORES 1 2 EXPLOITING PROTECTING WEB APPLICATION 1 28 MICROSOFT CLOUD WORKSHOPS 2 12 EXPO RH 1 32 MICROSOFT DYNAMICS 1 8 F5 ASM 1 80 MOBILE APPLICATION SEC PEN 1 40 FATURA ELETRÓNICA NA AP 1 18 MOVE TEAM MANAGEMENT 1 128 MS PROJECT 1 4 TRIBUTACAO INSTRUMENTOS FINANCEIROS 1 4 NEGOCIACAO AVANCADA WORKSHOP 1 53 VIAGEM PARA A CLOUD REG, SEG E CONT 1 12 NOVO CCP 1 2 WEB SUMMIT 1 480 NOVO CODIGO CONTRATOS PUBLICOS 1 18 WELCOME QUALIDADE 4 18 NOVO REGULAMENTO EUROPEU PROT DADOS 1 16 PÓS GRADUAÇÃO VISUALIZAÇÃO DE INFORMAÇÃO 1 112 ON IP IN INTERNATIONALIZATION STRATEGIES 1 6 DIGITAL MEDIA EUROPE 2017-COPENHAGEN 1 18 ONBOARDING SONAEIM 2 320 ENTREPRENEURIAL JOURNALISM: INNOVATION AND 1 30 OTIMIZACAO FISCAL REMUNERACOES 1 8 CREATIVITY IN THE NEW MEDIA ECOSYSTEM OUTSYSTEMS 2 376 WORKSHOP ILUSTRAÇÃO 1 18 PATENTES & SOFTWARES 1 4 WORKSHOP TEAM BUILDING 1 119 PEN TEST KALI LINUX 2 1,072 FORMAÇÃO SOBRE EQUIPAMENTO AUDIO E SOM 1 36 PGG PROGRAMA GERAL GESTAO 2 212 INTERVENÇÃO NO COMBATE A INCÊNDIOS 1 22 PGI PROGRAMA GESTAO INICIAL 2 120 IMMERSIVE MEDIA: PRODUCING AUGMENTED 1 30 PMFU PROJECT MANAGEMENT FUNDAMENTALS 1 12 REALITY FOR STORYTELLING PROJECTS PMI – PMP 1 35 IMMERSIVE MEDIA: PRODUCING VR 1 30 POSICIONAMENTO CEO 1 30 DOCUMENTARIES IN UNITY 3D POST SALES FE TECHNICAL WORKSHOP 1 16 POSTGRESQL 2 455 PRACTICAL NETWORK DEFENSE 1 20 PREP CERTIF ITIL FOUNDATION 1 300 PREP CERTIF PMP 1 120 PROGRAMMING IN C# 1 30 PROJECT MANAGEMENT CORE 1 24 PROJECT ONLINE 1 200 PUBLIC SPEAKING 1 96 PUBLICIDADE – WORKSHOP 1 7 QMS & PROJECT MANAGEMENT METHODOLOGIES 1 119 QSA CALIFICATION 6 45 QUALIDADE E SEG INFORMACAO 3 40 QUALIF AUDIT INT QUALIDADE ISO 9001 2015 1 40 QUALIF AUDIT INTERNOS QUAL ISO 9001:2015 1 35 QUALYS 1 6 RAID 8 8 1,779 RAID TELECOM 7 5,479 REFRAMING CUSTOMER SERVICE 2 136 REGULAMENTO PROTECAO DADOS 1 16 REGULATORY & LEGAL VENTURE CAPITAL 1 25 REPORTING PERSONNEL COSTS 1 4 REVISAO CODIGO CONTRATOS PUBLICOS 3 23 RH ONLINE & SAPHETY 1 33 RHCONFERENCIA'17 1 16 ROADSHOW IMPIC ALTERACOES CCP 1 3 SALESFORCE 1 560 SALESFORCE ALINHAMENTO DE PROCESSOS 3 22 SAP 2 24 SAPHETYBILL – WORKSHOP 1 32 SAPHETYBUY – WORKSHOP 1 38 SAPHETYDOC – WORKSHOP 1 26 SAPHETYGOV – WORKSHOP 1 28 SAPHETYSYNC WORKSHOP 1 14 SCRUM AGILE FOUNDATIONS 1 156 SCRUMDAY WORKSHOP 1 48 SECRETARIAS EXECUTIVAS 1 24 SESSAO ESCLARECIMENTOS IOP 1 8 SET-UP AMBIENTE SAAS 1 18 SHAREPOINT SERVER 2013 1 72 SISTEMA GESTAO DA QUALIDADE 1 68 SISTEMA GESTION CALIDAD 1 20 SOCIAL SELLING 1 12 SONAE DATA PROTECTION 4 21 SONAE SHOTS 6 18 SPM SOFTWARE PRODUCT MANAGEMENT 1 24 SQL TUNNING 2 336 STOCK OPTION POOL KEY EMPLOYEES 1 2 STRUCTURED PROBLEM SOLVING & COMMUNIC 1 8 SUCURSAIS E ESTABELECIMENTOS ESTAVEIS 1 24 TALK ABOUT 9 147 TECN AVAN MET ANALISIS INF INT SEGURIDAD 1 200 TEMAS LABORAIS 1 15 TESTING PORTUGAL 2017 1 16 THE FUTURE OF FOOD SONAE CONFERENCE 1 32 THREAT INTELLIGENCE 1 360 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 94 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People. Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Percentage of employees Sonae FS receiving regular 5 404-3 100% of employees received performance assessment and career V 6 performance and career 8 development. development reviews Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) 81% of employees received performance assessment and career development. GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES (ASPECT MATERIAL) Directly related to Diversity and Equal Opportunities, the topic Human Explanation of the material 103-1 capital management was considered a material topic (vide response to Management topic and its Boundary indicator 102-47 List of material topics ). The management approach Sonae has promoted various initiatives related to Diversity and Equal V 103-2 Approach and its components Opportunities (vide chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People). Evaluation of the Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of indicators associated 103-3 management approach to this aspect and reports them in this Report (vide indicators below). Diversity of governance 5 405-1 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People. V 6 bodies and employees 8 Diversity and equal opportunities are important factors for Sonae's equilibrium. Therefore, Sonae has continued to promote diversity in its companies, with the conviction that it increases their performance and is not limited to gender, but also includes aspects such as ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, physical disability or generation. Along these lines, MDS leads an international movement to promote diversity in companies, the Women Leadership Team, which every year brings together 20 female business leaders from Europe and the United States and in 2017 held a meeting on diversity in Paris. Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Percentage of employees by Age Group Male Female Total functional category (%) < 30 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% From 30 to 50 years old 44.3% 10.2% 54.5% Top Executive (%) ≥ 50 years old 38.6% 6.8% 45.5% Total 83.0% 17.0% 100.0% < 30 years old 0.5% 0.1% 0.6% From 30 to 50 years old 48.9% 29.4% 78.2% Management (%) ≥ 50 years old 14.1% 7.1% 21.2% Total 63.4% 36.6% 100.0% < 30 years old 4.3% 4.8% 9.2% From 30 to 50 years old 34.2% 43.5% 77.7% Middle Management (%) ≥ 50 years old 6.3% 6.8% 13.1% Total 44.9% 55.1% 100.0% < 30 years old 9.3% 15.0% 24.2% Technicians/highly-specialised From 30 to 50 years old 25.1% 42.3% 67.4% technicians (%) ≥ 50 years old 2.8% 5.6% 8.4% Total 37.2% 62.8% 100.0% < 30 years old 16.9% 25.4% 42.4% From 30 to 50 years old 13.1% 34.8% 47.9% Representatives (%) ≥ 50 years old 2.2% 7.5% 9.8% Total 32.3% 67.7% 100.0% < 30 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% From 30 to 50 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Governance bodies (%) ≥ 50 years old 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% Total 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% Notes: This does not include SportZone and Worten Canary Islands, Tlantic Brasil, MDS Brasil, Salsa, Losan and Go Natural Restaurants. This does not include the Board of Directors. Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Percentage of employees by Age Group Male Female Total functional category (%) < 30 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% From 30 to 50 years old 50.0% 0.0% 50.0% Top Executive (%) ≥ 50 years old 50.0% 0.0% 50.0% Total 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% < 30 years old 1.3% 0.0% 1.3% From 30 to 50 years old 67.9% 18.7% 86.7% Management (%) ≥ 50 years old 9.2% 2.9% 12.1% Total 78.4% 21.6% 100.0% < 30 years old 26.8% 11.3% 38.1% Middle Management and From 30 to 50 years old 38.5% 20.3% 58.8% Technicians/highly-specialised ≥ 50 years old 1.1% 2.0% 3.1% technicians (%) Total 66.4% 33.6% 100.0% < 30 years old 5.4% 8.9% 14.3% From 30 to 50 years old 28.6% 29.8% 58.3% Representatives (%) ≥ 50 years old 11.9% 15.5% 27.4% Total 45.8% 54.2% 100.0% Notes: In the editorial areas of Público and Rádio Nova, the model for the functional groups does not apply, so all employees in these areas have an NA functional category. This is due to the specific characteristics of the career of a journalist, which, among other things, encourages the recurrent alteration of hierarchical relations between employees and defines specific career structures / terminologies that are not compatible with the model for the functional groups. < 30 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% From 30 to 50 years old 20.0% 20.0% 40.0% Governance bodies (%) ≥ 50 years old 40.0% 20.0% 60.0% Total 60.0% 40.0% 100.0% Sonae Sierra Percentage of employees by Age Group Male Female Total functional category (%) < 35 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% From 35 to 44 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% From 45 to 54 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Global Senior Executive (%) From 55 to 64 years old 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% > 64 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% < 35 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% From 35 to 44 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% From 45 to 54 years old 11.1% 0.0% 11.1% Senior Executive (%) From 55 to 64 years old 55.6% 11.1% 66.7% > 64 years old 22.2% 0.0% 22.2% Total 88.9% 11.1% 100.0% < 35 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% From 35 to 44 years old 18.8% 0.0% 18.8% From 45 to 54 years old 56.3% 12.5% 68.8% Executive (%) From 55 to 64 years old 12.5% 0.0% 12.5% > 64 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 87.5% 12.5% 100.0% < 35 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% From 35 to 44 years old 15.0% 5.0% 20.0% From 45 to 54 years old 36.7% 13.3% 50.0% Senior Manager (%) From 55 to 64 years old 21.7% 6.7% 28.3% > 64 years old 1.7% 0.0% 1.7% Total 75.0% 25.0% 100.0% < 35 years old 3.0% 0.0% 3.0% From 35 to 44 years old 27.0% 15.0% 42.0% From 45 to 54 years old 31.0% 16.0% 47.0% Manager (%) From 55 to 64 years old 7.0% 1.0% 8.0% > 64 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 68.0% 32.0% 100.0% < 35 years old 8.3% 5.3% 13.6% Team Leader (%) From 35 to 44 years old 26.5% 30.3% 56.8% SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 96 From 45 to 54 years old 9.8% 14.4% 24.2% From 55 to 64 years old 3.8% 1.5% 5.3% > 64 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 48.5% 51.5% 100.0% < 35 years old 14.5% 11.9% 26.4% From 35 to 44 years old 22.6% 27.0% 49.7% From 45 to 54 years old 12.6% 6.3% 18.9% Project Team Specialist (%) From 55 to 64 years old 4.4% 0.6% 5.0% > 64 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 54.1% 45.9% 100.0% < 35 years old 17.8% 24.5% 42.3% From 35 to 44 years old 14.4% 24.1% 38.5% From 45 to 54 years old 4.6% 9.8% 14.4% Team Member (%) From 55 to 64 years old 1.9% 2.9% 4.8% > 64 years old 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 38.7% 61.3% 100.0% Ratio of basic salary 5 405-2 and remuneration of Sustainability: The Pulse for Our People. V 6 8 women to men 10 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Ratio of average basic salary by functional category (F / M) 2017 Top Executives 0.93 Management & Senior Management 0.91 Middle Management 0.90 Technicians/highly-specialised technicians 0.87 Representatives 1.00 Total 0.92 Average pay ratio by functional category (F / M) 2017 Top Executives 0.89 Management & Senior Management 0.90 Middle Management 0.89 Technicians/highly-specialised technicians 0.86 Representatives 0.99 Total 0.89 Notes: The monthly base salary (converted to full-time equivalent) includes: All fixed remuneration as of December 31st, 2017. 12-month basis. Total remuneration included (converted to full-time equivalent): • Monthly base salary; Performance bonus, discrepancy allowance and shift allowance as of December 31, 2017; Variable components calculated based on the last 12 months (January to December 2017); This does not include SportZone and Worten Canary Islands, Tlantic Brazil, MDS Brazil, Salsa, Losan and Go Natural Restaurants. This does not include the Board of Directors. Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Ratio of average basic salary by functional category (F / M) Portugal 2017 Top Executive Management 0.90 Middle Management and Technicians/highly-specialised technicians 0.90 Representatives 0.89 Total 0.79 Average pay ratio by functional category (F / M) 2017 Top Executive Management 0.90 Middle Management and Technicians/highly-specialised technicians 0.90 Representatives 0.89 Total 0.79 Ratio of average basic salary by functional category (F / M) – Brazil 2017 Top Executive SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 97 Management 1.07 Middle Management and Technicians/highly specialised technicians 1.27 Representatives Total 1.11 Ratio of average basic salary by functional category (F / M) – Colombia 2017 Top Executive Management We have not presented information for this category, as we only have male employees in this category. Middle Management and Technicians/highly-specialised technicians 0.20 Representatives Total 0.20 Ratio of average basic salary by functional category (F/M) – Egypt 2017 Top Executive Management We have not presented information for this category, as we only have male employees in this category. Middle Management and Technicians/highly-specialised technicians 0.84 Representatives Total 0.84 Ratio of average basic salary by functional category (F/M) – Spain 2017 Top Executive Management 0.75 Middle Management and Technicians/highly-specialised technicians 0.94 Representatives Total 0.81 Ratio of average basic salary by functional category (F/M) – USA 2017 Top Executive Management 0.88 Middle Management and Technicians/highly-specialised technicians 0.84 Representatives Total 0.87 Ratio of average basic salary by functional category (F/M) – Malaysia 2017 Top Executive Management 0.78 Middle Management and Technicians/highly-specialised technicians We have not presented information for this category, as we only have male employees in this category. Representatives Total 0.78 Ratio of average basic salary by functional category (F/M) – Mexico 2017 Top Executive Management 1.26 Middle Management and Technicians/highly-specialised technicians 0,86 Representatives Total 1.13 Notes: In Australia and England, Sonaecom only has one employee (one per country), so the calculation of the ratio is not applicable. Also in Ireland, there are only male employees, so, likewise, the calculation of the indicator is not applicable. 406 – NON-DISCRIMINATION Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS There were no cases of discrimination. Incidents of 5 discrimination and Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) 406-1 V 6 8 corrective actions There were no cases of discrimination. 16 taken Sonae Sierra There were no cases of discrimination. 407 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Operations and 407-1 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS V 3 8 suppliers in which SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 98 the right to freedom At Sonae, there are no operations involving risks in the right to freedom of of association and association and collective bargaining agreements. collective bargaining may be at risk Fresh produce, Food retail, Non-food retail, Wells, Worten and Maxmat: According to the audit reports, all suppliers have question 19.11 (freedom of association: they can be members of institutions / associations that represent their rights) accordingly. 408 – CHILD LABOUR Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS At Sonae, as a rule, minors are not admitted into the company. Only exceptionally are minors between the ages of 16 and 18 admitted, and always in compliance with the law. Operations and Fresh Produce, Food retail, Non-food retail, Wells, Worten e Maxmat: suppliers at If it is found that a supplier is at significant risk for child labour incidents, the supplier 8 408-1 V 5 significant risk for is placed on stand-by and only re-enters after an SA8000 audit has been carried out 16 child labour incidents by an accredited institution. Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Sonae Com has residual risks in terms of child labour. This is due both to the locations where we are present and to the technical / technological complexity of the type of activities performed by our employees. 409 – FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS At Sonae, there is no forced labour. Fresh Produce, Food retail, Non-food retail, Wells, Worten e Maxmat: Operations and If it is found that a supplier is at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory suppliers at labour, the supplier is placed on stand-by and only re-enters after an SA8000 audit 409-1 significant risk for V 4 8 has been carried out by an accredited institution. incidents of forced or compulsory labour Sonaecom Sonae Com has residual risks in terms of forced or compulsory labour. This is due both to the locations where we are present and to the technical / technological complexity of the type of activities performed by our employees. 412 – HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT Operations that have been subject to Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS 412-1 human rights reviews In 2017, no operation that has been subject to a reassessment of human rights V 1 or impact and/or impact assessment was registered. assessments Employee training on 412-2 human rights policies V 1 or procedures Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Employee training on Human Rights policies and procedures 2017 Total of employees that received formal training on the policies and procedures of the organisation regarding Human Rights issues (no.) 21,883 Total of hours dedicated to training on policies and procedures relative to Human Rights aspects that are relevant to operations (no.) 228,485 Notes: Scope Portugal • Includes all participants of the training, independent of if they were active on the 31st December 2017. Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat In Retail, supply contracts include a supplier obligation clause that mentions Comply with all applicable norms and legislation on work Significant investment agreements carried out by minors, Human Rights and prohibition of discrimination and contracts that include human against their workers, for whatever reason. (2010). 412-3 V 2 rights clauses or that underwent Percentage of investment agreements and human rights screening significant contracts that include human rights 100% clauses (%) This indicator is not applicable to Sonae FS and RP. GRI 413 – LOCAL COMMUNITIES (MATERIAL ASPECT) SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 99 Explanation of the Directly related to Local Communities, the topic Support to Local Communities was Management Approach 103-1 material topic and considered a material topic (vide response to the indicator 102-47 List of material its Boundary topics ). The management Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to local communities (vide chapter 103-2 approach and its V Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Communities ) Disclosures components Evolution of the Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the indicators associated with management103-3 this aspect and reports them in this Report (vide indicators presented below). approach Operations with local community Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Communities engagement, From the moment, a new unit is installed, Sonae ensures the necessary conditions so 413-1 impact that it has the minimum negative impact on communities. During operation, it V 1 assessments and develops numerous activities of support to the local community, meeting their development different needs. The activities are often carried out in partnership with local entities. programs GRI 414 –SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (MATERIAL ASPECT) Directly related to the Supplier Social Assessment themes Management Approach Explanation of the material topic Environmental, labour and human rights criteria for suppliers” 103-1 and its Boundary and “Ethics in the supply chain” were considered material themes (vide response to the indicator “102-47 – List of material topics”). Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Supplier Social The management approach and its V 103-2 Assessment (vide chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for Our components Partners and Suppliers). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of indicators Evaluation of the management 103-3 associated with this aspect and reports them in this Report (vide approach indicators below). New suppliers that were screened 414-1 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Partners and Suppliers. V 8 using social criteria Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat Screened suppliers based on social criteria labour practices, human rights, with an impact on society (2017) Fresh Non-food retail Food retail Wells Worten Maxmat produce Total suppliers (no.) 369 291 305 48 133 77 National 307 156 103 15 6 46 Foreign 62 135 202 33 127 31 Total qualified suppliers (no.) 357 288 219 35 106 17 National 296 153 81 10 6 10 Foreign 61 135 138 25 100 7 Percentage of qualified suppliers (%) 97% 99% 72% 73% 80% 22% National 96% 98% 79% 67% 100% 22% Foreign 98% 100% 68% 76% 79% 23% Total audits performed on suppliers (no.) 99 67 167 22 99 10 National 92 47 41 4 0 4 Foreign 7 20 126 18 99 6 New suppliers screened based on social criteria labour practices, human rights, with an impact on society (2017) Fresh Non-food retail Food retail Wells Worten Maxmat produce Total new suppliers (no.) 11 7 20 6 27 6 National 9 4 3 3 0 0 Foreign 2 3 17 3 27 6 Total new qualified suppliers (no.) 6 6 7 2 0 0 National 4 3 1 1 0 0 Foreign 2 3 6 1 0 0 Percentage of new qualified suppliers (%) 55% 86% 35% 33% 0% 0% National 44% 75% 33% 33% 0% 0% Foreign 100% 100% 35% 33% 0% 0% Total audits performed on new suppliers 0 2 0 7 0 0 (no.) National 2 0 1 0 0 0 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 100 Foreign 0 0 6 0 0 0 GRI 416 – CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY (MATERIAL ASPECT) Directly related to the Health and Safety of the Customer, the topics Health and Safety in stores , Public Health and Management Approach Explanation of the material topic 103-1 Conformity / Quality of Products were considered material and its Boundary topics (vide response to the indicator “102-47 – List of material topics”). Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Customer V The management approach and its 103-2 Health and Safety (vide Sustainability: The Pulse for Our components Businesses and Products). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of indicators Evaluation of the management 103-3 associated with this aspect and reports them in this Report (vide approach indicators below). Assessment of the health and 416-1 safety impacts of products and Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Businesses and Products. V services Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten and Maxmat We take into consideration the health and safety impacts of products at various stages of their life cycle. In terms of electronic products, for example, we carry out product image, packaging and instruction development in cooperation with the manufacturer. The entire manufacturing process of this type of product is subjected to various inspections. In terms of food products, we carry out R&D on the products through, for example, the optimisation of their nutritional profile. Categories of significant products and services assessed in terms of health and safety impacts (2017) Fresh Food Non-food Wells S&F Worten Maxmat produce retail retail Total categories of significant products and services (no.) 2 1 2 1 7 1 1 Total categories of significant products and services that 2 1 2 1 7 1 1 are assessed in terms of health and safety impacts (no.) Percentage of significant products and services assessed 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% in terms of health and safety impacts (%) Sonae Sierra Categories of significant products and services assessed in terms of health and safety impacts (2017) Development/ Percentage of significant products and services assessed in terms of New Building Management redevelopment health and safety impacts (%) 100% 100% 100% Notes: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational in the reporting period and all projects under development during the reporting period. GRI 417 MARKETING AND LABELLING (MATERIAL ASPECT) Directly related to Marketing and Labelling, the topics Management approach Explanation of the material topic “Conformity / Quality of Products were considered material 103-1 and its Boundary topics (vide response to indicator 102-47 List of material topics ). Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Marketing and The management concept and its V 103-2 Labelling (vide chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for Our components Businesses and Products). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of indicators Evolution of the management 103-3 associated with this aspect and reports them in this Report (vide approach indicators presented below). Requirements for product and 12 417-1 Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Businesses and Products V service information and labelling 16 Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten and Maxmat Sonae uses its position and influence to encourage good consumer practices and lifestyles. In this way, we strive to develop our own brand products with the right quality and safety. To guarantee their quality and safety, we focus on four aspects: (i) Certification of the development of our own brand products; (ii) Monitoring of their quality and safety; (iii) Labelling; and (iv) Customer feedback management. Requirements for product and service information and labelling (2017) Fresh produce Food retail Origin of the product or service Yes Yes SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 101 Composition, with particular attention to potentially harmful substances to the environment or to society Yes Yes Safe use of the product or service Yes Yes Product elimination and underlying environmental and social impacts Yes Yes Requirements for product and service information and labelling Non-food Wells S&F Worten Maxmat (2017) retail Origin of the product or service Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Composition, with particular attention to potentially harmful Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes substances to the environment or to society Safe use of the product or service Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Product elimination and underlying environmental and social Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes impacts Total categories of products with specific labelling (no.) 56 135 7 10 10 Total product categories (no.) 207 136 7 39 89 Percentage of product categories with specific labelling (%) 27% 99% 100% 26% 11% Sonae FS Sonae FS is responsible for issuing and managing Cartão Universo, and its credit facility is secured by a credit facility granted and managed by BNP Paribas Personal Finance, S.A. In the area of Pricing and Legal Information of the Universo site, various documents can be consulted and / or downloaded in order to guarantee total transparency and complete information on the procedures associated with Cartão Universo: European Standardised Information Sheet regarding consumer credit; Credit Agreement for the opening of a credit line associated with Cartão Universo; Agreement for the Provision of Payment and Issuing of Electronic Currency Services; Terms and Conditions of Loyalty Programmes; Procedure for access and use of Universo Online; Complaints; Prices; Sonae’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. Sonae Sierra Consumers are increasingly concerned about the environmental and ethical impacts of their purchases and are interested in healthy and environmentally conscious lifestyles. Sonae Sierra is aware its scope and geographical dimension can encourage consumers to make the right choices. This will help Sonae Sierra to meet its visitors’ expectations, while encouraging new growth markets in sustainable products that can increase or create new revenue streams for tenants. Through its focus on Future Fil Retail, one of Sonae Sierra's long-term priorities, we leverage sustainability, as a way of increasing the number of visits to our centres and promoting positive behavioural changes focused on health and well-being and the environment. This involves promoting healthy, sustainable and local goods and services, improving well-being through health activities in shopping centres and creating a sense of belonging for visitors. On the other hand, and in accordance with the Directive on the Performance of Buildings in the European Union, we are obliged to ensure that all our assets undergoing major renovations meet the minimum energy performance requirements; and that Energy Performance Certificates (EPC) are shared with any potential buyers and tenants of a building. We fulfilled these requirements in each member state of the European Union in which we operate and by the end of 2017, EPC were implemented in all 77% of our portfolio. SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 102 GRI 419 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE (MATERIAL ASPECT) Directly related to Socioeconomic Compliance, the topics Management approach Explanation of the material topic Conformity / Product Quality and Transparency and trust 103-1 and its Boundary throughout the value chain were considered material topics (vide response to indicator 102-47 List of material topics ). Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Marketing The management approach and its V 103-2 and Labelling (vide chapter Sustainability: The Pulse for Our components Businesses and Products). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of Evolution of the management 103-3 indicators associated with this aspect and reports them in this approach Report (vide indicators presented below). Sustainability: The Pulse for Our Businesses and Products Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 2017 economic area Total monetary value of significant 54,898 fines Economic area (€) Total number of non-monetary 0 sanctions (no.) Sonae MC – Total monetary value of significant 3,060 fines Social area (labour) (€) Worten – 2,798 Total number of non-monetary 0 sanctions (no.) Sonaecom (including Sonae IM and Media) Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 2017 economic area Non-compliance with laws and Total monetary value of significant 419-1 regulations in the social and 0 V 16 fines Economic area (€) economic area Total number of non-monetary 0 sanctions (no.) Total monetary value of significant 0 fines Social area (labour) (€) Total number of non-monetary 0 sanctions (no.) Sonae Sierra Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 2017 economic area Total monetary value of significant 0 fines Economic area (€) Total number of non-monetary 0 sanctions (no.) Total monetary value of significant 0 fines Social area (labour) (€) Total number of non-monetary 0 sanctions (no.) Table Key: V – Verified UNGC Principles – United Nations Global Compact SDG – Sustainable Development Goals SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 103 Independent Verification Report SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 104 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 105 SONAE SUSTENTABILITY REPORT ‘17 106
